Good evening. Sorry, I was just turning off the speaker so I didn't get a massive wave of feedback, but we have a live button
Clicked the world to start and we are now live in streaming on future cannabis project as of 15 seconds ago
So today I had a super late night because I'm on Italian time right now because I'm doing some
Podcasting for an Italian company, but I'm a little bit tired
So I'll be quiet tonight, but thank you so much Jason for holding the space as always
Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you for
Pulling through anyway and doing the production thing for us again tonight
I do appreciate you being with us London and and spending the extra time to
Help with the production for future cannabis project man. So it's good to it's Peter need some help
It's got a lot going on over there and so I'm glad to have
You on the team as well and helping us out so, you know as always feel free to contribute when you feel
When you feel the urge
But I think I think
James and Ben will be
plenty entertaining for us this evening
Kobe is supposed to be dropping by as well. So hopefully Kobe can join us
He tends to spend a lot of time on here as well
He's always on Clubhouse, so it's it's it's nice I was chatting with I didn't really get a chance to chat with him yesterday
I was a little bit busy so I couldn't join the normal k&f rooms
That we tend every Wednesday. So it was it's good though. It's good though. So
James
Why don't you so where you coming to us from? I know you said you're up in the mountains, but you're in Humboldt, right?
To connect yeah, I'm in
Northern California here in Humboldt and
I'm actually implant. I just moved here this last year
Awesome. Awesome. What what made you move out there?
It's actually a modern canvas love story
I started a Facebook group
for
For
cannabis cultivation really it's for anybody who grows any plant but
it definitely started out as cannabis cultivation and it was just a Michigan group and then
Expanded in you know to a much larger group and when it started growing
I you know felt it necessary to find much smarter people than I am
to help me run the group and
I met this wonderful
woman named Wendy Kornberg and we started talking online and fell in love and
now I live in California
Fantastic fantastic and Nick has joined us. So the whole crowd is here
Wonderful wonderful wonderful. How you doing tonight Nick? I'm doing great. I'm doing great. How's everyone else doing?
Wonderful
Wonderful. Awesome. All right, so let's kick it off
I want to get our official gut thing going here now
All right. So welcome. Welcome. Welcome. Welcome everyone to hope to herbs grow and tell this is episode
18 and tonight we are talking with organic cultivators about the upcoming
Supernatural conference and we're also going to talk tonight about growing with intent
Which is something that's definitely very near and dear to myself as well
I think growing with intent is extremely important
Especially in these days where the industry is just absolutely blowing up and you have a lot of people who aren't necessarily in it
For the right intent. So it's it's when you mentioned that to me
During our chat I was really I grabbed on to that because I think it's a fantastic
Fantastic thing to chat about and and almost a mantra in itself right growing with intent
Everything that we should be doing should be with intent. So
Super excited to have this conversation. Thank you James and Ben so much for coming
Many of you already know Ben because he's he's occasionally here with us as a co-host Ben is a good friend of mine
Ben
Dylan Morgan
from Acadia family farms
It's a good friend of mine from here in the New England area. We've been hanging out and
going to conferences together and taking KNF classes together for a couple of years now, so
really looking forward to
Talking with both of you tonight
It's good to see Ben you making the jump to a speaker role as opposed to just attending the conferences with me
So I'm super excited for you there great stuff
And then we have James Brewer. Who's it?
Boor, how do you pronounce your last name? Is it burn?
Yeah, so it's a viewer viewer, okay, I want to make sure I pronounce your name correctly
Won't say it too much but James Burer who is I think the founder of organic cultivators and is one of the folks
along with his
lovely lady Wendy
Who are who worked on putting together this?
supernatural conference that's coming up and
I think the
basic preamble
That you wrote up about the conference in the post is is really really a great place
to go ahead and get started as I try to bring it up because I had it written down in my notes and
Unfortunately, it's running at the very very bottom of my page here
so
the
growing with intent and the
Supernatural cultivators conference we flip over to my other pad here because I know where I can find it on that one and
Good farmers will tell you they never stop learning which is definitely something we believe in here at hoot to herbs grow and tell
With science providing new insights into the soil food web
Smart farmers are adding new tools to their toolbox and gaining a better idea of how to manage their land
By using nature and biology that makes the natural system work so beautifully
Organic cultivators has put together a three-day
supernatural conference in Sturbridge, Massachusetts
February 11th through 13th that focuses on education for growers of
every skill level with talks from experts as we dive deep into subjects you thought you understood and
Explore the newest discoveries in soil science and how they are being applied effectively at scale
So super intro already had me excited as soon as I read that because I am a big believer in
regenerative practices and
You have just a tremendous lineup of speakers on that
So before we get any further I do want to remind everybody that this
Session this podcast this clubhouse room is recorded and
Simulcast on the future cannabis project fcp o2 channel. Thanks to our good friends London and Peter
Helping produce the show every week helping you get out there
I also have my good friend Nick who's joining us who joins me almost every week as my co-host
Nick go ahead and say hello
It's great to be here nice to meet you James, I'm really excited when Jason was reading that introduction there
I was like, oh, yeah, this is definitely gonna be really really good
So I'm looking forward to tonight's conversation and it's good to see both London and Benjamin here as well
Awesome. Awesome and Kobe has joined us as well
Kobe is one of my
Mentors actually in Korean national farming. He's one of the folks who
Helps Chris Trump out at a lot of his classes and
He also is a tremendous farmer in his own rights
Cellar door collective on Instagram's. How are you doing tonight, Kobe?
Okay, good enough good enough
Any any way you can by any by hook craw or claw I think they say
So yeah, no, we want to anything we can do to get you involved
We will and I appreciate you sticking with us, even though your air pods are not performing at peak
You're probably out in the field as well. I
Know James is up in the mountains. You're probably in the fields
Ben may also be in the field. I don't know
It's a little late and cold here to be in the fields though this time of year here in New England
So we are here. I'm sorry. Go ahead. I
Said it's just a little bit a little bit a little bit cold a little bit cold
But we got to start prepping. Anyway, I was actually looking at seeds to get started here indoors
Trying to figure out what I'm gonna pop for my for my garden coming up this year
So definitely it's the planning time of the year. We got to get ready to go
so we are here in our weekly cultivation club meeting hotel herbs grow and tell is a
Cultivation club that's meant to put bring together
folks who
Want to learn more about the plant and who want to celebrate the plant by learning ways to care for it better
This club was originally formed in Worcester, Massachusetts
Where we met on a monthly basis at the Summit Lounge and Ben actually attended a few of those sessions
So I appreciate Ben for also coming out and being a part of this move to to the Internet's and so
This is now episode 18. We've been rocking here for a couple months, and I'm super excited
We haven't had we haven't had any pauses and we have a quite a list of upcoming shows
next week we're going to be doing an episode on sulfur and
Nick and I are already preparing
Links and notes for that one. We're gonna follow that one up with sugar
so we're gonna be doing sugar the week after for episode 20 and
Episode 21 nuts. Sure. Sure. Yep, but episode 22 is gonna be science LED
So my good friends from science LED are gonna join us and we're gonna talk about
Spectrum tuning and crop steering with different types of spectrum
It's really cool stuff that they've been doing as far as experimenting with running nothing but blue light
for the last two weeks of flower
Blow your mind
Amazing stuff coming so let's go ahead and get into it. I want to talk about this fantastic conference
Supernatural conference, let me just go ahead and read
The list of speakers who are going to be at this conference and then I want to hear more
From you James and from you Ben about putting this thing together
so we've got Dan Kittredge who is a
educator and is the ED at the
Bionutrient Food Association Wendy Kornberg as we mentioned who's also the CEO of Sanabas and is really a
Family
farmer in in
Humboldt County and she's been doing that for a long time
She is definitely
embedded in the community out there and a tremendous Korean natural farming
Resource we've got Suzanne the bug lady Wainwright. So get your tinfoil hats ready
she is an entomologist and owner of bug lady consulting a
tremendous bug
Epidemic at a tremendous bug person
And she's really just really an amazing etymologist
But she's just she spent a lot of time with all different types of crops
But she's focused the last gosh almost five years now on
Also helping out the cannabis community and she's really spends a lot of time directly in the fields
Trying to figure out ways to resolve a lot of these issues that were we're dealing with Chris Trump
Most people know Chris Trump, especially because we talked about him all the time
He is a KNF educator and consultant as well as a farmer
He is my educator and mentor in Korean natural farming with Kobe as I mentioned who's here Ben who's also here with us
We've got dr. Kat a Donnelly founder and CEO of a zentive
system engineering an educator we've got
Sundarajan
Utala who's the CTO at his entive?
We've got Kevin Jodry who I think most people are also famous for it's the creator of Port Royal
He's a member of the ganja air council member and a cannabis breeder and and truly
Somebody who can really really school people on the industry and then Patrick King the soil King
the entrepreneur educator ganja year council member and
all-around
Soil guy he is really a character
Love watching his feed and all the stuff that he's got going on and I'm currently running
Some of his big roots soil for the first time. So I'm super excited to jump into that
So James and Ben
Why don't you talk to us a little bit about how this thing came together?
And why stir bridge?
Massachusetts
Yeah, well originally it was
Well first I guess I should ask how long is this show because I'm extremely long-winded and we might be here forever
Okay. Well, we've got we've got usually at least two hours. So
Go to town. I'll try to I'll try to keep you on track rain me. Yes
Yes, we will try although I usually rely on Nick to rein me in
So we'll we'll see how we do tonight
Go ahead
Yeah, so basically this started out as a Facebook group it started out as a small
Michigan cultivation group and people kept asking
So we just made it, you know a group for everywhere and as it keep
I started looking for people that could help me run the group people that were way smarter than I am
So I got you know really blessed to have put together this amazing group of moderators and admins
Of which Ben Kobe Wendy and Suzanne are all a part of the team
That's actually how I met Wendy
We're now getting married. I moved across the country
But we decided to put on this conference because I had bought a ticket to the region conference right before Coban happened and
I've been was sitting on this ticket for like two years. I'm like, you know, I know a lot of these people
why don't we just do something ourselves and we want to do it a little bit differently and let the audience really
Steer a lot of the conversation so they can gear it, you know more towards, you know
And
The East Coast hardly has anything like this ever all these conferences are on the West Coast or
The region conference that I bought a ticket for was is in my hometown in Michigan
So it was really convenient for me to go there
but there's a lot of people coming online on the East Coast and I've seen some of the weed out there and
we felt like
It was it was needed out there
So originally it was in Boston and
Boston just put a vaccine mandate in place and we're not going to require people to get a shot to come to the conference
So we moved it to stir bridge where they're pretty lax on that and it's very central to Boston and it's Dan Kittredge's
home state
There's a lot of really cool
Organic movements happening out there. So that's why stir bridge
Small farmers are in trouble in a lot of places and
You know for us specifically, you know, Wendy's been in the cannabis
culture her entire life and has been a legal cannabis industry for a few years now and
It's it's becoming increasingly more difficult and with the possibility of
COVID-19
and
It's it's becoming increasingly more difficult and with the possibility of
federal legalization on the horizon
It's really important that we all
Start to speak up and move things in the direction that we want them to move
And part of that is how we grow our crop how we grow our food how we grow our medicines and how that affects
You know our bodies and our children our health and happiness
so really that's
Not to get kind of woo-woo about it
But yeah, it is a lot about intention and what we we plan to do moving forward in the future
So some lofty goals, but some really cool people to come together and talk about some cool stuff
And we do greatly appreciate that you thought about the East Coast because we do we do sometimes feel ignored
Everybody's always talking about Cali
Or the West Coast and and so it's fantastic to get some attention out here in the Northeast
We do have
some tremendous
Organic and regenerative things going on here
We did you know, there was a class a couple years ago that Ben and I attended Chris Trump came out to Connecticut
The regenerative conference in Maine is is usually pretty much sold out
So we get a good really good crowd of regen folks up there and I will be heading up to Maine to the regen conference
Because I also have been holding on to my ticket for two years
Because of COVID and so I am looking forward to that and is
We do
Massachusetts actually has a very rich history in
In
In cultivation and organic cultivation. I don't know many people have are familiar with the farmers almanac
Which is pretty widely distributed around the entire United States. Well, it actually came out of Massachusetts
the farmers almanac started here in Massachusetts and so
Anybody who's reading it or has been relying on it for years? That's that's where it came from
It's we have a good strong
history of that
Here cultivation is obviously some place where
we started as a society and Massachusetts being a place where
You know the I guess not the only society that was here. I don't want to
Decry the indigenous folks who were here before the pilgrims landed, but you know, that's that's kind of how that
Association started that's the history of
How people were able to survive in this country was to be able to establish farms
And to use organic practices because they didn't have any other choices at the time, but they needed it to survive
many people are familiar with the
stories of the pilgrims and the first Thanksgiving
But the reality is is that the pilgrims didn't know how to farm and they couldn't farm in this environment
Many of the people who came over on that boat were not farmers actually
And so they had to be taught and the indigenous people knew how to farm this land
in a way that was
natural obviously, but also was in concert with with the land and
that's what they taught to the folks who were when they came and that's how the
civilization survived and if it wasn't for farming
They would not have survived they all would have died off. So yeah, we have it. We have a good rich history
Stirbridge is interesting. It's
It's one of the few places that we still have some of those old colonial
Type villages around so you can go out to old stir bridge village and see them churn butter
Although this time of year, they're not doing any butter churning again because it would just be frozen
We love ice cream
Yeah, interesting Dan Kittredge's parents actually
have a
you know, they had a
Great deal to do with the starting of the organic movement in Massachusetts and with NOFA out there
So it's it's actually really one of the coolest things about putting all this together has been
Meeting all the different people and making all the different connections and and seeing you know
The work that is being done around so I'm really excited to to sit with all these people and hear them debate and discuss ideas
I think that's gonna be one of the cooler things about the conference
So the first that I heard about it was Ben reaching out to me
Gosh it was six months ago. Maybe this past summer
With just this quick message. Hey, do you know some place that we could host like 300 farmers in Boston?
Sounds about right
Yeah, that was right after I came back teaching the Tennessee class with Kobe and Chris and
Wendy and that's where I met James and he told me about this brilliant idea that he had a
Little bit of snaggling it already been inclined to come to the East Coast, but I was able to further drive it home
I think and convince them to come out here
specifically come to Massachusetts and do some really wonderful wonderful education work here because
Jason when you and I first went to that first region conference
That's when it all first started and it was really the first one of its kind on its coat on the East Coast
And I really love to see this coming through and be part of it
Yeah, I mean it completely changed my mind
And my life
And my approach to everything
Ben Ben will tell you I was like I was like pissed when I left that conference
I'm like I've been doing everything wrong my entire life
It's like now I gotta get a worm bin and I gotta go get I gotta go get a bed and I gotta go
Buy all this stuff and like I can't believe that I've been
You know doing all this stuff and why hadn't I never heard of Google culture and it was hysterical
We had it we had such an amazing time
Really met beautiful people
Had a just a tremendous
Weekend and an experience, but it was just it was all of it was just completely
Blew me away. Just blew me away that there was all of these different ways
To approach things
naturally
Organic not necessarily organically and I think that we do have organic, you know
The organic cultivator supernatural conference on here and people talk about organic but organic isn't necessarily good
It's not regenerative. And so understanding what regenerative means
being exposed to aquaponics with Steve Reisner and
Our crazy conversations that we had also in the in the after sessions and going over dinner and things like that
But getting a meeting, you know, dr. Elaine and Chris Trump. I had never heard of Chris Trump before I didn't know who he was
Ben's like you got to listen this guy speak
I had never even heard who he was when I went to that first conference that Dutch hosted and so yeah
No, it was really fantastic and it was good to get
The same, you know a bunch of like-minded
Individuals together who all had that passion. I think that was the other part of it. That was really exciting was
There's all these people are so passionate about this plant
So
talk about life-changing I
Just some background I've been growing vegetables as like, you know a little gardener in my home garden
since I was like 10 years old and
Started smoking weed as a teenager and and grew some plants indoors when I was 18
I built a homemade NFT system and
When Michigan went legal a few years back that's when I was like, okay
I'm growing indoors like I have kids like I can do it and not get in trouble and so I'm gonna do it indoors and
my
Inclination was I'm gonna build an NFT system again
But I had been growing vegetables outside forever and I was like, well
I'm just gonna buy some soil and throw it in a pot and you know
Get something going real fast and then I'll build my NFT system and I end up down this rabbit hole, but I'm
nowhere near getting to the bottom of because it's never-ending and it's
it's you know, like I've literally moved across the country because of a
Plant of all these things that have fallen into place
You know you talked about Chris and I know he's spoken at a lot of these things. I just spoke with him yesterday for him
one of the more exciting things about
The aspect of all this is he's coming to speak about the philosophy of natural farming
Which he doesn't really get to do at these things. Everyone wants to pick his brain about
the ferments and how to use them and of course, you'll have your opportunity to ask questions, but
You know, yeah, it's it's definitely life-changing once you go down this path the people that you meet the ideas
they get implanted in your head and
How that changes how you think about
everything else
the not to sound like super out there, but quite literally the capacity that I have
To love my children has grown
in the last year because of this journey that I've been on into
Living soil and becoming a regenerative the group is called organic cultivators because we try to encompass
Everything that falls under that umbrella
We just changed the name of the group to organic cultivators a group focused on regenerative agriculture because we're always having this
argument with people that
From the beginning. It's always been to try to drive people
to being more regenerative, but there's all these
you know these hot-button words and
Things that turn people off organic is definitely one of them. So is regenerative
I don't know biodynamic turns me off like there's all these things that turns people off. So I try to get everybody
You know just thinking more about just what you're doing, you know, yes
Absolutely, I I agree, you know a lot of the organic has become a buzzword, right?
It's it's not it's a marketing term
it's been
Captured and taken away from what it was meant to originally mean and
It's become an ad slogan
Regenerative is not yet there
Although I do start I am starting to see it pop up on labels
Occasionally and on food goods here and there the milk I buy actually is labeled regenerative
And so that's interesting, but I agree. It's really about
The difference to me and you know just to clarify what I was talking about for those that are unaware right is
Modern agriculture has
Two primary approaches and they tend to use a mix of
Different types of
chemicals
to feed the plants that are not necessarily
Natural based or don't necessarily come from organic sources
and
Then there's organic based
nutrients
both of which
Can feed plants and you can grow plants with them and you can grow some very some very interestingly
big and
beautiful looking plants with them
whether or not they're gonna have the nutritive value is part of the question and
In both cases
if
tilling is used you're not getting the full benefit of
organic approaches because tilling the soil is still going to
destroy the
Biology in the soil and it's going to cause an imbalance that will give you a bacterial
Dominated soil that you're gonna have extra weed pressure and extra pest pressures and other things that are gonna
Decrease the results that you were hoping for and and I know from watching some of the conferences like dr. Elaine Ingham's
I
Watched one of the online conferences a couple months ago or maybe a year ago already
And they were talking about they and they had very good numbers that showed
You know the normal
Chemical approaches versus the organic approaches the yields were almost the same when tilling was still being used
To get the true benefits
You needed the regenerative approach was just to remove the tilling aspect of it
So that you start building soil health as opposed to taking from the soil
In a in a room in a recurring pattern which causes desertification
It causes death of diversity
Yeah, I think we've lost the recent statistic I read was that the nation's corn belts lost a third of its topsoil
Yeah, that's actually a plan that decreases year after year due to like mismanagement and just bad
Practices overall so you have the average age of the farmer
Continuing to rise in the total number of acres of arable farmland
dwindling and decreasing and it does come down to some of those
You know soil health management practices that are just kind of you know for lack of a better phrase
They've kind of been lost to the wind, you know
Sorry, but I didn't mean to interrupt you there. What were you gonna say?
No, I was simply agreeing
No interruption at all. But yeah, it's uh, it's it's staggering
Of concerned scientists actually released a number of years ago that there's about 60 years left of
Arable topsoil in the world and that we're just slowly chipping into and licking away with you know, just irresponsible practices
All right, so just let's do a quick
Reset before we dig down deeper into that area
This is we're at the 30-minute mark. So this is hoax herbs grow until episode 18
We're talking with organic cultivators about the supernatural conference
We have Kobe and James and Ben with us this week to talk about that upcoming conference
That's going to be hosted in Sturbridge, Massachusetts
In the beginning the middle of February. I think it's February 11th through 13th. I believe is the dates and
We're being recorded and simulcast as always on the future cannabis project fcp02 channel
If you haven't already make sure you join the clubhouse group by clicking on the little greenhouse at the top and
Subscribing to the future cannabis project. Actually, I don't see FCP up there tonight
I wonder if I didn't quite put the group on the room London. I have to take a look at that Peter
But anyway, please join the future cannabis project and make sure you follow all the speakers up here and follow the other folks in the room
For those who are on YouTube make sure you subscribe to both future cannabis project and fcp02
I'm gonna take a quick look at that
James or
Ben why don't you go ahead and talk a little bit more?
about some of the things that
You're going to be focusing on
That's going to make this conference a little bit different from the regen conference
I think you mentioned that interactive nature. So let's talk a little bit more about that
Yeah, so there's basically every speaker is gonna have Q&A Dan his whole
Basically the first time we talked to Dan was like, okay
I just want to you know debate everybody and talk to everyone and you know, his whole thing is
How he teaches a lot of classes, but he loves having a conversation
And so, you know the best content I listen to a ton of podcasts the best content comes out in a conversation
So we're gonna have panels
We're gonna have you know, like I said the audience participation where you know, you have the opportunity to really get some tailored information
the real quick before I forget
If you use the promo code super with a capital S
Until 10 o'clock tonight on the East Coast you can get 50% off any tickets that you buy
But
27 minutes left 27 minutes left for those of for those that are interested you excuse me
10 o'clock on the West Coast. It'd be one. There we go
Create some like crazy
I'm not unscrupulous like that driving that sense of urgency to bring to pump the numbers
The other thing we did is we created a we created a page on the website for small farms and
equity
recipients so if you're a small farm and you're
Someone who's tight on money, which let's face it. Most of us are these days
Go to the website
Organic cultivators net and there's a page you can find a form and we'll get you a heavily discounted ticket. There's only a hundred tickets
So that's the other thing is there's gonna be quite a bit of opportunity to actually network there
that it's going to be long days and there are some after-hours events that we just
I'm finalizing the details in the next couple of days
But it sounds like Friday and Sunday
After the conference with the speakers wraps up
We'll go somewhere
one of them will likely be a consumption event and can talk more on that and
The other one will be a tour of a facility
With a talk from a speaker that we've added
And then we also added
pathologist
I know I think Josh's conference is speaking a lot on water. I think he called the water series
Yep, I will likely cash in my
Region ticket. I've talked to him about it already. Hey, man, it's gonna be here in Humboldt. I'm cashing in my ticket from Michigan
But yeah, so it's definitely going to be different
Everyone has a different subject that they're talking on
I think you know Ben's here he and Kobe they're both speakers
So though I prefer that they both fill you guys in what they're talking about
Yes, so I'll jump in here
One of the things that I'm really excited about with this conference is the fact that I've been
personally following a lot of these speakers
and learning from them over a number of years now first starting with going with Hoda to the region conference and
Man that drive home
Was a long drive home
but it was a drive full of revelations and realizing that he and I had so much more to learn and
So I've done a lot of homework over the years following these people and so to be able to have them come to the East
Coast and
Speak with them is something I'm really excited about and it's it's basically gonna be you know
A comprehensive immersive three-day educational conference that's going to be focused on the regenerative cultivation of cannabis
But we're gonna harp on some, you know, really key points personally
I'm going to be focusing on the integration of regenerative cultivation practices indoors and
How you can actually?
You know start to achieve summer generative practices even in an indoor facility and at scale
So not just craft cultivations on the smaller scale
but that you can actually really take this and you can step it up and you can bring it into the commercial aspect and
Start to try to help make our industry a little bit greener and a little bit less than you know
But no environmental impact all the time
But I mean we're gonna have different speakers
They're gonna be covering everything from soil biology and soil foundations to stewardship
Integrated pest management conscientious breeding practices the integrations of regenerative practices. Like I have said
But then we're also gonna have some really great speaking on philosophy and cultivation with intention farming with intention
but you're gonna be able to come and learn so it's it's some of the
industry's leading minds and it's it's really a
Gift to be able to learn from people such as this it's such a diversity of mentality
It's such a diversity of educational backgrounds and an honor to be able to speak with them as well. I'm really looking forward to it
Kobe
What's going on? What do you what? Let's let's hear from you. We haven't heard too much from you tonight, sir. Yeah, Phyllis and Kobe
Hey, I'm Kobe I run a cellar door collective
We're kind of a mixed vegetable farm I do my own little personal six plants
California
Yeah, but mostly I'm probably done well, I'm not the only odd one out but yeah
I'm definitely more of a vegetable grower. I saw a lot of chefs in my area. I'm out in Northern, California
Doing this for
According to my body far too long
Yeah, so we do a mixed thing I'm kind of I kind of got known for like grown specialty peppers and making a fermented hot sauce
Hopefully we'll we'll be able to bring some of that out for the conference and get people taste some good good food
but uh, yeah excited to you know be in company of a lot of
great minds and farmers who work a lot with cannabis, but also
Know the value of growing other crops cover crops food crops all that good stuff. We need it all medicine. We need some food
Yeah big on uh, you know buck in the system and everything everybody tells you oh you got to do this you got to do this
Yeah, I find joy
throwing off those
These are yours, you know supposed to do these things. All right. Yeah, that doesn't make sense
Let's uh, let's make this for Jenner did
So, yeah, we'll be talking microbes and food farming and vegetables and oh man all sorts of stuff lacto ferments
I'm assuming we'll get some great questions from the audience as well. And
Yeah, it'll be great to reconnect with Dan as well. Dan was part of my journey to
Getting towards natural farming or Korean natural farming
I did I am from Northern California originally
Kind of always had a garden in my yard growing up
Actually moved to New England to start professionally farming which everybody in California thought I was crazy for
But I farmed out there for three years. So I'm familiar with the area and I miss it
most of the time not in the winter don't miss it then and
And I'm glad to be wearing shorts today even at 640 at night
So yeah, that's a little bit. I can speak more on it later. But uh, yeah, we'll just leave it there
So in addition to Ben and Kobe obviously we've talked about Dan who's amazing if you haven't
Listened to his talks or seen them on YouTube
they are numerous and very long and packed full of information and you'll watch them several times and take tons of notes and
Probably break your head
and then
Suzanne Wainwright who is a leading entomologist in the United States as you said, she's been doing a lot of work in cannabis
She actually spends a lot of her free time
Correcting people on Facebook in our organic cultivators group again. Super grateful to have her in the group as a greater
All these amazing people
They come help me do this, but
She's super smart. She's gonna come talk
I have it on her authority that she is gonna wear a pickle Rick costume at some point at the conference
So I expect everyone that is showing up to hold her to that
I make sure to mention that every time
and
See who else Kobe Ben Chris Trump like we said before he's gonna be talking about natural farming philosophy
and taking questions
Wendy Kornberg will be talking about transitioning to living soil and
probably a million other things
definitely small farmers and the plight of small farmers and the current state of the cannabis market and then
Pat King and Kevin Jodri
Kevin's gonna be joining us via zoom
His daughter has been sick. So he's going to be staying in, California
But we're super excited to have him join the conference
via zoom and
Wendy Patrick and Kevin are all going to do a panel on the second night
we're calling it an evening without laws and
it's basically gonna be them hanging out talking about, you know going to jail and smuggling weed and
You know basically living the outlaw life and growing up in that life
You know
The entire culture is an outlaw culture
So I'm looking forward to that
again, they're they'll take people's questions and
Who else thin and cat they are the people that
Designed and came up with the Sun on demand light
Which is
Basically, they're not coming to talk about their light actually and they're gonna be joining us via zoom
They're gonna be talking about sunlight and the importance of sunlight
And what it can do for your plant
Produces
More diverse terpene and cannabinoid profile
What artificial light does and they try to match that as closely as possible?
Yeah, actually, you know, I haven't seen Sun in a while he's on here quite often or at least he was quite
regularly
showing up in a lot of these cultivation rooms
You know, I know Kobe we've seen Sun in a lot of the he's been in the KNF rooms
He's been in a lot of the other natural farming rooms. So he's been around
I haven't actually seen him in a little while. So it's it's good to
It's good to see that. He's still he's still running around and that that's that's great
And that that light is fantastic. I think you know for me as a home grower, I'd love to have one
They just need they need to scale it down to a size. That would be usable in a tent
Yeah, that's a thing. You know, it's like you have to have
I did talk so we're about I'm actually about to put their light in use in one of our rooms
Which the ceiling is a little low
For what's recommended but they gave me a couple of tips and one of them was just remove the shroud
And use it like that
But they're there they were actually gracious enough to sponsor the conference
And they told me that this is the first time they've ever done something like that. So
again, making all these cool connections and just super grateful to be
putting it on and
Yeah, hopefully all this stuff is good. Hey
Yeah, so I I expect a really really in-depth talk about
Frequency right because he definitely gets into a lot of discussions around how
You know, whatever light you're talking about today if it's not his light
The light that they made that Sun on demand light you're missing spectrums
You're missing frequencies
LEDs can only replicate so many, you know, because they're kind of locked in and specific in specific
Numbers, you know, there's always
regardless of what the colors are there's always one set of numbers and and there's
hundreds of spectrums and frequencies in between these different colors that are currently locked into LED bulbs, so
His approach that light is going to give you all of those different frequencies and then you're gonna get more into those other
Ultraviolet and UV
Spectrums that again we can't reproduce
Or they don't you know, it's too expensive to produce the amount of
Diodes they'd have to do to replicate that if they were going to try to put that on an LED light
Well, we're gonna do some side-by-sides this year when you and I are all about side-by-sides. We're we're
We don't care who you are. If you have a product we're gonna side-by-side it
Yeah, we're gonna try to get it as close as possible with an outdoor grow and run some side-by-sides
And see how they come out
Fantastic yeah, no, it's really interesting. He's also just a tremendous voice about regenerative practices
Like I know he doesn't smoke anything that hasn't been it wasn't regeneratively grown or naturally grown
He he's very very much proponent of regenerative practices and
healthy clean
You know eating healthy and clean foods
Yeah, I would say that probably a third of our conversation yesterday centered around that anytime I've talked to him
But that both of them
That that is their ethos
You know, they really are trying to
help
small farmers and the regenerative movement, which you know, a lot of people
Aren't really hip to that yet. So yeah. Yeah, they definitely have a passion for it and he can definitely go on for a long time
Absolutely, absolutely and so it's great
It's it's it's awesome that they're sponsoring the conference and that they're going to be there
I do I think it'd be really interesting to get him and Chris talking
About the philosophy aspects I know from you know, if if you've listened to Chris Trump speak
You know a lot of times again like what you were saying
He tends to get a lot of questions around the fermentation
processes how to make stuff the inputs a lot of questions around the color of the IMO and
Things like that and when you go and you take his class though a
Lot of it a good 20 to 30 percent of it is actually philosophy
Because a lot of the Korean natural farming art has to do with the philosophy
Kobe and I can't recommend enough
Going and taking an in-person class. I just took Christmas class
This summer that's how I met Ben. That's where I met Kobe in person for the first time
no matter how much you know about
Natural farming and making these ferments going and actually smelling them properly done is
Indispensable it kicks your knowledge level and to a completely different gear
Yeah, absolutely
I
Completely agree. It's but yeah, no, there's a lot of philosophy
In the way that he teaches and I'm glad that he's getting an opportunity to focus on that at the conference
Yeah, it's surprising how much
You know learning natural farming it
Impacts the rest of the way you live your life
And there is a lot of philosophy
that goes into
How these things tie together, you know happy animals make for happy meat
You know, I don't think it's not something that's on the consciousness of most
You know people walking around the United States
We're not really thinking about that
We're just going to the supermarket and we're buying meat in a package and we're very disconnected from it
and it's a whole nother level when you are really, you know connected to an animal and
Raising it in a way that you're caring for, you know, it's happiness and you know that you're providing for your family
and again, like the intention that's going into
Making all these things and I'll be the first person say I'm very anti woo
Like I said, I'm biodynamic is a trigger word for me. I'm like that
So that's
Admit at all. That sounds science
So, yeah, but there is something to it I'm definitely sliding in that direction the more I continue down this path
Awesome stuff awesome stuff Ben. Go ahead. You're gonna chime in
Yeah, I was just gonna say that I agree. I think that you know, there's whether we're talking cannabis or food production
There's been a huge disconnect
For people where things come from. They just see finished products and
They anticipate that the process to get there isn't usually what it is to get there
So just doing things like you had said with intention either whether that's raising meat animals for your family or going hunting
or
Doing regenerative farming whatever it is that you can do to sort of really own
what it takes to make the cycles turn and and not just sort of you know, be a
Non-active participant in the cycles, but understand that the cycles of life are an active participation thing
And that's part of the beauty of life is getting to be part of those cycles getting to interact on these multiple different levels
with different life forms and
Do it in a way that makes the entire cycle continue
And do it in a way that makes the entire cycle continue to flow and continue to work together symbiotically
and I think that over the past for a couple generations our
Luxuries and our our you know achievements in technology have gifted us so many things
But they've also separated us from some things and so it's really good to get back to some of those core fundamental
Um, you know in some way primal cycles and understand how they work and participate in them
um, yeah, and and I you know, I think there's another part of this which is um,
Empowerment and um
giving
farmers back
An additional set of tools and capabilities that don't necessarily cost
Uh this amount of money it it takes to buy a tractor, right?
um, there's ways that
You can
Stop spending money, which I think is fantastic as well for farmers because their margins are are small as it is
but when you can
There's all sorts of
lazy
farmer
Wins, uh as well, uh, the better the land gets the less you need to do
Is as an approach almost because if you're not
Spraying pesticides. Well, guess what you didn't spend money on pesticides and you didn't spend time spraying them
If you're not buying fungicides
or other types of weed killers
Uh you again you're saving money by not purchasing those things and then saving money on time and labor
All of those things anytime you give somebody
more time back
That gives them the ability to focus on other areas
For myself, you know, I make ferments
Inputs for my home garden, but most of those things last three to six months
Or some cases like ohhn it lasts a couple of years
Uh, some of these things, you know, I don't do a lot that often I you know
Feed my plants mostly water during the week to keep them wet and then I brew
A liquid imo once a week and that's how they get fed
I try to do less
um, you know is is kind of the way I look at it and so
I think it's a it's empowering to give people those tools to do these things themselves
To teach them to do these things themselves, but also empowering in the way that they get that time back to do other things
So
So actually when I first started down the living soil path
um, one of the first people I stumbled upon was um, joshua steensland
and he was the one who said
one of the reason I
Wasn't equating everything that I had been doing outdoors for the last decade
uh to
You know moving into indoor. I was trying to make everything complicated. So, you know, he was operating from the front set
I'm trying to spend as little time as possible in my plant room
Trying to be you know, do it as simple as possible. Keep it simple stupid
so once I started operating from
That aspect I found it a lot easier to manage things
You know getting a linear hands-on
system to do the work for me
Was much easier than trying to be on top of it and doing stuff with it all the time
Yeah
So
Ben you've done a lot of consulting you've been on a lot of farms a lot of different environments not just cannabis. How have you seen?
Uh the impact on some of the farmers that you've worked with by having them change to some of these better practices
Well, honestly, uh, I mean whether you're talking cannabis or agricultural production i've i've just seen it succeed
Um, the only real downside is that there can be a learning curve to it and it's really you know
How quickly you adapt to it that makes a a big difference
um
So, I mean the first thing that you see is just bottom lines
That's that's one of the number one ways that i'm able to talk to farmers and cultivators is what their bottom lines are
And inevitably labor is always your largest expense, but right after that is your fertilizer and pest management
So by doing things that enable you to drastically reduce your need for such things as fertilizer and pest management
And just utilize, you know fermentations indigenous microorganisms and if necessary, you know
Uh top dressing dry amendments and really good composting
you're able to
Drastically reduce what your operational costs would be and therefore that increases what your profit margins are
Without ever actually having to change how much you're producing
Or how much you're selling it for in the market and as you get these management practices underway, like you're saying you almost
You do less the more that you have done
So the longer you practice those particular methods and practice them properly and well
you're able to
Reduce how long it's going to be that you have to spend working on it to achieve the same
Same outcomes because the soil is simply in a better place. It's happier. It's healthier. It's much more stabilized and balanced
It's got better populations and therefore it's able to nutrient cycle better
So you're able to have much healthier more fertile soil
And therefore you're able to have less pest and pathogen incursion because healthier happier plants
Have less of a susceptibility to those things and then on top of that you've got the biological communities that help with pathogens
And you know, I think it's not
Obviously there's um
It's not a
Immediate change it takes time
uh, I think for me a little bit of the
Jumping off point, uh was you know, you you do have to have a little faith
Right, um, you know, we we talked about that there's a lot of philosophy behind it
Uh, we've talked about you know making your own stuff at home
uh, but there's a certain amount of uh, you have to just have some faith in the
system or faith that uh, these things can
Have an impact
Uh to go ahead and do it and and you know, you want to dip your toe in
Uh, I think many folks start out best to start out with a small area
Of your farm, you know, you don't want to necessarily risk your livelihood over something that you don't know and don't understand
And you want to use a test area to start that process but
Uh, I think it's once you get going down that path. It's very difficult to stop
Going down that path, um and and want to uh, introduce more aspects
into your approach
Um and to see those results start to come but at very at the very beginning
Um, you know, we got back from the regen conference, right? No, we got back from the korean national farming class really
and
You know, we made ohn
Uh, which i'm actually i'm still using the last of that. Oh a batch of ohn
Uh, I think it'll still last me another couple months
And uh, maybe i'll bring a little bit with me in march and we'll take a shot of it to celebrate. Um,
but um the um
At first when I started using the tools
I kind of felt like I threw my tool belt away. I didn't know what to do
Like i'm not going to grab a bottle of calcium. I'm not going to grab a bottle of
Magneet cal mag or magnesium or you know, i'm not going to go grab some nitrogen
Oh, look the plants, you know, they look like they need some potassium. I'm going to go pump some potassium in it's like no
That's not
It's not really
Not really the same approach, right? It's kind of learning about the
Lifecycle the natural life cycle of the plant
Understanding what the plant needs at those stages and obviously adjusting a little bit for the type of plant you're growing
And its life cycle, um, but really looking at it more as a you know as an overall
living being
and its overall
growth
from a seed or an ovum as a human
Uh all the way through their their childhood and their uh teenage and their flowering, right?
um and into adulthood and and so
Uh, it's a different
Approach it's again. It's not like I got to grab this bottle off the shelf and i'm mixing these seven bottles and I know exactly
How much uh, my ppm is going to be and all that I have no idea
how much
egg
uh shell
uh got
Into the vinegar to make the calcium. It's not like
You know each batch of it is is there's a little faith there you have to kind of say well
I'm following the formula. I got my 110
You know in there and i'm fermenting I did the thing and I got to believe that there's going to be enough
Calcium in there to feed my plants. So at first I kind of felt a little bit helpless
uh a little bit like I just had to you know
Keep going and just approach it. So I think that's it's it can be intimidating for people but
um
Once you get going it's hard to ever look back
Yeah at first it definitely took a little bit of time to uh
To wrap your head around the concepts
And uh, I mean the regen conference definitely started the curiosity, but it you're right. It didn't really click
Until we got home after the the five-day conference with chris in connecticut
And for me, I mean it really even after that it took a few months
uh of practicing it consistently and
Then finally sort of like being like all right
I get this before it was something that I could have trust in and know that I was you know
Doing what I needed to do
All right, it is 10 o'clock
And uh, i'm gonna go ahead and just give a quick little relight of the room
Uh, we're here in hote to herbs grow and tell
uh on the future cannabis project club, even though I
Unfortunately didn't include it in the meeting tonight. I'll make sure in the future that it's added and I can't edit it
I did check peter
Um, but anyway, uh, we are normally in the future cannabis project club, uh here on clubhouse, but uh, we are
being
Recorded and simulcast on the future cannabis project on youtube right now
So if you go to fcp02
You can actually join in the chat that's going on over there. We got a really lively chat tonight a lot of good natural
Uh gardening conversations going on. Uh was a little bumpy there
Uh occasionally but for the most part we've we've had a great conversation about
uh ferments and different approaches to different types of nutrients and potassiums and sulfates and
Different things so that's fantastic
So if you want to join in definitely head over to youtube on fcp02
And join in the chat
I know there's a couple folks like cheddar bob and a few others who uh bounce back and forth and who are in both
The uh chats and on in the room occasionally at times and I encourage that
For me it's a little hard at times to follow the youtube chat and still be a part of the conversation
So I just check back occasionally look for questions, uh, because I don't want to miss what's going on here
Uh, but thank you all for joining. We are here this week talking with organic cultivators
We've got james and ben and coby from the upcoming supernatural conference, which is coming to
Sturbridge massachusetts february 11th through 13th
Uh has a host of amazing speakers
uh, just
Incredible talent lineup that you that you put together james
Uh, so really really excited to uh to uh hear how that all comes out
uh, so, uh
Why don't you uh talk a little bit more about?
Uh the location and and some of the things that are going to be going on
Uh that those three days
Yeah, so the it's at the sturbridge host hotel which is in sturbridge massachusetts
Um, it's three days february 11th 12th and 13th
um
If uh, if anyone who's planning on attending you can call and mention organic cultivators and you can get a reduced room rate
For those three nights
It's also a hotel. So there's plenty of rooms there
They're supposed to be um, actually one of the viewers, uh ethan, uh, well, he was one of the viewers, uh
Reached out, uh to a club. You mentioned it earlier jason the summit club or something like that
and uh
Yeah, the summit lounge in what's on that lounge? That's what yeah, so, um, it's there is the possibility that we may do
Uh an after hours event there
um
on
the friday, uh, so the 11th
and uh, then
um
get the
Sunday the last day
There's a possibility that we're going to be doing another after hours event at a local dispensary
And possibly doing another consumption thing there
We're analyzing those details
Yeah, and and I should try to connect you as well with uh, green meadows and uh, the guy behind yellow hammer genetics
Uh fantastic because they are to my knowledge
The first folks selling regeneratively grown flower here in massachusetts
So, uh, I was really really excited when they reached out to me. I've been chatting with them and and I know
Uh, I know the I've grown some of the yellow hammer genetics actually so, uh, really really good stuff
I've enjoyed chatting with him at a couple of the uh gene trader events actually, uh, so that's where I met him
He's actually he's working over there. I think he's the vp of cultivation now
Uh, so they've got some really cool stuff so i'm excited that you're already connected with them
yeah, i've been talking to josh and uh,
who's the cultivator and uh
Their names escaped me, but two other people
And we've been going back and forth and it looks like there will likely be
um room for 65 people, uh to go
uh to their facility
And see what they have going on and yeah, they reached out to us because they're doing korean natural farming
I just know we're doing a conference. They're like 10 minutes
From where the conference is at?
And uh, so yeah, we wendy and I we're actually pretty picky about who we work with
so every sponsor
that we've
um paired up with
They're vetted by us
you know, it's just us putting it together anyway, but um
Yeah, we're not willing to just take money from anyone. Uh,
and uh, yeah, so it's it's pretty cool
Like I said, all the connections that we've made is pretty wild
so it's it's pretty cool that you mentioned them specifically that kind of makes me happy that uh,
there are other people aware of them and
Um, i'm excited to go check out what they have going on
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Um, um, i'm also excited to go out there and try their flower, too
I'm i'm i'm looking forward to taking a trip out there one of these days and taking a visit
It's a little bit of a hike from the cape
Uh, so it's definitely it's going to be a long trip almost as long of a drive as ben has
um a little bit longer though
And just to let just to let you know
Wendy has joined on the youtube chat. So she is fielding questions about fungus gnats
Uh as well as saying hi to the whole crowd out there on youtube tonight
So we've got wendy supporting us on the other side
uh as well
Yeah, she she said she probably wants some uh, she might say something she regrets right now
So she's probably better in a typing mood tonight
And talk about small farms and she might rail hard
Fantastic fantastic
So, uh
Go ahead. What what other uh, what are the
What are the things you want to cover i'm excited to try their flower as well and uh,
but that's kind of the whole deal is to let everyone uh get an opportunity to go there and check out their flower and
and get some get some cannabis to smoke and then hopefully, uh, you know, wrap up the conference on a
a high note excuse the pun
Um
Um, yeah, yeah, no, that'd be awesome and hopefully talk to them about what uh aspects of knf they're using and
And what their regenerative practices are and all that. That's fantastic. That's really cool
Some good insider information there. Um, but yeah, no, I was uh, super excited to see folks putting out some regenerative flower
Uh in massachusetts, and I know we've got there's a bunch of it going up on in maine
Uh, so we know uh grape grows from uh
from the regen conference and
A whole bunch of other folks up in maine like blue
Our good friend blue with the avocado tech up in maine
Also has uh, he's got actually a brand uh up there now and they I believe they have a shop up at the top of the
The top of the state there. They're way way way up there in maine
Uh, but blue a green tank. What a good cat
I'm looking forward to hopefully connecting with him at the main regen conference as well
So bet
um
what uh
What is some of the um panel?
Uh stuff that you guys talked about setting up. I know, uh, we
Uh attending the regen conference the panels were almost were a lot more fun
Uh, especially when you had folks that weren't necessarily agreeing there was a really really we got a really really interesting conversation around neem
The last time we got any folks together
So, um, I actually don't know uh yet from james what a good number of the panels are going to be but
I could tell you a little bit more about what i'm going to be presenting myself
So i'm going to be focusing on how you're going to integrate regenerative capacities inside
So things like
A lot of people don't think about floor plans and how your initial floor plan and lean operations
Is a regenerative practice because you need to be able to be sustainable before you can be regenerative
And if labor is one of the biggest expenses and often one of the most over, you know wasted expenses
Then it's one of the first ones that you should try to eliminate
So we'll be looking at facility design specifically targeting towards floor plans considerations of lean operations and goal orientation
Uh resource consumption like how you're getting your power where it's coming from what distance it's traveled and how that might change
What selections you do for equipment?
And then environmental controls. Um, so looking at how things like integrated hvadc
Versus traditional hvac and dehumidification separately can make a large difference in both your electrical footprint
But also your overall environmental controlling your ability to titrate, uh, its specific levels of environmental control
And then also things like uh recapturing dehumidification water so that way you can reuse that in irrigation systems
Reutilizing heat sink systems. So that way when you're pulling heat out from one area, you can use it to heat something else and vice versa
Um also down to things like equipment selection and how to get into really look at efficiencies and integration systems
And then also looking at cultivation media container sizes what type of amendments or foliars you might choose to use
ipm
waste management composting recycling
Also things like different types of cover crops cover crops with fruit production that you can then use in fermentations or to feed your other cycles
So that way you have one cycle feeding into another cycle and not just the cannabis that's being cultivated there or uh
Great, uh, you know your standard green cover crop like clovers and dichondras and uh creeping vetch
So then we look at like energy recapturing and integrating energy systems water capturing
And finally like some things along the lines of different types of irrigation that can minimize water use
I'm a big fan of the vetch
All right, let's go I love the vetch. All right, so um
Awesome stuff. I think this conference is going to be absolutely
fantastic
Really really amazing lineup
Um, so, you know just to make sure
Uh, you know if if you like what you've heard in the conversation tonight, uh, make sure that you uh, you know
Sign up right this uh conference. There's only a hundred seats
And uh, we want to make sure that you know
If you have the opportunity to go that you get in
Uh and get in now because otherwise you're gonna you're gonna get uh caught out
Only a hundred seats. So if you like these people, they'll be speaking at the conference
Uh, and and we have a whole you know, there's a whole lineup of other people as we mentioned
Uh, wendy who again is helping us hold down the youtube crowd tonight
Uh, and we have uh, dan kittredge and suzanne wainwright patrick king kevin jodrey chris trump
uh ben and coby
Uh, and and obviously steve will be there. I'm, sorry james will be there as well
and then of course son as we mentioned we talked a little bit about the the sun and the lighting and
And that they're one of the major sponsors so awesome awesome stuff
uh any other uh closing thoughts you want to uh add tonight, uh james on growing with intent
Uh, yeah, well a couple things, um
First uh panels, uh, so basically at the end of every day, we're going to have a panel. Uh,
Excluding the second day which will be the evening without law panel
um, it's basically going to be a wrap-up of the speakers and other
Uh random people that we have decided will uh grace the panel
Uh, and uh, it's basically just going to be a hang where everyone's talking and debating ideas
Uh, so again going to be a little bit on the audience
Uh to push the conversation where it goes and I you know the speakers
I know chris is looking forward to talking with dan. So
There's going to be
Uh, you know some some interesting stuff coming out of that
um as far as growing with intent, uh, like I said before I
Am very resistant to woo woo ideas or have been
Uh, basically my entire life, you know, I like math. I like science
Uh, that's typically where I lay my uh, my head when it comes to thinking
um
i've witnessed
uh
Coming out to california and working on a cannabis farm. Uh,
different people coming through
Different plants same soil same plants same method
uh
And there's a noticeable difference
Uh in the plants over time. Um, it's uh, it's weird
I'm not sure
Uh, you know what that is
um
but
certainly on a deeper cosmic level, uh, there's
No explanation for why any of us are here
uh, it's it's pure fucking magic, so
um
I uh
Yeah, I would definitely say that. Um, there's probably more woo
to all of this
Than I ever wanted to uh admit to
uh
But yeah, I think it serves well
Um, i've definitely seen it, uh in my own grow and in my own life
Uh that when you start paying attention to those kinds of things, um, it comes back to you in dividends
Yeah, absolutely absolutely, um, I I I completely agree
um, I
Do things with intent
Right. Um, that's that's that's um
My a lot of my motivation I have an intent right and and there's something I I I
Um having the right intent is super important
um, and and I feel
uh so much more
Comfortable as you were saying earlier at the very beginning of the car
earlier in the conversation you you felt like you're you know better with your family because of
uh of this
and um
I think that it's true you uh, i'm much happier
Uh with this I feel much more connected
With what's going on with my plants?
um
With my observations of nature and what's going on around me in my environment
uh, not just about what i'm growing but just
Noticing the things going on in my environment on my my one acre plot of land
um, and even the differences between
the environment in my old house, um, and in in you know in what in the Worcester area of massachusetts, so
90 miles away
From where I was the differences are stark in some cases. The temperatures are different the
Highs and lows are different. There's more snow up in the mountains now i'm down at sea level
Uh, it's different zones. There's different types of plants
Different types of birds and insects are more prevalent
so it's definitely
Made me start to pay more attention to these things and the interactions and connections between
How plants grow and what's going on in the soil
and
Ourselves and our bodies and food and those interactions like I say it all I talk about all the time I love
a lab
Lactic acid bacteria lactobacillus is fascinating to me
It's so much a part of so many things. It's great for your plants and it's
super, you know
It's excellent for your soil and help regenerating your soil and uh, it's fantastic for you and it's great for your animals
It'll help them if they're not feeling well, and you know, it's also
Along with yeast what makes bread rise?
It's just like all these crazy
interactions where um, you know
soil health and and healthy food
Uh bringing those things into our bodies and having healthier biomes and healthier bodies because we're ingesting healthier products and healthier things
um, but also that all of these
Things are interacting all the time
nick and I like to talk a lot about these interactions of
different aspects of biology and
chemistry on a weekly basis
Uh, so it's it's always fascinating to me how these things are connected and I think the regenerative aspect only increased
that obsession
More and more over time
You know i'll say it's uh
It's it's rather naive of me
but
Um, you know, I spent my entire life in in one state, uh in michigan, but you know, we have small hills
It's it's basically flat, uh, the trees don't get super crazy large
um
And I I lived in in one area a garden in one spot the entire time
Uh until I moved
Uh, I don't know maybe seven years ago or so
And I moved just 10 miles down the road
and grew all the same vegetables
um and
Got hit with squash vine borer
um
Didn't even
Uh, it was a it was a surprise to me. It was a learning moment
Like oh shit like that that tiny bit of a move coming here to california where it's like
Oh, what elevation are you at? Like I never even considered those things
Um, and how different biology is here
Um compared to michigan, um, I can walk anywhere here and there's mycelium everywhere
Um in michigan, I had to go find it
Um, you know where I was at anyway, um, so yeah, it's it's um, it it's been a
a learning
Experience in so many ways and and like i've you know, I know tons of shit about outer space and i've been a nerd my entire
life
Um, but it's pretty wild how much I was not paying attention to the things around me
um
You know, even though I was gardening in my backyard. I was gardening in my backyard. I wasn't
Paying attention to the wider world around me
um, I wasn't really
uh, I was worried more about like
politics and and things like that affecting my kids which is still a concern, um, but
now, you know the the natural life and and with the way things interact and
Um, you know, I always knew that I liked gardening and and it made me happier. But you know now I know why
I was like, oh, there's a there's microbes in there that actually make you happy and there's this whole interactive thing and you know, I
I'm allergic to milk. I'm lactose intolerant, but I can you know eat some ice cream if I if I take labs
You know, like I I can treat myself better and you know, all these problems I have fix themselves. It's it's pretty wild
I
Did want to stop for just one second and wish the doctor a happy 420 because it is 420 in
Altaroa, New Zealand
So happy 420 doctor down below
I appreciate you being with us as always and thanks for the reminder. He is in the future
Folks he is in the future
Coming to us from the future in New Zealand
Wishing us all a 420 a happy 420. Uh, so
Um
Nick, um, you know
one of the things that I I I
love about your company is that your
products are
based on a lot of these
concepts of of these natural turning these natural products into
Really really good inputs for your plans. We've talked about algae and we've talked about hibiscus
Um, and we've talked about some other things. Um
Give us some thoughts man. You've been a bit quiet tonight while we've been chatting about reject the conference
Yeah, I mean it's been good just uh listening and being inspired and knowing that there's people
that are like-minded, um kind of you know, very very similar in mind, but perhaps have a
Different approach to the industry and you know
the way that I look at it is that there's a lot of heavy lifting required when it comes to
Something that's truly sustainable and regenerative and it kind of requires a lot of moving parts that are synchronized
Together for a higher purpose. So it's kind of tough for me to walk this fine line because we are a fertilizer manufacturing company
uh, and we do make
You know liquid fertilizers. Um, but having said that these fertilizers are
Based on four dozen species of sea plants and land plants about one quarter are aquatic three quarters are terrestrial
and the idea is that these sea and land plants produce compounds that can be utilized in the context of
Agriculture just like they can be utilized in the context of medicine. It's just the
understanding of you know, some of these
Metabolites and how they can kind of fit into natural cycles to help promote and extend soil health, you know how to promote
diverse fungal activity and
diverse microbial activity and higher orders of life leading all the way back to the
human nervous system, um that kind of
You know manage to put all this stuff together. So
You know kind of looking more specifically at the nuts and bolts, uh underneath
plant metabolism kind of you know coming to terms like we've done in episodes in the past looking at organic acids
And how those become skeletons for the biosynthesis of these medicinal and therapeutic compounds that are highly active in nature and
You know, they're not limited to the human body plants are not producing them specifically and solely for the human body. They have
benefits that extend beyond um
You know just humans and and for that matter just plants too
you know, I always say plants are masters of carbon chemistry because they found ways to produce compounds that
Mediate relationships across a greater variety of kingdoms than anything else. I mean just think about some of these
aromatic and fragrant compounds that are used to attract bees and butterflies and birds and
hummingbirds and the nectar that's produced and pollen and
Certainly the terpenes and the terpeno phenolic compounds and cannabis heads. These are very very complex substances that are used to
spread messages and information
Across kingdoms of life that have separate evolutionary histories for tens if not hundreds of millions of years yet
there's this intricate and fundamental connection in the sense that we've got a nervous system that we learned about we have a
Circulatory system that we learned about we've got a skeletal system that we've learned about these things are all very
Mechanical just like nuts and bolts in a car
Uh, we kind of forgot along the way about this endocannabinoid system that we've got that's no different
It's a sort of a constituent and a component
Of this human experience so
You know for me
There's this like layer of magic that is being overlooked in the understanding that certain plants like the hibiscus flowers that you mentioned jason
They produce organic acids like hydroxy citric acid which are a little bit uncommon and unusual in nature
and if you understand how hydroxy citric acid can fit into a metabolic cycle and be used in the context of let's say increased
Nitrogen efficiency because maybe there's some benefit where you decrease the overall energy expenditure that the plant needs to
process nitrates and convert that into
Ammoniacal forms to then make amino acids
I mean if you can kind of fit in and understand what's going on then
You know the world kind of becomes your oyster and you realize like hey, there's dozens and dozens of plants not just like brown kelp
you know ascaphylum nidosum the rockweed species that
Everyone's familiar with but what about the sulfated polysaccharides from green kelp?
What about the fatty acids from red kelp?
You know those fatty acids are phenomenal precursors for ketones like olivetolic acid which cannabis plants require for the biosynthesis
of all cannabinoids so the stuff isn't as
Separate I think as most people would be led to believe if they just took it at face value. There's a lot of this
Uh, so, you know as terence mckenna said there's a lot of these sideways connections
That are happening. Uh, you just have to kind of learn how to look at something rather than
Uh worrying about what it is. You're looking at and with that i'll pass the mic back
Fantastic
That's all I gotta say
Um, yeah. Yeah. No, absolutely. I that's a lot of our conversations have been focused around those
Different connections and and the and the way that
Uh, some of these uh things, uh feet off of each other
um, you know another interesting conversation that I think
uh that i've had that um, or tried to have with a couple of folks that
was kind of misunderstood was
uh the conversation around
uh, the
the the
Effect that environment has
Is on the uh plant that gets produced and so
you know
We talk about
you know
Appalachians and and how you know plants grown in uh, you know, if you grow, uh, you know a specific cultivar
in different places
Um, you're going to get different
Effects right if you grow it in humboldt county outdoors you grow it in
You know, maine you grow it in florida you grow it in all these different places
You're going to get different you're going to get a different plant structure. You're going to get different yield. You're going to have different effects
uh, the soil structure
Uh is going to be uh is going to have an impact on that as well
um
now
Where i've gotten some pushback is is that people claim that you can replicate that and and my feeling is is that
The you can replicate a lot of it
But you can't replicate
All of it, uh, you're missing some of those environmental factors that you mentioned
um as well as you know, just just some of these other conversations that we've had that there is a whole
Web of biology that's going on that is also impacting how that plant
gets produced
and you can
Get the soil you can go and you can dig the soil out of the ground
in humboldt county and put it on a trailer and
You know drive it across the country and put it into a facility
And tune the lights to the same spectrum on that same side of the mountain and all that other stuff
But you're still missing the biology of what's going on there
You could take that same soil and you could put it outdoors in
massachusetts and try to fill a field with that same soil or put your plants in it or start your furrows with it and
Again, you're going to get different results
Not only because of the different spectrums that you're going to get but also you have completely
You have different versions of biology that are also impacting
What's going on in that soil what's going on in the environment the birds the insects all of that stuff impacts that
finished product and
That's the aspect that is not that you can't replicate
um and
is one of the pieces I appreciate about
Some of the korean natural farming approaches is that we try to
Use the things that are successful in our environment
uh to help
Create plants that are are going to be healthy here as opposed trying to replicate
Or bring in the things that are successful elsewhere
Yeah, yeah and a good parallel might be actually to uh to tea, you know as you know, jason
I'm kind of a big tina and one of my favorite amino acids of all time is l-theanine aptly named after the tea plant
Uh, and it's been shown that this amino acid, you know has effects on the human nervous system. It's really good for the brain
It's really good for stress. Um when used in conjunction with caffeine
uh, it does wonderful things, um, which is you know, yt has uh,
Certainly endured as a culture for thousands and thousands of years and and really uh why the science of tea cultivation
Has gotten to where it's at so, you know as it turns out this amino acid is produced in response to certain environmental
uh conditions and so, you know typically in soils that are rich in minerals, for example, you're going to have
a greater need for that plant to be able to sort of maintain its redox status internally and it's been shown that the
Sort of more mineral rich soils will place that positive stress on the plant
To better regulate its own internal chemistries and one of the ways that it does this is to produce this amino acid
And like I said, if you have like very very mineral rich soils in certain cases
There are regions in china where there are plants that quite literally grow out of rocks. They're called rock tea yancha
It's found in the wuyi mountain region and these things take a very very long time to grow. They grow very slowly
Maybe 20 years old and the bush is going to be like 24 inches tall and it literally grows out of a rock
It grows very slowly
And as this tea plant grows it produces these compounds in the leaves that help mitigate these otherwise mineral rich
chemical environments and so you end up with a lot of flavor in the leaves you end up with a lot of umami and you can't
just
replicate that anywhere, you know if you go from there's other mountain ranges like in the phoenix mountain range for instance if you go from
Peak to peak because there's like eight or nine peaks in total. They all have slightly different
soil compositions and slightly different types of clay
And as you go from village to village and you drink the various types of tea you can really taste the effect
That the soil has even on cultivars that have been growing, uh in those regions
and in some cases
Excuse me. You may find that there's cultivars
Of tea that only grow in a particular village or in one particular region. They've just been you know for hundreds if not thousands of years
Kind of been cultivated
um in that area they kind of live in synergy with
The environment around them and the coolest part for me as a tea junkie is that the processing methods themselves
Have been kind of fine-tuned for a couple of hundred years now and really perfected to just really bring out those floral and nuanced
qualities
of these teas that are otherwise
You know pretty uh pretty difficult to coax out
Um, so a lot of these teas are named after the the fragrances that they produce
So you'll have one called like honey orchid fragrance or something like that
um, and it really does taste like wildflower honey and it has this beautiful floral taste that
You know, you brewed the tea right and the tea master makes it right obviously and it's grown right and all that good stuff
And you just have this phenomenal experience that you quite literally can't have
uh anywhere else, you know, so I think that definitely stands true with
crops that are sensitive to
The stressors in their environment and are capable of producing compounds to help mediate those stressors and I think terpeno phenolic compounds and
Cannabis are uh, definitely a good way to do that
James you had your mic off for uh for a second there. Did you want to jump in?
Oh my uh, no my clubhouse glitched out
I lost part of it
But I will say uh returning to what you were saying before I just had an interesting conversation with one of the
um
Moderators in our group. His name is michael wolf seagal. A lot of people know him as farmer in the sky
He's like a genius when it comes to lighting
uh, but one of the things that they are
experimenting with is uh different pressures and indoor environments, um to mimic
Uh the environments from where like land races are coming from
Um, so they can do a phenotype phenotype selection
in different environments
um, so they're you know, people are trying but uh, I I'm with you it's it's impossible to uh,
Mimic any environment 100%
Full biomimicry is just it's just something that
I guess
Theoretically you could do it
Uh, but it would take an extreme effort to introduce and contain
even
uh the
Corresponding biological elements. You need like a biodome setup type of a deal I think
Hey if it comes with paulie shore, let's do it
Uh, I don't I don't know if I could still stand him doing the weasel I mean the guy's like 60 years old
Nah, you can't do the weasel
Well, it's lofty goals we go for but I mean, yeah complete biomimicry is the uh, you know in the long term
It's the ultimate goal if we can
So you just try to get as close as you can to that goal as your limitations make you
Yeah, absolutely and and obviously there's there's lots of different approaches that people can take regardless of their scale
um
You know lighten talks all the time about making sure you're layering your pots appropriately so that you have good zones
that mimic
Uh the natural zones that you would see in the soil
There's lots of different approaches you can take to try to follow biomimicry
Using living soil beds with worms and other biology in there
Introducing predators and and other things as well
um
Letting your cats your dogs roam around there is uh is is not usually a good idea because they usually bring
uh other types of problems with them as well as all the hair sticking to your buds, so
Um, you know as as best as possible, you know, you can't you don't necessarily want to use the cats to replicate
uh some other uh
You know mammal activity that would normally be happening outdoors
Yeah, I uh, I highly recommend being in a bed, um if you have the space for it if you're not uh
um, you know if you're not handicapped or if you have help, um, you know, whatever you can do to get into a bed and
utilizing imo
Uh in a bed that has um, rich mineral content
Is definitely beneficial. Um, you're not going to mimic
Is definitely beneficial, um, you're not going to mimic
Uh outdoors, uh, but getting that diverse biology inside is definitely key
Uh to producing the best cannabis that you can especially for states that
You know, you have to grow indoor
um
You know, you got to do what you can
uh
To be the best that you can
Yeah, yeah and and you can do some smaller beds I think there's a certain size
minimum if you're doing true living soil and and but
I think a lot of people have talked to you know
And dutch more recently has talked about doing living soil approaches with smaller size pots
But to do a bed, I think it should be at least a three by three and unfortunately, it's a lot of soil
It's heavy right three by three bed is about 70
75 gallons of soil a four by four bed is about a hundred gallons of soil
And um if you're not able to get into you know with with a bed you have to be able to
If you can't get around it, you have to be able to reach
Across it and it can be difficult
Uh, depending on on how on how you can access it and it's not like it's something you can
You can't really spin the plants around and so you have to you have to really be able to navigate the space
uh, it's something I don't know if everybody always thinks about when they
Start putting some of those things in there. Uh, it's also I think for indoor growers. It's important to think about
If you're going to introduce a bed in your indoor space to think about the additional humidity load because
um with all of that additional soil
that is
You're now using you're going to have a lot more humidity and moisture
In the tent space your ratio of soil to air
Volume has changed significantly
And so one of the things that you really have to keep an eye on
When you go from pots or containers into a living soil bed
Especially if you try to squeeze a four by four bed in a four by four tent, which i've seen some people do
um
I don't recommend that
That's totally me
I think you're better off at least get the five by five tent so you can at least get around the bed a little bit
uh, but the but um
You know a four by four bed in a four by four tent. That's a lot of humidity that you have to manage
Yeah, thankfully in michigan in uh the summertime it gets pretty dry
So my indoor was pretty easy to manage in the wintertime, uh in the summertime
Um, you know, I was in uh an air-conditioned basement so it made it a little easier for me
um, but I you know make sure
Have some oversized exhaust and can move things around on a sensor and um seem to do okay
But yes, I definitely made sure I had doors on all sides and could access it and even then
Having three tents in a basement room. Uh definitely ends up
Uh getting difficult to move around
Uh and taking plants down, uh as a task, um, i'm definitely strictly speaking just from
um taste profile and um, I think once you get the
Um, it's a bit of a learning curve also moving into a large bed
Uh, one of the other things you need to consider is it's a lot of weight
So where you're putting your bed?
Um is definitely something to consider much like a fish tank. You don't want to be putting that uh on some rickety surface
um
So yeah, there's a hundred gallons of wet soil. It weighs a lot
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and I think the general consensus is like 65 gallons is around the minimum that you want to be for
a really good
Sustaining soil food web that you don't have to constantly be on top of
um, you know, like I said, I think if I I recommend being in a in a bed
But you have to do what works for you
Just like every farmer you have to do what works for you on your farm and some people a bed doesn't work
um, you know, but uh, you know do what you can
Definitely if you're cover cropping and and using good biology
Um, you know, you're a step ahead of what a lot of people are doing
Um, and that's a step in the right direction
So and I think one of the key things, um, you know, wendy and I we say it all time
Cannabis is the gateway plant
And once you grow cannabis you want to grow everything
so if we can just get people thinking about
um better practices, I know you mentioned
avocado tech before it's something that
Uh, I did when I started
uh growing, uh, I had worms i'm gonna feed the worms and
Uh went to the store and bought avocados and scooped them out and did the whole thing
Um, I wasn't thinking
where are these avocados coming from and
Why am I buying shit from a store when I have all this stuff in my garden and I already compost and I do all this
other stuff so
um
Using that tech or whatever you want to call it
uh with stuff that's
around you
from your own garden or
um, you know, I grew lettuce in my beds and peppers in my beds and
Just chopped everything and dropped it right on the bed. He grew organic matter
for my bed biology
to feed on
um, so we just need to
Think about what we're doing
In our grow whether it's pots or beds or whatever
Um, I think we can all be moving towards being more
sustainable if not regenerative
Wendy's wendy's comment from youtube don't tell me I can't turn my 10 by 10 into a big old indoor
The shed will be just fine
Just fine. Yeah, that's what we're doing right now. We're getting our indoor up and running
Awesome awesome stuff
Great okay, so, um, we are coming to the uh,
We're coming close to the two hour mark here
Uh ben any closing comments for us tonight?
Um knowledge that I hope I get to see everybody, uh, one of my favorite parts about uh speaking and
Educating and going to events like this is uh getting to meet people and getting to network getting to talk answer questions ask questions
So i'm looking uh, i'm really looking forward to getting together with everybody. We've got an amazing amazing lineup of people
And a really great environment to do it all in so I think it's going to be very engaging very entertaining
Really looking forward to it and make sure you all remember that if you do want to go that the
Uh till later this evening as james had said earlier you use the discount code with super with a capital s
Uh 50 off on a ticket tonight
Get in only a hundred tickets they're going fast
I I hear them ticking away in the background right now
Disappearing as we speak
In the background right now
disappearing as we speak
All right, uh, kobe any uh final remarks for tonight
Uh similar to ben, uh reconnecting with some old friends and like-minded individuals around
You know growing medicine
growing food and what we can do together to
Uh encourage each other and uh, you know thinking thinking bigger than our own garden or our own grow or
my own farm
Uh, and how my choices affect. I mean everybody
and uh
Yeah being that odd man outlet james was saying with the uh, cannabis is the gateway plant
it kind of worked in reverse for me, so it's always funny to see and some of the uh,
Cannabis groups people are like what is this? You're like, oh that's obviously an aphid because i've been growing food for years
That's like that's like basic knowledge and you're like, oh you've only grown this plant, okay
Which fantastic we all start somewhere. We're all on the journey together
I look forward to bridging that gap between uh veggies and cannabis and that whole
plant and living soil, uh world and ecosystem we live in
And making it taste
Awesome, and if you have aphids, you know or aphids
Um, you know lacewing larvae and I like the parasitic wasps too. I think those are really really cool
um
Lots, uh, they're they they were definitely very effective. I had some uh,
I I actually did it to myself as I usually do as I brought some
plants into my environment and uh, I infected my
Uh little indoor grow with uh aphids and so I had to deal with them
So I brought in some lacewing larva and some uh, some parasitic wasps and I took care of the problem. They were gone
They just disappeared. They were gone. They just were gone
There was no problems at all and and for those that might be concerned with thinking about like there's no way i'm gonna release
parasitic wasps in my basement
Um number one, they don't sting people and number two
Uh, they actually don't really leave the plant area. They just stick to where the aphids are at. That's all they care about
So you don't have to worry about them like landing on you and and stinging you and your and your and your family
Uh, they're they're perfectly safe for the house
Full disclosure I have uh aphids
Uh right now and I love that by the way aphids instead of aphids i'm using that all the time. I love pronouncing words
Uh wrong or differently so big fan of that I do it all the time just ask nick
Do not say chelate
Yes, I do. Yes, I do. That's right. Absolutely
That's right. I literally thought cat ion was cation for years. No, I was gonna say that too. Don't say
canyons
Yeah
Yeah, if I it's it's not a grow and tell if I don't mispronounce or mangle at least five different words, so
Uh, i'm trying i'm working on it. You know, I have a new one for us all it's trichomes
Trichomes, that's an excellent one. Yes. Yes
Gotta watch out gotta watch out for those deadly trichomes
Uh sounds like a miter a motorcycle gang to me
All right, so, uh
James any other uh final things to wrap it up tonight. I really appreciate you being on with us
Uh, just super grateful that you had me on and uh
I know, uh, wendy said she'll come on, uh another time when she's feeling uh in a better mood
um, but uh
Yeah, i'm just super grateful that you had me came on or come on and uh, I highly recommend
Anyone who has the wherewithal to come check out the conference?
It's going to be a blast
Uh, I think we're going to have a lot of fun with this and learn a bunch of stuff
and I for one i'm looking forward to
Uh trying to fill my head and remember it all so thankfully i'll be recording most of this for posterity and
I'll get to watch it as many times as I want
Uh to learn from some of the greatest people
Uh that are doing this stuff. So, uh, yeah come check it out
Fantastic and wendy brought up my one of my favorites as well, which is aureus pirate bugs. I love pirate bugs
I just released a bunch of 500 pirate bugs
uh
yesterday, uh, so, um, I just released uh some I just put actually put some uh,
Cuc-cucamerous
Sashays out there. I've got my stradiolalaps. I released I uh released some aureus
I also put some um, what else did I put out? There was there was one more
uh, I got some uh
Nematodes predatory nematodes i've got to put out as well
And of course my other favorite which are delosha or rove beetles
Uh, they're also fantastic. I love delosha rove beetles. They are
Uh, they're also they last uh, you put in you release some rove beetles and as long as you have those pots
You have rove beetles
uh, they tend to stick around, uh in your
Inside your tent and and they love to like be in the bottoms of the trays and stuff. They're fantastic
So I highly recommend aureus are fun
Uh, they fly around uh, they're good, uh, they're uh, they hurt they hurt when they bite you
That is one that will hurt, you know, he was talking about the parasitic wasps not fucking with you and that's 100 true
They just like
But uh the aureus those
Those things will bite you and they do got uh, quite a bit of a bite, but they are monsters
They'll they'll smash some thrips and oh, yeah and all kinds of stuff. They're amazing. They don't they'll kill just for fun
Yes. Yeah
That's what's amazing. But like I said, they're monsters
They literally just walk around killing things and dropping them to the ground. It's like a boston terrier getting rats on the farm. It's yeah
Yeah, it's pretty wild. It's fantastic
i'm excited
Uh with the outdoor like we have we're getting an indoor setup and i've been all my indoors have been tents
This is going to be like an actual room and i'm actually kind of excited that there's aphids in there right now
uh, because i'm like yes, I get to release all this cool stuff into a room and
Walk in and see the green lace wings flying around and know that I have like a way more complete environment than I did in
My little tent
Because even in my tents like I couldn't keep all those predators
uh alive all the time, um, and I and the other thing to mention about aureus is i'm not you you may know this but um,
They go into diapause, uh when you're in flower, so if you're in flower, they will not reproduce and you'll have to keep
Introducing them into your room
Yes, um and uh, you know, I think another great tip, uh, you know is as you were mentioning is is having some of those
Indoor plants that they can feed on and keep their populations growing having banker plants
uh using things like ornamental peppers and uh, you know, some of the
marigolds not necessarily marigolds, but um
calendula
Certain insects will feed off the pollen
Uh off of that's why the ornamental peppers are great because they're always blooming and there's always pollen
So they're good to keep around they don't take up a lot of space
But or the aureus have and several other species have been shown to feed off the pollen
And they can be used as banker plants
So when there's no insects to eat they can go and eat the pollen and live on those and when if you get some pest
predator, uh pest pressures
They'll be there to support you
as part of your food soil web
Awesome stuff. All right. Um nick anything else to finish up with tonight
No, I mean I think everyone here that we had on the show tonight was awesome and it was great to meet you james
Um glad that you stopped by and uh, certainly looking forward to more conversations like this in the future. This was great tonight
Thanks for being here
Likewise, this is my first time on clubhouse. So, uh, i'm gonna follow everybody and
um
Definitely be checking out the show more often and joining the conversation. I'm a little uh
I'm a little late to the party when it comes to social media stuff
So it took me, you know, probably 10 years to get on instagram. I literally just started trying to get followers. So
Um, i'll definitely be hanging out and joining the conversation, uh in the future
Awesome awesome stuff and uh, really again really appreciate you being here ben great to see you
Uh, kobe always fantastic have you on the show as well
I want to thank everybody for joining us here on hoat to herbs grow and tell
uh, you know, it was really really awesome learning about the
Supernatural conference that's coming up here in stirbridge again
Get that code get that discount get those tickets before they sell out
Uh for stirbridge massachusetts february 11th through 13th
And I want to thank peter and london
For helping produce the show as always future cannabis project fcp02 channel
Where we are recorded and simulcast and saved so if you missed anything
Head over to youtube and go check out the replay
Or you can check out the replay here in clubhouse as well. If you hit my profile
You can definitely uh, click the replay for the grow and tell
So I want to thank everybody for being here. Thank all the folks who have been in the room with us tonight
Uh and thank all the folks on youtube as well
We will be back next week with a conversation about sulfur
So we're going to talk sulfur next week and sugar the week after that. So I hope you all can join us
We're here every thursday night at 9 p.m. Eastern 6 p.m. Pacific
Live on clubhouse simulcast on youtube. Thank you all so much and have an awesome awesome evening
Thank you for doing what you do jason
Tricky
London we'll wait for london
It's a jess reference my echoing just from us and where's london
I
Am all alone. Oh, I know I know why
Because i'm watching on youtube
There we go. There we go
All right, all right, no i'm still hearing it
I am double hearing myself
Is everybody else twice twice?
I know I know why
There we go
Thank goodness. All right, uh
I guess i'm closing it out solo. But uh, okay. So thank you all. Uh
Let me look at the calendar for tomorrow
Gemma and I just finished a dinner of roasted cauliflower asparagus
Uh
Butternut squash soup
uh
And some pizza. Oh, all right tomorrow at seven o'clock. Chad's going to be talking to
The 2021 grow off winner who was on um
During the emerald cup conversation and uh
Yeah, peter peter is not taking a shower today
But that'll come soon. Uh, so anyone or anyway, everyone have a good night. Uh,
as as of now, we got seven o'clock tomorrow night pacific time
Yes, jim. Kerry I get uh
Uh david bowie I get uh
Who was the bad guy in spiderman
uh
Fuck why am I blanking on his name?
Uh, who's the actor who is the bad guy in spiderman?
Uh, i'm just gonna sit here until someone says who that is
No, not smiley, no i'm joking, uh
Anyone anyone
Anyone anyone
Why am I I can visualize him yes willem dafoe, thank you abraham
So
Yes, the green guy, uh, no, was he green I don't know but anyway, yeah jack nicholson
Who is your doppelganger? That's what I ask all of you
It's okay chef
Has been in many movies
so anyway with that
We'll wrap it up. Everyone. Have a good night
I'm gonna get back and get jemma to bed because she has school she has learning in the morning
She is an enthusiastic learner and loves every minute
Paul from the wonder here is what wait, let me look paul up
Oh, that's who you that's who people tell you you uh, all right, I was gonna say I don't think I look like paul at all
I don't think I look like paul
Yes winning
So actually yeah everyone tell me who
Who do people tell you that you look like?
Yeah, that was uh, that was his
Which I realized I was like, I don't look like paul
All right, no one else is biting
No, okay. All right with that
brother
Dwayne greg
Both of them
Matt damon
Yes
You look like
I feel like chad if martha stewart had the uh, the goatee chad could kind of uh
All right. So tau is vin diesel
Is tau is is trippy because
You sound exactly like all my cousins from new jersey
so I feel like
It brings me to hanging out at their house in fort lee
Uh when I was young
Fast and the furious vin diesel
Vin diesel
So, all right, well with that I got jemma is unsupervised in the kitchen with uh access to lots of
candy and other things so
She's currently drinking hot chocolate. We had a uh,
A chocolate snowman that we put into hot milk. We got kurt russell
And we got a
A little
Forget about it. It's actually funny. So my my one cousin joe
joe, serberry is uh
He's about six four three hundred pounds
pure italian
his mom's sicilian his uh dad is so my
My dad's parents were more from genoa. But uh
He's the uh
He's the like head of the town council in fort lee new jersey, so he he runs fort lee
But uh
All right with that i'm gonna end the close-up of my face
Everybody have a good night and uh, we'll see you tomorrow at seven with chad. I won't be there
All right, see you
