Good morning!
Hey folks, how you doing today?
Little Irish ten penny whistle, right?
This is in a Walton's in D
The Irish whistle and I haven't picked it up in forever, but it occurred to me
This would be a good day for it and it's got a little green on the tip
But this is actual
authentic
Made in Ireland by an old cousin my mother's side and
Leo Moran's
Good morning all thanks for joining us and today we're gonna do some more
You know my Instagram, but we're also gonna talk a little bit of a story about what's real and what's not and and so
Like I don't go to doctors a whole lot and some of you might know that I've almost been killed by several doctors
But I do have quite a few surgeries and stuff. And so I do believe in Western medicine
I do participate in
herbal medicine to the first extent that I possibly can as well though and
Like
To the extent where some of my posts just teaching about some of the more advanced herbal medicine just get taken off
Instagram this this weekend and that's why I have this
Why I'm going through and doing all these
Documentation of these old posts before it ever gets to knock down because they keep threatening to remove my
My account and yes this morning. I do have chat. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us. I got that figured out
so
You know, I've been given pill by a doctor for
sinus issue one time and that caused me to have a collapse of
My renal system nearly died if I continue taking those pills and you know just a misunderstanding that
These guys I don't know if they didn't understand didn't read my chart or what it was but I filled out that I took
You know a six pack of beer every night and a strong beer here in Utah. They call it and I drink
several espressos in the mornings and so it's it's a
I don't I've had to just now quit
coffee and cold turkey and I've been like not drinking a whole lot for a long time because various reasons, but
Anyhow, it's a
I
So I don't there's a lot of things happen like they missed my broken neck twice, right?
So like I just but at some point like things start adding up. He's like, okay, I gotta go figure out what's going on
I literally was having some pretty crazy symptoms myself. My daughter's mother just started chemo
But so I have really bad varicose veins and they were stripped out when I was a kid
17 I had I had 28 incisions on one leg and 18 on the other
they've removed veins so
there's
conditioned adults get when they're older and there's various degrees of it that
basically, you know, they're they're not
Get when they're older and there's various degrees of it
but basically a varicose vein around the anus is what a
Hemorrhoid is so I get some red blood occasionally and it's scariest I'll get out
Wipe it after doing business and it's all blood
In the past. So I've self diagnosed myself with a diverticulosis
So I have the diverticulitis which is or I'm sorry. So I have the diverticula
and I realized that through self-study and understanding and meditation and
diet adjustment and
symptom relief
That was years ago I had that all in the control and
Through all here is a crazy one the butterfly flaps its wings right and all all of these
chain of events, right I
started having pain issues in my
Abdomen again and
At some point down in the lower section of my pelvis even and I was thinking
I had this diverticulosis was flaring up really bad stress of starting a new job and
Changing diet and when I did that and working in a restaurant, okay, so I totally thought that was the cause of
these pains and then
I was getting back in shape skiing right I got back
To do some things and
See I can turn that mic up just a teeny bit more but yeah, it should be pretty loud for you
The
I
Had an accident skiing getting a little aggressive and we had some bad conditions here
a lot of people were actually literally dying on the mountain because of the icy conditions and people were just going super fast and crashing and
You die, whatever. So
I had to self-arrest before I hit some trees and flip over and I thought I had torn
Some lower stomach muscles. I've experienced torn stomach muscle before and had that properly diagnosed in the past and
So
It was pretty painful and I was feeling it skiing but I was having really uncomfortable stomach just painful
Primarily down through on my right side, right and
There was some
I had one of these bouts of bleeding and then all of a sudden I started feeling shit up on my neck
Right. I mean what the fuck and that went on for three days
So I went and found out that the clinic I go to is open I went in there and set an appointment
They got me in for
MRI
CT scan which is the way they got this high-resolution CT now that they can really figure shit out on all sorts of stuff and
And so
Monday I go in Tuesday morning to review it with them and
They're like I've never seen fear in a doctor's face before
Like yeah, you don't have any of those things you thought you had but what you do have is
In your spleen. There's a blood clot
and
So apparently this is like and I don't I don't use my phone a whole lot
There's a lot of blood clots and I don't know if it's because I'm a
Like and I don't I don't use my phone a whole lot and I was clearing messages
I guess it's mostly just my daughter's delinquency from the school's truancy
which is like a minute late for class I get a call whatever it is and
Through a dozen of those there was like three calls from
Doctors on Monday that I didn't hear I'm listening to a week later
They didn't mention this stuff when I went on Tuesday, but they're all like you need to go to the emergency room now
You need to go to the emergency room now
Please go to the emergency room now
Anyhow, I'm walking dead and
This is one that I cannot fix with with cannabis apparently and blood clot
So I quit coffee and they want me taking pills, but I need to get some confirmation on the
Chemistry but you're telling me
Take these pills for life for free because I got no insurance or
The doctor was saying her husband pays $600 a month for the same pill and
So
Yeah, again just knowing what's going on
This huge I couldn't
Like like they're like you can't be skiing and it explained I didn't actually tear no stomach muscles or anything
So what the pain I was experiencing what was going on my neck is the
deep deep vein thrombosis deep vein thrombosis going on in my
Spleen
is
back pressure on them all these veins going down they come up and feed into there you get cleansed out right and
That ends up pushing back pressure on my entire
Blood system and it was it was actually the the blood vessels in my neck were getting swollen up and pushing on the muscle
Kind of crazy, but I was like I might be does it I got cancer spreading and stuff
Is that Lorraine soul can go and you did not know and you don't really know and so, you know again
there's there are certain things that
We can do as a quote-unquote medicine man and either but you have to know what you're dealing with before
you can
right, and so I changed from I
Haven't taken one of these pills yet because the last time I was handed a pill
Similarly without a actual prescription or all the documentation that goes with it. That was the one that the doctor gave me
It shut my liver down and I almost died from from
Acute liver failure
Interacted with the diuretics of
Coffee and alcohol right and so I just got this thankful pills in the literature
I need a little more information before I take that but what I do know about is
turmeric
All right, so I've been chomping the golden milk instead of coffee
As well as my green tea and
I found my mint tea
What else am I doing is?
Old may pod me I met oh, so the vibration proper harmonical vibration and similar to the same
Frequencies as the cats purring
Is all healing but so I'm concentrating and visualizing those platelets breaking down. What's the other way I'm doing is
Get
Gambling yeah, I'm sorry. I don't see it before I can't think of the word exactly a roaming. I'm sorry roaming roaming
Roam-wide anyhow pineapples core I got a juicer and
Costco, it's three under three dollars for a pineapple and I can do a pineapple a day and split that juice up a few times
What else is there Oh aspirin plain old low-dose aspirin
two or three times a day
On a very low dose of aspirin like 80 milligrams. And so those are basic all plant-based that I know of
remedy to start my blood thinning and then I have another
but just knowing this huge like there I did you can't ski and
Like I was literally feeling the pain every time I'm going out your verse and you gotta jump over a bump or whatever
Thinking it was a torn torn muscle and
Thinking my eyes like I was not eating properly or going on a super restricted diet thinking I had a
flare up in my gut from the vaticula
the
Yeah, completely different thing completely different walking on the edge deaths when you go skiing normally. I'm
It's jumping off huge cliffs and shit that I gotta be aware of or avalanches
And this is a completely different thing where just a
simple fall and I could have
inflamed the spleen which I probably think I did several times and
So I thought I had internal gut bleeding from the particular osis flare-up and it was probably my spleen was bleeding about six weeks ago
and
Yeah, so here we are still going and on we're upward
And I need a little bit of a break
a little bit to drink
Something I found though I'm looking at statistics and still pretty much the same I get I get about 15 to 20 new people look
in a week and
Then whoever does join on we usually get about 15 minutes of watch time out of the hour per person. It sticks around
It's kind of crazy it's kind of average across the entire channel
I'm
Losing about 40% of viewership in the first 30 seconds
So I'm gonna try and shorten up that intro and see if I can't make that a little more intriguing somehow
See if I can't come up with some sort of flash placard, but I have it a bit of a bit
The ice can't even see what I got going on here today, can you
Right show, uh, let's see
Well, I think I'm gonna stay in that's why I don't like trust doctors and I'd take convinced don't take conventional doctor prescribing this and
Half of that so I'm saying here right now. It's like there's a balance right? I don't know everything. I
Had a pretty good idea. They did confirm to the CT that I did have a lot of that to particular
But it's not in the osis or itis stage where it's not inflamed at all
Right, and so I did previously get that right
But here's a whole nother ball of wax in the game that I ain't never played. All right, and
No, I told you those those okay
Yes, and then I agree with a lot of these a lot of these medications
You don't know what's going on with them and how you
Mix it with the side effects of them. Okay and in point in case
One patient that I helped years ago got off complete disability
After and we went through like 20 something different strains of cannabis genetics
To get him to where he was and I didn't know it went the time
He was on nine different medications when I met him, but his scale his skin was pale
His body was just like pasty numb. He was overweight
He had lower spine injuries from military and that were aggravated and
Had like two or three surgeries at all for him
And had like two or three surgeries that all failed
And decided to come along and join the medicine man regime
And he even told
The court and doctors i'm i'm gonna take my first amendment right and work with alex here
and
Romaline, there you go
um
The skin you say so i've been trying to find information on that
um
Yeah, i've been just doing i've been slicing the skin off and juicing the whole plant
um
So so yeah, so my buddy though that we ended up
We ended up going through 20 something different medications and he slowly would like knock off one of his
his medications
the pill form
You know totally adjust his entire chemistry and we'd have to find a different set of plant medication for him
and but we were treating him also other people were treating him with uh, uh aromatherapy and
primary um
Lavender was the main thing that we just helped him sleep, right?
And then we hooked him up with a proper diet as well and got him eating good food and stuff
But um, you know when I met him all he had was literally mexi brick weed that he was grinding up and eating
capsules of
and uh
So
There's definitely all these different side effects were like on his
medications was like
You know, he had an antidepressant he had a painkiller
Yeah, he had stuff to deal with with his swelling and bloating
Right that came from the antidepressant
and the painkiller
and
then there was a blood pressure one that the deal with the offset of the bloating one that it offset the
Yeah, right. Right, right. And so I literally
Like I'm walking around now looking at people who I used to just think of as unhealthy
I saw a whole family the other day and looked at him and i'm like
I wonder how many pills they take every day
Right, because that was like the first thing when the woman told me like you almost died
You should be dead. You need to go blah blah blah
and like and here's these pills you gotta take for the rest of your life and i'm just like
Yeah, I got this blank stare on my face and I'm kind of lost to him and they're like you okay?
I'm like, yeah, i'm just contemplating this pill a day for the rest of my life shit
And I like the whole uh
Exactly as you say the next thing that it causes because you're taking this chemistry into your body that
We can just take foods and adjust with
right
um
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no we have this going off in chat right now in agreement definitely
So but here what we're talking about though
Let me see if I can get this to bring up I should still have chat on I should be over on the side
For you all let's see. I want I I did I tested it yesterday. I didn't test it this morning
There it is. We have it. It's it's looking like
Um, I wish I could keep this screen top while I have that. I can't that ain't gonna work. See this
This is all dyslexic back and forth
All right, relax, okay, so i'm gonna lose vision of my screen I should be able to keep chats
Southern vermont grower what's up? That's quite a comment. How do you do all that much love from vermont?
Minute warning, what's that? What's a minute warning?
What's a minute warning?
Um, okay. Here we go
Let's see. Can I get this is where we left off last week and this is one of my rejects of one of my
feminized projects
Breath of purple dragon into um
What was that one I need to go to there to see
Cherry cherry dragon kush purple cherry dragon kush ff1 feminized test reject
I remember miles going. Why is that a reject? He's like man. I can't keep them all
See so I should be able to go right there
All right, no filter breath of purple dragon getting some indian summer sun finish did some archaeology today
What did I dig up?
There's some there's some that purple dragon giving you love
Why was it a reject because I had I just like it wasn't the best I I had like 20
I tested to that seed and that was like one of the lowest end ones is why that was a reject
and like
Like it was a not something I bred to breed with further
It was something I bred for people to grow and make cuts of and
Critical cheese comes out nice
Yeah, I know these uh, I don't I've never had anything. I think that's labeled cheese in my pipe or
In my garden, i'm not sure if so this one's 121 weeks ago from november 15 2019
Here we go, oh, I'm not sure if this is the right one
I'm not sure if this is the right one
So this one's 121 weeks ago from november 15 2019
Here we go, this is one of my favorite pictures of myself actually my it's not a self-portrait
I handed the camera to my daughter and she took it
um
Hey now I was planning to offer holiday sealed. Oh, yeah
so due to the fact that um instagram keeps taking down posts and threatening to remove my entire thing and
Having sales is like one of the biggest
Challenges I have that that whole I just sorry no sales coming up. I don't have any way to do it
um
No sales on instagram here's this was just showing off some of the seed I had
I don't know that there's any of these left anywhere
There were some other packs and that there's again
It's a lot some of these I have a lot of like the hindi kush in nigerian. I I know I have more of these
And uh, actually I have both of those right now live give me some of my last projects i'm running
Finishing those out. I wanted to feminize them and I might still
depending on but I might
Kind of really fucking lost because i'm making more money three days a week from this
Restaurant job that I just to fucking bottom rung nothing
I am from
the industry anymore
The industry anymore
Hindu kush open poll in tajikistan
Yoruba hash plant this one here brian, uh geordie grew and like was like pretty stoked on
He said it was more
More consistent
And phenotype from seed than most genetics from clone these days
So
Email me alexander or hardy at gmail.com
I got all that land ratio. There's some uh, daga, too
I believe i'm not sure exactly what's there. I have I don't get inventory reports
I don't know
Yoruba 47 dark star ak-47. Yeah, the so this is the
Yoruba 47 dark star
Ak-47 dark stars with the cross was
I still have some of that red red cross. So red cross was the um,
Dr. James red cross bag seed collected in early 90s by an old hippie 15 years my senior
Quote been holding these seeds from the best weed i've ever smoked for years looking for the right person to make proper use of them
He said in 02 when he handed them to me this plant was very fat thick leaf solid stems very big trichomes
But poor leaf to calyx ratios the leaf seemed to have a high cbd content, but no access to lab
I can only anecdotally conjecture. You know, I used it several hybrids to add sand strength and reduce cinder nodes
Oh, it's tight packed as it gets
1700 new mexico land grant. Let's see. So that's the next one in there
so yeah, that one's pretty amazing and ended up being like the um, the basis for instance of uh, that red cross was uh,
the saint bernard
and the trident
Right
yeah, those uh, those bulgia stands I haven't grown in it, but uh this uh,
Because there's plenty of people growing it and working with that. I don't need to
Preserve it and most of the stuff I do is things I preserve or things that I know. Well, um,
Let's see
Cool filter, right?
Um, it's weird how the different functions and filters and ways able to post on the instagram changed over the years
Tajikistan
By pck
What else? Oh, oh I should go back and so
Yeah, because I I forget let's see. Let's go. Let's go actually here
Let's go there
Let's go
Where let's see
I guess I didn't have any so further on I started showing more and more maps
Showing where this stuff comes from talking about where it comes from
So again, let's look at make sure I check all the pictures that's uh
Here we're showing the tajikistan is up north and a little bit. Uh,
To the west of the walking corridor, which is the actual hindu kush range zone there
Okay, so that's a national refuge and then south of there is the bulgia stand
Actually that you're talking about off the map is like straight south so you see chitral off to the side and um,
Let's see the muz
muzzer muzzari sharif is just out past the
the side of the on uh to the west right and it's kind of so
the
the anadur river
Comes out of the walking corridor and runs out to to the west there and flows
out into the
north and west
And so when you start studying all these different locations and stuff
You really get a whole different understanding where and what this is one. I don't know that anyone's grown any of that 17 packs, right?
There's only 17 packs of this particular tajikistan by cherry kush ever
Made
So this is I was showing
some of some of the uh
This is where the rude skunk originated and I I uh, so yeah, sherman grace bought these for me into trade
Before I was selling anything. The only way you get anything from me at all was to give me some land race to trade
And then people would get more stuff by trading their their own hybrids and stuff
And all that stuff I have hundreds of packs of people's just insane gear that i've never opened because I just don't have time for it
Right and and that's kind of kind of I have this crazy vault it's just like
It's a fucking crazy vault. Anyhow, I want to start turning them into a
Figure out how to turn it all into nfts, right? Um
Let's see
Um
I'm gonna say so
so I wanted to start auto stream for my own from scratch as close as I get 20 c's was
And only two germinated out of all this
These two packs that he got me and that's something that happens is these seeds get made and they sit around forever
In seed banks and they don't necessarily
sprout after so many years
So I think I had something somebody straightened me out on this
The nevel did this work and not sam
I had that wrong, but these were sam's skunk
Originally
So the sweet is kind of sweet
Not rks at all. The smoke is flavorful and you can smoke all day without couch lock issues like loyal silver sprayed
Low branch on one and use that pollen on the other sister in itself. I hit a wide leaf hindu kush as well
So that's that's when you see the root scum kush
That's I hit that pollen
And these things were amazing. They they put a pound of each off and and
Um, and they were done in short order they're done fast fast, uh flowering, right?
Anyhow, sorry for no confusion a rude skunk is not potential one of my potential rks type
Genetics, it's not there is some skunky that can come out of it, but it's not really I think I think there's um
The the root skunk kush is closer to it though, right? You can find some sick diamonds. It's great smoking weed
um
huge volumes coming off of those but
Yeah, I always like to keep that on the up and up make sure folks know what i'm talking about
When i'm talking about my gear and this is one of the great opportunities to
Get that information out there
CBD superstars. I don't know if anyone grew any of these either only manage you should hit you a 50 50
On your thc and cbd at 15
On the lucky winning, you know, cool. Thank you. St. Bernard and cbd superstars
Well, i'm not sure what's wrong with the transmission I I think the aliens are trying to get after this
here spice weed
spice weed 25 seeds in the spice wolf 2016 stock from old feral american
Family farm early 19 hundred split in the bread from cbd since 2011 acquired from spice
Taste good. Thanks, mile spice
crossed with mail from
The tetra guy offering I offer. I'm not sure what's wrong with the transmission. I refer to tetra
I refer to it as tetra as here. Okay. So yeah, I end up using the word tetra for
25 seeds
Spiceweed
F3
Transmission. I think the aliens a couple weeks of getting this
I never got anything tested spiceweed
This one's dated december 24th 2019
All right
Back to your map too. I'm still a couple weeks from getting her sister's tested
But all three were stinky and frosty with cbd potentials between 15 25 or more reported negligible thc in parents
Wolf is a fiber plant and can grow tall lanky bushy typical of narrow leaf sativa the tetra had all more
Mid wide leaf and tighter flower structure akin to commercial smoking flower both being incredibly turpey and frost late
Similar crosses have yielded amazing crops and consumable flowers that have not been able to get lab tested yet. I have a disclaimer may go hot
Contact me at alexander r hardy
Oh, I misspelled that they're crazy add gmail for more beta and no wonder I never sold any of those
Oh, yeah, so that's actually um
Ended up becoming what I let go feral in my yard for dry farm seed for for
Him and it is amazingly frosty and stinky three generations later
All right, I got this hurt my eyes if i'm not reading
Another crazy stupid filter mazari sharif breath of green dragon f2
Is it really a one hitter yes the select phenotypes that you search through you grow the whole pack you will find
Tangy by breath of green dragon f2
Rank og sativa indica f1 poly hybrid. This is like a filter on instagram or was I don't know if it's still there
Zion curtain seed genetics 13 regular seeds
only 19
From the year 19 12 packs only micro breeding
Boxes bags of seeds
Gratitudes and blessings for all who partook the vault is closing soon will be soon sealed back underground
I'm talking about rolling papers. I don't smoke a whole lot of
Joints it's harsh on my lungs. I do like some strains and joints though like that chocolate tie
Happy new year. I think this is what I was out doing for my new year a few years ago
Kind of sucks getting into great shape being able to start skiing and really getting into shape
But here I was starting to talk about that catch-22 shit, right?
So I didn't finish that whole deal like I wouldn't have known how I was messed up had I not gone out skiing
Right and got that job
And found out like oh shit. Um, my body's messed up. I would have ended up probably in a few week a few months gone hiking
And ended up lodging a chunk of that fucking or you not even know what's going on and blowing out that artery vein and
having a
Stroke out in the mountains and dying
So here's breath of green dragon, oh, so this is breath of red dragon
That's breath of red dragon rejects again
Again, these are ones I didn't keep around for breeding
These are just ones when I was doing the testing and this is what the cola has come out on you
plant a couple packs or a pack and you find
find your females and
um
See we got more pictures, there we go little video of it sound on nice bouquet of colas
Breath of green dragon
Classic og sativa
I sent some of this off. It's uh spreading around the east coast. I believe open
It's uh, these are maybe nine not available in stores
Yeah, probably even to 11 or 12 maybe it wouldn't hurt them but uh
This was fall also I think midsummer
You'd get it just fine
anyhow, just a few
Foot longs actually they're a bit more than a foot there
Where's my foot down there
So some of these pictures were like, you know, they're zoomable on
On the facebook, but it's just not gonna get any better looking for us right now
Let's see, oh, so hey look what I did I zoomed in so you can see the diamonds diamonds in the rough
So flash photography versus non-flash photography backgrounds and things all makes a difference
and um how
Bright the heads are but there's some that
Rough dry sift you can see just sparkling
When I was a kid we had two grades brick and humble
Um, this is where did I get that I think I think that's from my feral crop up on um,
My hardcore that grew up on the mountainside with the males mixed in
And that would be the seed that I would have to plant
My hardcore that grew up on the mountainside with the males mixed in
And that would be the seed that I send out when you get hardcore seed
What's this, oh, this is alfie falfa. Yeah, do you even alfalfa?
Alfa falfa falfa
People always give me shit for my spelling. So I just kept up making up funnier fucking names for it. So I spelled it
al
ph a ph a
l
ph a
Also falfalfa. So yeah alfalfa tea
right, um
I wonder do I have
If I don't we'll come right back if there's nothing more on it. Let's see
Yeah, here let's go back and talk about alfalfa alfalfa tea do you even alfalfa tea
Microbes, where do you get your microbes from they can come from so many places though, right? So these are like, uh,
express cubes of alfalfa right and
um an excellent source of
um
nitrogen and
For a while. We were misunderstanding that we were getting a growth
regulator from it and
Spraying it on but you actually need like the sprouts of alfalfa seed
so i've been growing alfalfa to seed and uh sprouting my seed for that instead, but um
here we have uh
again
what uh, I I make a
A little full foliar spray even from this for the microbes because it gets such great microbial
activity going on but mostly it's a topical um feed and then i'll throw the
Reminder of the remainder after so i'll dump it five gallon buckets bucket tech back and forth, right?
You you fill a bucket up and let it sit
um, let the chlorine
gas off if there is any and um, then you add some this alfalfa to it and
Uh, let the cubes break up and then just bucket back and forth to oxygenate it some and again
It's every time you walk by
and um in a 24 hour period
You can do it for like six hours too on a nice warm day
And it'll really froth up and there's a couple of things going on there with um
And I didn't I don't have information here I don't have it off the top of my head
I know there's a huge micro beneficial microbe. There's nitrogen and other nutrients coming out of there
and um
Uh
Maybe I have had a stroke, right? So, uh, I know i've had 72 or so, uh concussions
um
Soapening sap sap saponins, that's it
Saponin
Brian says i've only seen brick once what the fuck was that?
What the fuck was that
So that was a feral crop where I had males mixed in and just let that uh
Hardcore grow to go to seed out of the mountainside right and then the time of the bottom of the bag of it
um
anyhow
So here's here's my uh greenhouse in the winter time with the snow storm
um, I call it the chinese lantern when it snows that had four banks of 60 watt led shop lights
And uh rocking the spring 12s in veg
Time to get the veggies going so this time of year
essentially
You can have unsupplemented
secondary crops in a greenhouse
and um
If you're in production and you don't know that it's something you need to learn about and I'll be reviewing
um, i'm not really doing it this year as I just
There's no it's a lot of work and I
I know I can do it, but there's no I have no need for it now
I have I want to grow some more food this year. But um, so but in reviewing this, um,
Again like about
February 15th, we start getting 10 hours of light around here and at which point
Flowering plants are happy
Flowering plants are happy
still all plants will start growing vegetatively again, and
you can take advantage of that depending on your temperatures and such to
just
Have you can you can you can flip things indoors and move them outdoors and let them finish in the spring 12s
You can naturally let things start flipping right now. We had them in veg and let them flip over
into
Um
You can see I have rose off the side of that greenhouse there right where we got veggies planted and stuff there
um in the snow, um, but
I'm, sorry
So you can you can bring them out of veg and let them go to the natural light like right now where it's almost 12
And 12 or it's going to be at the end of this month right in two more weeks here
And so it's different at different places exactly when um
And then like if if you're not finished by
You know mid april you want to start pulling tarp and you can pull tarp right on through
um all summer long if you'd like
You can take breaks and pull and but I end up getting stuck in these cycles where I have
multiple cycles going because i'm breeding and
um
I'm not doing any real production. I'm just making seeds and I have way too many seeds. So
Um, there's no no no real point in that anymore. Um at this point until
I can figure out a real way to make it pay for itself at least
Because the cost of water here is not cheap in the desert in the summer. I have sand is in my soil and it's
Really the greenhouse holds in so much more moisture and it produces such better vegetables and such
Oh, let's see what we got behind here with do, you know, I have an unreleased genetic called hoster luckett
miel or the spear of milk and honey
This is what I do mad science because I don't have capital funded laboratory
I've lost faith in the latest proposal after three weeks since being told talk to you in two days last time we spoke
even after handing me a coin they handed me a
couple of thousand dollars
Um honey starter lactobacillus, so yeah, I got good labs in the background
and
um
Then I use honey also as an antibacterial and I use it as a feed in my crop, um in my watering
um because capilum sucks donkey balls if you have no capital
So like to like the basarius, um somewhere through here i'll get to the
Uh, I think I did a lesson on how to make it and if not
after i'm done reviewing
A little tribute to my late mentor and good friend. He would have been here this week to ski. I just love him
Let's see. What week was it? January 15th 2020. Yes, um, he would show up like the first week of january
He would have been here. I had just given him a
Breeder set of seed to start breeding again after 20 years since the fed shut him down
Took and destroyed his life's work
From walking the hippie trail if you're not aware
Dr
Dream all here breath of dragon series would not exist without his love and dedication
And recognizing my potential gift to me the last 10 seeds of his life's work
They missed hidden in the hand-hewn rafters of the colonial farmhouse
He lived in his farm is sold already. It's an untold
On an untold mason jars of cash buried in unmarked graves
He was a true social justice warrior his parents both nobel prize cancer researchers
He gave freely what was given to him when somebody was truly in need and deserving his trust fund
If we can call it that live on the farm manage it to keep it
Residential farm status and must have a job. So he started the not-for-profit shirts with a purpose
Um, and then he got his he got the money that would have been paid in taxes was paid to him
For running the farm as a farm instead of as a secondary property, right?
um generational wealth growth
but he had no heirs and so
nor will and
the family just cleaned the place out and sold it as soon as he passed away and took the money because
That's what their focus was
um
the black sheep white angel
So shirts with the purpose and
I wish I had not worn out and all the ones he gifted me
Our founding fathers portraits with I grew weed in a blunt burning from lips or the patriotic marching band with freedom for all
messaged with pot leaves
These kids will never
Know or fear for those who do not know
I've been put in a cage by agents of all three federal governments in north america for small quantities of personal plant medicine
only in the usa can this still happen and
That would just be by some cop having his own stupid whims to violate my first amendments
Fourth and fifth as well
but um
Hashtag freedom fighters hashtag patriots hashtag old outlaws hashtag cannabis community hashtag 420 hashtag wheat
Hashtag sacred plant hashtag sacred earth hashtag medicine man. Hashtag native church of hawaii
Hashtag t-shirts with a purpose
Ash and then I am incendiary proletarius protector of fire keeper of knowledge giver of light. I bear the light
The fire of the eternal light come to me and be filled with its luminescence
Let's see what else
His friend jess who helped him out with those t-shirts
I mean, I've sincerely missed my best friend rob is today as I and our devout cannabis family lobby the general assembly. So, um
If y'all don't know vermins vermont is now legal, um, or virginia, i'm, sorry
Right
And that's where um
Rob would generally show up to lobby in his regular fashion undone undone tie around his neck crooked collar wrinkled jacket
So he always had dry clean just for the occasion in his surreal boots or chuck taylor all stars
Next to him I got involved in activism spoke to thousands of people on the downtown mall charlottesville
About legalizing and stood besides a man who never stopped inspiring me or making me laugh
Um, so if y'all remember when when the girl was mowed down in charlottesville, they literally that happened
Exactly where they would set up and sell these t-shirts to fun
And I know everyone has a different idea about normal, but that's where a lot of that money for these t-shirts was donated to
uh to help um
Move forward
legalization
Always a little late but right on time with a positive attitude and passionate words to share
I know he will be with us today
I can see here him in my head giving the legislators a piece of his mind people should not be put in cages for marijuana
Both my parents were world-renowned award-winning scientists and they would recognize how important cannabis was you have to look at the science
Marijuana is saving lives
Anyhow rob's mom actually was a
Breast cancer researcher and gave her own body to cancer research and she died of it before we understood
Yeah
All right
Sodium bentonite will be applied to my main gardens via flower sifter. So this is a slow process. I'm still doing that whole bag
I'm just adding a little bit of clay
To the soil, uh main purpose is
My main garden is my soil
Isn't it is pure sand
My soil isn't
My soil is not it is pure sand it dries out from wind as fast as water seeps out the bottom
Uh this water holding clay added
In very small amounts should help my water bills. It's also it's kind of a salt
So you can't just like mix it in
It's also
extremely
It's super expansive
It's what's used for sealing wells, right?
So they'll put it they'll they'll drill the hole to put the pipe in they'll pour this stuff in around it
And drop some water into it and expands out and locks that uh, well into place and becomes just like sealed in there
so, um
But mixing it extremely thinly like i'm putting like a couple of cups a year out on my soil
My garden space is to hold hold this water holding clay added in very small amounts should help my water bills
Rest is soil amendments for top dress beds pots and planters. So we got I got crimped oats. I got some
Jobes organics I buy this stuff on clothes out when I can find it
Azomite from right here in utah. I got calcite shell bone builder
All right, this chicken feed
Um, we got I got gypsum and this stuff i'm buying it i'm buying this from the feed and and farm stores it like
Extremely reduced rates. Okay. So oats what about oats oats has um
The highest available silica out of any plant bamboo has more oats
Skier tree over here is asking if i'm skiing it out to this week. I'm on doctor's orders not to ski
I will be up there working though
So I ski to and from work and get my little micro dose that way
Um, but until my my spleen is um, given an okay
I'm not gonna be able to free ski unfortunately
Um, maybe ski some groomers with sadie
Oh
Boy where I like I thought we had the internet shut down from russia
You are you are?
um remove
Doing a little um
Where do they come from? Oh gosh, we're we're oh I started that one sooner
So so the uh studio runs running a little longer i'm starting as I set up in the morning
So gypsum soluble
What's in there there's a lot of sulfur, huh
Sulfur, have you heard the discussions on what makes the skunk stink?
It's it's the it's the molecule we call a feel that's basically an alcohol with a sulfur in it
Right, and so I use this stuff
Extensively and if you don't you probably should and literally a broken bag
You see the oops on the live earth thing. I don't know if you've seen it
So
Let's see
Can't quite see what the other ones are
Epsom salt, I know a lot of people say oh that stuff's not natural and actually it is completely natural
I don't know if you know this stuff but if you don't, if you've seen
Me buy estu pick pick up of especially number individuals
Um, and the way it works is normally if you use erotic merging
That's that's not natural and actually it is completely natural. It's not necessarily natural right where you're at
Iron iron plus and that ad here where I'm at we have insane because of high alkalinity
Because of high alkalinity
We have all sorts of like nitrogen lockout and then also with our sandy soils the nitrogen just leeches
So adding iron helps hold and bring nitrogen in right and so again
There's the huge debate whether Epsom salt is viable as an organic. It's literally mined
It's no different than the azomite
Okay, it's big except for it's a singular set of molecule instead of
everything
It's it's a soil. It's a soil mineral layer. That's mined
Hope there's the azomite granulated nature. So
Yeah, this stuff the stuff
occurs here in Utah from
There's a
Ancient seabed where there was a volcanic eruption and
all the ash
washed back into the seabed and
So they got this layer, but it's not like small
But that's azomite and it's it's all sorts of really awesome everything you need
Steam crimped oats with molasses these things are awesome, but it's something else
I ended up getting this like a whole different kind of Mike. We'll see here
It comes out of them. What's this one?
This one was
Oh, it's it's it's
Crest shale
This is stuff from Job's
And there's some I get in the organic good stuff out of there, too
but usually I get this stuff for all the awesome microbes, right there's just
Whichever one I can find on closeout at Walmart the end of the year for a quarter price instead of $10 pay $2
50 cents on things
It was really a great way to go about
Keeping your budget in check, you know right now everything's there's stock in the shelves with stuff, and it's expensive. I have I
Have bags of soil out there. I got for I
Think a dollar or two or $15 bags of soil. They just closed them out at the end of the year you rid of them
Right
You might have seen some videos coming in and out of the you regarding light and cannabis so far
Hey, look, we just had one the other day. I introduced myself to crop sciences professors. I'll be conversing with him further
I never talked to him again
I
Was wanted to talk about talk to him about the masters and doctors programs there. And yes, we just had dr. Bagby on
And when I met those guys, it says 109 weeks ago. And again, I just ran into the guys who had paid me
for my hemp and
Ran
Into him again at the hemp seminar here
But yeah the doctor
But he was like a gas that I wanted to come back and do science and then his his young associate
Just like all aloof at the old outlaw and it's like I still
They're doing great work, I really wish I could go help him
Be a lot better
Anyhow, you know, it's science in the laboratory it is what it is
Yeah, no, I see so of course it's not happened due to funds so many fucking things
Oh
Him Oh him
Himp do you even winter grown? So this is this is
108 weeks ago, February 12
Spiders from Mars probiotic medicine greenhouse tech sacred earth sacred plant
Cracking vault again for old high school buddy. Hit me up if you need some seeds
But he had a 40 lot system what a 40 lamp system going
And this is the beginning of Kovac
Kovac craziness kill this grow. Do you even willow water?
We got five minutes left
Clone day and I realize I'm out of indole three for my
Critical clones. I can't lose I can spend an hour and a half driving downtown burning diesel to buy some clone gel or walk my
Backyard and after five minutes with a clipper and a splash of labs and
Top with RO for sterile osmosis of
Indole three to soak my cuts in tomorrow morning instead of tonight
That that the March 6 2020
So you want the buds the tips the the fresh shoots?
Well
Well, I used to be like forever and ever and ever like my favorite is movie line there ever was
Five minute warning epic
Nice oh, hey, so we got some great lessons today people don't know right?
They look at they watch for the they cut out in the first 30 seconds
And they have no idea all the good shits here at the end
So thanks everyone for making it all the way this far that makes it this far
What's next on the menu here?
Marbles I'm gonna turn these into NFTs somehow. I want to figure out how to turn weed in NFT
You think I can do it think I can do it
Pulled four 50-foot depth tarts for two years in Mendo. It was not easy constantly duct taping light leaks check it for rodents
Yeah, I find when it gets wet when it's a pain in the butt
But as long as it's dry the tarps are not so hard to do
but
Then again it also depends on the size of your greenhouse, too
Things like that make a difference
So I
imagine you probably buy locally sourced nutrients if
But if not you should see what you get from the farm story outcomes
Russia a lot of the big air calls firstly comes from Russia
Yeah, that's interesting yeah, I don't know um
There is there is a lot of phosphorus out of you. There's only like three places in the world
We can mine phosphorus actually and Utah is one of them, and that's something
I've been trying to actually find is a piece of ground that can go mine
phosphor it's in the lights
Now it's just reading a comment from the other page over here
Yeah, we got we got a couple minutes left
Everyone enjoys the host smoke so
I've been enjoying hash in my beautiful pipe. Let's see I need to bring back my
Where are we we'll go there some yeah?
Those are cool marbles though. Huh those are those are antique. I use I use these marbles and explaining what NFTs are to people
People like don't really understand what NFTs are we got let's go
This one working this one's
Hey, that's me video now
I don't know if it's
Picking up my refrigerator and pump or the sizzle of the pipe
It's got a whole bunch of residual hash in there just bubbling away
This has got a pretty neat like deep deep bowl to it actually so it the bowl comes down into here
but it it's got a
Sinkhole and I put a
gemstone in it for a for a
instead of a screen
Yeah, bless up everyone. Have a great day. Let's see if this this blue to work
Tenpenny doesn't make great music. I haven't played it long enough. I can make some good music. I want to play it regularly
My pipe is a little bit of a mess
Is pipestone from here in Utah, it's just another layer in
late Cretaceous it's some so we're between
250 and 500 million year old stone layer and there's literally some
Working on it's warm enough. I'm gonna start making more of these chillums
from this pipe stone and
You making those available probably put them on Etsy
But they're not they're not gonna be cheap off some
Maybe the smallest cheapest like reject ones be like 80 bucks
But they're gonna be several hundred dollars for these handmade stone pipes, but oh
Yeah, I was gonna say there's triola bites in the stone
Thanks for joining us have a great life in the meat suit you were given go out and do good things
