If you could help moderate us, make us moderators,
and we can start pinging people into the room as well.
I do, I will ask to get back channeled by London
or I just wanna make sure that I'm following the rules
now that I'm suddenly mod.
But what you can do is right at the very bottom,
you should have a little square with an arrow pointing up
right next to your chat function.
That is where Clubhouse just moved pinging people.
You're welcome.
And yes, it took me, I don't know,
like five rooms to figure this out.
So someone had to tell me where it was too.
If you click on that little square at the bottom,
you can copy the link and tweet it.
You can share it on Clubhouse.
I'm gonna recommend all of us go ahead
and just share it on Clubhouse now
because that will increase the algorithm
so more people see the room.
The more of us share the room,
the more folks will see the room
and then also come into the room.
So it is a self-fulfilling prophecy
if you share it on Clubhouse.
Also share it with Twitter, Facebook.
It will also share the link for this room.
And then at the very bottom,
you'll see that little plus invite people.
And that is how all mere mortals in the audience,
you can also share this room and invite your friends in
so all of us can just have a really great room.
I'm gonna go on mute so I can keep following and pinging
and maybe Anita has something to say.
And I have permission to mod everyone, yay.
All right, let's get Nicole modded.
Oh my gosh.
Can you guys hear me yet?
Yes, hi.
Oh my God, oh my God.
I'm so sorry about that.
My speaker, my headphones broke.
I have to apologize.
And I'm sitting here now panicking.
I really need to smoke.
Deep breaths.
I got you.
We're good.
Is everyone else, was I the only one that had this issue?
I was talking a lot so hopefully everyone could hear me.
I figured I'd just tap dance and keep everyone
not just entertained but informed on how to invite people
and share on Clubhouse and copy the link.
So hopefully Anita, nobody noticed.
Thank you so much.
I really appreciate.
You are absolutely the best.
And you've done this before, right?
Once or twice.
Once or twice.
I'll speak to you while I continue to mod
and yeah, we can hear you loud and clear.
You're good to go, Anita.
Amazing, okay.
So welcome to the show.
I first of all would like to apologize
for the little bit of a delay.
I wanted to let you know guys,
so this is my first, very first show.
So I am super excited to be here.
What I wanted to do first is introduce everyone
and just go straight into giving everyone's
a little bit of a bio.
But before I do, I wanted to introduce myself
and allow the two other co-hosts that are regulars here
to introduce themselves as well.
So just a little bit about me.
My name is Anita G.
I'm from Alberta.
I also go by, that's what we said on social media.
I originate in Ontario, Canada.
So my area of expertise is in the sales and marketing
portion of the cannabis industry.
I came by this whole wonderful journey through medical.
I was a patient and I had a concussion.
So cannabis became a huge part of my wellness journey.
And I'm really excited to have all of you here.
For my very first podcast, I decided to go big.
And, oh, I wanted to also let you guys know
if you have any questions to just flash your mute button.
I will keep track of who is,
I'll do my best to keep track of who is flashing
their screens.
And if you would like to, I don't think the chat is working.
It doesn't look like it's working, but if you, we have,
you know, if you wanted to show your support or whatnot,
there usually, you may or may not have a chat.
I'm not sure.
Mine might be different than yours.
So you took that up.
Okay. Okay.
Well, I turned it off.
I turned it on just now.
It was, it was not toggled on.
You have to toggle it.
Perfect. Thank you so much.
So when that comes back on, you can, the chat,
it is live for everyone.
So if you wanted to show your support by leaving an emoji
or whatnot, you can do that there.
And that way we can get through everybody.
There is a lot of us, there's 17 in total.
So without further ado, the other co-hosts that are here
are Dr. Anna Biss, Dr. Anna, and also Ashley Hubbard.
Anna first, and then Ashley.
Good evening, everybody.
Yeah, this is so exciting.
I'm so excited to hear from all the women
in this amazing group in this panel.
I'm going to keep it really quick.
I am a cannabis scientist.
I did a PhD looking at cannabis genetics
and kind of been in the industry for about two,
three years now, and I'll pass it on to Ashley.
Hey everybody. Good evening.
Happy to be a part of this lovely panel.
My name is Ashley Hubbard.
I am the director of cultivation
for a fully aeroponic facility in Michigan.
I went to the same research lab that Dr. Anna went to.
I got my master's in plant population genetics
and have been a part of this wonderful industry since 2014
and really looking forward to meeting some fabulous women.
Thank you so much.
So one of the things that one of our guests had mentioned,
I think it was, I'm not sure.
At the end of when we're speaking,
if you wanted to just let me know,
or if you were finished your thought,
I'm complete or something to that effect,
I'm done or that's all, whatnot,
whatever you're comfortable with,
just so I know what's going on
and I won't interrupt or another person.
So we'll just continue.
Our first guest I just wanted to introduce is Dr. Jenna
Valerini.
She, her studies focused on cannabis,
including a postdoctoral fellowship
at the University of British Columbia,
faculty of medicine and a PhD
from the University of Toronto.
She is the recipient of multiple awards
and as a strategic advisor for Canadian students
for sensible drug policy,
Dr. Valerini has testified as an expert witness
to the Senate of Canada in the leading,
in the lead up to cannabis legalization.
She's written and been a part of numerous studies
and papers surrounding social initiatives
in harm reduction.
She's currently the director of social impact and advocacy
for a major LP canopy here in Canada,
leading important social strategies.
Say hello, Dr. Jenna.
Hey, thank you so much for such a generous intro, Anita.
I'm super happy to have you here.
Our next guest is Tabitha.
Tabitha Fritz is the co-founder and CEO
of Fritz Cannabis Company, an edibles company
that made a successful transition from the legacy market
to the regulated market in 2021.
Tabitha has also co-founded BASC,
a cannabis brand that formulates cannabis products
for women, including a condom compatible personal lubricant,
depository and infused topical.
Tabitha is a passionate educator with deep understanding
of cannabis products, consumers and spaces
where they interact.
Say hi, Tabitha.
Hi, thanks for having me.
Nice to be here.
Thanks for having, thanks for being here.
Our next guest is Allie the High Giant.
Allie Benson is a terpene nerd,
cannabis industry strategist, educator and advocate.
Her passion runs off the beauty of the cannabis industry
and how much potential workers
and plant itself has to offer.
Her work focuses on terpene parents
and strategic digital methodologies in the industry,
supporting brands and game-changing moves
through various collaborations.
Hi, Allie.
As she panics trying to either find the mute button
or realize you're talking to her.
Is she here?
She's out of screen.
No worries, we know who she is
and we look forward to her coming back in.
You can go ahead and relax.
Amazing, okay.
The next person is Evian.
She has been on a plant-guided path for 19 years.
Her belief that the plant can be one
of our greatest teachers inspires her work.
She's a farmer, teacher and advocate.
She loves to share the wisdom of our plant allies.
Her work focus around environmental stewardship,
biological driven growing practices,
scale production and creating a nurturing
and empowering work environment.
She manages the licensed facility,
Ebb and Flow and Cascade Hemp Collective.
Evian is a faculty member at Oaks,
Oaksterdam University and board member
of Ethical Data Alliance Greenies.
Say hello, Evian.
Hi, I'm super happy that the hour of dankness is upon us.
I feel like it just worked a crazy day
and I'm super happy to be here with you ladies.
Happy International Women's Day.
I'm excited to be on the stage
with all these amazing super women.
So thank you, I'm complete.
Thank you so much for being here,
welcoming your viewpoints and all you have to offer.
Our next guest is Kylie Boudreaux.
She started making cannabis products for cancer patients.
And along with her business partner,
Master Grower Dustin McLean,
she's co-founded Parkland Flower,
Alberta's ninth micro license holder
and the first to sell directly to the province of Alberta.
She's also founded
at Alberta Cannabis Micro License Association
where she's a fierce advocate for small producers.
Parkland Flower focuses on breeding cannabis seeds
for home growers and medical patients
and runs boutique free programs for other LPs.
Hi, Kylie.
Hi, hi, thank you all so much for having me.
What an amazing lineup of amazing women.
I'm so honored to be present here and I'm complete.
Thank you for being here.
Our next guest is Genevieve Newton.
Genevieve is the head grower
and director of cultivation at Stewart Farms.
She successfully manages the Stewart Farm facility
in St. Stephen, New Brunswick,
as well as three other partnered micro cultivation sites
in Nova Scotia.
That's crazy.
Genevieve has won multiple awards for her craft cannabis
and was most recently honored at HempFest Canada 2021
for growing the highest CBD flower,
the highest THC flower,
as well as placing first and second for top female grower.
She is an impressive believer in growing
for business and pleasure
and has to date grown over 200 different cultivars.
She's constantly striving to grow and develop
the best in craft and in Canadian market
and to change the narrative of way that people talk
and think about cannabis today.
She dedicates a lot of time to mentoring
and teaching about cultivation as well.
Hi, Genevieve.
Thank you so much for being here.
Hi everyone.
Thank you for having me tonight.
I feel very blessed to be on this panel
with these amazing women.
Tamara Lillian is our next guest.
She is the founder of CannaLily Consulting.
She is a level two cannabis sommelier
certified through CannaRep
and certification through Tricone Institute
and a cannabis educator certification
through the Michener Institute.
In 2019, she was selected from 25,000 applicants
to serve as one of five members
of the world's only cannabis curation committee.
Her newest endeavor finds her taking on the role
of head of education at CanCell
Tamara is passionate about educating the masses,
dispelling cannabis myths
and creating accessible communities.
Thank you so much for being here, Tamara.
Hello.
Hi everyone.
Thanks so much for having me.
Happy International Women's Day to everyone.
And I'm thrilled to be on a panel
with such incredible powerhouses.
Thank you.
My paper.
Perfect.
And we have Michelle Perota.
She is also known as Mimi.
She is also known as the founder and CEO of Mimi Cannabis.
Mimi is a senior advocate and entrepreneur
in the cannabis space.
She's been in the cannabis industry
for the last five years as a clinic director.
Her company, Mimi Cannabis is a patient
and consumer centric space where people over 50
can ask questions and connect
with healthcare professionals.
Her online store features cannabis merchandise
for the mature cannabis user,
as well as provide Mimi joint jewelry wholesale
found in stores in Canada and the US.
Thank you so much Mimi for being here.
Say hello.
Hello.
Thank you for having me.
I'm so honored to be here.
Happy International Women's Day to everyone.
Yay.
Our next wonderful guest is Dale Sky Jones.
And I know that she's already said hello.
She's been, I'll just tell a little bit about her.
She has been focused on enhancing the debate
for cannabis policy and reform since 2007.
She's based out of Oakland, California.
She took over as president and CEO
of Oakster Dam University in 2012
after a crippling federal raid
with the goal of ensuring OU's legacy of cannabis education.
Now, Oakster Dam is proud of more than 50,000 alumni,
but more than 40 countries.
Quality training for the cannabis industry
is Dale's passion and the Oakster Dam mission.
She believes the education is the foundation
in establishing political and social climate
that will encourage cannabis policy reform.
Thank you so much for being here, Dale.
Thanks, Anita.
Also, my team informed me,
it's actually over a hundred countries now.
I stopped counting and forgot to look again,
and they just looked it up recently.
Oh my God.
I know, I was in shock.
I almost fell out of my chair.
So the one thing I do wanna just say too,
I see so many old friends
and I look forward to making some new friends,
especially on this day to celebrate women.
We are definitely better together
when we root each other on and your success
and listening to how much you all are doing out there
in this great big world is definitely my hit of hope today.
Thank you for inviting me.
Thank you so much for sharing.
That was wonderful.
Our next guest is Kristen Yoder.
She's also known as the Cannabis Detector on social media,
which I thought was awesome.
Kristen Yoder has been featured in Vanity Fair,
Forbes, US Today,
and is named Marijuana Venture Magazine's
40 Under 40 Rising Stars of Cannabis.
She's a 16 year LA industry veteran,
strategic advisor, radio and podcast personality,
who has managed successful businesses
in every sector of the cannabis industry.
When she isn't facing fear, sweat and sparkling,
which she isn't sharing her first fear, sweat
and sparkling personality on stage or on the air,
she's busy creating new designs
for her guerrilla education campaign,
disguised as a clothing brand,
cynical stoner in an effort to fight common misinformation
that's rampant in the community.
Thank you so much for being here, Kristen.
Say hello.
Hello, thank you for having me.
Awesome.
Our next guest is Erica Halverson.
She started Tiny E Paper with one mission in mind,
to change the planet one plant at a time.
Tiny E Paper makes 100% pure hemp paper
on a commercial scale for business owners
in the cannabis industry by utilizing hemp stocks
and the waste from CBD extractors.
Erica has a goal to have all cannabis producers
and companies use hemp products
instead of paper from trees.
Thank you for being here, Erica.
Say hello.
Hello, everyone, and thank you so much for having me.
And I'm so honored to be involved in this group
of really wonderful women, so thank you.
Thank you for being here.
Our next guest, we have so many, it's so awesome.
Our next guest is Nicole West.
She's a cannabis business, agriculture
and efficiency specialist with over 12 years experience
in the cannabis industry.
Nicole has had success in 45 cannabis business applications,
has opened 20 retail locations, four states,
and has overseen as many 400 employees at a time.
Her main focus at any business is efficiency and training.
Having hired over 300 people over her career in cannabis,
Nicole is very focused on what a good employee looks like
and all the facets of the industry.
She's the director of operations for LB Atlantis,
a full-scale distribution, manufacturing,
and retail delivery business
that services the entire state of California.
That's the size of Canada, if anybody didn't know that.
She is also the first white collar criminal
in the history of regulated cannabis to receive a felony
for doing her C-suite position.
That's bullshit.
Say hello, Nicole.
Hello, hello.
Thank you for having me.
I'm so honored to be amongst all you amazing women.
We are so glad to have you.
Next, we have the Stowe B Sisters,
who believe that by living passionately,
anything is possible.
Entrepreneur sister duo, AKA the Witches of Grass Town,
which I love that, are trailblazing
in the emerging cannabis and psychedelics industry,
working in media, event production,
consulting, philanthropy, and more.
Innovating in cannabis-focused and plant-forward media
and sustainable events production,
building the foundation for Hollyweed North
right here in BC, and specifically in Vancouver,
home of the BC Bud and beyond.
Thank you so much for being here
and introduce yourselves individually.
Thanks.
Hello, I'm Tam.
And I'm Zia.
And we're really, really happy to share space
with such an amazing group of women
on International Women's Day today,
activists and powerhouses in the industry.
Yeah, so happy to share space with all of you trailblazers.
Holy moly, what a panel.
That's all I have to say.
Thank you.
So amazing.
I am so happy that everyone is here.
Last but not least, we also have Dr. Pepper Hernandez.
Dr. Pepper Hernandez is a classically trained
neuropathic doctor, a board certified holistic
health practitioner, a certified health,
natural health professional, a live food nutritionist,
a cannabis therapy consultant, a Reiki master,
and a Pondalini teacher.
I hope I said that right.
Additionally, she has had a PhD in transpersonal,
she has a PhD in transpersonal psychology.
She is the CEO, founder and director
of the Cannabis Holistic Institute of Humboldt, California.
She works with patients to improve their health
and wellbeing with a holistic approach.
She started her own journey of dealing with cannabis,
fresh juicing cannabis, and advocates that you don't need
to be high for the benefits of cannabis.
Thank you so much for being here, Dr. Hernandez.
Thank you and happy International Women's Day
to everyone here on the panel.
It's lovely to be here this evening and hold space
with all of you fabulous women.
I appreciate you all.
This is Dr. Pepper Hernandez.
Thank you so much.
Now, before I, did I have anything else
that I needed to say?
I don't know.
Usually London, sorry.
Oh, I was just gonna say while you're looking,
I just wanted to do an all call if anybody on stage
didn't get introduced.
Yeah, so Anita, I invited my director of extraction,
Marley Hodson.
Marley, you wanna introduce yourself?
Of course, thank you guys for having me.
I really appreciate being here and talking
to all these awesome women who are kicking ass
in the cannabis industry.
My name's Marley Hodson.
I work with Ashley and I'm the director of extraction
and processing at Rare in Michigan.
And really happy to be here and talking
about something that I love.
Awesome, thank you so much for all these wonderful women,
trailblazer, credible panel of women
who have agreed to be here.
I am just blown away by all of you guys' accomplishments
in this space, especially since the space itself
has not been around for a very long time,
especially in the Canadian space,
but more so in the American space.
There is a lot of advocacy that goes around
and through our bios.
And one of the ones that really stands out is Dale,
as it does talk about a lot about your policy reform work.
Did you wanna talk a little bit
about what you're doing with that?
Ooh, hard to know where to start.
So I will say that today, if any of you are feeling plucky
and happen to be in California,
there's currently a bill in committee to recriminalize
and make a felony again, growing over six plants
instead of going after the illegal mega grows
or I don't know, lowering taxes to increase access
for legal businesses.
And you can hear the four-year-old future woman
being tickled by her 11-year-old brother
who I asked to keep her distracted,
but I wasn't specific.
So forgive if there's some squeals in the background.
That is the future, the mighty Quinn.
She will be a woman someday.
As far as policy reform,
I think the thing that we all really need to focus on
right now is federal de-scheduling.
That ultimately, if what we want is safe access
for the people that we love that are medical patients
or God forbid, we are a medical refugee ourselves
that we've had to uplift, uproot our families
and move across the country
in order to have safe access to medicine
without CPS taking your child away.
And even in California, make no mistake,
we're still taking people's children away
and breaking up families over this.
So if what you're looking for is safe banking
for your business and to remove these ridiculous,
the 280E IRS rule that disallows
taking any cannabis deductions,
except of course, the cost of goods sold,
the cannabis itself, that there's no other business
in America that can survive
without normal business deductions.
If you're looking for that veteran in your life
to have safe access regardless of the state that you live in
and for this to not just be about monopolies
that are designed to only allow licenses
for those special few
who are magically always wealthy white men.
Nothing against white men being wealthy, I'm married to one,
I have two that I'm raising,
I hope one of them gets wealthy someday.
But that's not who the only people,
we shouldn't either work for them
or be outlaws or criminals.
And as women, as mothers,
we need to really start having these conversations
at PTA, even if you never wanted to join PTA before,
join now so that you can start bringing in
cannabis contributions for the yearly auction,
because we can buy books instead of guns
with cannabis dollars.
And we have to show that to our communities.
And it's often the moms that are freaked out.
We hear recreational, God, that word,
I wanna wash your mouth out with soap
because it's freaking out the soccer moms in South Dakota
because they're picturing their 12 year old recreating.
It's not about that.
This is about finally having safe access
to run a small business.
And small business is where women,
especially black women, brown women, indigenous women,
this is where women survive and thrive is in small business.
And so if we don't open this up
and allow for small business,
and only way to do that is to take the teeth
out of the criminality,
the only way to do all of these things,
whether you're trying to save the world
or you're trying to save your bottom line in your business,
that ultimately it's gonna be descheduling cannabis
that finally opens this up to be a normal,
from contraband to commodity.
And I worry that we start to get protectionist
because of the safety that we've carved out for ourselves.
It's really difficult and frightening
to then see yet another change, but the change is coming.
And so we're either, as they say, at the table,
on the table, I'm certainly not gonna be serving
the fucking table.
And so it's women like us that need to band together
to make sure that we are heard.
Thank you for giving me this opportunity
to stand on the hemp box.
I appreciate it.
I'm like standing up and applauding.
Oh girl, go girl.
I love all that.
I really wanna hear what Jenna has to say.
I know that she does a lot of work
in social initiatives, harm reduction,
and she's worked with policy and government here in Canada.
Did you want to talk about what's the similarities
or differences that we have in Canada with policy
that is harmful or whatnot?
I mean, sure, yeah.
I mean, I guess a really easy place to start
is to just like think about the Cannabis Act more generally
and that really when the Cannabis Act came into play
in Canada, it was virtually void
of any social justice initiatives.
So just kind of picking up on what Dale was saying,
it certainly is about safe access.
It's about regulated access, but that,
Canada didn't really kind of do it in any ideal way.
And I think largely because,
kind of think issues around social equity
and social justice were really afterthoughts
here in Canada.
And it's really unfortunate.
I think Canada likes to hide under that identity
of not having the same social justice and equity issues
as perhaps our neighbors to the South in the United States.
Whereas in the US and the work that we're doing
around social impact and partnerships there,
that is so front and center to all of the work.
And it seems to be so critical to even a lot
of the legislative work.
And it's not to say it's not riddled with problems.
I spoke with some folks
from the Minority Cannabis Business Association today.
They have a really great equity report out.
And in there, we were discussing how there are about
12 state run equity programs and only six of them
actually include economic empowerment
as part of that work as well.
So I think we're also still really searching
for what those models are that work
and how do more robustly kind of support policy
and legislation that is really targeted
or perhaps primarily focus it on what it really means
to undo the harms of prohibition.
And kind of that legacy, of course,
is still ongoing in Canada, even with legalization.
And so one year later, of course,
the federal government in Canada introduced a pardons bill,
gave fast tracks to access for folks
that have simple possession charges.
But what we're largely seeing is a lack of education,
a lack of awareness of that.
And really, I think what we're starting to really learn
and kind of the education that we're undertaking internally
where I work is really talking about
how we need to be investing in social justice initiatives
that are wider than cannabis.
That we can't just be a cannabis company that says,
this is where we have the space to play
and that this is the social justice kind of issues
that we should be tackling in terms of
our criminal justice reform efforts
and actually thinking more about,
what are the wider impacts of being caught up
in the criminal justice system
for maybe something that was as easy
or as kind of straightforward in the beginning as possession
but how often what we really see and what the data shows
is that exiting the criminal justice system
without a progressive charges or additional charges
is actually very unlikely.
And actually when you review things like bail conditions
here in Canada, folks often leave with 60,
so it's really not that surprising,
that cycle of recidivism.
So I think what we're still really looking for
and when I'm thinking about kind of what social justice
and equity landscape looks like in Canada,
perhaps even here to, even compared to the US,
I think we're really just seeing a lot of initiatives
catch up, we're seeing the federal government
now host ED&I forums.
And they're talking about bridging
some of their black empowerment programs
with being able to offer that to cannabis black entrepreneurs
who were prior excluded from that,
or we have navigation programs where the federal government
signs a direct line to those who are indigenous.
So I think that there are some initiatives
that I think are really promising.
Oh, actually I read an article yesterday
about a micro producer, an indigenous micro producer in BC
that was given a $500,000 grant from the BC government
and just got their micro grant approved.
I thought that was a really great story
to be seeing as well.
I think we're seeing initiatives kind of pop up,
but I think on a whole, we have a lot of work to do
in Canada and I don't really,
I think we're seeing some really great businesses emerging,
there are more diversity and licensing,
but still a lot of work to do.
And I think there's some organizations
that are trying to fill those gaps,
groups like Cannabis Amnesty
and the Sentencing and Parole Project.
But yeah, still a lot of work to do.
So that's kind of the space that I like to play in
and I like to hear about these new initiatives in my work
as in social impact and advocacy.
I have the opportunity to fund a lot of those initiatives
and really finding ways where our mandates
are kind of greater goals are aligning,
which is really about what's our responsibility here
as folks who work and benefit from legal cannabis.
So I'll stop there.
Amazing.
Did anybody else have anything to add that they wanted to,
because I know that there are several people on the panel
that would be maybe interested.
Evian, do you, was that a flip or?
Yeah, I have a quick thought.
Perfect.
And I think Dale and I have discussed this
over the past little chunk
and definitely a lot of other people,
but I really see that, especially in the United States,
that we have an incredible amount of work to do
as a community over the next couple of years
to really get, there's still just such a hot mess
in so many different areas.
I don't like to use that term, but it really is true.
And I think that we just, we have a ton of work
and there are also a lot of forces that be
and other things that are trying to push things
in a direction that maybe isn't in the better interest
of the people that have really put their blood,
sweat and tears and the legacy
and all the people that have kept this going.
And there's a lot of pressure from big alcohol,
big tobacco, pharma, et cetera.
And I think that we really need to be incredibly unified
so that we can help to push legislation
how we want it to go over the next couple of years.
And I think that we really,
I think we need to do our due diligence,
even at a local, as far as local levels and state levels
and it's always changing.
And we just got another three year moratorium
on producer licenses in Oregon.
And that wouldn't have happened
if people didn't really step up and speak out and be heard.
And we've been pushing back against taxes.
And the only way that we're gonna affect change
is if we stand up and try to actually
have our voices be heard.
So I think the next two years is crucial.
And I'm complete.
Thank you so much for your input.
Erica, did you have something to add?
Yeah, I do.
And it kind of goes with what everybody's saying,
which I'm absolutely in supportive and love.
But one of the things that I have a challenge with
is I don't need a license to run my business.
I happen to work in a sector in hemp
where I do have federal legalization
and still there is not one social equity program
that I qualify for because I don't need a license.
And so what I have a big gripe about,
social equity to me is a four letter word.
I can't stand it because it's automatically divided
our entire industry by whether or not
you need a license or not.
And now I'm told that because I don't need a license,
I don't need any help.
And that just rubs me the wrong way.
And so until we start thinking of ourselves holistically
as much as thinking about this plant holistically,
we still have a lot further to go
than I think some of us realize
because there's a whole section of us
that are still being shut out
of every single social equity program.
I just wanted to give that two cents.
Erica, can I ask you a question?
If that's okay, Anita, I'm just curious.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
I'm just here to guide the conversation.
You guys can ask questions as I just didn't want anybody
to jump over people.
So like, as long as you know, there's a lot of you guys
that are, go ahead.
Okay, cool.
Just a quick question because I mean, my understanding,
I know that where I am and we could always talk offline too,
but I've worked in both on the regulated adult use side
for quite a while now.
And then also for the past years, I've worked,
past four years, I've worked on the hemp side.
And in Oregon, you are required to have licenses for hemp.
And with the farm bill and every state is different,
but like the state plans are all very different.
Are you in Canada or are you in the United States?
I'm in the US, but I'm not a grower.
I use, I support farmers by buying their raw material
and then I do stuff with it.
That's why I don't need a license,
but I'm still in hemp and cannabis
because I sell to cannabis business owners.
I just don't need a license to run my company
because I'm not the cultivator or the grower.
In Oregon, you actually get a handler's permit to,
we actually have to have licenses in order to even
do anything with the product.
There again, I wouldn't, my paper mill would have to.
I am partnered with a paper mill who use it to,
who is the procurer for me and pays the invoice
for the raw material because they're also part
of the processing supply chain.
All I do is I pay for the finished hemp paper
and I don't have to have a license for that
no matter what state I'm in.
So you actually, hold on one sec, real quick.
You qualify for help because what you're describing
is that if you're not in the cannabis industry,
if you're not plant touching,
if you're not doing those things for social,
that would put you in the cannabis social equity bucket,
then you're actually in the normal small business bucket
and you can go apply through the small business association
and get all the help you need and a bank account
and all that good stuff.
So there are programs for you.
I have tried and because of where I'm at as a startup,
I don't qualify for institutional financing
for a lot of the things that you can get at a regular bank
because of where my company is.
Have you gone to SBA?
I've done all, yes I have.
I have done all of that.
They always, then they want to tie in my personal credit.
I don't have the best credit.
So that's why I like,
don't want to go into the minutia of it,
but I can't qualify on my own for institutional funding.
Well, equity,
qualifying for equity in cannabis won't get you that either.
Like all equity really does is give you a license
to work your fucking ass off.
So I want to be sure.
Exactly.
So let's not let the definition of helping those
that were specifically disadvantaged by the war on drugs
from what you're trying to do.
Like, don't, cause I can feel your frustration,
but I think it's aimed in the wrong direction
and what you're trying to say is,
can't we all be part of the solution together?
Because every time we draw a line on who can and who can't,
we're drawing a line between us.
And instead of working together,
we wind up fighting one another.
So I'm catching your spirit, but it's not-
And I am doing that.
I don't want to give off the wrong impression.
I am doing that.
And how I'm proving myself too is,
I specifically am partnered already contractually
with indigenous tribes to support their communities
and show that hemp can have a direct impact
on marginalized communities.
And so I'm doing that as my mission of my company as well.
And I'm not letting any of that stop me.
So I just don't want to give that impression.
Yeah, that's why I wanted to uplift what you are,
where you are trying to head with that.
So thank you.
I definitely would like to not lose track of the fact
that social equity, like Stel was saying,
is specifically designed to give those
who are disproportionately affected by the war on drugs,
a better opportunity to be participatory in cannabis.
And so the idea, and no offense to the need for help
in hemp, but like Stel was saying too,
the opportunity for regular money is there.
But the whole purpose of social equity
is really just to give the opportunity
to get the door open first.
It's not really much else.
It's literally just the door to be able to,
maybe not even be first, but to be not locked upon entry.
It doesn't really give.
And in a lot of ways, in the nicest way possible,
I call a lot of social equity predatory gifting
because people utilize people of color
to try to get their licensure or to gain or game the system.
And by giving them a percentage of some company or something
and so there's, I don't want it to seem
as if I don't think social equity is in some ways
doing a lot of good, because I do.
But the idea that it is really not helping other people
in general, it's barely helping the black
and brown communities that were
so disproportionately affected.
And so then I just have to open the question up
of when you think about a hemp business,
like what right to quote unquote social equity
is a bad thing to do?
Is it a bad thing to not buy hemp in the past?
Right, what is the-
Sorry, Nicole, I think you broke up.
Could you repeat the last sentence or so?
Oh yeah, what is the ask of what you would feel
that you would deserve a social equity for hemp?
Because, I mean, for the most part,
people for hemp have not been getting put in cages
and locked away for life for hemp.
There's not black and brown people who are going to jail
because they had a bunch of hemp seeds in their salad.
So the idea that hemp would even deserve
a quote unquote social equity is a little bit of a miss
to me outside of maybe on an agricultural level
from the fact that the agricultural world
has been completely just abused for all these years.
Hell yeah, small farmers of America.
Small farmers, yes, absolutely.
Small farmers deserve something in hemp.
And Canada.
I'm just very confused as to how hemp-
And Canada.
Yeah, I'm just very confused as to how hemp
would need social equity the way cannabis does
because there are still people locked in jail right now
for cannabis.
There's no one in jail for hemp.
I mean, at least I don't think, I could be wrong.
There might be a couple of people that are,
it wasn't weed, it was hemp or something.
I don't fucking know.
For the most part, it is people of color
and people that have been completely
disproportionately affected by being locked away
in cages for a plant.
So I just don't understand how hemp
would even need social equity.
Because when I then support a farmer of any type
who has been affected, and especially I focus right now
because this is the group that is focused
on industrial hemp is the indigenous group.
The indigenous communities is,
if I can't get the funding I need
and the help I need to grow my business,
I can't buy their raw material and support them.
If I can't make my product, I can't make my product
for cannabis business owners of all types.
But what gives you the need?
What gives you the need for social equity?
Specifically you, not something you can hold them.
So that I can go support everybody else as well.
That's not a reason, then everyone deserves
social equity in cannabis.
That doesn't even make sense.
That would be like, oh, if I buy products
from a person of color,
then I deserve a social equity license.
That's not fair because then that means
everyone deserves that.
And that's not actually giving the people
who are disproportionately affected the opportunities
that they actually need if we give it to everyone
who is willing to participate in business
with those who have been affected.
I don't know if I could jump in here,
but actually since we're talking a little bit
about folks who have kind of traveled from the past,
let's say, I just wanted to kind of pass the mic
over to Tabitha, who recently has for a very long time
working with Spritz.
And I remember that personally in the Canadian market
a really long time ago in the gray market here in Canada.
So now to see them on the legal market,
I just kind of wanna hear a little more
of that perspective as well to the conversation.
Yeah, I can speak to that.
So it's interesting.
I wasn't, I have to collect my thoughts.
I wasn't expecting to be called on.
I think one thing that's very interesting
is how difficult it is to make the transition
from, we call it the legacy market here in Canada
to the regulated space.
And for the reasons for that were identified earlier
by Dale in that, in general,
the system seems to have been set up
so that the people who are most successful
are well-connected, well-established and well-financed.
And that seems to be almost exclusively
a group of people who are white guys in suits.
And that makes it difficult.
It makes it difficult when you don't see yourself
represented among the people
who are successfully leading companies.
It makes it difficult to think that you can do that.
If you don't see yourself as a woman
or as a person of color represented there.
First of all, it becomes challenging
just like mentally and emotionally
to think about making that transition.
But then, and actually the work of making the transition
is incredibly difficult, right?
So the skillset that I had operating in the legacy market,
so my husband and I founded our company,
Fritz's Cannabis Company in around 2016, we make edibles.
And we make gummies, we eat cereal bars, granola,
all kinds of different products.
And so the skillset that I utilized
when I was working in the legacy market
was a very entrepreneurial skillset, right?
You figure out how to make new products,
how to get them to market exactly what your customer wants,
what flavor does my customer want?
What products does my customer like?
What market am I gonna go to next week
to sell these products at?
What is my customer telling me
when I meet them face-to-face about what they need to know
and what they need to learn about my products
and about how cannabis works with their body
and about how they should use these products
to get the effects they're looking for, right?
Like that's a very specific skillset.
And it's very, very different from the skillset
that you need to operate in the regulated industry.
You need to be able to do finance
and read financial documents
and you need to be able to talk to your investors
and you need to be able to figure out a lot of paperwork
in a lot of very difficult and complicated forms.
And you have to be able to speak to your accountant
and your lawyer.
And there are all of these different skills
that you have to have in order to be successful
in the regulated industry.
It's totally different.
And I wasn't prepared to make that transition.
My husband and I both have MBAs.
Like we have business degrees
and it has been incredibly difficult
for us to make that transition.
So someone who was less prepared than us,
in terms of the business acumen that's required,
it would be even incredibly more difficult
for them to make that transition as well.
And so if we're thinking about
how we can support those people,
then we have to have programs in place, right?
To get those people up to speed
with all of the things that they need to know
to operate and to be successful in this,
in a highly regulated industry.
In an industry that has very unique
and new challenges and opportunities every single day.
Every day I have new challenges
that I did not expect to face
and I have to figure out how to solve them.
And we need more people in this industry
who are not the white guys in suits.
We need more women.
We need more people of color.
We need more people who have been incarcerated for cannabis
and who have those life experiences
that have taught them what the plant actually means
so that they can bring those experiences to their work
and share them with the public
who is still learning about cannabis
and still learning about how it can be part of their life.
And I don't remember where I started,
but that's where I'm gonna end.
I'm Tabitha.
Thanks very much.
I'm done speaking.
Thank you so much, Tabitha.
Oh, I was just gonna ask Kylie.
I was gonna ask you a question.
Okay, so you go ahead and talk.
I was gonna ask you a question.
Oh, sure.
Well, I was just gonna say that you have a lot of experience
with like a lot of regulatory hurdles
with micro licensing in Alberta
and your work with the association there.
And I just wanted you to,
if you had anything to add to that part of the conversation.
Absolutely.
I, you know, to really kind of go off
of what Tabitha was talking about there,
it's the barriers to entry to this market are enormous
for white people and for people of color.
It is enormous.
And if you don't have the funding
or the business acumen, it is really difficult.
And it is learning by fire every single day.
I literally started out, you know,
expecting that I was gonna be able to apply for my license
and start building my facility.
And the government changed the rules on May 19th, 2019.
They decided, oh, you know what?
You're gonna have to build out your facility first.
You know, I had already fundraised.
I had already like financed my house,
had begun the process of finding a building
to start the facility.
And this enormous change just was like a bomb dropped.
I've had business accounts, like banking accounts shut down,
banks not opening accounts for me.
And then once I was finally in
and basically on my last few dollars,
then you get to meet the gatekeepers of this industry.
And those are your provincial regulatory bodies.
So yes, the federal government runs the, you know,
the overarching compliance that you have to operate under,
but the provincial bodies are a, you know,
you've got basically 10 different provincial bodies
with 10 different sets of rules,
with 10 different departments that run cannabis
and they all run it differently.
And to say the very strictest like Alberta and Ontario,
definitely the two hardest markets to get into
with regards to getting through their qualifying.
So yeah, you get your Health Canada license, sure.
But then there's this other body
that you have to then get through.
And then to convince them to take your product.
And you know, if you're just starting out
and you don't know who's who in the space,
it's really difficult.
It was one of the main reasons I started
the Alberta Cannabis Micro License Association
was to be able to open that door to the provincial body
to say, hey, we're the association that speaks
for micro cultivators and microprocessors in the province.
We need your guidance and we want to come
with a unified voice.
And that was how I was able to learn exactly
what we needed to do and then share that knowledge
with everyone in the association,
with those applicants that are just starting out
and they have no idea what they're getting into
because you really don't.
Like you really don't know what you're getting into
until you're in it.
And I'll leave it there and let somebody else jump in.
I'm sure I can jump in a little later.
If I may, just on that, I think that there are groups
in the provinces that do a lot of great work for those,
however, it can cause a lot of issues
when they start speaking on behalf of those growers
or those smaller businesses to people
that they have partnerships with.
And that can be an overstepping in just the relationship.
I've seen that with things like remittance
and that's not really up to co-manufacturers,
that's up to provinces.
And so there can be an overlap on the communication
in those and I think as long as that were to step up,
just communication in general should always be stepped up.
Then some of those hurdles won't seem like hurdles,
they'll just seem like hop, step and jump away
to be able to do the things that we wanna do.
And I do think that places like BC
are fantastic, fantastic people to look up to
looking at the BC Craft Co-op and things like that.
And when it comes into getting things into the provinces,
we do need to look at regulations, absolutely,
but we also need to look at the procurement managers.
There's a new one here in BC,
they've cut honestly all of my favorite products
and things that are in demand from a consumer standpoint,
but they're just going off of a statistic
of what's selling best.
And that's why we're stuck in this horrible high THC only.
We don't have CBG products, we barely have any CBN,
I think we did for a bet.
They just cut the first dried fruits edibles in BC,
those no longer are in any stores, they recalled them.
And they also cut bath salts and bath bombs.
And so that restricts a lot of people.
You can even go into the store and have 40, 50, 60 products
that are all THC based and only have two that are CBD.
And that's extremely frustrating for people
who are interested going into the recreational market.
There's no options and you wanna be able to have
that opportunity to try as much as possible,
but I literally just went to Alberta yesterday
and had to pick up for four different people
to bring it back to BC
because we wanna be able to try these products,
but there's no way other than medical
to order across provincially.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ali.
I wanted to get to Michelle.
Mimi, your demographic, this would speak right
to what you've been talking about
and how a lot of the products that are being
like pushed right now into like Ontario,
especially it's like high THC and like a lot of that.
I wanted to hear your perspective
on what was just said, Ali just talked about.
Well, for me, it's a little bit different.
I'm hearing all this about having difficulties and stuff
where for me, I came from a business background
and at 50 decided to join the cannabis industry.
So for me, it's been a little bit different,
but for my demographic,
it's been challenging right from the get go,
right from the day that they decided
to make the stores private, it was gun ho,
let's have a lottery, let's do this.
Medical cannabis, people of my demographic
were just completely forgotten about.
So that's sort of the obstacles
that people of my demographic that are dealing with.
I deal with questions on the daily of
what does the inside of a store look like?
I'm afraid to go in.
I deal with this stuff on the daily.
So for me, it's a little bit different,
but what I'm seeing is that we're starting to
breathe a little bit more life back into medical again.
And we're seeing that there's some really great
medical companies coming out now with some great products
that people more my age are looking for,
more one-to-one type products,
that type of a product as opposed to high THC.
Do I think that the biggest problem is that
we can't talk about those things in the retail store
with people my age?
Yes, that is the biggest problem.
So I think that we are seeing more people
starting to go back to medical
so that they can get those questions answered,
whether they buy from their medical LP
or at least be educated enough to go into a store
because not being able to,
people my age and older are going into the stores
because they have something wrong with them
for the most part.
Yes, some people like me,
listen, I've used cannabis 45 years.
Yes, I use it recreationally and medically,
but not being able to get these questions answered
when they walk into these stores
has really created quite a gap.
And I think that, I really hope that once they
go through the Cannabis Act and realize that
this is what we're dealing with, we have to fix it.
But like I said, to see life being brought back
into medical again is making me happy.
That was my new year's resolution this year
was to breathe life back into medical cannabis.
And I'm seeing it, I'm helping with it.
I'm working with a great medical company right now
and it's starting to come back again.
But we have so many obstacles, people my demographic
with as far as the recreational stores go.
I am of that age, so I know what people my age are like.
They go in, they don't get the right information.
They either green out and I'm never doing this again
or they don't take enough and this shit don't work.
Listen, I know what people my age are like.
So this has been a real obstacle.
So I'm working very hard before I retire to fix this
because I'm not going to be able to retire
and be comfortable until I see this fixed.
And that's the end of my thought.
Thank you.
All right, Michelle.
Sorry.
Michelle, may I piggyback on Michelle?
Yes, please do.
I'm turning 70 this year.
So I planted my first cannabis plant in 1969
and I been in it for a while.
First of all, I would like to say
it's absolutely beautiful, wonderful to hear
and feel the energy in this room.
Back in the day, we were kind of a support system
or the people bridge or the cover.
And so to hear such brilliant minds today,
oh, just gives my heart so much joy
because in the 60s, when we started this,
it was power to the people.
It was the amount of people that we were able to bring
to the table to make some kind of movement
for the beginning of our so-called revolution.
And to be here a half a century later is honorable.
And to meet you, Michelle, and to hear you,
you're absolutely right about people our age and older
going into the dispensaries.
Number one, there's no privacy.
You can't talk about your hemorrhoids when you go in there
and your need for suppositories, you're kind of embarrassed.
And then the young bud tender doesn't know what to say
to you most often.
And it's a true dilemma.
And I too have a mission.
I would like to see a little more death with dignity.
We all have to go there
and some of us are closer than others.
So I would like to see that turnaround
and I'm out here as an advocate.
And I wanna say in the state of Oklahoma,
we've heard a lot of stuff about Oklahoma.
Well, I gotta say,
there are more women in this industry in Oklahoma.
And let me tell you the way they goofed it up
by letting every John Doe in America come here
and start something up,
the creativity that they had produced
and allowing that many people in the gate at one time.
It's absolutely amazing to see how many products
that they have.
Now, whether or not they're going about this recreationally
or medically, meaning dosing wise,
sky's the limit.
They can put 1500 milligrams in one lollipop out here.
And I'm telling you, if I took that thing, I'd be upset.
However-
Thank you so much for sharing your experiences.
We really appreciate that.
I really, with, I'm just gonna,
we have a lot of ladies here just gonna, yeah.
Yeah, let me wrap it up.
So there's so many women here
that were able to bring their skills,
their cooking skills, their inventiveness,
their caretaking.
They have brought together so many things for the industry.
I wanna give a shout out to them.
There's small pockets with no voices, there's big pockets,
but it's hats off, it's a ladies day.
It's been a long 50 years, I'm still in it to win it.
And I just love all of you wonderful women
stepping forward in such brave spaces.
Thank you, I'm done speaking.
Thanks for your viewpoint and your time.
I just had a question.
I wanted to actually bring it back
to the education portion and dispelling myths
and about the retail store.
And a lot of the,
one of the things that I wanted to ask Tamara
was about her work in, with CanSell,
which is the Budtender Certification Program in Canada.
And as the head of education
and the changes that you're making,
because at the beginning,
every single pretty much question on the test was incorrect
or not scientifically found or just myths or whatnot.
Did you wanna explain a little bit about
the importance of education and proper
labeling and categorization within the space
or like consumers?
Absolutely, so as Anita mentioned,
I am currently redeveloping the provincial education
that's required for all Budtenders.
And I'm gonna kind of flip a script a little bit
to what you asked Anita.
And instead I'm gonna talk about a real challenge
that we face in the industry,
which is what is expected of Budtenders
relative to what they actually are legally permitted to do.
So I believe it was Pamela who brought up
a really, an interesting kind of question.
Oh, someone comes in and they ask about their hemorrhoids.
Well, in Canada, we're actually not allowed
to provide any sort of medical advice as Budtenders,
but Budtenders are frequently being put in this position
where they're having to address medical questions.
So as an industry, we have a huge gap
between consumers seeking the information they need
and Budtenders having handcuffs on
by what they're legally permitted to discuss.
So I think that presents an opportunity
for people in a kind of cannabis educator capacity
to come in, people like Mimi, Michelle,
and Tabitha also, just to give an example,
has done some great work with Budtenders
and with others in the industry
to really get them the information they need.
But for right now, the system is not designed for success
because of these huge gaps between the information
that consumers are seeking and the information
that is legally permissible to provide.
My hope is that I will develop some more curriculum
and courses at CanCell that will kind of
even the playing field and provide opportunities
for your average person to get
some kind of foundational information.
But as it stands right now,
it's still a real uphill battle for us
in terms of education.
Let me jump in here as the original educator
in the cannabis space.
I wanna really underline something that I wanna,
it's Tamara, right?
I wanna make sure I put the influence
on the right syllable.
Tamara.
Tamara, damn it.
All right, it takes me twice.
Thank you for asking though.
Certainly, I will try to do better next time, Tamara.
So with respect to the two issues that she just stated,
the third issue is also just a lack of caring
when it comes to a lot of the businesses themselves,
those that can train and develop their teams
often don't value it.
And those that even would can't afford it
or are so busy struggling to survive
the next extinction event,
it's considered a luxury when really it should be
a foundation to the business plan
because it will actually in the long run
help the bottom line to your business.
And I often hear, oh, there's just no education out there.
And I think, damn it, I wish I had a million dollars
for better marketing because we have
over the last 15 years formalized,
but really the last 25 years working with different doctors
that once upon a time was testimonial.
And I'll remind people that's how medicine
actually started was testimonial.
And a lot of the current studies,
there's more studies on cannabinoids, THC, CBD,
than any other drug known to man, more than on the atom.
There's plenty of studies out there.
The problem is, is most of the studies are designed
to show harm and not to talk about things
like drug interactions so that a doctor is actually aware
that, hey, if someone should maybe avoid grapefruit
with their medicine, they should probably also avoid CBD
when taking their medicines.
So there are trainings available.
And if I may be so humble as to brag about ours briefly,
if you look in my photo, you will see,
we also have a discount.
Not only do we have asynchronous bud tender training,
but we also have a live bud tender training
that starts in just like a week or two
with a discount code for both the bud tender training,
the business of cannabis, and also horticulture.
And with the bud tender training,
we specifically start with our prerequisites
that talk about the history and policy of cannabis
so that all of these dumb why questions,
and it's not the question that's dumb,
it's the answer that's dumb, right, prohibition.
But to help people understand,
because these are the people on the front lines
of helping to change the law,
whether it's America or Canada or the Philippines,
because ultimately we all have a job of advocacy first.
However, we also need to understand that there are warnings
that you do wanna warn someone
about some counter indications,
especially in the sense of driving or operating machinery.
The cannabis products usually have a buoying effect.
So sure, a half a glass of wine, you're not drunk,
but half a glass of wine and that chocolate bonbon,
that's a hundred, that is going to have a buoying effect.
And what about that drug you're also taking?
Because again, these drug interactions
aren't being studied and talked about.
And what also has to get be put across
is that bud tenders cannot, should not ever play doctor.
And that is a tremendous concern where people are like,
oh, you don't need that here, just try this sweet sativa,
because I don't know what the fuck I'm talking about.
And at the end of the day,
it's not the sativa I'm worried about
or that you don't know what,
that you shouldn't call it a sativa.
It's the drug you just told that person to stop taking
that is a medication that can affect them negatively
if they don't take it.
So there's a whole slew of concerns,
not the least of which to be underwritten
by insurance companies to allow this stuff to happen.
And so understanding the effects, the methods of ingestion,
how different things are going to affect you,
that your liver converts THC
to something that is more psychoactive.
So being concerned about eating it
versus smoking it with the effects
are the very things we cover in class
and the things that we need to start demanding
that anyone who puts out a shingle
and calls himself a canvas educator is also covering.
But it's about us customers putting our dollars
where people value this type of training and education
for both their frontline workers and their customer base,
whether you are brand spanking new entering the industry
or importantly, our elders,
because part of de-scheduling
is also about making this okay for our elders
and bringing our families back together
because for too long,
it's young one is hanging out and hiding in the garage
while parent is hiding upstairs in the attic.
And we should actually be getting together
and having these conversations.
We have a wonderful blog on aging and cannabis, by the way,
for those of you that were talking about it earlier
along with several free classes.
Wonderful.
And Tamara, oh, go ahead.
Oh, sorry.
I was just gonna ask if you had something to add
because I saw that you wanted to.
I did.
I just did just wanna just respond to one comment.
So, I know that there might be a perception
of a lack of care on the part of the bud tenders,
but I strongly disagree with that perspective.
I think a lot of bud tenders care a lot more
than what they're paid for.
So, they are-
Oh, totally agree.
I hope I didn't give that impression.
I was saying the owners and operators
don't care to train their staff.
Right.
And might I interject that sometimes
that in Canada due to regulation,
instead of saying anything,
they don't say anything at all
because they're afraid that they might be crossing that line
or jeopardizing their job.
So, sometimes instead they say nothing.
So, it's not, I don't think a lack of caring.
I just think that the cuffs have been put on here in Canada
on what they can talk about in the recreational store.
And that's the end of my thoughts.
If I'm reading-
Sorry, just if I could, sorry,
if I could just finish my thought there.
So, I think that the challenge is that
we're asking bud tenders
who are literally supposed to be salespeople.
Imagine going into a liquor store
and asking about the region of France that wine came from.
The person would be like,
I don't know what the hell you're talking about.
Do you want this wine? Yes or no?
So, it's an unfortunate situation
where these bud tenders are not being paid enough
to be educators.
And they're being asked questions
that are far out of the scope
of what's reasonably acceptable for them.
As an industry, what we need to do
is provide accessible resources for consumers
to be able to get the information they need.
And then we also need to provide opportunities
to give bud tenders the tools that they need
to be able to manage these conversations.
So, if someone comes in and says,
I have hemorrhoids, what do I do?
Okay, well, so what are you allowed to say
in that situation?
So, you are allowed to say some things.
Obviously, you can't medically manage the person,
but you also don't wanna do nothing.
So, bud tenders are in this really challenging
and unique position.
And the best thing that we can do
is take a two-pronged approach
where we simultaneously empower these bud tenders
with better education, better salaries,
and more opportunities to be educators in their role,
and also provide accessible resources for consumers.
I also think that missing out on customer service agents
who work on medical platforms in Canada,
and going back to a comment, Dale, I think it was you,
that there's so many studies, and there are.
However, in Canada, we can't reference any study
that's not done in Canada,
and we're fighting extremely hard
to get more clinical studies.
The biggest thing for recreational or medical bud tenders
or customer service agents is knowing how not to step over
that line, like you said, Tamara,
and giving huge props to what you're doing
to ensure that that can be done for those people.
But also going back to, and I think it was either Michelle,
or, oh gosh, she jumped out of the room,
Pamela, maybe, Miss Sativa,
if you are uncomfortable with someone coming in
and talking about their body,
I would very highly recommend taking a step back
and looking while you're doing what you're doing,
regardless of that being recreational or med
or what you can and can't say.
If you, as a provider of a product,
are not comfortable in the options for consumption,
I personally, and this might be stepping over the line,
I don't think this is the job for you.
I had customer service agents on the medical platform
I was working on having questions about the lube
and how to properly dose it out
and how to apply it and all of these things,
because a patient had endometriosis,
they came to me and they were like, I'm so uncomfortable.
That for me is unacceptable,
regardless of it being recreational or medical,
you need to be open to having a conversation,
regardless of what you can or can't say
within limitations of regulations in the Cannabis Act.
People are people.
There's super amazing products that are coming out now
that can be applied for different things,
pleasure or medical.
And if you don't have the ability to understand human body,
then I would redirect your career path
in another space in the cannabis industry
and not have those one-on-one interactions.
But are you suggesting that bud tenders
are supposed to have a deep understanding of biology
or are you just suggesting that they have to be comfortable
to talk about all of the modalities of ingestion?
The second, of course.
You don't have to go into all of that.
You can't just say,
that should 100% be on your medical provider
or healthcare practitioner.
However, even nurse practitioners for medical cannabis
can't share like a doctor would,
but even doctors aren't approved.
I went through spinal surgery last year,
got everything approved by my surgical team,
my nurses, RMTs, the whole bunch,
but I had to make my own consumption plan
and propose it to them.
Even when it was working, they couldn't openly say,
damn, you are healing quicker
and then would give me a little wink.
I wonder what that could be.
And they couldn't straight up say it was because
I was doing what I was doing and taking care
and completely refusing to do opioids as a recovery plan.
And so there's still a lot of restrictions that people,
of course, we can't share that information
because it is direct medical advice,
but even medical providers can't give direct medical advice.
And I think that having the open conversation
of where that line is and how not to step over it,
but still be very respectful in giving answers
is something that's been lacking for quite a bit.
I mean, medical has been legal here for 20 years.
You're in the States?
I'm in Canada.
Oh, okay.
So I'm just curious,
your understanding is that doctors are not allowed
to give advice about medical cannabis
because I have a different understanding.
Well, they can, but where are they getting their resources
from and what actual clinical studies have been approved
to give out that information?
Oh my goodness.
And when you look at going and getting your prescription,
not through a medical platform in Canada,
but actually going to the doctor for a prescription
and you go, okay, what's the best thing for me?
I straight up have never, never heard of someone
getting a proper answer.
They say, go talk to that medical site
and the medical site says,
well, we can't really give you any medical advice,
but we can give you educational content to go off of
or recommendations based off of success stories in the past.
Testimonials.
Thanks for explaining.
And I agree with you wholeheartedly.
We have a massive challenge when less than 40%
of medical schools are even teaching physicians
about cannabis at all and the endocannabinoid system.
Amen. Yes.
Well, we do have a health professional here, Dr. Pepper.
Did you have anything to add for that?
Thank you so much, Anita, for asking.
I'm just pleasantly listening.
I've noticed that most of the conversation
is about medical cannabis in Canada
and in Humboldt County, California,
which is where I've practiced for the last decade.
You know, I'm a naturopath.
I have an MD and a PhD,
and I work very closely with allopathic MDs.
And we come to conclusion-based scenarios together
for the patient.
That's what I do.
This is Dr. Pepper Hernandez.
Thank you.
Jenna, were you flashing your, was that,
anybody, no, did I miss that?
No.
Oh, sorry.
I was just going to jump in and thanks, Dr. Pepper.
I really appreciate kind of your voice as a physician,
but also as a researcher,
I do want to point out that there actually have been,
you know, a lot of research and there have been, you know,
especially in the last two to three years, you know,
many clinical trials.
And, you know, I think to say that doctors don't know
what they're talking about, you know,
I think we've really seen that the tides really shift,
especially over the last two to three years.
And, in fact, there are many doctors that are very well
versed and very well qualified to speak about cannabis.
You know, we can't keep recycling these myths of the past
that there is no research.
And there, you know, I think that things have changed.
And I think that, you know,
that it's heading in the right direction.
I think there, you know, there are some really strong,
you know, reviews that we refer to,
the like the National Academies of Sciences
has a really great review of the literature
by different topics,
and then rates the kind of quality of the evidence from,
you know, that claims are moderately supported
or very strongly supported.
There's a really great Health Canada document
that I mentioned in the chat around the information
for healthcare professionals.
It's a Health Canada produced compendium.
It references, you know, many of these studies.
So, you know, not to say I agree with these points,
but I also think that, you know,
we also need to, you know, celebrate the wins
and celebrate the shifts and also acknowledge that,
you know, more than any other country,
we definitely have, you know, a healthcare system
that is becoming more aware and becoming more educated
and also celebrating those positions, those researchers
and kind of those gains and strides
that we have been making as well.
I think just also bears mention.
I'm done.
Absolutely agree.
Agree.
And just-
Totally agree.
Absolutely.
Thank you so much.
As a friendly reminder in the good old US,
doctor cannot prescribe cannabis in any form.
They will lose their medical license,
most likely in the state they're operating.
And then also they'll lose their DEA license,
their ability to prescribe other medications
if they put anything anywhere near a prescription pad.
So please don't.
It can be recommended.
And that's the other problem is even here
in California, which has had the longest medical program
and probably the most robust,
the Medical Board of California specifically
disallows doctors from discussing dose, type, amount,
any type of plan.
They are not allowed to have that conversation
with their patients.
There have been doctors that have lost their medical license
in California for having done so.
And granted it's been a couple of years,
but they would rather go after doctors
for giving dosage plans over cannabis
than going after doctors who have been accused
of rape.
And so this is where our priorities are right now,
also in the criminal justice system.
And I do want to reset the room real quick
because I'm realizing I should probably do that.
So welcome to the Dank Hour, International Women's Day.
This is women of cannabis.
These are women of cannabis.
Let me get my grammar on.
I do wanna welcome everyone here
and thank you so much for your time and attention.
Thank you so much too.
I can also help you with this.
This is my job so I can reset as well.
I just wanna make sure we encourage everyone
to follow the Dank Hour at the top,
which is that little green house at the very top.
And I knew you mentioned-
And we have a list of, sorry, no, I just wanted to,
I just got caught off guard there for a second
because I was waiting with my other question,
but thank you so much for reminding me to do that.
There's so many wonderful women here up on stage.
Make sure that you like and follow each of them.
They have social medias on their profiles.
You can share at the bottom there
and as well as share and follow in the YouTube as well.
And all the links will be there as well.
So if you are new to the room,
this is the International Women's Day Dank Hour.
We're talking to 17, 18,
I don't know how many women are on our stage now
about various different issues within the cannabis community.
We haven't really gotten to too many female specific,
although we did talk a little bit
about some product specific stuff.
And I actually wanted to, what a great segue,
talk a little bit about the lack of products for women.
Especially in the Canadian industry.
And we did talk a little bit,
Ali did mention some of the products are even going away
that did exist, not necessarily like bath bombs
are female specific, but a lot of the people that buy
those types of products are female
or are interested in smelling delicious and feeling great.
So I just wanted to ask Kristen actually,
about, what's it?
No, I'm sorry.
I wanted to ask you about something else,
but I wanted to ask about how you feel
the market is going towards with regards
to female specific products that they'd be interested in.
Because it is a male dominated industry historically
and a lot of the products that's been produced
even in the legacy market is high THC flour or concentrates,
and which is fantastic and we love that.
But even when I discuss sometimes pre-rolls
or milled products, because I have arthritis,
it's very shocking to some people.
So I just wanted to discuss a little bit
about your experience with differences
and what people are saying.
To be honest, I don't know if I'm the best person
to speak on this because I haven't been
on the retail side of this,
but I was on the retail side of this way back in the day,
2005 to 2010.
And I actually formulated the first Borea batch
way back in the day.
And that was so inspiring, like, oh my God,
someone finally is recognizing a product for women
or whatever.
And I've definitely seen that blow up a lot,
but I do think that it's incredibly different
in America versus Canada when it comes to the market.
It seems we have a lot more ability to,
I mean, honestly, push the envelope as far as we can go.
That's generally how people do it here.
So, but again, I'm gonna take myself out of this one
because any woman who's actually making products right now
knows the market better than I do.
Thank you.
Anita?
Yeah.
Sorry, I would love to jump in there if I could.
Absolutely.
So this is kind of something that's been
like my passion project for the last year or two,
but it's really starting to come to fruition now.
I'm actually working on a brand for women.
So it's gonna be a brand of cannabis products
with the focus being on women
and all of the things that appeal to us.
Because like you said,
cannabis right now is not meant to appeal to women.
It's meant to target guys with high THC levels,
black packaging, really grungy kind of looks.
And we're just now starting to get
into a little bit more visually appealing products.
And along with that comes products
that include terpene, CBN, CBD,
things that previously weren't done.
And it's something in Michigan right now,
we actually saw that 60% of cannabis consumers
in Michigan were women,
but only 30% of those women were actually going
into stores and retail fronts to buy their products,
which was something that was really astonishing to me.
So it's like these women are smoking and vaping
or eating edibles, doing whatever they need to
for their medical purposes or recreational purposes,
but they're not the ones that are actually going in
and buying it because they don't feel comfortable
going into dispensaries.
So something that I really do wanna focus on,
and I think if other brands are smart,
they would focus on as well,
is trying to make a lot of these products
more appealing to women
and try to get women in the doors.
A lot of the women that I've talked to
are really interested in cannabis.
In particular, Michelle,
my mother and her friend group,
they're in their 50s, 60s,
and they love the idea of cannabis,
but they've just been too hesitant to get into it
because they're not educated about it
and they're too nervous to go in anywhere to get educated.
So I think it's definitely a market that is coming,
but I need a lot of other companies to focus on women
and trying to encourage, to educate them
versus what it is currently.
So it's something that I'm very passionate about
and excited to launch this female women brand.
Amazing to hear.
I am very excited to hear any female-centric brands
that come into the market.
I know when we just recently got suppositories
available here in Ontario,
and I've been talking about that for a couple of years now,
waiting for that to come.
Tabitha, I mentioned in your bio,
you have launched a new brand that is very female-centric.
Did you want to discuss that in any feedback
that you've been receiving from women
or people that may use your product?
It was actually a legacy market brand that we launched.
So we did it a little, a few years ago,
some women and I got together
and formulated a couple of products
that weren't available in the market,
really for the purpose of getting them out to consumers
so that we could get some around them and some feedback.
And so suppositories were one of the things we formulated
and we had a condom compatible lube
that really was kind of our stellar product.
And I gave it out to as many women as I could find
in exchange for, they had to come fill out my Google form
when they were done with it
so that I could collect some data on their experience.
And what we found was that, women loved it in general,
but some of the demographics that were really using it
and finding it to be super effective
were people that we weren't like expecting.
So a large demographic who enjoyed it
were women who were going through menopause.
And so, the women that I founded it with,
they were all younger than me and I'm 41.
So we hadn't experienced that
and we never had considered
that that would have such a large uptake in that population.
But it's a super popular product
among women who are going through menopause.
You have a lot of vaginal dryness,
it's a pretty common side effect of menopause.
And women were using it and saying that it was better
than an uninfused lube for them.
They were having better experiences,
they were having better sex.
So it was really exciting,
and you know that we were able to get this data
around these products that we hadn't seen in market
up until that point.
And things happen and so we haven't launched the brand
in the regulated market now
and we're looking at doing something with it in the States
and so we may end up doing that.
But for me, the really exciting part was learning
how different people use cannabis products
in ways that I've never thought of.
And that informed, I think, a lot of my thinking
about how it is that we really use cannabis.
And especially as women, we use it,
like we were talking about packaging being different
on these male-oriented products.
You have a lot of black bags
and it doesn't really look like it's for women.
And I think women really do use cannabis
in a way that's a little bit different
than the way that men use it, right?
It's a little bit more holistic,
it's a little bit more about the whole person
and the whole body and how we can use cannabis
to think about all the different parts of us,
all the different dimensions of us, right?
Our physical body, our emotional body, our mental body,
our spiritual, our social body,
all of those parts of us are important.
And I think as women, we really have a unique opportunity
to look at the plant from all of those different angles
and aspects and think about the different ways
that we can interact with cannabis.
And that's all I have to say about that.
I'd love to jump in here.
Thank you, Tabitha.
Another thing that's very challenging
in the Canadian market is that we are unable
to open products in store and try them.
So imagine going at a cosmetics counter
and not being able to test something on your skin
or just basically feel how that lotion feels
or smell how that lubricant
or even just to look at the product.
Like you don't have that immersive experience
that you have with non-infused products.
And until we are able to have that type of experience,
I think that makes it so challenging
to make a safe space for women to feel comfortable
to purchase those types of products.
In my experience in the Legacy, very similar to Tabitha,
we were making topicals, suppositories,
lubricants for women, and we were doing house parties,
basically like Tupperware parties, but with weed.
And you created this very safe environment
where women can speak freely, they can share,
they can gather, and they can talk about their experiences
in an environment that is not in a retail store
with an 18-year-old kid that has never experienced
some of these issues.
So I think the retail experience is where,
I think the biggest innovations are gonna come
should the regulations allow it.
And then that's all I have.
And if I could just jump in and on top of what,
bravo, Tabitha.
I mean, I'm sure that menopause product that you had,
I was trying to clap, but I really don't know how to clap.
But when you were talking about that,
that made me extremely happy.
But exactly, we can't, if we don't know,
you know, we can't, but the home party aspect of that
and being able to talk to someone,
that's what the gap is that people my age and older
are dealing with right now.
So both of you hit that right on the head.
So that's just the end of my thought.
Thank you both.
Thank you both for bringing that up as well.
And I know that there's, oh man,
I want you all to come back and to like discuss
each single point that everyone's discussed,
because I would really love to like go in depth
with every topic here.
Unfortunately, because we're only here for a few hours,
can't happen.
So we're gonna shift gears just a little bit.
What I wanna talk about,
cause we did talk about industry staff
and we've talked a little bit about product staff.
I want to talk about just our experiences
in really a male dominated society
here within this cannabis community.
I know one of, you know, Genevieve is a grower
and that, and you know, there's several of you
that are growers and that you may have, you know,
different or great experiences,
but oftentimes it's intimidating
walking into a place or whatnot.
Did you wanna share any of your experiences,
what it's like to go in and all of a sudden
be the head grower in a facility where, you know,
it's, you know, to be honest, it's mostly men probably.
So.
Me?
Yes, I can talk about it.
I wouldn't say my biggest issue has been this,
this head grower position.
It's been, the men I work with now are amazing.
I'd say my biggest challenges have been
at the other places that I've been to.
I've had like good experience, really bad experiences.
You're cutting out, Janet, if you, oh.
Christine, did you wanna say something about this?
I'm so sorry, I unmuted myself on accident.
Oh, okay.
That's okay.
Nicole, did you want to jump in about any challenges
that you may have overcome or faced in industry,
especially since you have dealt with a lot of employees
over your time with 20 retail locations and such?
Do you wanna jump in and share your experience with that?
Yeah, yeah.
Thank you so much for having me.
I definitely, you know, being a woman
in a mostly male career is something
that I kind of have done to myself over and over again.
My initial attempt into career was trying to be into music.
And then I attempted to be into tobacco.
And then I found my way into real estate,
which is what actually brought me to cannabis.
So literally every industry I've been in
has just been exceptionally male dominated.
But one thing that, you know, I do feel like right now
we're at a very integral point in cannabis
where I think for the first time,
it's not something that when you show up as a woman,
I'm not feeling as concerned
that I'm gonna be judged on that.
And I think maybe a lot of that,
we have to have fairly tough skin in this industry
and we have to direct to the point.
And it sucks because often as a woman
that turns you into a bitch.
And you know, and that's what people like to call you.
But as somebody who's been in a director role,
I'd say probably one in five people
because when you get to a place of, you know,
development and leadership
in really any male dominated industry,
it's not unique to cannabis.
When you get to a certain place,
you have to be understanding that
every time you get a little bit higher up in your career,
the target gets bigger, right?
The target on your back for those who want your job,
those who don't think you deserve it,
those who want the money,
but they don't wanna put the work in.
There's a lot that comes
as you get higher and higher in a company.
And there's also a lot more pressure
and there's a lot more need for there to be no bullshit,
for you to be directed to the point.
And it's very unfortunate that as women in general,
that turns us into quote unquote, bitches.
I swear to God, if I said half the things
that I say as a man, they'd be like,
well, that dude knows what he's talking about.
But as a woman, you're like, oh, did she come in here?
Was she so intense?
And it's like, yeah, of course she was,
but it's unfortunate.
But if I'm not directed to the point
and I'm beat around the bush and nice about it,
things just don't get done.
And so in a big way, I have to say,
don't go out of your way to be a bitch.
Don't do it on purpose.
Don't be mean to people.
But as women who are looking to grow professionally,
learn to embrace the fact
that you will be called that behind your back.
Learn to embrace the fact that staff sometimes
is gonna say, oh my gosh, she is so intense.
She's hard.
But also in that same balance,
understand that if you're doing it right,
they're gonna say the other things like,
hey, Nicole put me onto that
and my career wouldn't be what it is without her.
And so I aim to make sure that I got
at least three or four of those thank yous
for every one time that somebody calls me a bitch.
And I feel like if I got a good ratio
of like three to four positives to one,
bitch, I'm doing okay.
But at the end of the day,
women coming up in the space,
women in the space,
accept it in the way that it probably means
you're doing something right.
But also in that same breath,
if that's what people think of you,
make sure that as much as you're putting out
to keep things tight and to the point
and make sure that everything's right
and organized and compliant,
that you're putting that much energy
into help building the next girl,
building the next woman,
helping open that door,
helping give a platform,
make sure that for every ounce of energy
that you're putting in
to make sure that everything's perfect,
that you're also being able to help somebody else
see what the right way is.
Sometimes it's leading by example
and sometimes it's direct mentorship,
but I suggest you do both.
And as women in the space,
if you are planning on being a leader
and you feel like you are a leader,
you can share that with someone else,
mentor somebody,
open a door,
give an opportunity
because they just get the corner office sometimes.
I'd love to jump in here.
Thank you, Nicole, for saying all that.
That resonates so, so much.
It's been great to listen to everyone tonight
and just hear everyone's sentiments
of and positioning in the industry
and what we're doing to advocate
because I always wanna bring it back
to the reasons why we are all in this industry.
It's funny being here after four and a half years of us
just pre-legacy to legal
and seeing all the shape-shifting
that has happened in the industry.
I just have to say,
it's a very strong point in this industry
to consider compassion at the end of the day
and what drives us towards this plant
and being able to share in the beauty
and work our fucking asses off
like we all have in this room
to position ourselves
and get those conversations with men and women.
And what really we celebrate
is the cohesive pieces that bring us to this plant
and the cohesive pieces that remove the gender inequality
that actually exists.
Because if we can touch on these sentiments
regardless of gender
and regardless of all these other factors,
we can really hit home on our reasons for being here.
And that will shape the industry forward.
And we've done a lot of work in this space
to advocate for people in general,
not just women, but people in general
that are true allies towards the industry itself
and the people that have built it
and fought a lot to create cohesive nature.
And that's what cannabis is about.
If we remember those that have come before us
and those that'll come after us,
that's really what it's about.
And so that's my two cents,
but I love celebrating cohesion in the space
and making it an equal playing field
for as many people as possible to participate as we can,
because that's the beauty of cannabis.
I'm done speaking.
If I can pop in,
I agree with everything that you just added, Zia,
but I think that we have to still contextualize
where we find ourselves in spite of our best efforts
to kind of come from a place of compassion.
And I know for myself,
one issue that I'm really struggling with right now
is the objectification of women for cannabis marketing
and the way that the female body is being used
as a way to sell products and for us to cast our gaze
and for us to judge the female body
as opposed to judging what we should be judging,
which is the female plant.
So that's something that I've definitely been called a bitch
about on numerous occasions when I contact companies
and say, if you think that I'm gonna support your company
because you're selling products using a woman's body,
you're mistaken.
Thank you for saying that, Tamara,
because it's really true.
I feel like it's a fine line.
And also, I don't know.
I mean, I feel like that's a hard one
because I feel like people are also,
there's a lot of women that are just going for it
and that's how their whole space is in the cannabis space.
That's how they roll.
And I wanna honor them too for,
I don't wanna shame people per se at the same time
because there's a lot of empowered women out there
that are, that's their whole jam.
That's what they're doing.
And I think some of them are super beautiful
and more power to them
if they feel confident and comfortable to do that,
then I don't wanna necessarily totally,
I don't know, it's a fine line also
between objectification and also just like,
if that's what they wanna do,
I don't wanna put anybody down for that either.
I wanted to add a couple things and just on,
I've had a concern personally when I,
I saw so many women in the cannabis space
and I believe the, I forget the exact numbers,
but it was getting really close to,
it was a very high percentage.
It was like over 35%, I think in 2019,
there was this huge amount of women
holding positions of leadership in executive positions
in the cannabis industry.
And there's actually been a 20 something percent, maybe 20,
I don't know, we could look it up,
but I think it's like around 22% of women
have actually over the past couple of years,
it's declined of women in cannabis.
So I do really feel like I liked what Nicole had to say
about the mentorship.
And I really think that it's our duty,
especially if we've been in this space for a while
to help like mentor and train and bring other women in
and help to empower them and diversify.
And I really appreciate and love being,
having been part of like a women-led team
for the past six years has felt really incredible
and super empowering.
And then I remember when I step outside of that world,
that, I still sometimes feel like there is that,
you can earn your stripes, but there also is this subtle,
like I've had actually just recently somebody tell me,
like I needed to hear it from a guy.
And I was like, okay.
You know, I said that, it's just like this energy
where I do, I still find sexism comes up in the space
and that there is a lot of, I don't know.
I'm happy to be here with women today,
but I would like to see more empowering women.
And I really just think that we are so much stronger
together in this non-competitive.
I really love, and I'm seeing it more actually
across the board with men also in the industry,
just feeling like if we're going to survive this,
you know, I don't know.
I don't want to say too much, but like,
if we're going to like end up standing
at the end of all of this,
I think that we're much stronger together
and that I'm really love the spirit of, you know,
cooperation over competition.
And as much as I like to participate in competitions,
I feel like just as much as we can lift each other up
and share information and all of those things
is really how we're going to move forward
and to share that wisdom with like younger sisters
when they come into the cannabis space.
So those are some thoughts
and I really appreciate the conversations,
Evie and I'm complete.
Evie and I want to make sure that you don't think that I,
when I say I earned my stripes,
I just got a seat at the table.
Doesn't mean they're fucking listening to me.
I still have to make sure that, you know,
I stand my ground and then that interaction
is where I still sometimes end up being called a bitch.
But there's, you know, there's certain tables
where it's like, I'm the only one
and it looks like I've got a fucking vagina.
What are you going to do about it?
I'm the only one that can fit that role.
So it looks like I get called to play dodgeball today,
you know, and that's often what's happened, you know,
in the way I say I earned my stripes
and that there's no one else to call for this favor.
I'm the only person that knows, you know,
you have five friends that know how to do this
and I'm the only one that can come help you right now.
And so in a lot of the situations, it's like, you know,
in a way I ended up there because I was the only one
that was willing to put in the work
and it turns out, oh, I was also a girl, you know?
And Evian, if it's okay, and I apologize,
I think I'm saying your name incorrectly,
but I did just want to clarify,
I am all for women wearing whatever the heck they want
and posting it and rocking it and loving their bodies.
But when it's a brand, I feel like there's different,
a different level of responsibility that's required
and there's a certain level of thoughtfulness
that should be going into marketing so that, you know,
when I look on a brand's page, there's fully clothed men,
but all only half naked women, that doesn't jive with me.
But on a personal level, I support women, you know,
being however they want to be and wearing
whatever the heck makes them feel comfortable and empowered.
If everyone's naked, is it okay?
Yeah.
I think that's all about-
That kind of party now.
I think it's all about the intention of the gaze.
And so if it's coming from a female-led brand
in a place of celebratory, like celebration,
embracing and like respecting the form,
I think that's wonderful.
If it comes from a male's gaze where it's twisted
and it comes from more of an exploitative space,
then it gets a little frustrating
and it's our opportunity to step up
and come from a place of advocacy.
Really quickly, I'd really like to also talk about advocacy
around a hole that I'm seeing in the medical place right now.
A lot of doctors are retiring and the doctors
that are coming up are choosing not to be prescribing.
And I think it's really important to start channeling
our nurse practitioners who are really going above
and beyond to help facilitate this problem
that we're finding right now.
I personally had a really hard time
with my licensing this year
and I've been a medical patient for over 26 years.
So I really heard what Jenna said earlier
in regards to, yes, we have some wins,
but since COVID, our medical system has been so taxed
and the leading trailblazing physicians
have been pushed into retirement
and the new physicians aren't coming in
to wanna be educated.
So the compassion needs to come forth
in regards to embracing these new doctors
who come with a lot of ego and not wanting to learn
and finding new and innovative ways to embrace them
in a meaningful conversation to create the change
that we need to see so that everybody can have legal access
to their medicine.
Sorry, my name's Shaban, that's all I have to say.
Thank you for the opportunity.
Sorry about that.
I was trying to find the unmute button.
Thank you so much for everybody's feedback and input.
I think it really just highlights
the really the need and our desire
to come together in a network and to find our network
and to support one another and to share what we know.
And like, it really is like almost like,
like a code in the back of my head, like find your people.
You know what I mean?
And I'm just so blessed and to just meet a lot of women
in the space, a lot of men too that are super supportive.
And I wanna share that and bringing everybody together
and having you guys meet.
For anybody that's in the room,
make sure that you like and follow all these amazing women
and they are doing crazy amazing things in this space.
And I wanted to just highlight that the network
that we're making really is needed,
but what can we do that, you know,
that would like, that would further that?
Does anybody have any input that they, you know,
that they wanted to?
I do.
Hi, my name's Amber.
I work on the marketing side in cannabis
in Southern California.
And I only mentioned that because we've been talking a lot
about the medical side and not really understanding
what it's like in the stores for women.
And I would assume most people are terrified
to go to a dispensary because I certainly was.
I mean, I was for a long time.
I wasn't comfortable going without my boyfriend
for like a really long time.
And that's just exposure therapy.
It's just helping other people be like,
oh, okay, we'll go to this one.
They're really cool.
It's really well lit.
The parking lot is like super close.
You need to talk to the attender
because they'll tell you how it felt for them.
And like, and you're clicking online off of one photo
that you have no idea about.
It's not that scary, but you need someone to tell you that.
So anything that you guys can do,
especially in Michigan or like the newer states,
I would say just spread the gospel, you know,
that dispensaries are open
and that you should give it a try.
And maybe it's,
here's what I believe should be common knowledge.
Dispensaries are very high on security.
So if you're worried about security,
you should actually feel really good about it.
And also they, gosh.
I just wanted to ask actually, Kristen.
Product.
They have regular.
Sorry.
They have, the dispensary has regulated product.
So this is another point that you can push forward
with the benefits of going to a dispensary.
Perfect.
I think she dropped off,
about, you know, information, spreading information.
I just wanted to touch on your clothing brand.
I think it is genius and brilliant
and just a wonderful way to get information out there.
Kind of like on the fly.
I talk all the time about passive presence
and how just having passive presence of cannabis
in the area, in art, in literature, in clothing,
in a really beautiful, tasteful way,
or in a funny, humorous way,
I think is really important in order to like establish
like the stigmatization of a plant.
So I wanted you to share a little bit
about what you're doing with that.
Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah.
Cynical Stoner was actually a domain I bought in 2008
and just kind of held on to,
but it fit my designs like Fuck to ADE
or just Sativa Indica's Lazy Marketing, et cetera.
I created these shirts to fit the niche
of industry insiders, but also to provoke a question.
Like, what do you mean Sativa Indica is Lazy Marketing?
Like that's the point of the shirt actually,
besides it being comfortable and fucking with people,
it gets the conversation started because, I mean,
I feel like this should be on the brands,
but apparently like they don't care.
So this is gonna have to be a conversation
we have one-on-one.
And I hope by the time I die,
that Sativa Indica is no longer on packaging
because it's irrelevant.
But in the meantime, it's, you know, just making,
it's like my dad was like, I don't get it.
It's just texts on like shirts.
I'm like, yeah, well, I don't get your MAGA hat,
but when he wears it, it speaks to people.
And that's the point of these shirts is like,
it's like a silent wink at other people
who get what we're saying
or who catch enough to be curious by it.
I think those are some of the best conversations.
It literally took me a month and working with chemists
and learning about terpenes
to like finally dump the Sativa Indica thing.
It was like losing a religion.
So whatever way we can approach misinformation
it's in snarky clothing or classes or whatever.
Like this is a team freaking effort, seriously.
And I love that.
And I'm for that.
I think that when I saw it, I was just like,
that's so brilliant.
I love it.
I love the, just the, you know,
the fly kind of wink that you just mentioned, right?
But I think it's important though,
because like, you know, Sativa Indica,
like, you know, the categorization of it is just,
you know, it's not very helpful anyways for anybody.
So, but I also wanted to talk just briefly
before we wrap up, I know that we're coming up on two hours.
Yeah, two hours.
But, you know, we did talk a little bit
about how small business is a lot of the times
what women are, you know, starting.
And a lot of the times that the businesses
that they start are creative events, like ventures,
or they are educational ventures.
And I think it's really a lot of the times to do
with the type of creative ventures
and careers women are drawn to a lot of the times.
It's a lot of education or beauty or art
and things like that.
Not all the time, but I'm just saying
like a major portion of it.
And I wanted to just ask about your, who am I asking?
Whoever wants to talk, like what they think
about women's small business and supporting
and how that works within the cannabis industry?
I'll go.
Go for it.
As a scientist and a woman and an artist
and an educator and a caretaker.
All of it.
Yeah, like women are drawn to these roles
where they feel the need to do,
take certain controls and do certain things.
I don't wanna, I mean, I don't wanna say
the wrong things here, but yes, women are drawn
to certain roles, certain careers.
And I think I wanna say, Kristen, you stood before,
before cannabis, you did something that was very
in the female role where you don't generally see males.
Yeah, you were a what?
A hairdresser.
Yeah.
And then you stepped into the cannabis industry
and you're very good at it,
but the male stomped all over you
because it was a male dominated field.
And if I'm not wrong, you got fucked.
Like, really.
They're intimidated.
I find that all women, the better they are at their jobs,
the more intimidated they make the men above them
and they get pushed out.
Like, it's like, there is literally a ceiling
where we can only be so good
without threatening a man's job or something.
And yeah, like it's just been, it's a common experience.
It's very depressing.
Like, what are we supposed to do?
Not do our job?
Or like, I don't get it.
Like, what are we supposed to do?
Right, I 100% and like right now,
I'm in the scientific world and there are a lot more men,
researchers in general, men scientists in general,
men in the cannabis specific science field,
men in cannabis genetics, specifically than females.
Like I am a little fish in a big bowl of lots of men,
but I'm holding my own, I think pretty much.
Like there are some, there's quite a few, you know,
people out there that recognize me as,
oh, hey, she did some stuff.
She's all right.
But there's also some that are like, oh no.
You know, and I feel like they're threatened by me.
I don't know, I don't wanna talk over, but whatever.
Like, it's hard.
And I feel like a lot of women walk a fine line.
Like you don't wanna piss them off,
but you also wanna make your own way.
But also you wanna be like, fuck that guy,
fuck those guys, fuck all of them and do your thing
that you know you're so good at.
But you can't get the money to do the thing
you're so good at because all the guys,
all the people that have the money are all men
and they don't want you to do well.
Like all of this is, I feel like, this is my experience.
And I feel like probably some of you can relate.
I can relate.
And.
I can totally relate.
And I can tell you.
I can totally relate because I can tell you
that's the reason why I work for myself now.
Right.
It's exactly what, you know, I asked myself,
what is hard?
But even when you work for yourself,
like even when you work for yourself,
when you need the money.
Dealing with that or entrepreneurship.
And I chose entrepreneurship.
And I'm so fucking glad I did.
But like, even like Erica was on here earlier,
she had to go.
She started Tiny E-Paper.
She was talking about her entrepreneurship.
And unfortunately she got,
I don't know how to, what the word is.
But anyway, she's been having a hell of a time
trying to find venture capitalists
because they're all men and they look at her
and she's this tiny, like five foot one,
like a hundred something pound woman.
And they just don't see her as somebody
who can possibly run a successful company.
They just don't see that.
And it's just, it has nothing to do with her brain
or what she's capable of.
They look at her and go, nah.
Where are the venture capitalists that are women?
So I-
And the other challenge is,
is that when you do get that capital
and it comes from a man,
now you're behold, like you get shareholders
and they start making decisions for you
and pushing your company in directions
that you're not entirely sure that you want to go in.
A hundred percent.
And that's really challenging.
One of my good friends is,
I don't know if you guys have heard,
like I don't know if you guys have heard of her
or know her, Jennifer Murray.
She was the first person to open up a testing lab
in Colorado when Colorado legalized adult rec.
Right?
And she was pushed out of her company.
She was pushed out by men.
She started it.
She was there.
And I don't know,
you'd have to ask her about the whole ins and outs of it,
but oh my God.
Like she just-
Founders get fucked.
Men and women, but yeah, women especially.
I mean, she didn't have the business savvy
to realize what was going on,
but she also didn't have the backing
that a man would have to say, hey, don't,
like it's just, it's this.
There was definitely a lot of things
that happened in the labs specifically.
It's a much bigger story than just that.
There was a lot that went down in the can labs,
but definitely-
Yeah, okay.
I know Jennifer Murray.
It's okay, Nicole.
You don't have to rehash it.
We're not doing that tonight.
I'm not.
I'm just saying that there's a lot more
than just it being a founder issue
or a man versus a woman issue.
And in a lot of it,
I think that when it comes to getting capital,
it's because in general,
I see women are less interested in bullshitting
through the process.
Because women aren't willing to stand
in front of a room full of people
and feed a bunch of fucking bullshit
to the investors or potential investors
to get them all salivating over the millions of dollars
you're gonna fucking roll around being a Scrooge McDuck,
that we're honest and very transparent
with what's actually gonna happen,
that we often don't get the capital
because we showed up so honest.
And it sounds terrible,
but the people that are getting the fucking money
are the ones that are showing up,
doing a fucking song and dance,
making you think that you've got the warm and fuzzies,
doing a bunch of things
and becoming a part of the club or whatever it is.
I see women do it too.
Women can do it.
It's not completely outside of the realm of possibility,
but it's in a big way,
I think something that women aren't willing to compromise on
in the process of trying to find capital
for their businesses.
And I wanna be very clear,
I was not trying to rehash anything.
So thank you.
If I can just speak on this,
I had interviewed Renee Gagnon,
who owns Women Grow, I believe.
And she was talking to us about the difference
between men and women in a pitch room.
And she's like, yo, I was a middle-aged white man
a few years ago,
and let me tell you the fucking difference.
And it is testosterone.
These boardrooms are just a bunch of like,
show me your dick testosterone bullshit energy.
And you take people like fucking med men
and like, I don't give a fuck saying this,
everyone knows this.
Those guys were so full of shit,
but they talk the shit
that these other asshole bro investors wanna hear.
And this is, it's just like testosterone on testosterone
and women, like Renee said,
when she started taking hormones
and like they start kicking in,
she became more aware of how are other people doing?
Like, how are you doing?
Like, are you good?
And that wasn't something
that she ever experienced as a man.
And I thought that like, oh, well, holy shit,
then just think like a man.
When it comes to business, my natural,
I wanna work with people, I wanna help people.
So maybe I'll lower my prices to work with people.
But like, do men do that shit?
No, they do not.
They don't care.
They're like, yo, you can't afford it.
Like call someone else.
And that, like after that interview,
it really blew my mind.
Like, just fucking think like a man.
And it's hard because it goes against my empathetic nature.
But at the same time, like, I gotta feed myself too.
And I think all women have an uncomfortable situation,
relationship with money, asking for money, getting money,
and that we're better at raising money
for our peers than ourselves,
which is just truly unfortunate.
But I thought it was mind blowing that it's testosterone.
So I guess truly, like Nicole says, it's fucking bullshit.
And that's where we struggle.
Find a man to do your pitch.
Maybe that's the key.
I don't know, dude.
I understand.
You gotta stand in the silence.
I would love to speak from experience here
and what I did to raise capital.
When I first started building my company,
I joined an angel investment group.
I paid a $1,500 annual membership
to be able to sit in on pitches and listen and learn
and sit in a room of people with money
to know exactly what it was that they were looking for.
And it's not necessarily dick swinging bros.
You've got all kinds of people in investing circles,
but really what speaks to them are numbers,
what your projected revenues are.
And if you can speak to them confidently
and not in a bro way, that will get you somewhere.
And it's really about educating yourself
about what information do I need to present?
Because as much as women, not just women,
lots of people do this, is that as an entrepreneur,
they go into a pitch and they're passionate
and they talk about their dream
and this is where this all started.
And that's fluff.
That's total fluff.
And yeah, it's great that you have this passion,
but you need cold, hard numbers.
You need to understand the projections
of where your company is, where your market is gonna be,
who your audience is,
and be able to present that in a concise manner.
And that's what I did.
And I exited from my company last year.
I'm still with my company, but my company was acquired
because I knew my company inside and out.
I understood where the market was going,
where our position was in the marketplace.
And I could speak confidently to that.
And when I was asked a question, I had answers.
And maybe that's thinking like a man,
or maybe that's really understanding what my goal was
and really understanding where it was that I needed to be
and who I needed to get in front of.
I know so many women that are on top of their numbers.
They are confident, they have everything,
but they're, I don't know.
And I'm not gonna say all investors.
Obviously there are smart people out there
and people that are not swinging their dicks,
but in California, in my experience,
we have a lot of Cannabro funds
and Canna businesses that just are not good.
But I've seen so many confident women
that are super on top of their shit,
and that didn't matter.
And that's the unfortunate part is at what point
even when you're on top of your stuff,
there's still something there
that is just not working in our favor, unfortunately.
And there are a ton of men
who don't know what the fuck they're talking about
and somehow get a million dollars or $5 million
because they just have this confidence
or this whatever the fuck.
Like I just texted you, Kristen,
but I wanna share with the whole group.
A very amazing woman who I know once said to me,
you need to exude the confidence of a mediocre white man.
Just-
Well, that's a great-
Give us that three hot seconds.
We all know that.
That's a great piece of advice.
There's the other thing that I wanted to say.
Somebody else said something about it's okay to be a bitch.
And I think it was Nicole.
And I totally 100% agree as long as you're a nice person
and you're doing your good.
And like if somebody else,
what it is is that it's not my business
to monitor what other people think of me.
If they think I'm a bitch because I'm doing my job
and I know my job and I am kicking ass at it
and they think I'm a bitch, that's not my business.
Presuming you get the job or the money.
Like if they think you're a bitch.
No, no, I know.
This is before. Right, right.
I just mean also like,
and understand that the Canadian and American markets,
they are a little bit different
with regards to like the way that things are done
a little bit.
We're neighbors, but we're not exactly the same.
So, you know, with funding and things like that,
I really don't wanna get into the weeds just with that.
What's that?
You guys are my best neighbors ever,
but that's just because I'm closer.
Yeah, you gotta come visit soon.
They're pretty awesome too.
It's true.
A lot of the investors in Canada are very different
from the American investors.
And that is also why some of Canada's largest companies
are fully funded by American investors.
I would just wanna chime in and say, I really appreciate,
I don't wanna mispronounce your name, but is it Kylie?
Yes, yes.
Like Kylie.
I feel like Kylie.
I really appreciate what you had to say
because I personally, I mean,
I also wanna say that I wanna give a lot of props
to a lot of the women out there
that have bootstrapped everything themselves
because I know that for a very long time,
the women that I've worked with,
we didn't take outside investment
and there's been other things along the way,
but bootstrapping and doing it
and not giving away equity
is also really something to be honored in this space.
And I think that, I really noticed for myself
that sometimes I feel like I have really tried to catch up
with this very masculine way of doing business
and business in general, a lot of the time,
because historically in America, at least,
and I would imagine probably similar in Canada
and other places is,
business historically over the past century
has been predominantly male.
And I think that we tend to like have to use our more,
it's like all about,
we all have kind of our masculine and feminine sides.
And I feel like there is this element
where this hustle culture to me
is very, very much a masculine culture.
And I feel like recently I've kind of reframed
how I do business.
I also, I feel like I liked what Kylie had to say
because I feel that one of my very,
I learned a lot from different people in the industry.
And one of the things that I learned was that,
business is fact-based and unemotional.
And you can get emotional and you can do the things,
but whether you're male or whether you're a female,
if you're really running a proper business,
like certain things, it's facts.
And in the cannabis space,
I feel like there's a lot of emotion
because we have all this,
it's kind of convoluted with like all the regulations
and all the rules and all the things.
And it's like this very unique kind of,
we're always pushing the bleeding edge with science.
We're always up against weird things regulatory wise.
It's not fully legal.
I think that in the United States, I wanna say too,
that it's beyond just the,
oh, you can't get investment for this or that,
or people are having a hard time
because they're female or male.
I mean, you can't bank legally in the United States
for cannabis really, like barely.
We're barely, in certain areas,
you have to pay to bank properly.
I mean-
I work in Canada as well, some places.
It's very difficult to go to traditional banks.
It's crazy.
Yeah, the issue financially,
I think is deeper than just the male or female
and getting the funding and doing the thing.
And I see people struggle all across the board.
And I know that just for myself recently,
I've had to reframe this hustle culture kind of like,
cause I went through an extreme period of burnout
from like having to just kind of like ride
that hustle culture for the first,
six years of the regulated market.
And I feel like recently I've tried to reframe it
and really been thinking like to feed the feminine
and to lean into the parts of that,
that make me better intuitively
with certain parts of the business.
And just maybe there's a reframe,
like certain things have to be fact-based unemotional,
whether you're male or female and in business.
And then that as women,
we come with a different set of skills.
And I'm really trying to not go back
into this hustle culture burnout vibe
and actually to come from the more creative feminine aspect.
And I think that that is kind of what,
we need to lean into our strengths
and what sets us apart as women in the industry.
So I just wanna honor everybody out there,
tons of thousand ways to do things.
But I think that at the end of the day,
that's what makes us strong.
We have our own strengths and it's not the same.
So those are my thoughts.
And it is the unity of the,
thank you very much for your thoughts.
And it is the unity of the plant.
I think the balance that it creates
that really does bring us all together.
It is one of the great unifiers is why I call it,
because it really does mimic or reflect that balance
that's required for everything for life or for to exist.
There's always a balance of light and dark and good.
And you know what I mean?
And so that plant is what unifies us.
And I just wanted to make note of the time
and we are coming up to two and a half hours.
So I'm going to just give one more round
of anybody wants to anything in closing.
But I just wanted to say thank you so much
for the audience members for coming in and watching.
I wanted to thank our guests today for taking time,
a lot of time to share their thoughts
and for us to join as a community together
and build our network as women.
It's very much needed and across borders as well.
So with that being said, while we give our last round,
make sure that you guys like and follow
each of the guests that we have.
And this will be replayed on YouTube.
So you can share that as well later when it's done.
So one last final, I don't know,
I'm like a little stoned too.
So I'm sorry, I'm a little like, ah.
So I just wanted to give one last shout.
Anybody wanna say anything?
There you go.
I would love to jump in for one little thing
or not a little thing, but I was in a women's,
an international women's day group last week.
And there was a woman, Emily Long,
she works in the industry here in Canada.
And she really, she's a woman of color.
And something that I really came away with
from this gathering was she was talking about
reprioritizing as opposed using the framing
of reprioritizing that, we as women,
a lot of us are mothers.
So we tend to put our children ahead of our needs.
We're wives, we have partners.
We put relationships ahead of our needs.
We put our jobs ahead of our needs.
And she said that what we really need to look at
is how we reprioritize.
I literally saw my children every second weekend
for the first year that we were in operation
in the legal space.
And the guilt that I felt about that,
about not being home with my kids every single night,
about not getting to see them
while they were doing their schooling,
all of those kinds of things that the words I was using
was that I sacrificed that.
And that framing that we use as women
really needs to change
because I think that is also a part of our issue.
And where women don't lean in or go,
you know, are like, oh, I'm gonna give something up
in order to get to this place.
And using the words reprioritizing,
you know, what I'm doing in my life right now,
we have a lifetime, you know,
and we live in these phases of our life.
And now, because I reprioritize with my kids
and I was able to really focus in on my business,
I had that exit.
And now, you know, I see them every night for dinner.
I spend weekends with them.
I'm like, the hustle is still there,
but it's not at that intensity level.
And now I've been able to shift that
and be able to shift that
because I now have a little bit more financial stability.
And so I just think as women,
we do tend to guilt ourselves
or, you know, use words and language
that I think societally we've been pushed to use.
And I think even just changing that in our own mindset,
as challenging as it is,
should be something that we should be very mindful
and practicing.
And I'll end there.
What a beautiful sentiment to end on.
Thank you so much, Kylie, for that.
That was very needed in this discussion.
And I think we hit like a lot of topics
and points to, you know, what our experiences are.
And with that, I wanted to close the show
and thank all of our guests and our audience
and everyone here on Clubhouse and YouTube
and Future Cannabis Projects
and Resonate Radio and all that.
And thank you, London, from You Canna Grow
for being an amazing host and for allowing this to happen.
I mean, you know, he put it together.
He's been in the background and hasn't said anything,
but he's done a shit ton of work
to help put this together and bring this today.
So thank you so much for that too.
So with that, I hope you all have a good night.
Go and have a puff for me.
Thank you and have a good one.
Good night.
Thank you.
Thank you, London.
Good night. Thank you, everyone.
Happy Women's Day.
So wonderful to meet all of you.
So lovely to share space with everyone tonight.
Have a great evening and great puff.
Thanks to all the women in the audience too
and everybody, like lift everybody up.
Thank you.
It was a lot of great people watching.
