connecting platforms and I believe...
Okay, I believe that is now working and I think I lost you.
I'm all by myself.
What's up Drew and Colby?
You guys want to jump up for a...
Oh my god, it's Sergio, my fellow Paisano, my fellow Italiano.
And Tony's back.
Yeah, we're trying to...
What's up Sergio?
What's happening Peter? How are you?
I'm good, how are you?
You in NorCal or SoCal right now?
SoCal until next week.
So I will be heading back up.
Got it. Well, this is a very loose, unstructured conversation.
We're basically broadcasting live to YouTube right now.
And we'll see who jumps on.
I think Cedric's supposed to...
I think he just joined, right Tony?
Yeah, I just sent him an invite so he just got hooked up here.
We can bring some of these guys up.
We got Colby, we got Drew.
And I put a post up on Instagram that shows that we're going to be here live tonight.
Yeah, no, because...
So I wanted to do this last night, but I started hunting for slugs and snails that have been invading my garden.
And literally between 9 and 1 in the morning, I think I went outside like 8 or 10 times.
I was catching them.
I had beer cups.
Basically, I was drinking beer.
And every time I'd finish a beer, there'd be a little bit of beer at the bottom of the can.
And I'd put it in the raised beds.
The slugs would make their way for it, and then I'd push them in.
That was my night last night, but I figured tonight I'd take a little break.
And I bought some copper tape to lay around the outside of the raised bed.
And then I got some of the sluggo or something.
You know, like the bait, the slug bait?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
So that's coming tomorrow.
You put that stuff in the long pipe and take them out, brother.
Going on a magical ride.
But you've been posting some stuff to Instagram.
So I wanted to let me cue some of that.
You've been dropping some knowledge and doing some research and sharing it, which I always love.
So what is it?
I know you have...
I'm trying to intrigue people to see people dive into reading stuff besides Instagram posts.
Like dig into some stuff on the net.
You've got the connection.
I know you do because you're on Instagram already.
So everyone should want to dive into stuff and try to learn about the plant as much as they can.
Be it the history of the plant or if it's actually breeding side of the plant or anything about this.
It's intriguing, man.
If you've got a tent growing, if you've decided to spend time to actually waste electricity to grow a plant inside, you're doing it for some reason besides just getting paid, you know?
You've got to do something while that shit's growing.
It takes about three months to pull a nug up.
Something.
Actually, so your Topanga post reminded me that the next time I was going to talk to you, which is actually right now, I had to break the news that your AB test with the Bone Clone shipper versus the clear basil packaging thing, that plant finally died.
And when I pulled it out of the soil, I noticed that the roots had never really made it anywhere beyond the rock wool.
The Oasis plug.
Yeah, the starter plug.
Yeah.
But I thought that it would be a good.
So I have on Facebook the Topanga post up.
So do you want to give some history of that cut?
Topanga Canyon in general?
Into the Humboldt Resource Patient Center when that thing was going from Mandelbrot as far as I know on the history of that plant.
It's a tall, lanky OG.
She's the lankiest girl in my garden besides a GMO.
I mean, I've got her next to an SFB, a Fire, the Skywalker.
There's the Kim D in there.
SFB, Bruce Banner.
And she stretches longer than everything.
She's stronger, longer than the Ghost and the Triangle.
She smells a lot like all of those.
It's kind of somewhere in the middle of all of those OGs.
It's hard to put your nose on it based on where you're growing it and the style you're using.
She's a powerhouse of a plant.
She's pretty.
They're better than OGs.
I wouldn't put a Fire OG in there.
I would put her in.
She can handle some of those coastal areas or over back east with my boy who's over there, fucking Cedric, you know, if he's listening.
It's being an OG.
He could grow over in that area.
Let's see.
She puts on a lot of weight, grows fast, wants a lot of root space.
She roots easily for an OG plant.
Topanga Canyon area is a place where all hippies used to go back in the 60s.
There was psychedelics, a lot of psychedelic area.
It bloomed in the 60s.
And from there, you just get a lot of, you know, there's a lot of monkers in that area, especially down, not just in Topanga, but when you go in that whole area, Malibu.
As you work your way down to LA, I mean, just the more population of people, the more people want good herb.
And she's good herb.
I've only had her for a couple of years now, but she was passed to me by someone that is respected in the community.
And she's legit, man.
I just wanted to put it up there because a lot of people get pure cushes mixed up.
So, like, it doesn't really matter what you call them.
They're all pure cushes.
You just got to know which one you're growing.
Like I showed both of them, there's a short pure cush, which is the one that's very bubba dominant.
It looks almost identical to bubba.
It grows nugs like bubba, but it has a little bit of a different taste and medicinal qualities.
She does have more power on the medicinal side, for sure.
She does handle moisture better.
When she was tested on the phyllos, when they did it there, they come back as relatives, her and the pure cush and bubba.
I was showing pictures of both of those.
So, the one pure cush that they call the LA pure or the should cush is a short squat plant.
It does not grow fast.
It does not root easily.
It's kind of a polar opposite to the Topanga, even though they both carry the moniker pure cush on them.
Can you turn your mic volume up a tiny bit?
I can try.
I don't know.
Hold on here.
So, Anthony, if you click on the three dots in the top right, you can change your audio quality to high.
That should help out.
I can't do that from my phone, Peter.
I'd have to switch over to my Chromebook.
I don't know if I can even do this on Chromebook.
No, we're good.
We'll bear with it.
But enunciate projects.
Okay.
Is this a little better?
Yeah, that's much better.
I almost had to put the mic in my mouth.
But I'll do it for the people.
All right.
Everyone's happier.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
So, yeah, I just tried to send.
So, Tyler is going to jump on with us, and I think Trevor is going to jump on, and we'll see where we go.
But, Sergio, what's going on in the nursery genetics breeding space?
Lots of things happening.
It's exciting times right now for sure.
You know, a lot of the genetics that we're carrying out from compound.
We've got the dog walker back from Rich Cromlin, so we're stoked to see her back in production after seeing her slay it last year.
So, really have some exciting things in the works, too.
We're going to be bringing in the horchata coming up here in the next couple of months, too, so we'll be having that one ready to rock.
Hopefully in, let's see, probably by July, she should be available for release.
Other than that, man, yeah, just we're waiting to get the royal OG kush.
I heard Mandelbrot coming out of what Anthony was talking about earlier regarding the Topanga Canyon, and, yeah, we're stoked.
We're getting that royal OG kush cleaned up in TC right now.
So, hopefully before the end of the year, we will be able to get her back out into the community nice and cleaned up.
So, really pumped off that one.
Got it.
And what kind of trends are you seeing for this season?
The demand is consistent.
I need something purple, potent, and yields heavy.
That is the, it's crazy how that is the overall arching statement any time I get a request for new genetics or whenever somebody does call for clones.
It's those three things.
And it's kind of disheartening.
I know a lot of the buying market is really just trained to sell off of THC potency percentage, and we're really trying to lean into the flavor profiles and the complex layering of breeding projects so people can realize that that number is not, that should not be the driving decision.
I can't preach this enough.
It's about the flavors.
Does the nose translate to smoke?
Does it taste good?
How's the entourage effect?
You know, the whole indica sativa battle is just, it's frustrating.
You know, you read a certificate of analysis and like, you know, the terpenes that are getting reported back on a specific indica is not, it's not necessarily, you know, couch lock.
It's more energizing.
And that's the stuff that we're trying to help educate the bud tenders and buyers.
You know, like, there's definitely a large community of, I guess, buying representation that is just only focused on that number.
So how do we as a nursery help, you know, change the narrative of that so we can get some of these cultivars that may not be high THC potency testers, but they have just layers of flavor and, you know, intentionally breeding for flavor.
That's really what we're trying to focus on with a lot of the new gear that we're bringing in.
And, you know, it's going to take a lot of work and a lot of effort.
I think there's just a lack of education.
And that's really what's challenging, right?
It's what's truthful, what's believable.
And, you know, why are some of these genetics being, you know, being brought to the marketplace?
Is it hype or is it just the lack of education around why certain things are not getting recognition?
So I can go on and on about this and rant and rave, but it's, you know, the THC potency definitely has its place in the marketplace.
But hopefully from, you know, from a nursery perspective, we can help educate along the way and, you know, highlight the breeders that we work with so they can explain why these projects came into place and, you know, the different complex layering efforts.
From a regulated market perspective, what's kind of what are some of the issues that you're dealing with in the nursery bucket?
You know, fortunately, we haven't seen a lot of hiccups come along since we've since we've started in the white space.
You know, Cal Cannabis has been really cool and supportive of the initiative.
And, you know, when it comes back to, you know, from a compliance standpoint, things are great.
It's really about the 280E and, you know, what's how do we as a business continue to operate, you know, in a strong platform with this 280E thing kind of looming in the back shoulders of everybody that, you know, understands what's happening.
And, you know, that is the new that is the new crime is filing your taxes properly.
So the more education we can get around taxation and compliance essentially is really where the biggest challenge is right now.
And just trying to keep keep everything online with that.
But I don't want to bore you guys too much with that.
I'm really I'm really just here to help help provide my my perspective of genetics.
And, you know, compliance is one of those things that's always changing and, you know, continuing to just be good stewards of operating in the white space.
I mean, coming from the 215 days, we've we've had our challenges, but it was a bit more a bit more streamlined back then.
So, you know, trying to trying to collaborate and just be good stewards of the game right now is really where we're heading.
And we have a clubhouse version in the room that I just tried to invite onto the stage of if you can figure out how to join the stage.
But that would be Cedric down in the in the audience.
But Tony, what one of like you had posted a couple of things.
So I thought it'd be cool for you to just kind of walk through what you learned, like the reverse breeding and novel breeding approach based on engineered meiosis.
If I'm pronouncing that correctly.
You got to unmute yourself.
I just started getting into that one today, so I really have no idea what that one's all about other than they're trying to lock in specific genotypes by removal of any outside source of genetic material.
You can't do this with normal breeding, even if you do it with a male and a female, because you have things like genetic drift or you've got bottlenecking that could happen.
But with what I believe what they're trying to do, there's almost an artificial form of like APOP mixes where the plant makes a complete copy of itself in seed form.
They're trying to do this specifically, right? They're trying to do it on purpose.
As far as I know, cannabis cannot do this. It is in other plants like like ferns and ferns breed through APOP mixes.
They make a clone or copy of their self in a seed. So I believe that's kind of what they're going into there.
I just started digging into that one man today. I just found that one day going through some stuff on breeding.
I've been looking up all kinds of crazy stuff on here. Chad Westport wants me to go over some stuff on the show about breeding.
So I just figured I'd pop some stuff in there to try to get people to pique their interest towards breeding and things that we can be talking about when we do the show that night.
We're going to be talking about stuff like the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, genetic drift, allele frequencies and things like this.
The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium is a way for folks to be able to kind of do math, which all breeding basically is with your Punnett squares and everything.
You're just basically doing a theorized version of what's going to come out of your seeds prior to what you're doing.
So the Hardy-Weinberg effect tells you that you can take the peas and cues.
The peas and cues are the homozygous and heterozygous traits that you're looking for in the plant.
You'd want to do this with every trait.
If you have a line that's completely inbred, that's never been introduced to anything else in a wild population, this would be what you'd want to start with, theoretically.
The peas would be the plant grows green or the plant grows purple.
The peas are going to be the dominant homozygous trait, so that's the pea.
The cues are going to be the purple.
It could be any trait that you're going with.
We're just going with green and purple because that's something that's really easy for folks to visualize.
From there, you pop the 100 seeds.
From 100 seeds, you count what shows out of those.
So you're going to get 60 purple and 40 green, or the other way, either way you want to do this.
So this is on a very basic way, and those two numbers have to equal one.
So no matter what it is, all together, they equal one.
So if you get 60 green and 40 purple, the total comes out to 100, which is one.
Now, you can do this with the frequency of which those are going to pop out of a system by doing a more complex equation, which is 2PQ plus Q2 equals one.
And since we already know that the Q, the heterozygous trait, is 40, we can plug that right in there.
So 40, the square root of 4.
Now let's do an easier number like 25 because it's easy to do the square root of 25 on the top of my head.
We'll do 75 and 25. 75 green, 25 purple.
So we do 25. So Q is 25 squared.
So the square root of 25 is 5. So now we know that the Q is 5.
So we write down 5. Then we go over and do the rest of the equation.
Since we know Q is 5 and P2, the square root of whatever that has to be, has to equal that plus whatever equals one to get P.
So it's going to be 5 again.
So now you've got P is 5.
So 5 squared is 25 plus 2P, which is P, which is 5, times Q, which is 5, plus Q squared, which is 25, is going to equal one.
This gives you the frequency of which alleles you're looking for is going to pop up when you're breeding.
So you can find out, is the green going to show up a specific amount of times or is the purple going to show up a specific amount of times?
And by knowing which is 25, that's the dominant homozygous frequency of that allele that's coming out of the plant.
So from there, you've got your P2 and that's your green.
It's always 25 is always going to breed green plants, 25% of them.
Now, your 2PQ is your heterozygous frequency that is going to have a green allele and a purple allele, and it does not breed homozygous for that trait.
You could get either or out of that one.
And then the purple one, which is a heterozygous double recessive, it doesn't have the possibility to give you green.
So what comes from that plant ends up being a purple plant.
So now you can find out the frequency of which allele pops up and how many out of 100, if you don't know any of them, except for the recessive number, because you can't tell your dominance.
Because you can have a dominant recessive, which carries a purple and a green, or you can have your homozygous dominant, which is going to carry green and green.
But when you have a heterozygous recessive, double recessive, it's always going to carry two purples, which is not dominant in this genotype.
So out of that, it becomes the recessive allele.
And now, you know, the frequency at which it pops up, which is going to be 25.
So you got 25, 50, 25.
So 25 of these plants are going to breed homozygous dominant for green.
50 of them are going to have the possibility of being green and purple, either or.
You can't tell because the fact that it has a dominant green and a recessive purple could come out of there.
And then you're going to have 25% of them are going to be purple heterozygous recessive plants.
You can find that out of a population of whatever amount you do.
If you're starting with plants that, for the parents, were true breeding plants.
So this all goes off the theory that you're using something that didn't have any outside source.
It was a large population.
There was no man that had interfered with it.
And there was no mutations.
You have to have those five things to make the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium effect, let you know what you're going to find and what you're breeding.
People can dive into this and it just starts letting people understand that what they think may come out of a pack of seeds may not be there because of the frequency of which the dominant heterozygous traits are coming out of that plant.
And that's just using the Hardy-Weinberg.
You could have allele frequency or genetic drift.
All these other things can affect what could happen during breeding or atavistic traits, atavistic traits, or traits that pop out of a population that weren't in the parent population, or even the grandparents population.
They just randomly show up for any specific reason because these plants have decided they need to reproduce.
And after a while, they'll do some funny shit.
When you're breeding, you can find seed stock that just does not represent what you're after.
And this shows up when people are breeding like into an F4 or an F5.
And then all of a sudden, the F5s do not show what they were looking for.
So they have to dive back into the F4s to find new parents because the traits that were becoming homozygous in the line in F5 were not what they were after.
But they started to bottleneck from having too small of a population, basically.
If you don't have a large enough population, what you're breeding with starts to become its own genotype, kind of like animals that ended up in Australia.
You're going to end up with animals that in one spot stay small like mice, and then you go somewhere else and they're giants because of the environment.
They all came from the same stock, but because a certain area got only a small version of this animal, say like on a boat, mice that came over on a boat,
they're going to have a smaller available genetic stock to pass on to the next generation.
And as this continues to happen, you end up having issues in breeding if you do not introduce more of the original stock or begin to do an outcross.
All this stuff comes from just breeding.
So I pulled Tim up onto the stage.
Tim, you have any thoughts or reaction to what you just heard?
And welcome.
Or Cedric, who's now up on the stage.
Cedric, can you do any more advanced?
Can you do some logarithmic functions for us?
And you got to unmute yourself.
Some what?
I'm joking.
I have no comment on what Tony just said because that was so far over my head.
But that's why we're doing this, right?
So that we get a little...
Yes, we want our brains to hurt by the end of it.
Yeah, well, Tony has set us on the right path.
Hey, man, I'm just trying, brother.
I just want to learn and share what I learned, man.
Hopefully, someone understands it more than me or knows more and tells me I'm wrong so I can dive into something new.
Because that's all I like to do is just learn about plants, man.
I don't think Elon's gotten into cannabis yet.
Hey, tell him it just takes two bitcoins and I can get him on my Patreon.
There you go.
He's going to be the co-host.
It's the Toad Musk.
The musky Toad.
And that cheese in there.
Hey, my space cheese, check it out.
My space cheese line is actually named after the first cheese that was took to space by Elon Musk on the Dragon payload, man.
They took a piece of...
What was it?
La Bruyere cheese.
It's named after the...
It's in honor of Monty Python's skit called Cheese Shop, man.
So me and Musk go way back.
Yeah, way back.
So speaking of spaceflight, we sold out of the Ganjoji.
But can you tell the story of the cherry seeds that went up into space and what happened when they came back and why that was trippy?
Alrighty.
They went to Japan and collected cherry seeds from 14 different places.
And then those 14 seeds were took to space and they orbited the International Space Station 4,100 times.
And then they were brought back to Earth and returned to their places of origin and grown next to the parent plant that bared the seed.
So each one of them was planted in the same area next to them.
And within four years, those plants that were planted all began to produce...
Well, not all of them.
Four of them started to produce seeds, flowers and cherries within four years.
Usually takes 10 years for those to actually do it.
And the ones that mines named after come from the Ganjoji Temple.
The tree there is where they brought the pits from, from that tree.
And I named my line directly after that because of the space-kush influence that's connected to my space cheese and the cherry pie that's in there.
And I like to do this with...
I did this with my Redwood line also when I did the Kitty Hawk.
It's named after the moon's trees.
They took seeds from trees around the world and they planted them in the same area.
And they actually took them on a spacewalk outside of the International Space Station and then returned them back to Earth and planted them in their states that they came from.
And you can actually go and see the trees that they brought back from space, man.
That kind of shit's cool to me.
So were they theorizing that those seeds actually aged in space?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know what they believe.
I believe something like the radiation from space had to be what is affecting the seeds.
Because that guy that was in space during the pandemic, he spent like a year up there.
He has a twin brother or something like that.
I remember hearing that he came back from space and they go through all those tests and head to toe.
And he was like biologically older than his twin brother by a certain amount.
Like his cells were actually older.
Yeah, I wouldn't doubt it, man.
There's some going on in space.
Because I've read all kinds of stuff about them taking plants or that kind of stuff happened to humans.
Like something out in space without the gravity that we have and the radiation that's out there is doing something to our cellular structure for sure.
The fact that they can get plants to actually produce fruit in less than half the time is kind of crazy, man.
We're over here using the different breeding techniques and we're using CRISPR and stuff like that.
We could actually just taking plants up to space with Elon every time he's dropping off some of these satellites.
We get them back and increasing our germination rates, man.
Get a couple of those Red Bull free divers there.
Send me up in my chair, man. I'll be in the next X Games. Let's do it.
Yeah, there you go.
Oh my God, is that a Tyler sighting?
You've got to unmute yourself.
Tyler Blue or Tyler?
The other Tyler. The he of the family tree seeds. There he is.
Yo, yo, there we go. I figured out how to work this thing.
Yo, Mr. Tree is here. What's going on?
So I sent you that video of the many June beetle grubs that I dug out of the bed, right?
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. The toes and the jar.
Like last time I found two. This time it was like, it was like the, what's going on in the East Coast right now with the locusts?
It was like a swarm.
It was like a swarm of grubs.
Yeah, you would at that. That little cucumber in there, you better watch out for that thing.
I mean, there might be some, some action left in there.
So you need a murder of crows, Peter.
Yeah, I'm a pet murder of crows.
We do in my, in my neighborhood, one of my neighbors,
Yeah, a pet murder of crows.
We do in my in my neighborhood, one of my neighbors loves to feed the crows peanuts
every single morning.
And it took me like a full year of, of like, I would always see peanut shells all like
in my driveway and outside and I was like, what the fuck?
Like, why do I have peanuts everywhere?
Every day like it was tripping me out until I finally realized that my neighbor was feeding
the crows peanuts and the crows would fly everywhere like and they'd be hanging out
on my roof like eating the peanuts and the shells would fall down.
And that's when it finally dawned on me like what like making sense of these peanut shells
all over my, my yard.
You didn't you didn't develop an irrational fear of clowns after that.
But I was like, it's like one of those things where you're like, I just don't fucking
understand why there are peanut shells everywhere.
So is it raining peanut shells?
And it was.
But so I actually tried to get a SIM, I don't know if you're paying attention to the
conversation or you've mastered the unmute button, but I'd love to hear what's going
on up at Alien Labs.
And I believe I think it didn't connect to just raise a ton of money.
Sergio, do you have any thoughts on that?
Do you want to hype Tim up?
I'm being shy right now.
Yeah, no problem.
I just shot him a quick note on the side here.
But yeah, Tim's got a lot of exciting stuff going on, especially with this whole crop
steering technique. It's it's amazing to see what he's doing in that the new LED room and
just mastering the Arroyo system.
I mean, there's you know, there's a lot of question and debate around is crop steering
good for cannabis?
Well, people are trying to identify as what kind of cultivator they are.
And are you really just cultivating for the heaviest yield or are you trying to get the
most quality out of your yield?
And it's very impressive to watch Tim's stories and just seeing what he's able to do,
utilizing the most genetic potential out of his micro data changes.
And it's it's pretty fascinating stuff.
So I was I was hoping Tim could chime in a little bit in regards to what he's seen in
there and with the different phenos.
And I know he's really managing the whole R&D side of the new cultivars that connected
in Alien Labs are running.
So I'm sure he's got some great contacts, but hopefully you can tap in here soon.
We're just going to keep hyping you up, Tim, and then eventually you're you'll hopefully
jump in.
I want to hear from Tim.
I do have more ganja, Peter.
Oh, you do?
Amazing.
Yeah, I do.
I can send more in if you'd like, man.
I was kind of just.
Oh, 100 percent.
No, we blew through that in literally.
Two days.
I think I know not even two days.
I think I went to bed and I woke up and it was all sold out.
And then yesterday, that was my other thing besides hunting for snails.
Yesterday I was packing bone yard seed packs all day long.
Kind of just when I don't send them in, it gives people a reason to look at some of the
other breeders on their pickups.
But I'll wait to send some of those in.
Can't beat those bone yard prices, though.
Yeah, that's.
We need to have a sit down conversation because I feel like you need to have some stuff that
you should charge more for because you deserve it.
Well, I do have one I can do that with my.
But the one I just made it from my pit bull that just passed away, it's called one hitter
quitter.
I've been only offering that like through myself randomly, but that is something I could
do like that because I'm only going to make it one time.
It's never going to get reproduced.
And it's there as a dedication to the best friend I ever had.
Sorry for your loss, brother.
Blue nose or red nose?
Both.
He was a half blue nose paper.
His mother was a paper blue nose.
His dad was paper red nose.
And the female jumped the fence and got in there with the male and ended up pregnant.
And she had a litter that they couldn't paper.
So I went down to pick him up.
And when I got there, there's a whole bunch of pits that were fawn colored and like brown,
like striped down their head and shit.
And I was like, now these are what I'm looking for.
And this little dog that looked like fucking Scooby Doo fucking runs out of this barrel
doing like a buck 50 and shit just runs past me, runs through my legs, runs back in the
barrel and shit.
I'm like, that's the dude I'm looking for right there.
Then you don't want that dog.
I'm all, yeah, I want that dog right there.
So I fucking grab him.
I walk back like a quarter mile up the road, hand him over this fence to my mom who was
driving me at the time.
And I put him in the car and he jumped in my mom's lap.
And like from that day on, he lived with my mom up in her room and shit.
But he was my dog, man.
But that dude, he was a good ass dog.
And I trained him to save kids in a pool.
I trained him to use his life jacket to he would dive in, swim with the kids.
And then he would only use his front feet so they could grab onto the back end and I
get kicked by him.
And he could he could tow them in for miles.
That dog liked to swim until he would sink, man.
I had that's why I had to buy him a life jacket.
He would literally swim until he could not swim no more.
We'd find him in the shallow end with his back feet on the fucking floor of the pool
and his front feet up on the side, just standing there still just with his tail wagging and
shit.
Didn't want to get out the damn pool.
Dude, he was goofy, man.
But yeah, he was my best friend.
I had him for 14 and a half years.
That's amazing, man.
I think thank you for sharing that story.
I got a 10 year old blue nose, Brendel Pitt, and he's the most characteristic pal I've
ever had in my life, man.
It's totally admirable, man.
Pit bulls are definitely a special breed.
And yeah, man, that's cool.
Thank you for sharing.
He's the third pit I had.
I had another girl that I had a female pit that someone threw her away and she came to
my front door.
My coyote brought her here.
We had her for about six years until she passed away.
She had cancer.
And then my brother had a pit bull, Brendel Red Nose, Stapford.
So she was a beautiful dark Brendel.
Her name was Koei.
They're some of the most dedicated dogs to their owners.
I mean, once they know you love them, they will do anything for you so that you know
that.
Yeah, that's him right there.
Pick you up.
Yeah, my best friend Chelsea died last year, and this year we're going to on a great
date, we're going to put a select plant over top of her and I'm going to grow her as big
as she can go.
And I'm going to pollinate the shit out of her with one of the selects.
And we're going to draw her up into the seed and preserve it that way, too.
So that's my project coming on.
If you got those capabilities, that may be something cool you do, too.
I did that with my female pit.
I made a line called Girly Buds.
It was named after the female.
This one's called One Hitter Quitter because his first name was Hitter because the people
I bought him from were running a dog farm for fighting dogs.
That's why I took him because I did not want this dog getting hurt.
They basically were going to put the dogs down if they weren't winners and shit.
They had dogs tied to trees that were spinning circles in the dirt and shit.
And I took that dog home.
They're like, that dude's going to be a hitter.
So that's why I call this one hitter quitter, because he only had that nickname one time.
By the time we got him home, his name was not a boy, as you can see, because he was
my mom's dog, but his name was Cleveland.
And like he was a good ass dude.
So like I would want people to take this line.
And if they've got a pet that's passed away, use this in your line, search through them,
find a plant that's beautiful like your pet and cross it to something that you love
and dedicate it to your pet before they pass away.
Because you know, your dogs are going in the garden, chewing on leaves, give them some
of the plant that you made for them and put more love into them than you could.
It just let the dog walk by and chew on a plant that's made for itself every year, whatever
they want, pass it to your friends.
And you don't test it out.
You just find what's beautiful.
It's just like your pet.
You didn't go testing out the puppy you were getting.
You went and found something that made a connection with you.
And the next thing you know, you had the best friend that you ever had in your whole life.
So do this with the cannabis plant that you find in the seed stock that I pass it through
with the line, what I do and make something beautiful for the animals that you love out
there.
And I plan to cross this with Chelsea from the home in Nick Risen.
He sent me some of the Chelsea seeds.
So my plan is to cross out like that and then use that for freebies to give to people.
So I have my runaway drop some cats.
You know, that's what I'm also doing that this year.
All the stuff that some of the like trees, Tyler sent me some seeds.
And if I find a nice female out of there, I plan to cross that to something.
And then everything that comes out of there, I'll be giving to people for free.
It's like a friendship, kind of the same thing with the stuff Dutch gave me and my partner,
Manny, who sent me the duck foot and stuff like anything I find in their lines, it'll
give it out free with a story of the person who gave it to me so I could pass the respect
back to him because I don't want to I don't want to pass a buck, man.
I just want to pass some respect and I can make seeds with anything.
But like, I don't I don't want to make money off my friends.
Right.
Colby, what's going on in the Oklahoma scene?
And are you going to go to CannaCon next week?
And you got to unmute yourself.
Sorry, say that again.
I missed it.
What'd you say?
I said, what's going on in Oklahoma?
And are you going to CannaCon next week?
Man, it's kind of the Wild West out here right now.
I just got a I got a small commercial grow out just west of Oklahoma City.
And it's just a shit ton of competition.
There's like 5000 something grows and whatnot.
So, you know, it's like once you find a couple like good connections and like good people,
then it's like you just do business with those people for now, you know.
And it's kind of interesting.
But yeah, and then like Metric's coming through.
And so we were supposed to be all set up with Metric here last month.
And then Ron Durbin, the lawyer and like Brandon Rust, I guess they got they got to push back,
you know, I mean.
So now it's kind of like we don't even know what seed to
sale we're going to be stuck with and all this stuff like that.
So it's the Wild West again.
Welcome to California circa 2019.
Did you go there?
Are you in Oklahoma from somewhere else?
Like, I feel like most people growing there now are like,
it sucked in my home state and I'm moving here because it's much more reasonable.
No, I actually born and raised in Oklahoma.
Like, I went through all the shit, you know, as a kid, like I got when I was like 18,
the day I turned 18, I got pulled over in my car search and they found an empty bag.
It had like a couple red hairs from some nug.
And I ended up getting a two year deferred sentence because they yeah, where it's like
I had to do all sorts of community service and shit like.
And so it's like I went through all that bullshit and it's like now to see this opening
up and it's like one of the more like for your states, you know, it's just kind of cool.
I mean, when it was like the second it opened up, you know, my parents have 10 acres.
And so we're like, just jumped on it.
So it's been a learning experience, though, to say the least.
Here, hold on, my wife was calling, but now that's awesome.
I mean, you guys must have been saying 10 acres being like, fuck, yeah.
Yeah, well, and I can't say thank you enough for everything you guys got going on the future
cannabis project and stuff, because, you know, it's like we started out growing with chemical
nutrients and stuff.
And now now it's all we're doing, like all K&F ferments and all sorts of shit.
No, I mean, it's it's it's changed like our entire lifestyles, not just like not just
growing, just like, you know, the way you care for everything, like everything feeds
into everything.
It's it's just fucking nutty, dude.
On your family property, were you growing other stuff historically, like at commercial
scale or just even a home garden?
We're doing just like we're doing just home garden stuff.
I mean, it's pretty decent sized garden, but it wasn't growing.
I mean, the people that owned it before my parents, they they owned it for like 10 years
and they just let cows and stuff graze on it.
And that was it.
And so I mean, it hadn't been touched with any kind of like, you know, any pesticides
or anything like that.
And I probably ever said, I mean, it's the soil and everything is is perfect, you know,
so and we didn't grow out.
We still haven't got outdoor set up because we got there's you got to get fence and all
sorts of shit like that.
But so we're still not quite there yet, but we got a pretty sweet little indoor set up
right now.
So we're probably setting up hoop houses and stuff.
Get that going here in the next maybe maybe if we can do it before it's too late this
season, we'll get a short run in.
But I don't know, probably be next season for some hoop houses.
And was the indoor in a structure that was existing on the property or did you bring
in like shipping containers or build something?
Yeah, we just built a it's only 1200 square feet for now, but we got a 800 square foot
flower room and then a 400 square foot bedroom for now.
But we're able to pump out we're harvesting every two weeks.
And so we're able to pump out probably about 15 to 20 pounds a month right now.
So.
And what what are you running right now?
So many and what's kind of the market tonight?
What are people looking for?
What are they looking for in the Oklahoma market?
So like right now, it's kind of just high THC.
And if you can get high, I mean, get good turps on it, like if you can get somebody to
put their face to the to the jar or whatever, then it's like, you know, and it smells good.
You'll get a sale.
But yeah, for the most part, it's still just high THC that they're looking for.
But we're running all brothers grim right now.
Well, I say all brothers grim.
We've got a couple from Canorado also like cookie dough sundae.
But but like the brothers grim that we're running, we got like his grim glue and do
that is it's beautiful.
So.
All right, should we try to see if we can get Tim?
I see Trevor showed up.
Thank you, Trevor.
It's going on up in California north of where I am.
You got to unmute yourself.
Master the unmute.
Oh, hey, Peter.
How's it going?
What's up?
Not a whole lot.
Just got a got the little one down to bed.
So yeah, can do social media now.
Yeah, I I have no kids at home right now, which is amazing.
Yeah.
How did you score that?
One is with her mom and the other is with her mom.
So I am in the garage smoking weed, drinking beer, talking to you guys.
Nice.
So I'm looking up.
Adam, most recent thing you posted was on Ben drunkers and sensei.
Yeah, yeah.
You want to talk about what you what you learned in your research?
Sure.
So Ben drunkers.
Or slash cannabis aficionado, dude, you got into growing weed.
Early on in Holland, back in the late 70s, early 80s.
And he got arrested a whole bunch and figured out that the law didn't actually
prohibit you from growing cannabis to sell seeds.
It just prohibit you from selling cannabis for like flowers or drug market.
So after getting sick of being arrested a whole bunch of times, I was like, oh,
around 1985, he started a seed company and mostly served the Dutch market.
But then in the early 90s, Neville Schoenmaker, who was really the dude who kind of
created the whole international seed industry and in particular, the Dutch seed industry.
Um, he got caught up in Operation Green Merchant, which was a DEA special operation
that targeted the seed industry, high times and grow shops around the country.
And so when he got caught up in Operation Green Merchant, there was a dude down in Louisiana,
or I think it was actually in Michigan, but he got popped in the
Louisiana federal attorney's office, ended up opening up an investigation
and got somebody to flip this guy named Ray Kogo.
And Ray Kogo snitched on Neville and then Neville had to go on the lam.
And he eventually got arrested and spent 11 months in jail.
And through all that craziness, he ended up having to sell his
seed company, which was the seed bank and cannabis castle, which was where he
had his seed operation going and Ben Dronkers bought it.
And that's really kind of Ben Dronkers claim to fame.
Um, very, very astute businessman, very good at, you know, involving himself in the cannabis
industry and having, you know, a bit more of a legal savvy than Neville did.
Neville was a, he was a heroin addict who came into cannabis as a way of kind of getting clean
and sober and finding something else to do with his life and was willing to take risks that a lot
of other people weren't willing to take.
And so Ben kind of took over his genetic plant stock and was really the source for the genetics
that Neville was pumping out in the eighties, um, in the next decade.
So through the nineties, if you wanted to get Northern lights or some of the skunks or the
hazes that, um, Neville had been selling, the source was Sensi seeds.
And they, um, they pretty much let everything go to shit in about five or six years, really
after Neville, um, stopped working with them and the genetic stock really deteriorated and went
downhill from Sensi seeds.
And by like, by the late nineties, early two thousands, it was kind of a pale reflection
of its former self or whatever.
But, um, so yeah, that was Ben drunkers.
He was, he was the instrumental figure in the Holland Dutch scene and made a lot of,
lot, a lot of money and kind of built a big empire out of it.
Um, didn't necessarily keep up on the genetic side of things that wasn't really
his passion or his thing.
It's interesting.
Cause I feel like people have thrown shade at Dave Watson and then they kind of Ray story
and then Ray still has a nutrient company.
So like, does he show up to industry events?
That dude rushes anyone that starts bringing it up.
He's crazy, dude.
Yeah.
He's weird.
Um, he interacts with people.
Um, he's one of the first people to post his paperwork ended up getting a lot of, like,
just got spammed by him a whole bunch.
So Ray is somebody who is in the cannabis world.
He like, I don't know if he actually goes to events, but he definitely sells, um,
nutrients to pot growers specifically.
Yes.
And it's not Sam, like everybody likes to say, um, if people do the research, like,
like I'm always talking about and like, uh, some grown men's here saying the same thing.
Um, you want to dig deeper than what you found in some magazine or in just some post that's in,
uh, some form that you like to, you know, to frequent there's real info out there.
Like the paperwork that he's speaking on is actually out there.
You guys can go out and read it and find out that what you guys kind of thought isn't really
what happened.
And it's deep.
You kind of, you guys want to know what happened to skunk seeds.
That's the reason like they got, they got jacked operation green merchants.
Kind of the reason.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, that's all.
Like if you go back and look at it, um, there's a lot of accusations and claims about Dave Watson
being a snitch or a informant for the DEA or working with the DEA.
Um, there's not really any solid evidence or paperwork or anything conclusive.
And a number of the different claims or assertions that have happened over the years
have either fallen apart or just don't make any sense.
Like, um, Joe Petri wrote an article.
It was, I think called Dr. Franken bean Stein or something like this.
It was published in treating yourself magazine.
Yeah.
And, uh, it, it had a lot of different conspiracy theories.
Um, it turns out Joe Petri is a confirmed snitch.
He even admits to it in one of his books.
Um, and so he's really kind of an odd person to be calling out Sam for Dave Watson for
being a snitch, considering his own background there.
And the claims about like Neville, um, that Sam had snitched on him and really there was
no evidence that ever came up.
And years later, we actually got the real paperwork and you can see very clearly how
the case was built and when after Neville and just what a piece of shit, right?
Coco is too, because the dude, he got Neville to pay him $30,000 for his legal defense.
Neville willingly paid, like gave dude $30,000 to try and help him get out of legal trouble.
And then dude snitched on him because Neville was essentially trying to continue making
money on the nutrient line that he was selling.
And so dude snitched on Neville, even though Neville was paying for his legal fucking,
um, attorney fees at the time.
So that's the dude who really deserves like, unfortunately for the last 30 years or 20
years, everybody should have been saying, right?
Coco's a snitch and he should be the, the pariah in the cannabis community.
You know, there are other reasons why people have issues with Dave Watson and, you know,
some are legitimate and some are less so.
I'd say the snitching thing until paperwork has been produced is not legitimate at this
point.
Got it.
And then, um, since you're on a roll, the one before that was, uh, the super sativa
seed club, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or yeah.
Super sativa seed club.
Um, they were, they were very mysterious seed company.
There was, you kind of heard about them for years there.
If it wasn't for the name, the SSC was always a set of initials that you would see.
Isn't that, isn't that the choice there, Tony?
Yeah.
The Beatrix choice that you got from me comes out of there.
The F2s I sent you are F2s that came directly from the seed stock from here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let me see if I got my catalog.
Let me tell you, I can't remember the, I think it's a M39, the Beatrix choice.
Um, the original catalog.
Sorry Trevor, I didn't mean to interrupt.
No, no, you're good.
The original catalog didn't have the number system that they put in there.
They just had the names.
Once they released the second one, um, the second one that looked like that with the
Super Sativa seed company, it started to have numbers next to all the cultivars like M11, M31,
and so on and so forth.
Where do I have these darn things, man?
Um, they're over here in the other one.
Let me, I got to roll over here one second.
Go ahead and keep on going guys.
But yeah, that was something between their catalogs and the numbering system.
It was always something that was kind of like, it was shrouded in mystery, particularly because
they were, they existed for about five years and then just completely disappeared.
Like without a trace and where like people knew what happened to Neville.
Neville, like he got busted that it was public information.
There was a paper trail that people could follow.
Super Sativa seed company had these awesome catalogs, this weird numbering system,
and then they just disappeared without a trace for pretty much like 20 years and or 30 years,
and then showed up again just recently, um, have started up operations.
But over that time period, it was something that like seed collectors and strain hunters would
look for super Sativa seed club genetics.
And they were kind of up there with the seed bank.
Like those two, they founded the entire Dutch scene.
If it wasn't for Neville doing his, well, obviously Watson bringing a lot of the genetics over,
as well as other Americans providing a lot of the germ plasm that they used.
Outside of that, the actual, you know, movers in Holland who did a lot of it
was Neville and the seed bank and Carol and the super Sativa seed club.
And yeah, they, they did a lot of cool stuff.
The Williams wonder the Beatrix choice.
Those are some that stand out lots of different, they worked with a lot more of the like land
race imports that were coming from around the world and use those in a lot of their lines.
That's why you see a lot of like the Nepali crosses the, um, they had more African lines
than like the seed bank, the seed bank really Neville's genetic stock almost entirely came
from North America.
So like, I have both of these here.
I have the same one you just shown, but I have the earlier one from 85 and then 85.
They didn't use the number system with the M next to it.
They just had the name of them until they went to the, uh, the, the color one that is
long and skinny.
That's when they went to that, uh, number system.
That's odd.
And like I said, trick brought up the Beatrix choice in the catalog in the 80s.
What is this one?
The 87, 88 catalog it's M 27, the Beatrix choice that comes out of there.
There's some, uh, lighting spectrum kind of a broke.
It's telling you about carbon dioxide usage and the original one.
Um, they're breaking down some horticulture information from the Netherlands and stuff
that's in here, um, shows you how to order everything in the back.
But the, the originally they did not have that number system, which is crazy.
Cause then they go to the M number.
I think it was more of a code way to try to hide what they were slailing.
So they don't have to write the name of the actual line on there.
Then, like I said, I've got the Neville seed catalog in here too.
And he's got, like, he's got the Afghani, uh, Mazar Sharif, the Napolese, uh, he's
doing ruderials.
They both have a ruderial in there.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah, they both do.
They've been working with autos for years.
People, they just, uh, weren't telling you about it.
I used to, I had an auto plant back in 88.
That was perpetual.
You could cut the buds off.
And if the temperature was right, the plant would constantly grow back out and grow more
herb off of it constantly, no matter what.
We had that thing for three years until we got busted.
And then the cops chopped her down.
But the ruderial from there, I believe came from either the seed bank or from Super Sativa
seed company from the people that brought me the seed stock of that.
I had all kinds of Afghanis back then.
Prior to the eighties, we started in 78 up here.
The stuff we were using came from seed stock up in Humboldt County from some old, uh, this
old hippie dude that, um, ended up knowing my family.
His name was Brewer.
It's a guy that I got my strawberry plants from here that are like 60 years old.
He had up in his place for 30 years.
When he used to go up there and get cuts or seeds from him, he'd give you a, he'd go through
his garden and pick whatever he wanted, food, strawberries.
And then you come out of there with your plants or whatever you're picking up.
But I believe, uh, some of the stock that we had came from some of these catalogs.
There's some killer stuff in there from the autos, the Northern Lights stuff that we know
comes through with Greg McAllister here.
Um, I mean, there was so much beautiful herb back in those days that, uh, people were working
with and Pasadena didn't have the fault to kind of keep it and make sure it continued
on, man.
I wish there was so many of these left.
Like Cedric, that Beatrix Choice I sent you, you should be growing that in your garden
whenever you get a chance.
I mean, I know you like buying seeds and shit, but you got some stuff there that a lot of
people, uh, would love to have in their garden, man.
I know I only have so much.
I only have so much.
I love what you did.
Seeds from Daga.love.
Yeah, that Beatrix Choice was also, um, that was one that, uh, Skunk VA mentioned was one
of his favorites from back in the day.
It says here, the description, uh, plants were selected for quality of the high, extremely
strong.
The father was an inbred Acapulco Gold and the mother was a very potent Indica Sativa
strain, Afghani South African, a great hybrid, one of our own favorites, very suitable for
outdoor and indoor growing.
You can harvest an enormous amount of overpowering, chirpy bud harvested in Holland, middle of
September.
Um, they show her in there.
She's a shorter plant.
She's not going to stretch a ton.
She'll have that, uh, Afghani more dominant structure.
Um, but the leaves, uh, leaves are going to look more like an Acapulco Gold.
They're not going to get giant and wide.
Um, but in the F2s, you're going to find selections of both.
So, uh, you're going to find some of the Afghani that's in there.
You're going to find some of the African that's in there.
You're going to find some of the Acapulco Gold.
So that's why I said you got gold in those F2s, which does you take the F2s and open
populate all of them, put all of the females, all the males in the room.
This is your first breeding project.
And you make as many seeds as you can from the F2s into an F3 generation.
Need to increase the population so you don't end up bottlenecking stuff and reducing the
allele frequency or ending up with something what becomes known as the founder's effect.
Uh, when you take a smaller population of select stuff from a different area, you get
a whole new genotype from that, that now is going to represent basically, uh, a mutated
version of what you could have had because you have such a small select version.
So when we start with 10 to breed from that, you need to, you need to go farther.
You need to get as many seeds as you can and keep open populating to give yourself as much
genetic diversity from the line so that what comes out of there is going to be a stable
for a wide genotype instead of a single bottlenecked version of, of Beechik's choice.
So the F2s...
And you think I, I...
Go ahead.
You think I can do that with that pack?
Yeah, that's what I'm telling you.
You take those 10 and put whatever comes out of there.
You don't select anything.
You put all of them in a tent.
You let all the males pollinate all the females.
This is going to give you a open pollination with no human selection, basically from the
10 seeds.
When you start to select with 10 seeds, you are automatically bottlenecking stuff.
10 seeds for everybody out there that likes to buy seeds and wants to breed and make seeds.
If you really want to know what's inside your line, if you want to have a availability of
the genetic potential that's in there, which means the medicinal side, you can also find
your pretty plants and all your flavorful stuff.
But if we're doing this from medicinal stuff like I'm doing, there's going to be stuff
in every line for you to look through.
It takes time.
That's why you give seeds out to people.
When someone tells you they found something that did something, you get it tested.
We start passing that cut around.
That's how you maintain medicine in this system that we're doing here.
It can't always be about profit.
So sometimes you just got to buy the seeds, dig through them and decide that these ones
didn't work or these ones did.
But when you start with 10, you're automatically reducing the availability of the genetic potential
in that line.
So if you take, let's say you got a thousand plants or a thousand animals on one island
and there's an island next to it that has no animals and you take a selected population
from that 1,000, like a hundred of them and move it to the other side, they're going to
start breeding separate from this one.
And what's going to end up coming out of this is a new genotype that's going to have its
own mutations.
It's going to influence from the environment.
But because you never reintroduce the original population, you end up becoming a bottleneck.
You're going to start getting reduced allele frequencies.
So what's going to show up out of there is going to happen more often than what will
happen in the larger population, but with reduced ability to pass more information.
So you end up with just getting certain stuff that like, again, you want to do an F5 and
everything's bad because you had a reduced population.
If you want to make beetrix choice and you want to have the potential of everything in
there, you just keep letting all the males populate, all the females are pollinate and
keep selecting those seeds out of there.
And all you do is select phenotypes from the seed stock.
It's not about offering one specific repeatable gene, which everyone thinks is stability.
For me, that's bottlenecking of one set of alleles and the amount of frequency that they're
going to happen, which is cool.
But for me, there's no potential in a line that somebody already bred out and only gives
me this one thing.
I want to be able to find something that I can line breed in a different direction easily.
So you do that with the larger population of genetic potential.
The genotype is wider with larger amount of seeds.
So now you got 10.
So you get three males and seven females.
All of them give you seeds.
Now you've got 10,000 seeds from your tent, right?
Those 10,000 seeds, the next run you put 50 seeds in there.
It's not about growing big plants, about populating as much seeds as you can.
Take that to maybe an F4.
And now from there, start selecting the plants you want to grow.
You're going to find some marvelous specimens out of that, that are going to be far better
than what you would have ever found in the original 10 seeds.
Thank you.
All right.
So tonight we learned that Cedric likes to buy overpriced seed packs, even though friends
gift him amazing genetics.
Well, he's always, I'm just messing with him because he's in the auctions helping people
out.
Oh, I know.
He's always in the auctions helping folks out, man.
And then his wife has to take a whoop to him.
And I feel sorry for the dude, man.
So, you know.
Yeah.
Can we bring your wife on and talk?
Medicinal plants and botany.
Yeah, you certainly can.
You'll have to do it on a normal person, normal coast.
Oh, fuck.
That's right.
You get it.
It's one.
It's after one.
Yeah.
Almost forgot about that part.
Uh, yeah, she's unavailable now.
She's probably snoring upstairs.
You don't want to wake her up?
No, you know what?
You know what I'll do, Peter?
I will take you up to the bedroom and you can whisper in her ear, wake up.
I'll whisper sweet nothings.
And you can be like, this is Peter Longpipes.
Wake up.
Yes.
All right.
So we'll get her at a more reasonable East Coast hour.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But she would enjoy coming on.
Yeah.
Now, Trevor, with what you're kind of this, the kind of people you're researching, like,
do you know who Reinhardt Delwa is?
Yeah.
So that I feel like those types of stories need to get out too.
Yeah, he's a interesting figure.
It's hard to tell fact from fiction with him to a certain extent.
Um, but he's definitely, he's, he's a dude who's out there.
He's got stories.
And, uh, I have a hard time, um, kind of going down rabbit holes a lot of times just because
I don't, um, like, yeah, I just, I prefer going with what's actually documented and what we have,
like second person or like primary source information on, um, like it's, it's difficult
for me to, um, the only people I've ever interacted with who have, um,
tried to confirm things that he's done are completely batshit crazy and like known liars.
And so it's kind of like, I kind of have a guilt by association thing with him,
even though I don't, I haven't looked too hard into all of his history.
Got it.
Well, I mean, just the stuff I've heard, certainly interesting.
Exactly.
Like Greg McAllister said,
there's like Luther Burbank, that dude used to drop a hundred thousand seeds when he was doing
selections for breeding.
Like, uh, are your, your favorite cannabis breeder ain't doing nothing like that.
Trust me.
Yeah.
Um, it's Luther Burbank's definitely an interesting figure in terms of breeding.
Um, he's somebody who I feel like, you know, I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to say
this, but I feel like to a certain extent, he did things very similar to what early cannabis breeders
did. Um, and not on the size and scale, obviously like dude, like grew insane numbers of plants,
but one of the main things that he would do was he would grow large numbers of plants,
select extreme phenotypes out of these large numbers.
So we did that on a smaller scale where, you know, we may not have had thousands of plants
to go through, but we still consistently selected for outliers and extreme phenotypes, transgressive
segregation. When we made our hybrids, we would oftentimes select for these unique outliers.
And that's what he did. And the other thing that he did was he was somebody who really,
he sought out very unique germplasm from all over the world and would then try and hybridize things
that were from very distinct and diverse geographical backgrounds. And a lot of times
what he was taking advantage of was essentially what's called a wide cross in breeding. So if you
take, it's what we also like early breeders and cannabis were able to do as well. When you take
a land-raised population, even though it's a diverse gene pool, these aren't inbred lines,
they're not all homozygous, they haven't been bred to F7 or F8 or, you know, F20.
Their is their genetic diversity. But because these populations in different geographical
regions are so distinct and have been isolated for such a long period of time, when you then
start hybridizing these wide varieties, you know, the Afghan genetics in particular, but even
the different equatorial sativa lines, when you've got something that's been in the South Asia for
millennia, and then you've got something that's acclimatized to Latin America and Mexico for the
last, you know, several hundred years, that, then you bring those together, that Mexican-South
Indian hybrid that you're creating, the outcomes and the transgressive segregants that you're
producing are largely a result of the wide cross and that genetic distinction that's created. And
it's akin to heterosis or hybrid vigor that you would get with inbred lines, but it's a way of
doing it without having to bottleneck a gene pool or, you know, essentially do what has been done
with genetics since the industrial revolution or industrial agricultural revolution, so to speak,
and the breeding methods that are typified in, you know, modern industrial breeding, well, at least
from the 1920s to about the 1970s. And then after that, things got all fucked up because
corn blight and stuff like that, and then they started to shift to GMO.
So, Doc Ray, what's going on up in the hill?
Hey, Peter, good evening, gentlemen. You know, it's that time in the freaking triangle, man. I've
been popping seeds for a few weeks now and getting stuff lined out and get ready for the year. I've
just been on the farm all day and just kind of laying here listening to the conversation, what
you guys are talking about. So, just staying busy, brother, you know that, you know that. So,
making sure I got seeds ready for Diaga Love coming out this fall, that whole thing. So,
other than that, staying busy, man, staying busy, you know, playing with some new stuff,
playing with a lot of new genetics. Been working for about three years on taking like
CGQ and Harlequin, that kind of stuff, working with those and crossing them with old
land race stuff and specifically one I'm working with the
Afghani 74 that I brought back in 74, Afghani Khmer Gap Pass, which is a high elevation pass
in Afghanistan that I crossed with a Colombian Mexican back in the day, back in the 80s. And
that's something I've been working with and, you know, running it out right now and it's looking
really, really good. I'm liking how it's coming out. It smells great. Crazy, crazy
profile to it already, flavor profile to it or smell profile, I should say to him already. So,
enjoying a lot of the new stuff I'm popping and, you know, running a couple of those other ones
that Malawi Gold Mango Cross I did a couple of years ago. Peter, I'm receiving it again this
year. I'm going to try and get it beyond, get it into F3, I guess, as you're going to do. We'll
try and move it a little bit farther. But other than that, man, you know, staying busy like
everybody else is. Hope you guys are cracking seeds and getting ready for the season. Hope
your season will come along well. It's been a beautiful day here in Humboldt today. It's been
really, really nice being out here all day. Do you talk to Wade at all about some of the CBD
lines? I, you know, I actually tried to ping the old man. He's probably past his bedtime. Hell,
it's past my bedtime too. But I tried to ping the old man when the conversation got, I tried to
drag a couple of other breeders into this conversation. But that'd be a cool, cool
convo to get Wade in the conversation too. So, but yeah, he knows I'm working with his plant on,
I've got it crossed with like three different things here that I'm isolating right now. And,
you know, all in future development, not a whole deal, but you know,
show tremendous amount of promise. Can I ask a question as a buyer, not as a breeder?
I'm particular to regular seeds and I find more and more breeders, it's harder to find
regular seed. They're more, they're turning more towards feminized. Is there,
is it easier to do feminized seed? Is it, is there, is there a particular reason? I mean,
is it something I'm just right in front of me that I'm not seeing? Is it strictly monetary or?
Most people don't want to grow males in their, in their grow, you know? So, you know, now that
feminization has been ironed out, a lot more people are going that direction, you know,
in Europe and all those other places. It's been huge. All the little small time growers want to
do that. And, you know, so that's just pushing towards that. So, so it's not screwed up,
but it's just one of those things. Like I have, everybody always asks me, I do lots of regular
seeds all the time. I do multiple males. I seek out the resin males. I love regular seed breeding.
So it's like, you know, I do, I do feminized stuff too, but I've just, I, you know, I hear
more and more, you know, more people want, want feminized stuff and they don't want to
waste the materials and stuff on, on males if they're not breeding. Feminizing also reduces
the, the, the, the phenotype expression from the plant. When you remove the male side out of there
and just use one female to cross onto herself, what you get out of there is going to be the
beginning of a way to start to inbreed. You can keep doing, I take an S1 and make an S2 or do a
back cross to the original line. And then the feminized also gives people a way to charge it
more because they actually are not easier. Feminizing plants is harder than doing regular
plants. Some plants will not drop the pollen that you need, even though they will reverse.
There are some products out there and ways to do it. Like you can make it yourself. I've shown
videos. There's some companies out there that sell products that can help you reverse basically
any plant out there. I know James is going to be talking about using a micro silver
one of these days on the show. You can, you can try, I would hit up a Hybertech Elite X Elite,
if you really want to buy something that's going to actually work for you very easily,
very efficiently without multiple applications. If you want to buy something out there,
you can get that stuff off eBay or directly from him off of the site. And using the feminization
process is going to give you a copy of the genotype that that plant represents. Because
every seed is a phenotype, a typical expression of the genotype within itself. So you, even the
original parents, even if you start with one female and cross it to itself, what you end up
from out of there is every seed is a copy of the genetic potential from the original line. It's
like using three Rubik's cubes to represent it. You've got a colored Rubik's cube and you've got
a black and white Rubik's cube. And in the middle, you've got to make a new Rubik's cube from the
squares from the other ones. And the middle one can only hold the same amount of squares as the
original two. So you're going to end up missing half of the genetic potential from the two Rubik's
cubes you start with. And now the way you snap the new one together is never going to be a copy
of the other two, even if you use the same female on itself. So then, aren't we kind of
forcing a sort of bottleneck that way? If more and more breeders are going feminized,
aren't we going to just end up missing more Rubik's cubes? Only if it's a bad selection in
the beginning and only if you continue to self-tap line on itself will you do that. So that's where
the open population comes in. From the S1s, you grow as many seeds from the S1, not just one.
Right? So what we're messing with right now is all our elites and S1s is just one genotypical
plant that's giving us a phenotypical expression in all our gardens. But you take that plant and
make an S2 from it. And those S2s now are basically F3s because an S1 is an F2, if you
really think about it, because the original parent was an F1 itself. So now you cross it on itself,
and what you made is a feminized F2. So you can continue to do that down the line. If you do that
with just a single selection instead of doing open population so that you can open up that what's
genetically there, that's where that bottlenecking comes in. That's when the allele frequency drops.
So that's when you start missing shit. That's when I was talking about the founder's effect
comes in. That's when you start doing man selection and reducing what's available on the
line. That's why when people were buying 10 seeds from a landrace, from a breeder that's out there,
you're not representing anything that came from that landrace if it truly is. You need to have
a large population, the minimum you should be starting with if you really want to dive into
trying to make a seed extension of any of these lines. Say you want to do a Acapulco Gold, right?
You don't buy 10 pack. You should buy 100 pack and just plant all those in your garden. Even if
you've got a 4x4, put 50 of them in there and let them all pollinate their self and work from that
next population of seeds. Don't even worry about growing buds. Don't worry about growing them big.
Just worry about making seeds. If that's what you want, if you're looking to get into diving into
some landrace lines, I mean 10 seeds is cool, but eventually 10 seeds go away. If you can't
keep cloning them forever, like I know this after 15 years, I lost everything I had
because of health injuries, right? So plants are going to go away. So if you got seed stock of
the genetic potential like they used to do in the old days, you don't have to look for a specific
phenotype in 10 of them. You know it's in the genotype because you've got a stock that you've
been allowing to populate itself repeatedly over and over so that you don't have a bottlenecking
of any of particular genes. Once you start line breeding for something like a color or a leaf
mutation, you're starting to bottleneck instantaneously even though you're inbreeding. So
like the more you inbreed without having a large population, the more you bottleneck the genotype
and the alleles that are available in that genotype because you're not offering a large
enough potential. Greg's right here. Matt's spray works. I'm sorry guys.
Oh no, go ahead man. Oh I just seen Greg McAllister saying that Matt Riott spray works. It does work.
It works f**king killer. But the reason I bring up is Hybrotech, he's the cat that brought this
recipe to everybody that's using it out there. Whosoever's got one and basing it off of that,
they're using the one that he put out years ago on the internet which he found through reading
information from Mohan Ram and Seth which I've posted on my Instagram page too back in the 70s
or maybe even the 60s. They did all kinds of work with Ethafon and Silver and Cobalt for reversing
plants. And through their research, everyone has dug in and did more research and found out
what did you have to start at. I've even shown on my YouTube channel how to
make your own silver thiosulfate solution so you can reverse your plants. It works. You can make
it yourself. You can buy it. But Elite Exiletes, the reason I bring his up, his is dry. So it stays
indefinitely until you mix it. So it's in a dry form. You don't have to do anything but add water
to it. So it's the most stable one that I know of that's on the market. On the Fem stuff, you know,
the clone only, there is no way to line breed those and stuff. So, you know, a lot of the people
want that clone only in seed form or something close to it. That's a good way to start building
that plant, you know, in a lot of ways. It's just a good tool in the toolbox, you know. And you can
craft and go down the line and do it in all different kinds of ways and upside down and
backwards. But as long as you're making seeds, you know, taking care of preserving the line, just like
you're saying. Mohan Ram, he says, what about him? That's the person that did the original reversal
that I know about on cannabis. Mohan Ram and Seth. That's the paper, the two authors of most
of the paperwork where the recipe for silver thiol sulfate solution that most cannabis growers out
here are fucking with. It came from Mohan Ram and Seth's actual research with cannabis, with multiple
different chemicals on how to reverse males and females. So they found out you can use ethylene
to reverse males and you can use silver and cobalt to reverse females. So in a female cannabis plant,
you have copper, which helps bind to the receptors in the plant that allow ethylene to
basically fill that area. And if you doesn't have copper there,
which we replace with silver when we're spraying silver thiol sulfate, if we can replace that
element with a different one, the copper doesn't get there, the ethylene doesn't do its thing,
and the gerberic acid ratio becomes higher than it should be. And the plant decides to show stamina
flowers when it's a female. So you go from having pistillet formation to stamina formation because
you block how ethylene passes through the plant. In a male, you do the opposite. So it needs to
have a higher ratio of ethylene than gerberic acid. You add ethylene to a male and he will give
you pistillate formation. So now you have a male which contains a Y chromosome and not just two
X chromosomes like the feminine stuff. So now you can make a inbred line off of a male plant
and not just off of trying to S1 fems, which is just bottlenecking the genotype. Because once you
can open up a male and get a male and a female, you automatically have the ability to do a larger
open population to give you more genetic information. Like we went over on the future
cannabis before how the male cannabis line has a larger mega base compared to the female, which
means it has more genetic potential from the line than the female does. So now you may be looking
for that random mutation like we were talking about. Damn, I can't remember his name. Wow.
Luther Brubank. He would look for the most outlier plants. That's how he came up with the spineless
cactus and white blackberries. He's looking for that. It's kind of like the freak show and ABC
in the cannabis world. So far outliers. When you're looking for those in a giant population,
they're in there. You're going to find it. In a high THC line, eventually you'll find a very high
CBD plant if you look through enough of them. So that's where buying as many seeds of the line you
want instead of buying just a ton of small packs or going through those is how you go about breeding
to find genetic potential on the line. So it's cool. I mean, I used to grow so many different
lines so that there's all different ways to grow. Just the way to go through breeding here.
I'm not trying to tell anyone that you have to just buy a bunch of one kind of seed.
You know, I got too many packs in my garden over here. I got way too many. Give them away.
But yeah, Mohan Ram and Seth. If you guys look that up, that's where you're going to find the
information on the original reversal on cannabis that I know about. If there's anyone that knows
anyone before that, let me know. No, ethylene does not change chromosome shredder. I see this in the
comments. All you're doing is changing ethylene and how it passes through a plant, which is a
plant growth. Yeah, it's a hormone. So you got ethylene. You've got
oxygen. You've got abscisic acid. You got to break acid. And you've these are hormones that
are plant growth regulators. So everybody talks about plant growth regulators like fertilizers.
Those are actually plant growth retardants. They're doing the opposite. The hormones
are plant growth regulators. They regulate how the plant grows naturally.
When you add something that changes that you're retarding how the natural
regulator works. So when you change how ethylene passes to a plant, you're using a plant growth
retardant like silver. It does not change the chromosome. It just changes how that plant
is processing ethylene in the system for a specific time. You can actually stop using
the silver on the plant and the plant comes back to its natural form. So you haven't changed any
chromosomes. You've just reduced the ratio of ethylene to break acid in the plant and how the
plant processes through that in the system of the plant. This is for cannabis. Now plants are
going to reverse their way. Some do, but not all of them. I mean, let's see. I would suppose
all the plants that have stamina and pistol it for me.
Oak tree or something like that. But you can all you're doing is reducing or increasing the ratio
of to break acid to to ethylene in the plant in cannabis. And this is how you you can actually
stop morphine diets in your garden. If you've got females that are popping out stamina flowers at a
specific date, say they pop out a day 27, you spray 10 days prior to that with ethylene and
you raise the ratio of ethylene to break acid and then now never produces that stamina flower.
It's a way to to make the plant do what you want to do or to stop something that's happening.
It's basically that's kind of the easy way to say it. So it changes hormones. It doesn't change
hormones. It just reduces the expression in the plant and the level and ratios of them. So they're
endogenous hormones. These are levels of hormones that a plant has from from seed. So you pop a seed,
a plant grows, it's going to show male or female, it could show a morphine diet,
and that could be based on it having issues with how it's regulating
auxins and drabic acid in the root zone to the root tip. You can change hormone levels in the
foliage through the roots. That's when you see when you guys see buds on leaves that form. It's
called epithelial growth. It happens from too much auxins in the root zone, I mean too much
drabic acid being produced in the root zone to the root tip and then that's increasing auxin levels
in the shoots which starts giving you either new branching coming off like your petioles
or you're going to start getting actual flowers in the middle of your leaves. And it all comes
from hormone changes in the plant. This could happen from anything, too much heat, too cold,
you might have increased the wrong kind of bacteria, some anaerobic bacteria, and this is
affecting the plant with abiotic stress. All these things can affect the plant and how it expresses
itself in that environment. When you were talking before about like within like the white raspberries
kind of like within one line having the diversity of genetic expression, like what would be kind of
the human equivalent of that? Like how far can humans stretch or like what are the governing
factors? Like you wouldn't have like a statistical insignificant but probably never happening like a
like a white couple having a black baby or like vice versa. Albinoism?
I hear the dad and it's like well but that's not like being white that's being like I feel like
albinos beyond white but like what would be a human stretch where like if you bred the same
two people thousands of times like if me and someone else had baby after baby after baby like
what could be like the diversity of expression of those children? Like what are the
limiting factors like of my I guess lineage versus the mother's lineage? Oh man I would
believe you're gonna with humans you're gonna start having way too much of the negative
combinations of alleles so everything bad that could be in your genotype is going to start popping up
extremely fast. That's what I would believe what would happen but it all depends on the
diversity of your heritage really. But the real issue here is that it's phenotypic expression
so essentially you take a trait and you look for divergence so if you're talking about height
particularly short people having an insanely tall baby now or a child now it's most often
like baguette's luck so tall people have tall children however there are instances where short
people have inextricably tall children that are significantly larger than them. There's also the
inverse where tall people have small children and so that's particularly with these types of traits
where you're talking about a quantitative trait you're going to have a range of potential outcomes
and when you're talking about transgressive segregation specifically what you're talking
about is those things that fall into the like five to ten percent range of the upper threshold limit
in the population so you create a hybrid population between two different varieties
let's say you know just sticking with the south Indian and the Mexican
example you take those two populations you create a hybrid you then select the
for a particular trait let's say you know potency and you would select those that are at the upper
threshold for that specific trait if you wanted to select for height you would select for those
that are up at the upper threshold there are going to be some within a large enough population
that are going to be outliers and that are going to exceed the height or the potency of the
preceding generation and that's essentially what you're doing through transgressive
selection you're selecting for those plants those phenotypes that exceed the younger pop or the
preceding population and in humans like you know height is there's a corollary there like if you
know anybody who has a particularly like you know you have a small friend and you look at their
parents and if their parents aren't both below average height then that person is probably
on the lower end of the spectrum in terms of height expression whereas if you have a friend
who's significantly taller than both of their parents then they're probably at the upward end
and you know when you go to the do those baby checkups you're gonna have you know all those
percentage thresholds that they're gonna give you and you'll you'll know upper 10 percentile and
whatnot Peter. Yeah no actually that's something I find weird because I like I don't think when
we were growing up they ever gave parents reports on like your kid your kid is like
progress relative to the average kid of their age in both height and weight and everyone's like
fuck yeah my kid's in the top one percentile of both height and weight like we're crushing it.
They're like ooh your kid can pick his head up at seven months old.
Yeah no the reason I was thinking about this was because last night on ESPN there was a
Boban Marjanovich documentary and he's like seven foot four inch player for the Dallas Mavericks and
like the average height in his family is like I think his dad's like five nine or something.
Yeah that's a great example.
But again that that's stretching in a certain dimension which is height like my question
before which is just kind of random is like the white couple having a black kid like that that's
a much bigger stretch. Kind of like when people like babies have maybe a tail that's grown that's
kind of a throwback to genetic no for real it's a atavistic trait man I can't say the word cog
geels man it's an extension of the actual tailbone it grows out as an actual appendage on a person
it's very it's extremely rare that would be something kind of like you're talking about
it's an extreme outlier just like uh two normal sized people having a baby that's a dwarf
you know that's also an example of it. Yeah looking at the uh chat
what time what is it uh 10 11 12 so it's almost two on the east coast now
yeah normal normal people done almost two.
Still keeping up with us yeah man hey Tom Brady stays up all night dude what are you talking about
Shutter Bob are you a are you through and through like uh Bruins Patriots Celtics uh Red Sox?
I have always been a New England fan um I'm not much of a hockey person I don't really follow
hockey but uh yeah football baseball basketball although I was named after a Raider.
So which which Raider? His name was Cedric Hardman he was a lineman in 78 I think
and was he like an obscure lineman like like what's your parents connection to him? I have no
idea no idea my dad was like it's not like John Hanna or something like that like oh my god he was
like the best lineman ever no no I I think my dad just liked him. Did he play like Rudy or something?
I have Peter I wasn't even born yet I couldn't tell you.
I'm gonna keep asking questions that's that's good I I I will give you the same answer.
What was his name? Cedric Hardman. Let's find out. I actually when I was waiting tables
in California uh some some woman asked me about my name and I told her the story and she's like
he was my social studies teacher in 19 like 92 so apparently he's a social studies teacher in
Oakland now. Played for North Texas University was your dad from Texas? Nope. Nope. I have no
idea why my dad liked him I think he just liked the name. Okay yeah. I'm showing uh pictures of
them now. Uh let's see here. North Texas football there we go. That's when they won the Super Bowl
so he had to be a badass I believe that's when they won the Super Bowl. Yeah he played with
Lyle Alzado you know he was part of that that killer team. Caught the caught the nation by storm
everyone was a Raiders fan that year.
So Tyler you are awfully quiet relative to uh what I know you're capable of.
And Sergio I have a question for you uh is everybody striking deals with cookies?
Is there anybody who's not doing deals with cookies? They're in my town. In the in the legal
market globally?
It's a great question Peter. Um I think only time will tell but no there's there's a lot of good
work coming around. Um obviously cookies is doing a phenomenal job of of spreading their wings and uh
in flying high so yes. Sorry Peter I'm shucking seeds and laughing uh trying to figure this
this new little button out like it's in a new place you know I'm used to the zoom.
Oh the mute unmute button? Yeah yeah it's in a totally new place for me it's awesome like it's
a big deal but you know. I feel like I'm dealing with my 90 year old dad right now on his phone.
I am probably like the. This would be a similar conversation to like him remarking on things like
I found the mute unmute button. Yes that's the highest unusual place. Exactly exactly.
I'm uh I'm a creature of habit you know but yeah I'm shucking the uh F2 of the uh ABC or the 91
the chem 91 ABC's the Australian Ambassador Chem 91 cross. I got the F2 beans all you know in dust
I got the gloves on and you know the getting them all cleaned up ready to go so I'm super excited I
get to go find my mutants and press forward with with the projects you know. So when you're when
you're hand seeding do you just let it get dry as shit and then? Yeah man uh dry as shit in like a
five gallon bucket uh or a trim bin a couple trim bins you know. Just go nuts with your fingers?
Yeah I mean you you know if you if you have a ton you can put it in like a five gallon bucket
you know you can break out the drill with a little soft paddle and really you know knock
them all down to the bottom and then kind of you know use some like fans and kind of get a little
bit more intimate a little later do do the bulk work with with a little tool like a stick or a
drill or a paddle or something but if you just got like a couple plants or whatever you know get
a trim bin or two those are killer because you can kind of save some of the keef I mean it's pretty
much worthless but you can kind of save some of the keef you know if it's like a really fire
fire ass plant and you know usually I'm always pollinating the best plants I have so it's like
oh my god I'm gonna I'm gonna take the best shit that I have I'm gonna fill it with seeds and I'm
not gonna get to smoke it you know so get a trim bin dry it out as fucking dry as you can ever be
until it turns to dust just touching it and as soon as you touch it fucking those seeds squirt
out like nobody's business you know the hardest part is is uh getting it cleaned up so if you
don't have a machine you know then you know get get some light fans you know kind of out and get
that trim bin tip just like like the old days when you used to roll the joint the old mexi joints you
know and you kind of tip the cd or the or the vhs fucking uh you know lid back just a little bit
so seeds roll and you kind of use old records or whatever and just kind of tip it a little bit and
the seeds are heavier so they kind of roll and the the chafe you can kind of blow right off or wipe
off and it's just a pain in the ass you know so get yourself some gloves if you got to do some
normal shit throughout the day because you know it's always fun but I have having hand sanitizer
around more you know more often than I ever did before uh really works to take that shit right
off man it's like some of the best shit ever it's like it just wipes it off better than anything I
ever used before so pretty cool yeah well just the alcohol yeah just like a hand just the alcohol
hand sanitizer like fuck man it's like that's like the best best thing in the world when your
hands are fucking you know you know hashy and you're not gonna make charis or anything funny
you know just fucking hand sanitizer those things that shit falls right off dude it's great
yeah he's winnowing in the box uh those boxes you can make the box that nug nuts is talking
about right there there's some diagrams of them online look up look up a uh zigzag winnower
w-i-n-n-o-w-e-r winnowing when you when you're removing the shaft from seeds it's called
winnowing um and a tip for anyone that's out there making seeds dry your plants as fast as you can
quickly don't you're not trying to preserve turps you need to get those things those seeds need to
become nine to twelve percent uh relative humidity inside that seed before you go to store them or
you're going to start uh wasting uh germ plasmids that's going to eat up sugars and enzymes are
going to spin out the plant are going to have issues with germination so always make sure that
you do that first dry that plant as fast as you can so get it up to like 85 90 degrees in your
drying room when you're drying for seed uh winnowing then like you said five gallon bucket you
can blow in there with a small fan you could use a uh if you have a way to adjust the speed on um
some kind of blower that'll work uh you're just trying to move the shaft from the seat
if you can do it through gravity and vacuum that works awesome those boxes are pretty cool
yeah man i made a i made some of those boxes with one of those you know online diagrams out of like
a amazon box and a bunch of fucking pieces and you know honestly it worked pretty good you know but
have buying a nice one you know or something that's really kind of measured out properly those
those are really valuable if you're doing it a lot you know uh i know you know cascadians
we're building them there's a whole bunch of people that start to build them and do that stuff
now so um get a nice one if you can do it for sure yeah it all comes down to the actual uh angles of
those uh steps inside of there you can't just put any kind of shit in there they're not going to
work correctly if the holes are too small or too big based on the vacuum that you're using
that's also going to affect how the shaft moves from one section to the other
um they're cool and shit but there's you can remove the shaft from seeds pretty damn easy
it's not that hard as long as your plants are super dry like you said they pop right out of the
seeds pop right out of there dude yeah and if you if you can get those plants to stretch when they're
growing for making seeds they're going to release their seeds a lot easier or if you've got plants
that are not as dense the more dense plants don't like making as many seeds as like my haze that
thing's going to make seeds for you forever like you'll never run out you try to grow like a bubba
like my mud bone and you're not getting close to the amount of seeds on them plants so it comes
down to the uh the seed uh doesn't have the ability to actually expand in the um i was doing i'm doing
just that with the with the mac right now so it's it's you know that's so dense and nasty and such a
one of those kind of you know historically kind of paying the ass the seed type you know plants
so i pollinated it super fucking early and then put it and put it in veg back back in veg again
and then uh gave it another pollination again uh you know and bang dude it's fucking it's
rocking and rolling but yeah they'll stretch they'll stretch out a little bit and it'll
it'll thin it out give some room and then you can you can pop it out and let them actually form
properly you know but yeah she did not like making seeds in uh in a 12 and 12 setup she
she does not make seeds worth a crap so i think she's having issues with the way she's processing
boron when she flips stages because the way phosphorus is becoming available to the system
so when you're going back to veg she starts processing nitrogen and other shit which makes
boron more available she uses a little less phosphorus and i'm wondering if that has
anything to do with it because she just she hates it she rocked them right up man i was like yeah
that's that's that's the trick right there you know that's the bomb right there so that's it was
it was an early pollination throwing it back in veg you know after it was all set and then i just
did a secondary just to be just to be just to be fucking sure you know what i mean i probably would
never do that in normal circumstances just to be sure i gave her a little extra kiss you know
and uh yeah they're they're popping out they're popping out nice you know so it's pretty cool
and she didn't like mine she did not like pollinating in my room man she uh i think i
got 40 seeds off her the first time i pollinated her and i did uh i did about a fucking 21 day
pollination i let her keep pollinating i would let her uh four more bugs and then drop more in
there about five more days but i should have done what you did and uh put her back in veg either
that or hit her up with some gerbilic acid so she would uh shoot out and bolt a little bit
that that's another way to get her to shoot out longer shoot without going into veg cycle
but just increase the gerbilic acid and once she starts to form flowers and don't even worry about
her uh um making uh any kind of uh her morphoid expressions because you can pull them suckers
off as she's growing just to get her to pollinate she's she's she's hard man yeah no that's that
you know like i said i was like you know i went into it like this is gonna get done you know and
like i had an old i had an old like bubba type plant that i grew you know years back that was
just really thick and nasty and kind of had a pay in the ass kind of never never produced near as
many seeds as as the others you know so i i learned back then hey i'd throw it back in veg and i can
get it to kind of stretch up a little bit and i used to get better better quality seeds i don't
know if i got you know very many more but i got better seeds when i did it that way with that
particular plant so with the when i got them when i when i came across the mac that way i was like
you know i'm gonna do it i'm gonna do it like this you know what i mean so man it worked out
that way so far so i'm not you know i think uh you know yeah because i i've made seeds on 24
hour schedule before so man i should have fucking thought about that shit man i did that with some
of the hemp stuff that i used to do um i'd throw them in the flower room for uh 10 days and they'd
start to pre-flower and just make small amount of pre-flower and go throw it straight back in the um
in the bedroom as soon as i put pollen on her and she'd only make like 50 or 60 seeds and then she'd
go straight back into veg i wouldn't even have to worry about any kind of bud structure forming
on her because she she just stopped because i don't know let her go in there for like 10 12
days as soon as she just started to make those pre-flowers i would pollinate her well the cool
thing is you can just you can just you put them back in veg you finish out the seeds and then you
can just cut them cut most of it down and then it's already in re-veg mode and if you just reflower
it out fucking smoke them up the fucker so you know you can make you can you can really work her
all the way around you know what i mean you know you take cologne from her then you're fucking
make her be a mother and then you regrow her and then you fucking smoke her you know what i mean
it's like full circle you get you get the full fucking package you know if you do it right
so that's how most of my good moms go you know were man i had totally forgot about doing that
man that is man that's awesome see this is what this kind of stuff's good for man when one person
can hear another person talking about some stuff that they just completely forgot about or never
heard about this right here some i learned it all the time like that you know just like oh shit
that's one of the gems little triggers little triggers you know yeah because cannabis is a c3
plant it does not need a off cycle the only thing that really needs that off cycle is the
the micro life of the rhizosphere so if you can cover the uh the um root zone so light doesn't
penetrate they have the ability to sort of turn on and off the plant can as long as it has food
and water and co2 it has the ability to process and photosynthesize and will continue to grow
yeah i don't ever i don't ever go 24 but i'll go back to 18 you know what i mean if i need to do
it that way but i've always been uh i've always stayed away from 24 it always always just scares
me you know i just i like you know we all need rest so i figure shit i give i'll give them a
little sleep you know what i mean all the way around but fuck if you're working them yeah 24
man or not over something like that yeah 24 or something that's a pain in the ass 24 you can do
that for sure tools in the toolbox man yeah it's it's the way they process uh the co2 cam 3 there's
cam plants uh c3 and c floors so if the plant has the ability to process carbon that's all their
carbon pumps that's all the plant wants to do is process carbon so cannabis it actually doesn't
need that off as long as you can supply everything else that it needs that water the nutrients
and the co2 and it's going to grow period you can't do that with like an oak tree it's not
going to work tomatoes would work um let me see you've got strawberries that could do the same
thing it's good to have an off for your electronics but the more those turn on and off the more night
shades you know the filament's gonna die out on you
but yeah like i used to when i used to run a clone facility uh back in the 215 days we used to have
two sets of moms we had moms that were set up for indoor because we had a lot of indoor growers that
were growing under either a 20 or 24 hour schedule so we had moms that came from that area just for
those and then during the outdoor season we had a mom set up that was specifically set up to try to
get as close to the lighting schedule here so we would eventually get to 16 hours and that's where
we stayed in our mom room there so any of the plants that did not like that schedule we did
not offer for the outdoor for anybody even if they wanted that strain because we already knew
what was going to happen it's going to go outside it's going to um uh start to go into flower
because most people around here were just putting plants in like a 15 gallon pot throwing them
outside and hoping that was going to do anything for them um so we just wouldn't offer those but
that's how we set up our mom set up there we had a 24 hour setup and we had ourselves a 16 hour setup
and 16 hours going to save you a lot of light or a lot of electricity yeah 24 hour 24 hours
is going to get you to the size that you want much quicker if you're an indoor grower so like
if you want if you you can get in an extra cycle over a specific amount of time it's actually
better for you some of the growers are back in the days when we were doing production
if over two years you actually got in the extra cycle because you were running 24 hour
veg cycles you made a grip of money out of some of these people out here so some cats were pulling
fucking big money out of running rooms so this was a way for them to get past uh these constraints
of mother nature right mother nature has a on and offs with the light cycle but not everywhere
like there's there's plants up in uh in some spots where they got 24 hours but it's rare it's rare
but it does have that ability we get 15 and a half or so you know kind of where i'm at you know
maximum you know and i always try to bring old moms you know out you know over the years and
kind of you know regenerate and bring it back so i've always ran my veg at like 16 16 and a half
hours as close as i can get to the natural sun cycle outside you know and it's usually less than
18 unless i'm doing something weird or i'm trying to push something you know but yeah man that saves
saves energy and and most plants won't flower but pam uh she'll go into flower if it's 15 or less
so i gotta keep it above 15 and some some some plants won't go until 12 but there are some plants
it'll go a little a little before that i've found you know so that's you know i said like 16 and a
half you know have you tried popping some of the pam seeds outside and then bringing them in as a
mother to see how they react to that light schedule and see if they don't mind going to a 15 hour
because of the way the uh sun is going to it starts to epigenetically drive it like maybe
after two or three seasons you'll be able to get some other stocks out of there that
won't yeah that light schedule yeah yeah they're you know you get some some sort of you know i've
never tested the hours of light you know on any of the others because i've just assumed that was
the standard with with her but testing out some of the progeny you know because i've done it so
many different ways from sunday you know what i mean you know upside down and backwards that's
that's something that i should i should probably look into you know because um yeah i got some
out right now that you passed me yeah yeah i put some outside i want to see how they're doing
right now they're the fastest growing plant they're small but they're like three times bigger
than everything i'm bigger than my mud bones they're bigger than the chelsea's they're bigger
than the the duck foot ibls um and they're bigger than the cody g which is uh from covert genetics
which is a lot of og influence in it so it shouldn't be a tall plant but those pams are
super vigorous that you sent me man the way they're growing right now i only popped a couple
but that's looking nice man that's one of the things i love man you know like the cloning and
the and and the rock ability you know what i mean but you know hey hopefully it works for you you
know so right it's a good start i just put a bunch of moms outside like you were saying too because
i like to reset all my moms outside i put them outside to let the sun tell that plant um what
uv light looks like uh what traits it needs to turn on and off for uh the ability to like not
get sunburned from the fucking uv plant understands that it's out there it'll start turning traits on
and off that'll help it build up more protection against the plant which is in our case trichomes
you know i mean so it has the ability to start resetting the uh genetic
taking some nice healthy clones man yeah yeah nice healthy i bring them in so they can kind of
overwinter themselves you know it's like that's the way it's the way it goes man that's the way to do
yeah almost all plants are c3s i believe there's a lot uh blueberries are not i want to say what
else isn't there's a few plants that are not c3 plants they're cam plants they have to have enough
i'm looking in the comments here from rufus t firefly cacti do it at night like they sequester
carbon at night in the dark most other plants are doing it during the daytime in the sun
uh speaking of cacti i'm uh i just cut down a grip like 50 or 60 uh different dragon fruit
uh little cuts little props and stuff so i'm gonna i'm starting to think about maybe doing some maybe
maybe doing some dragon fruit drops or giveaways or some stuff like that so if anybody wants some
nice some socal uh dragon fruit you know little cuttings and stuff you know and you know hit me up
we'll talk we'll talk about it you know so yeah nice man i did that with my strawberries last year
i gave out uh strawberries with anyone that put in orders during a specific time i've had those
why i've been i've been sending seeds of uh daikon blue corn uh green cauliflower i'm looking
and trying to see over there uh a bunch of different vegetables every time i send orders out
nice i did that i need more i need more seeds and more vegetables so i have like uh
a swish shard that's about to seed out outside right now
i got a bunch of different corn that i bred that i'll give you you can give them out with some of
my stuff when you know when i see you next i'll give you a bunch of cool cool stuff that i made
you know see that'd be not like like i feel like i'd be psyched to see people growing cool
different stuff and like someone will order from north carolina and i'm like
you're getting tobacco and i'll slip tobacco on there and their packs and it's like it's cool
it's like you're in wherever like like i'm gonna give you some blue corn because you're in like a
dry like a dry colorado climate yeah hell yeah i got it man we'll hook you up
that's cool i'm collecting some celery right now third generation celery seed you know which is
pretty cool um i'm doing all kinds of crazy got a couple generations of radishes uh radish seeds
that i'm pulling down i got all kinds of different uh different seeds that i'm doing you know which
is pretty pretty cool so i'm filling up and and are you breeding with any of this stuff are you
like trying to push the radish in a direction yeah so like i'll you know i'm doing some like
selecting kind of thing with like the radishes you know like the best looking plant you know the
you know most sharp looking one of the group you know uh brightest color i'll scratch in look a
little bit of the color on it and see you know if it's you know and i'll and i'll just let that one
go and then you know that one would you know that that one go and then it'll set this big flower
tassel and bees come and flop their seeds in there so i don't know if i'm doing anything right
or not but i kind of select with that and that i do that with carrots and shit too i kind of just
select a good one a good strong one uh and then with the corn i've been actually trying to breed
that i've been i've been taking different different qualities uh in corn eating wise like
you know and and flower wise and breeding them together uh making different rainbow type cobs
and then selecting out of those um those seeds and growing those the next season i've been doing
that for the last couple years now and uh so so with food type stuff do you just get the whole
family to eat stuff and take feedback from the family of like how'd you like that yeah yeah
everybody everybody everybody gets stuff when they come by they'll get they'll get a bag of
whatever's ripe you know you know you'll get corn or you'll get radishes avocados citrus but are you
asking people for feedback yeah yeah i demand feedback that's one of the things i want to know
i'll give you some but i want to know what you think yeah exactly you know and always you know
i don't i don't specifically always put it that way but i'm always like yo what what'd you think
what are you know what'd you think it tasted like what are your comments you know i always ask people
afterwards kind of you know try to figure out kind of what's going but then again my kids are the best
judge you know or the young ones if they love it and eat it you know and i usually like it too
because i love kids food you know and i'm like fuck this one's this one's good you know that's
that's usually just the decision maker already you know it always falls in line you know yeah
it's weird i when i was little i loved radishes and i still do and my so like there's stuff you
love that you're psyched to introduce to your kids when they're young and my two daughters are like
yeah i don't like radishes very much and i'm like totally totally they're like it's so spicy
and i'm like it's too spicy yep yep it's acquired taste you know tell them all the time you know we
made we made salsa and stuff and my my oldest doesn't like spicy stuff but i love spicy stuff
i'll eat freaking ghost peppers and shit just for fun you know and uh my my middle kids and
everybody else loves spicy shit in my house he's this one black sheep that doesn't love the spicy
stuff you know so i made this homemade salsa and i put a little bit of mango in it and it was a
little spicy i had serranos and jalapenos and friggin some some you know some different types
of chilies in there and the kid was eating it man so maybe he's turned the corner so we're good
one of my good friends is from trinidad and his dad always grew scotch bonnets and made his own
homemade hot sauce out of them and that was the hottest shit i've ever eaten like you you could
put like an like a teardrop amount in a big soup and the soup would be like too hot for most people
and the soup would be like too hot for most people too hot yeah too hot east coast doesn't do too
much spicy hot it'll kill you you know we when i was i ran a nursery down here we we you know i was
the pepper guy like i did the trees and all kinds of stuff but i i had this passion for the hot hot
peppers and nobody had all these rare peppers so i decided like i was gonna call my buddy who grew
all these rare peppers for seeds and like plants i'm like dude you need to grow flats and flats
so like i ended up bringing in all these rare peppers you know all the the scorpions and the
the you know the ghost peppers the chocolate ghosts the the white ghosts the red ghosts and
all the all the fucking you know bells and whistles scotch bonnets and all those things and then
uh they used to film me all the time i i demand a an ice cream sandwich or something and we'd go
into the office and they'd film me eating these things and man it's you know it's doable you know
but it ain't it ain't fun that's for sure no matter you can't cook anything with it you know
you gotta you must you gotta use some spicy poop yeah you're still you know you gotta eat the trick
is the is the ice cream sandwich or the milk but that's the trick you gotta diffuse it but
they're only good for making like pesticides you know and i always you know throw them in water
you know uh let them soak for a while smash up a bunch of the hottest peppers i got you know even
if they're jalapenos let it soak in a big you know milk jug of water and then you can use that
water to spray down some plants or spray barriers around things you don't want little you know
critters or things to go uh it works works pretty good for some things you know so i feel like that's
like the so i've been sending out the shaman tobacco to people and yesterday someone was like
i'd love some of that tobacco so i can get my like son-in-law off of cigarettes and as i sent
it to him i was like i think i should warn this guy that like this shit doesn't like cigarette
tobacco it's like it's strong 10 20 times stronger than so his son-in-law is gonna grow it out and be
like all fired up that he's like transitioning from like marlboro lights to homegrown organic
tobacco and he's just gonna be like dead shaman shaman shaman tobacco man straight to the dome
all right folks i'm gonna head out all right thanks for having me you have a good excuse
take it easy brother yeah have a good night everyone good morning and when you talk to
your wife in the morning tell her uh we'll bring her on on an east coast time fantastic i will let
her know and we can talk about her favorite herbs yes that would be a good introduction point
and we would appreciate her time i'm psyched i want to know what her favorite herbs are
all right i do too i have mugwort going uh outside right now that's my my current herb of choice
well she is the herbalist i'm the cannabis guy so uh yeah all right good night all right have a
good night everybody well we could uh yeah we we could call it oh that might be a good
but now i'm sorry because like there uh someone in the chat was like
i listen to this stuff for cannabis but like now i'm growing vegetables and stuff like that
and i that's kind of like i love that that people are growing more garden stuff yeah
they can it's teaching a man how to fish peter we quit giving them fish and now we're teaching
them how to have like i'm for real the next thing they know they're going to teach their kids how to
do it and they like i told like i mentioned with you and your daughter that one day um it it comes
back to you full circle eventually um it makes great bonds it's killer stuff all right shit i
remember growing up and it's stuff i'm psyched to have my daughters have memories of like gardening
yeah yeah that's awesome planting stuff and like that's what i did understanding the life cycle
because with a lot of this stuff now i'm like normally we'd pull it right now to eat it but
i want to grow seeds of whatever it is and she's like okay and then like she sees the flowers and
then like pods popping out and so q star 7 10 it can be used for old or new seeds he's asking
about my uh bean buster um it's a mechanical form of scarification that's what it's made for
yeah he just asked that i didn't mean to interrupt you peter sorry
no worries it can be used for uh new seeds it can be used for old seeds it can be used for wet
seeds and we use for dry seeds it's just a form of scarification it's a way to sanitize everyone
brings up they use sandpaper well when you go to get sandpaper how many other dudes have touched
that sandpaper and what were they touching before they touch that sandpaper um then you get it to
your house and it's been in a dusty crusty drawer for who knows how long collecting all kinds of
indigenous micro bullshit from wherever you put it and now you're rubbing your precious seeds that
you bought and you only got seven left and you're hoping something makes it and you now introduced
something to those seeds well now you have a way to do the same thing with a product that can be
sanitized prior to use and after use if you'd like um you can use bleach uh put it in vinegar hot
water just don't put it in extremely hot water i would keep it under 100 degrees so you don't
start deforming the plastic um that's why i recommend alcohol hydrogen peroxide like i said
vinegar anything like that can clean that off that way the next time you use it there's no
bacteria building up on it um it's a way to ensure that you aren't introducing bad stuff
to your precious cargo right i feel like you'd be good with infomercials
that was perfect you set up the alternative for complete failure
and on top of that they're uh customizable you know i can put any lettering on that that's the
one of the whole thing could say dog i love it i wanted it could say uh anything i've done i've
sent that to some other folks uh there's a friend of mine out there i want to there's a breeder um
a military dog i love it i wanted it could say uh branded anything i've done i've sent that to some
other folks uh there's a friend of mine out there i want to there's a breeder um i mean brother
mendels um he i don't know if he still has any left but he used to offer some of those um with
some of his seeds that i made specifically for him and some color ways that he wanted um that's why
everyone's like you're patenting your stuff like i'm a free source kind of cat man someone takes
it they take it i'll invent something new they can't they can't patent me man i already done
did that you're you're unstoppable that's right man one one leg enterprise
oh yeah what what's your i wanted you to kick this off with all your aks oh man
oh man this is brother bone aka philio phil mr toad aka johnny paper right my dad called me toad
my friends called me johnny paper because i used to be the only one rolling joints
my friends called me bone since i was little and uh philio does that mean that they were all like
smoking out of bongs or what were they doing yeah man these cats are smoking out of most of the cats
only smoking out of like a tin can bro they're fucking popping holes in it man we're talking
high school high kind of shit these cats just learning to smoke they could not roll a fucking
joint for the life of them most of them smoke looking like they pack right they they don't
know what the hell they're doing so i've been smoking since i was four years old man i've been
rolling my own joints since i was eight so like i whip out some chronic gas afghani and roll that
shit up it's so sticky it has no where to go but rolled up inside that joint puff that sucker up
eventually i become known as johnny paper the homies would call me that shit philio feels the
alien that brought me all these uh outlandish breeding projects that i go through the reasons
that i want to research i don't know why i dig so deep for stuff there should be no reason that
i want to learn about everything like this every day non-stop but i can't stop myself every day i
have to spend hours researching something about a plant no matter what it is even if it's a cherry
tree they took the space right i'm looking up all kinds of crazy shit i don't know why but philio
phil he's some dude inside of me and that's that alien that everybody sees so that's how i get all
them names on there hey trivia trivia question man uh what was the first flower in space
without looking at it oh man i do not know that one i do not know zinnia zinnia it's badass you
guys google that shit dude google first flower in space or whatever and you can see the google
pictures it's like floating over the earth it's like looking down it's like fuck it's bad they
say why they picked that one uh it's quick growing quick blooming a lot of different reasons like
probably speed and ease of growth i don't know why i didn't research why too much but
um it's just a cool fun fact that i love his face yeah i want to find out if it did the same thing
if it starts to produce uh its flower or whatever quicker after going to space man that that stuff
kind of intrigues me so far um the stuff that i have looked up all of them have done something
completely different once it comes back to here than what it was originally doing so it's a whole
new phenotypical expression coming out of the plant from some form of uh environmental uh stress
that's been put on it man yeah man i wish they test what it is the the other cool shit you know
that that i used to you know talk about the nursery and shit like the uh the sands of areas or mother
in law's tongues those things they sell at home depot it's really hard you know cactus looking
plants that are in cactus like those are some of the best air cleaners and purifiers of all time
like having one of those in your house is great you know same with the cacos and all those other
plants that are those indoor plants they're actually like if you look up nasa's top 10
plants for space and purifying like your air and surrounding environment and like benefits to like
survival and you know quick fast quality there's some cool fucking plants that they just sell
everywhere for nothing you know so fill your house up with that that's what i'll leave you with
all right and what are those plants they're like sansevieria apothos various types of palms
and things that you find in like house plant sections you know but like yeah like just google
the nasa's top 10 plants for space and you get some rad like everyday shit you know that you're
like whoa out of all the plants on earth these are the ones you bring you know it's pretty cool
you know so on plants that slugs do not like snails and slugs what are your top choices
any kind of cacti
yeah even then even then like i pick them off my cactus apple and shit all the time like if it's
got enough space it's like goddamn but like ice plant for sure and and like really spiny cactus no
way um but damn dude they're tough like yeah but i never don't want to be weaving through that shit
in my garden. stinging nettles yeah you could plant stinging nettles as a um rosemary and stuff like
that yeah i've never seen a slug like crawling in my rosemary like i've seen it underneath a rosemary
but i've never seen one in a rosemary like eating rosemary so that might be a good one for sure
um but yeah that's that's a tough one man that you know it's if it's tender and young
if it's tender and young it slugs are gonna want it you know what i mean and that's just
the more woody that's what i'm yeah the more woody the better yeah so you gotta if you're
planting cannabis that's why slugs are top of mind right now for me yeah get out get out get
your seedlings grow them up taller uh before planting them or put some sort of a slug barrier
like the the copper tape yeah yeah copper table work and you don't have to replace it all over the
raised beds you know or cinnamon oil you can order some shit like uh yeah you know like a cinnamon
a cinnamon concentrate for cinnamon oil like this company grow power used to make one i don't know
if they still do it was like 20 years ago or whatever but there's other ones out there uh
it's a cinnamon some sort of cinnamon oil spray uh like you can get a ready to use bottle and
shit for cheap and that works great you can spray that slugs don't like that snails don't like that
um that works good but yeah it's around a lot of slugs last night and beer
that that's not sustainable for me because i kept having to go outside
all night long so yeah yeah you got to get them out if they're in a bed it's easier because you
can get them out of there eventually and then just copper tape them off you know at the rim you
know but if they're they're in an orchard or in in just regular like you know ground then you got to
do it different ways you know i wonder if you could uh yeah pellets electrify the uh the um rhizosphere
that's interesting no for real man i mean like uh batteries out there the homie too he uh he
placed second i think it was in 2011 in the uh cannabis cup with his uh electric lemon g he
grew the plant actually with uh like he put electricity in the um the damn roots of
cedric's done the same thing on here man um it's it's not out loud there's stuff they they
they're trying to get um a current to help make it loud go fast yeah you know i mean it's we're
dealing with a spectrum here it's just a radio frequency so if you can get that plant to speak
to the frequency that's out there better or tune it in easier than you know that that's why the
copper's stopping that um the slug it doesn't like the uh the charge that's coming off that
copper when it gets on top of there it starts to fuck it up so i'm wondering could you put like a
copper band around your plant around the base of the uh yeah like you give your cannabis plant
and then they would not climb up it because they don't have the ability to jump or nothing so as
soon as they touch that take them out yeah that's why you definitely are not the way i've done it
man it's the future cannabis copper dropper right here man we got another product welcome tonight
guys tonight we are bringing you everything we have scenes we have clone shippers we've got
bean busters and now we have the slug stopper we're gonna slug the slug right in this mug
i also have a fogged them books it's gasoline in a can you just
douse the plant when it's got uh mites and burn that motherfucker fogged them bugs
yeah no i i'm definitely i i'm like coppery and every like i i've i put it around i have all these
like uh young tender leafy asian greens and uh at first i thought it was mice that i was like
motherfucking mice like every night you come in here and you eat the fucking leaves it's like
the peanuts and the uh and the crows where i was like convinced that it was mice that were doing
it and then i i had this epiphany moment where i was just like fuck it's the slugs
uh maybe uh try to ward them off by starting to cook escargot every night and eventually if
they're smart enough they'll just take off to the neighbor's house you know i spray my i spray my
greens with that pepper with that pepper water sometimes or around my greens you know what i
mean and that sometimes slows down the slugs you know keeping it a little you know a little cleaner
uh like i'm i'm i'm i'm i'm like the number one guy for mulch but if you're growing greens you
know what i mean trying to keep it a little cleaners is is easier to keep keep the places
for slugs to hide on a minimum uh well would you use the pellets
i don't like to use the pellets you know like the iron faucet and all that stuff i mean you could
in a raised bed itself yeah i mean i if it's a raised bed then i wouldn't i would not use the
pellets you know um but if you were like in a dire situation you know the there is organic pellets
you could use but there's a lot more toxic pellets out there than there are good ones so and even the
good ones i don't know about you know i don't use them personally so i can't speak one way or the
other so cinnamon oil has been my friend i used to use that girl power cinnamon oil forever and then
i found other little tricks like the copper since then and you know that's been my best my best
keeper you know building the even if you're like building like little makeshift boxes say you got
like a like an acre place or whatever and you just want to build little makeshift boxes like with like
like uh like two by fours or whatever a couple two by fours or a couple of fence you know wood
slats or whatever make a little bed box and then put the fucking copper wire around that around the
top of that and then you got you got protection from all the all the slugs and things right there
any place you kind of go but other than that yeah it's it's hard man yeah that that caterpillar and
the slugs let me see that's what i'm dealing with right here at 1959 influence of a weak dc
electrical field on root marist in architecture affecting how the plant grows by putting low
voltage through the root system at a specific frequency for a specific amount of time right
here i just found the uh the paperwork here by would you check and i wonder how much effect that
would have on any of the other things that are near the soil or around the soil you know see
even a weak electrical field disturbs the pattern of cell division in plants roots and air stem this
in turn changes the global organization of the ram and field of a slightly higher strength
also damages root cap initials terminating their division electrical field what is what does that
really mean it's gonna does it stunt the growth or not you haven't told me anything i gotta read
the whole thing yep you gotta you gotta rabbit hole to dive down they used between one and five
volts a dc field noticeable change in the cellular pattern
so it's going to affect how the plant uh is uh the root apical marist stem how they divide which is
in turn going to affect the hormone levels above in the uh foliage that's just what happens
crazy 1959 what's the cat's name here shrink and as early as 1882
elfin carried out the first experiments with root growing in an electric field
that's cool in 1882 1882 elf ving elf ving who as early as 1882 carried out the first experiment
with roots growing in an electric field he observed the roots of kind of when electricity
like was first invented like yeah man that's why i keep telling everybody experiment to do like
literally like wow like this electricity thing like let's test this that's why i tell people
with cannabis as soon as there was an alcohol somebody tried dipping some herb in it and they
made the first uh concentrate way before we started getting these instagram pictures telling
everybody how to get her done they've been they've been if it was available somebody tried
doing it with two things there was always people putting peanut butter and chocolate together
somehow always dude that's that's why we get ahead we're the outliers when well not we but
the people like this elvin dude he's an outlier in a human population when you want to take
electricity and try to see what happened the roots in 1882 when people were still thinking
plants were eating soil like they literally thought the plant was chewing up the soil
somehow to get the plant to grow they didn't understand that the microbial population in
the root zone was actually doing all the hard work to make it available through the meridian tip of
the plant and this cat's like i wonder if i can make a more efficient way to do it by pumping
electricity through here it's that's crazy shit man 1882 that's way back
right well with that should we uh call it a night sure
11 30 yeah man trevor
do you support that what's that i think i'm going to three different orchards tomorrow
three little historical sites tomorrow so i'm gonna look at some trees man it's gonna be a good
day are you gonna come north on the next couple days i will uh i'll make a trip for you man yeah
i'm gonna come north i'll come mars here in the next uh in the next week or so i'll be up there
all right i'll uh i'll put together some yeah i'll put together some corn seeds and some fun
stuff like to add to your little uh surgeons to danko the dude in chichinchong shocking his plants
under the pool chasing cherry i'm reading the comments chasing cherry right there
that what was that cat's name uh he was also sergeant today
day but yeah hit me up man and we'll uh we'll work out a day all right well everyone have a
good night uh i guess with that we'll kill the uh clubhouse good night y'all good night everybody
all right well i don't know if you guys can hear me
let me kill oh yeah you guys can all right have a good night how do i end
i have not yet mastered ending the room oh wait and room there we go all right
all right mr toad thank you don irie it's 8 30 i'm probably just finishing dinner
or thinking about dinner magma is starting his day on the other side of the world
and what's today today is tuesday everyone have a good tuesday night i'll either see you tomorrow
or i'll see you tomorrow i i want to do more of these which are the like clubhouse and
now that clubhouse is android all of you could be on clubhouse too
so these could be more inclusive conversations which is kind of my goal
but anyway for tonight have a good night i'm gonna go to bed see y'all soon
