Let's make a moderator.
Come on up Ron, Dr. Phil.
I just got you an invite.
Dr. Philip Henry is supposed to come in
and join us tonight.
I haven't seen or heard from him today.
I did get a message from him earlier
or late last week saying that he would be here.
So hopefully he's able to make it.
We'll see, we are live here on Future Cannabis Project.
We are have things going.
So, and we do have a few people on the stage.
I might as well get things rolling.
I don't wanna wait too long to see
if he decides to come and join us,
but you know what we'll do?
We'll get rolling anyway.
So welcome, welcome, welcome.
My name is Adoniro.
I am your master of moderation, dictator of dialogue
and all around weird guy that likes his weed
and cannabis and stuff and wants to hang out
and talk about it.
So here we are.
This is the Dank Hour each and every week on Tuesdays
at 5 p.m. PST, 8 p.m. EST.
We are here bringing you all of the experts
all over the cannabis space to sit down and talk
and join them at the table and really get in
and talk about all the interesting things
and passionate things we have about cannabis.
Now today might be interesting
because we usually like to center these
around a special or feature guest for the evening.
Unfortunately, it looks right now
whether or not our special or feature guests
will be here for this evening.
Dave Gace, sorry brother.
We will bring you up in a little bit.
If we do the community night,
so just give it a few more minutes.
We're gonna give our lead expert an opportunity
to come up and join us.
So just give us a bit.
Johnny, do you wanna say a quick hello while you still can
and tell us how your harvest season went?
Oh, hey everybody.
Harvest season is going, it's slower than last year,
less hectic, that's for sure.
Last year I was running around like a chicken
with his head cut off.
And this year I'm just helping out a buddy
and he's been pulling things here and there
throughout the week, a bunch of greenhouses,
so the last few weeks.
So I got a few more days of harvesting left there
and a few plants left in my indoor
that are just taking a minute to finish,
a couple, looks like 11, 12 weekers in there.
So yeah, it's been mellow and nice and not hectic,
which is a little, it's refreshing.
But I feel weird at the same time.
I feel like I should be doing something more anyways.
It is kind of the same thing here,
except for like I've had to harvest,
but it's because it's been such a long drawn out summer,
it's been kind of like I've been able to take
a little bit easier and not get too stressed about it
and stuff like that.
So it's been pretty good.
Hey Tess, how are you doing?
I saw you, you've been busy as it be doing lots of stuff.
Welcome back this week.
How is your harvest season?
How is your fall going?
Hey everybody, I'm on the road right now.
So hopefully my service is okay,
but I'll be home here in about 10 minutes.
But yeah, I only had four girls in my backyard this year
and they ended up being kind of small
because we got started a little late because of COVID,
but harvested them, they're pretty much done drying
right now.
So now I've got to get them into a cure situation
and things are going well for me.
I'm just working on some educational content right now.
I'm a microbiologist, so trying to get people
all down and dirty with microbes
and kind of giving cultivators and consumers tools
so that they can understand and manage microbes
a little bit better,
because you can't manage what you can't see.
And so you got to use other tools to manage microbes.
So yeah, just kind of nerding out lately
and putting some videos together with my husband, Derek,
and just having a good time.
Awesome, sounds like I've been keeping logs
and keep an eye on you.
It looks like everything's going great there.
Of course, there's lots of exciting things coming up
in the future of the Dank Hour, as there is every single week
and we're excited to have back for the first time
in a while, Dr. Anibus, welcome to the stage.
How are you doing today?
How has your fall been?
How is everything with you?
Hello, yeah, everything's good.
It's been a while, I'm sorry.
I had to step away for a few weeks.
It's been a while.
I guess it is, what do you guys call it?
Yeah, it's like October,
everyone's cutting down their plants,
but we're in greenhouses and we're doing autos.
So we are not harvesting yet.
And like Tess, I've also been working on educational content
for the company that I'm working for,
Shore Organics slash 420 Organics,
putting together education for everybody
in hopefully all different arms of the industry,
whether you're in business, cultivation,
extracts, whatever the case may be.
So been working pretty hard on that.
And, oh, I have a giant hole in my ceiling
because after Hurricane Ian, so I'm in New Jersey,
we didn't get hit by the hurricane,
but we had four days of solid soaking rain
and my roof was leaking and it leaked through my roof
and through my ceiling and everything has just been wet.
And so I've had a bunch of drywall cut out of my ceiling.
So I have a huge gaping hole in my ceiling
and I'm hoping that tomorrow morning at about seven o'clock
the roofers will be here ripping off the roof
and replacing all that rotted wood.
So that's the exciting things in my life right now.
Awesome, and I did get response from Dr. Philip Henry.
He is on his way, he got stuck in traffic
on his way to Jasper, he's just getting into connectivity.
So he will be here as soon as he can.
So we'll hold down the phone for him for the time being.
I'm not like the science guy to talk about this stuff,
but we got a group here, so we'll make it happen.
Ron, how are you doing?
I know it's usually about dinner.
You're usually pretty quiet
for the first little bit of the show,
but if you're available to say a quick hi, hello,
and how are you doing?
I would appreciate it.
Yeah, I'd love to.
Hi, hello, how are you doing everybody?
It's good to be in the fall
and have my stuff drying and curing
and enjoying the fruits of the labor.
It's a fun time of the year,
a little fresh frozen and a little of this.
And it's nice to see some of your projects
from the summer kind of play their way out
and they're done and you get ready
to have a new year going.
So I've been having a ball like I usually do.
Nice, and have you had any standouts this year
that have been like, although you're still going
through some of the processes and stuff that's like,
oh, I'm really excited to work further into this next year?
Yeah, I got a bunch of them that proved out
that I was working on a project
and you line breed them
and you get them closer and closer to done.
And sometimes it's a hard call knowing when they're done,
if it's six out of 10 are identical
and the other four are great, is that okay?
And I got to the point where I've got about 16
that I've been working on for a long time that are done.
I do work about 30 to 50 lines at any one time,
but 16, I was able to test out
and know that I've already gotten them, they're a done deal.
And I'm excited about a few ones that I'm working on
for the medical end coming up in the next little bit.
And then I'm working on some long autos and stuff.
So there's lots of projects always going,
but I'm really excited about the Super Ruts series
that I did.
So you'll get some, I'll get you some.
Yeah, yeah, and how is that meeting Doc Ray
for the first time?
For those that don't know,
Ron does a show on Saturdays on Future Cannabis Project
at 9, 10 a.m. ish called The Sift
where we bring in breeders and talk breeding.
And Ron talks deep down breeding with these guys.
He had Doc Ray on this week and Cha and Russell from Cha.
Tell me about that, man.
We didn't really do too much, but did you enjoy it?
Was it great to get to know the guy?
I thought you guys clicked really well.
Heck yeah, I mean, who wouldn't love Doc Ray?
He's like an old schooler, just he is what he is.
And it's a treasure, it was great.
I had probably more fun than anybody on that thing.
And I was quiet listening to some of the stories.
So it was a good time, it always is when you chat
with people that are just really good, humus beings.
I don't know who started that,
but it's good talking with good folks.
And I got some good folks coming up in the next few weeks.
So I'm looking forward to it always.
I first heard humus beings from Dragonfly Earth Medicine,
was the first time I heard it.
And now I've been like saying it as frequently as possible,
because I think it's just really,
I get the meaning of it and it totally relates to me.
So I like it, I like the humus beings.
I'm pushing it out there, it's important.
It's very important.
But anyways, Phillip will be along shortly.
So start putting your ponder caps, your thinking glasses,
your whatever it is that makes you think in process,
because we have the doctor come in to join us
and talk about scientific breeding.
So I'd like to first throw out there
and jump into Dr. Anna,
maybe we can set some preface here.
What are some of the ways that we are currently testing
or categorizing plants, genetic coding?
So when we're doing breeding,
let's say we take a plant and we wanna test
the genetic structure, its DNA code,
we wanna test its DNA and know what's in there.
So we have this plant and we go about doing that.
What are the methods?
Are there different methods of analyzing DNA?
You've mentioned something about satellite marker assisted.
Checking like how do we analyze DNA and what exactly is it?
Yeah, so there's different tools you can use
to answer different questions.
So like in my research, I'm looking at relationships
within and among the different groups in cannabis.
So by different groups, I mean, like hemp versus marijuana
or indica versus sativa
or Girl Scout cookies versus sour diesel.
So whatever those groups are.
And so to look at those kinds of relationships,
you don't wanna look at genes,
like genes that code for things
because cannabis has been heavily selected
for specific traits.
So if you use coding regions of the DNA,
like specifically looking at genes,
really what you're looking at is relationships
among those genes.
So if something has been heavily selected for THC,
what you're gonna be looking at is the relationship
of THC relative to other plants with THC.
So it's not really useful if you're looking at that.
So, but if you are interested
in something like a specific gene,
you would use a different tool that looks at specific genes,
amplifies specific genes
and compares specific genes among different groups
to find out whether or not this plant has the gene
or doesn't have the gene
or if it has something special about that gene
that allows it to express just a little bit differently
than perhaps other plants.
And, you know, you can,
there's different tools where you can zoom all the way in
and get very precise.
And there's tools that are very general.
So just depending on what your question is,
you're going to select the right tool for the job,
just like you would with anything.
And there's other, you know, limitations or restrictions
or things that you might come across such as cost.
So what's your budget?
There's genetic analyses that are very expensive.
There's some that are less expensive that you,
like for example, like a sex test,
you're just looking for one thing.
You can do it on a gel-based assay.
It's relatively cheap.
So that, but you wouldn't use that tool
to look for like a gene that like codes for,
I don't know, specific terpene or something like that.
So yeah, it just depends on what you're looking for.
And then you can use that in like a breeding environment.
So you can track a specific trait
and do a genetic analysis and kind of hone in on what,
okay, this plant has this trait.
It also has this portion of DNA.
And all of these plants with that trait
seem to also have this portion of DNA.
So therefore we can say, if you have this portion of DNA,
you are able to express,
you have the potential to express this trait.
So then you can kind of go backwards.
So instead of growing the plant first,
you can look at the DNA and say, yes,
this line seems to have this trait
and then grow it out and potentially have that trait.
And I'm sure Philip can explain it better than I can,
because I have not actually used marker-assisted breeding,
but I believe that's the whole premise behind it.
But yeah, I hope that helped.
I think that laid some beautiful groundwork for the subject,
because I think it's something
that we all like have a lot of interest in
and a lot of passion in,
but there's a lot of misinformation
and there's a lot of misunderstanding
when it comes to these subjects.
Now I'm gonna dig into you again here,
because I just love having you on the stage.
It's great to have you back.
And we are talking about science, of science-assisted breeding.
So I think it's important to use the scientist in the room
for this specific subject.
But what I wanted to add is like,
so, oh shit.
So when you have marker-assisted breeding or, no, sorry.
I gotta back it up a little bit.
So when you're looking for these specific traits,
you say you find a specific trait
and you're hunting through it and stuff like that.
And you would look for a specific zone in the DNA structure.
So my question being is, how do we do these things
and why is it so expensive?
What's the cost reasoning behind that?
Give me an analysis.
Oh, actually, fuck, I found the question.
God damn it, guys.
I had such a fucking brain fart there.
Oh my God, that was painful.
Okay, so pardon the hiccup.
I appreciate all of your souls for being patient with me
for that one moment.
I wanna get into something in that misinformation key point
that I started with is,
let's talk about what the fuck is GMOs.
What's a genetic GMO organism?
What's a genetically modified organism?
Have we been doing GMO before?
Do we need CRISPR for GMO?
What the fuck's going on there, Dr. Anne?
Okay, so GMO.
GMO stands for genetically modified organism.
There, it depends who you are
and the terminology that, so in food,
generally GMO is only referring to genetic engineering.
So GMO is like a blanket term.
And my personal definition of a GMO is any organism
that's natural evolutionary trajectory
has been interrupted or modified by human intervention.
So that includes selective breeding.
So dogs, let's say, like we haven't genetically engineered
them, we haven't gone in and fiddled with their DNA.
We've just bred and selected and bred and selected
and now we have Chihuahuas and Dachshunds and Great Danes
and all the rest of the breeds that we have.
And that is a genetic modification,
but it's not the invasive genetic modification
that people get really worked up about.
People generally don't have a problem
with the more passive genetic modification,
such as selective breeding.
However, it is a form of genetic modification.
And the other thing about genetic modification
that people get worked up about is,
it's a technology that we use to create things
that are beneficial or that express traits that we want.
So yes, we can cut out a gene from something
and put it into something else.
So a green fluorescent jellyfish protein
and put it in tobacco and make glowing green tobacco plants.
Yes, that was done just for shits and giggles
that didn't really serve any purpose.
Like we can do that.
It doesn't really work as often as people think it does,
but that's the kind of genetic modification
that most people think about when they think about a GMO.
And it's not necessarily the organism that's the bad thing.
Like you're not gonna ingest corn
that has been genetically modified
and have anything happen to you.
Like if you think about it,
literally everything that you eat has DNA in it.
We eat, you know, animal,
some, most people eat animals in some form or another.
Some people only eat plant matter,
but all of that stuff has DNA.
Unless you're eating rocks or soap or dirt or something,
all of your food has DNA in it.
And we don't eat something
and then incorporate their DNA into ourselves.
So like eating a genetically modified organism
is not gonna do anything to you.
It's not gonna cause cancer
or, you know, have you grow another head.
What really people get, are getting worked up about
and they don't actually realize it
is they're getting worked up about
how the technology is being used by big corporations
to create a monopoly and also,
inhibit the progress of other people.
So Roundup, of course, is a perfect example.
You have a Roundup ready crop.
You can spray as much Roundup as you want on it
and nothing will happen,
but the farmers around don't have Roundup ready crops.
And so when they spray it willy nilly,
farmers around are gonna get Roundup on their crops
and their crops are gonna die.
So that's not necessarily the organism that's the bad thing.
It's the way that technology is used.
And I'm sorry, that was a very long answer,
but maybe Tess, Tess is a scientist too.
Maybe she also has something to say about GMOs.
No, you totally nailed that one.
Yeah, GMO, genetic modification.
It's pretty common in a lot of agricultural crops
to either give some, you know,
advantage to overcome some pesticides spray,
like you were talking about Roundup ready crops.
Some of them are modified to have extra vitamins
produced within them.
On the microbe level,
microbes actually can be genetically modified pretty easily.
In the laboratory,
they actually exchange little bits of DNA
with each other all the time called plasmids
or these little circular bits of DNA.
And so that can confer antibiotic resistance.
So you can modify either intentionally
or unintentionally in nature,
you can get these exchange of genes.
So this type of,
in the microbial world,
it's really common to exchange genes.
So it's in plants and animals,
it's a little bit different
because you only get your genes from your mom or your dad,
but in microbes, you can get interspecies gene exchange.
You can get, you know,
like for example, if I was lactose intolerant,
but there was a cow that wasn't,
I could get that lactose digestion gene from a cow
if I was a microbe.
So there's all sorts of genetic exchange
that happens in microbiology.
And so what humans have done
is sort of harnessed a lot of that.
And they'll even use things like CRISPR-Cas9,
which is actually originally found in bacteria
and was basically taken out of bacteria
and engineered so that we can go in
and just like copy pasting in Microsoft Word,
you can basically do that in genes
where you wanna make little modifications
in plants or animals or fungi, or even bacteria.
And so we've used some of these gene editing methods
mechanisms from microbes, and we use those now.
CRISPR-Cas9 is really common now, but five, 10 years ago,
it wasn't as a genetic tool.
It wasn't as common.
So there were other methods that were used,
but they were not as effective.
And now we have this really effective gene editing tool
that has all sorts of potential uses.
So gene modification is really cool.
It is, and I was gonna say that,
okay, so CRISPR-Cas9, it's been a big deal for a while.
And I know like there's a lot of people that are like,
oh no, Frankenweed, when is that gonna happen?
So CRISPR has been around for a hot minute now.
It doesn't work as well as people have been led to believe.
Yeah. Yeah.
It just does. It just does.
In higher organisms that have a lot of cells,
it doesn't work very well
because it's not just one gene, one function
in higher animals and plants.
Genes have multiple functions.
And so if you edit a gene,
you're also not just editing one thing,
you're creating other effects
that you may not know about until you do it.
And then you're like, oh, well, we fixed this one thing,
but we caused this whole host of other issues
that we weren't expecting.
And I just like people to think about
if it really did work as well as we were led to believe,
we would have so many more modified organisms,
better food, Frankenweed, for example,
we've had the cannabis genome since 2012.
We still don't have any like successful,
genetically engineered cannabis.
There have been stories about it
that have come out in the press.
For example, there was one where they modified cannabis
to produce water soluble cannabinoids.
Great, sounds fantastic.
But where is it?
It doesn't exist because they were able to do it in a lab.
But when you get it out and you try to grow that organism,
you have all kinds of problems.
It's not as great of a tool
to create genetically modified organisms
as everybody in the real world has been led to believe.
Yeah, you can't just go and willy nilly
start changing parts in your car with sticks and rocks.
It's like there's a whole lot of detailed mathematical
kind of like history there.
And so, hey, I see somebody who's game.
Speak of the devil, we have our special guest here,
Dr. Philippe Henry.
Welcome to this stage.
We appreciate you joining us at the experts today.
I do wanna have you say hello
and introduce yourself a little bit.
You will need, welcome to, as you all can see,
it's got a little cone with the party thing.
That means it's your first time here on Clubhouse.
So you may have to, you'll have to unmute
to be able to talk, it's on the bottom right hand side.
And if you're having troubles with the unmute button
because you're here on your first time,
you might have to leave the room quietly
and then come back into it.
Can you try and unmute there
and say hello to everybody for me there?
Yeah, for sure guys.
Hey, thanks.
I thought I was actually early by half an hour,
but thanks for the quick intro and I hope you can hear me.
I'm assuming this is working.
You're coming through absolutely brilliantly.
Wonderful, sweet.
So I can even step outside because I'm on my cell phone.
I thought it was gonna be on the computer.
So I was running and getting myself set up on my machine
and yeah, right on.
And I did catch a little bit of, was that Anna talking?
I believe so.
Right on, yeah, no.
So I heard what you said about the water soluble
and I'd love to have you continue
and tell us a little more about that particular example
because I'm not necessarily directly familiar.
I understand maybe we're not gonna share the name
of who's doing what,
but I'd love to add a little bit further down the line,
but I definitely don't wanna jump in here early
and cut off anything that's going on.
So maybe, yeah.
Hello everybody.
I'm Philippe and maybe I'll do a full intro later.
Yeah, this is what we'll do.
I'm gonna pass you the ball
with what they're going on with the next question, okay?
Cause that's how we kind of format it.
We've been like, ideally we're just sitting down
somebody sits up and joins and they come in.
And I kind of try and direct the conversation
in general where we're going.
So what we were talking about is GMO.
And I think this is a really important subject
because we over, in pop culture,
we're looking at this very, very differently.
And effectively, there's a lot of people
that are just been like, oh, GMO is terrible, bad.
It's like these horrible things.
So I'd like to clarify that,
like, hey, we need to understand this,
interpret this a little bit further.
But that kind of led us into the subject of CRISPR,
the editing side.
So I would love if you could,
and I'm gonna throw you straight in
and I would love to, if you could,
and I know this probably isn't a very easy task,
explain the mechanism in which that CRISPR works.
Yeah, you bet, sure.
And anyone, I would love to chime in a little bit
about the GMO and the technology that enables this language
to maybe be a little bit too old school
and not up to speed with the genomic technology
because GMO and what people are worried about is,
shit, you're bringing in a gene from a bacteria,
sticking the entire thing in my tomato,
in my wheat and in my food.
And maybe a little bit background, I'm from Switzerland.
So in Europe, GMO is not permitted.
You cannot find it in a supermarket.
Whereas you go to the supermarket in the US or Canada,
most of the things that don't say GMO-free
have some sort of GMO in it.
Most often things that are resistant
to particular types of herbicides,
like the Roundup resistant that you can find with BT.
Well, actually there's a number of them,
but in any case, that's the small side note.
So the new technology, CRISPR,
and there's other ones, there's Talons,
there's MAD7, which is a new enzyme,
which is basically all based around the same stuff.
And you've probably heard Anna talk about the fact
that it's a bacterial immune system.
So essentially these bacteria are able to detect viruses,
cut them up into tiny pieces,
and basically get rid of them.
But I guess at some point, science,
and I don't know everybody,
there's obviously lots of calamity
with the Broad Institute, MIT, different groups,
and essentially post-ops, profs.
And so that's the beauty of academia,
is that somebody may invent something
and someone else may get credit for it.
So not sure what happened there,
but in any case, very cool research
into bacterial immune systems
and how they have these enzymes that precisely cut
at very, very, how do you say,
with high fidelity, particular codes or sequences.
And so with that, we were able to learn about the fact
that, okay, we can use these enzymes to break DNA,
in a very particular fashion.
And then we can use other enzymes
to essentially stick stuff back into it.
And that's where you're able to do it
at the resolution of a single base pair.
So for myself, I didn't tell you guys much about myself,
but my formal training is population genetics.
Because back in the day, I couldn't study cannabis,
I studied other weeds.
So I studied invasive plants,
was the closest thing that came to that.
So I did a little bit of work
on a number of invasive species
and was very interested in using these tools
to essentially trace where these plants are coming from,
these animals are coming from,
and then quantifying the damage
they're doing to certain environments.
But the interesting thing is that a lot of what I was doing
is characterizing different populations,
understanding what particular differences,
now with COVID, everybody understands what a variant means,
before it wasn't the case,
but that's essentially what you're doing.
You're looking for diversity in populations
and trying to find the underlying, what it underlines,
it's a change of color.
For example, if you go to the coast of DC,
you have black bear populations
and you have a particular population on the coast
in the Great Bear Rainforest
that is essentially called the spirit bear
or the Kermode bear, which is a white phase black bear.
And that occurs in about 10% of the population.
So somebody went out and eventually figured out
which particular mutation in which gene
causes essentially the lack of melanin to accumulate.
And now you have these white majestic bears
that are quite rare and that are not albino,
they have regular eyes.
So that's kind of where I'm coming from,
just trying to understand that,
understand nature and being able to pinpoint
these small differences.
And again, with that background and the technology
that I mentioned with CRISPR-Cas9 or MAD7 or Talons
or any of the other, we won't get into details
and actually to be perfectly honest,
I don't even understand myself
how a lot of these technologies work,
but there are commercially available kits to do this.
And essentially, the idea is that mechanically
we have an understanding of the species,
call it maybe cannabis,
and we have an understanding of different populations
that have a different response.
Could be the resistance to a part of an elder, for example,
which is an example that's out there published
and people are maybe even some IP
that people are trying to protect around that.
But essentially that's it, as you find,
you expose your plants 2 p.m.
In the case of Mr. Ron Harrington here,
river water, which appears to be even superior, nice trick.
And now you're able to identify,
oh, well, here's one that's PM resistant,
one that's susceptible, similar lines,
similar crosses obviously,
because you want something from these lines
that are elite to you.
And then you identify, okay, well, here is the one,
two or 10 bases or a hundred bases,
maybe they're different between these populations
that are specifically related
to that resistance trait, call it.
And now that's really cool information to know.
And what you can do from then on is that you can,
theoretically, again, I cut the convo about,
yes, we can create GMO stuff or genetically edited maybe,
or genetically engineered organisms,
depending on the language you choose to use.
And the tricky part is now the regeneration of a plant.
But theoretically we could use these systems
for any length, use even small bases.
It could be one SNP, it could be,
let's say a 20 SNP section that would change that.
It would make a black bear white,
it would make a PM susceptible line, PM resistant,
and so on and so forth.
Elaborate on all the other traits
and things that are going on in the future,
and a little bit later here.
But yeah, essentially that is,
you have to have the discovery side of it first.
The technology is there, and yes,
we have, they are genetically modified tomatoes
with increased anthocyanin content,
which have just been now commercially available in the US.
And we'll see how, with these new technologies,
whether they're actually accepted as,
essentially just a new breeding technique,
a new approach, a new technology that humans have devised,
as opposed to the other purely genetically modified organism,
which is typically a plant or an animal
that contains a bacterial gene,
for resistance to something that you wanna apply,
and to essentially increase your output,
or to increase your monopoly on seed production,
or whatever it is you're trying to do.
But yeah, on the tail end of that,
what I heard about the fact that there are people claiming,
there's a lot of people that are claiming
that they have done genetically modified hemp, for example.
I am one of them as well.
My group has at some point created,
used CRISPR-Cas9 to essentially try to genetically modify,
or engineer particular synthase,
particular versions of THC synthase,
in particular one that's non-functional,
and a CBD synthase that is also more, has a higher fidelity.
But the challenge isn't in creating a,
so what you do is you create a protoplast.
You take this seedling, this plant, this clone,
and you take the cell wall out,
because you need to be able to access
the actual inside of the cell.
So you create these cell cultures called protoplasts,
that you culture in liquid media or in petri dish.
And then that's really the extent of it.
It's like, you have that there, okay.
I brought in from the US, five different varieties of hemp,
abacus being one of them, which was a very interesting one.
That the reason why I'm picking it is because on one end,
we ran it through a genotyping assay,
by a company called Lighthouse Genomics.
And the interesting part about it is that,
it had the powdery mildew resistance SNP.
That's, it's not the actual causative gene per se,
but it is a SNP that's associated with it.
So, and also when we grew it out in the field,
we did see, we confirmed that.
So we like that abacus, it's also got a, it's a nice,
it grows well up here.
And it was successful at creating these protoplasts.
It was, we were successful at editing,
not specifically the synthases,
but editing or actually inserting a fluorescent protein,
I believe it's a green fluorescent protein gene
into these protoplasts.
But unfortunately we haven't gone,
and this is partly a technical problem,
partly a funding issue.
We haven't gone past the point where we could regenerate
that germplasm from essentially a petri dish
into what would become a callus and then a full,
a full plant, you know,
with shoots and leaves and roots growing.
And even if we were to get to that stage,
we would still want to have, you know,
a hundred to a thousand plantlets to verify that the cassette
or whatever we were trying to do,
it could be a knock,
it could be a knock-in of putting something new in,
could be a knockout of, for example,
making the CBD synthase or fully knocking out
the THC synthase for those more pure cannabinoid
or more, you know, more plants that are compliant,
because I don't think that any of the,
anything that has more than 10% CBD
is going to be above 0.5.
I mean, it's just the fidelity of the wild type CBD acid
synthase out there that is gonna create 0.5.
So any of those COAs you see below 0.5
is all basically diluted with chaff
and or, you know, something else is happening to it.
And that's why it's not about the 0.5, the 0.3, whatever,
should be 1% or, you know, or you want to be now,
we're okay with genetically engineered plants
that are actually compliant.
So can we change the regulations,
which seem to be relatively easy to change.
And there's, you know, you can modify regulations,
but I wouldn't necessarily, you know,
commercially want to grow and,
or even consume something that is just compliant
and is better.
If it's really a dire problem,
like I'm sure we'll talk about it.
I don't want to burn through all of my,
all of the things in my head in the first 15 minutes,
but if it's something like, you know,
call it hop-laden thyroid resistance, you know,
maybe there's a case to make for, you know,
a collective of groups to actually invest
and kind of bring their strengths together.
You can have the GM guys, you can have the cultivation guys,
you can have the genotyping girls.
I mean, you can have all kinds, you know,
all kinds of people coming together to, you know,
essentially make this happen and have, you know,
quite possibly also an IP strategy that's much more open
to then what you would typically see if a big corp,
like some of the tobacco companies were to go after
a trait that's that important and that, you know,
or even something about pest that's come up,
that's really decimated the industry in our region.
I think that is what I'd like to put my money on
or my time on to essentially say,
well, let's make it up and let's find,
let's look at different varieties and let's find
a resistance, a resistant line or semi-resistant line.
And let's even improve on it because, you know,
nature is great, but, you know,
with the computation powers and the modeling
that people can do, we can engineer brand new enzymes
and brand new variants that are superior
to what is currently available in Canada,
in the populations that we have access to.
So we can create this kind of meta population
or even a, you know, this ideal goal
that we can go towards and very much theoretical,
obviously it's a model, but with that, you know,
we can start now designing and seeing, okay, you know,
we need to dip into Ron's germplasm for that male
and, you know, someone else that's down in the US,
you know, for a particular donor for a trait.
And then, you know, I think then we can really get
to a place where we're setting ourselves
in the best foot forward and clearly the expertise
in shoot regeneration and, you know,
regeneration from callus, which is obviously tightly,
you know, linked to tissue culture and cell culture.
I think that is absolutely lacking.
And I am aware of some people that are really close
are claiming that they have actually created seeds
that have the GM trait or that have a trait,
a knock-in and a knock-out,
but I haven't yet validated the assertions.
And that's something that I'm working on making happen here
probably over the next year to be able to import
some of these, you know, engineered seeds
and then, you know, developing kind of the technology
around the screening for that particular trait.
So that's, you know, that's more my forte
than being the person that actually does the GM work
or the engineering work.
So we have just screening and then validating,
you know, up here in Canada,
we're pretty lucky with the regulations.
And, you know, I have a research license
and it enabled me to essentially do any of the above
as long as it's written in your protocol.
And early on, I recognized, you know,
CRISPR and editing as one of the things
that were most likely gonna be interesting to look at.
So, yeah, I mean, maybe you should stop me here.
That's certainly a great start.
That's for fucking sure.
Wow, thanks.
Thanks, Dr. Shelley.
So why don't we give you a good break here
and I'll pop over to Dr. Anna.
I wanna jump into this
because there was the first kind of note that I have here
that we kind of at the start there.
Now you're a population,
your specialty is population genetics
and I know Dr. Anna is cannabis population genetics.
So to give you a break
and a chance to sip some water and chill out for a second,
Dr. Annabis, can you explain what is population genetics
and the study of it
and how does it have relevance in today's?
Yeah, so I kind of skimmed over that at the beginning.
So Philly and I are both population geneticists.
That's our background.
I started my population genetics career
looking at two very closely related species of cacti
and one is very rare in Colorado
and one is pretty common,
grows in Colorado, Utah and surrounding other states.
And conservationists and the BLM,
we're worried that based on observations in the field,
this common cactus was hybridizing with this rare cactus
and this rare cactus could be hybridized out of existence
because hybrids are not protected
under the Endangered Species Act.
And once it's hybridized,
it's like, man, you don't matter anymore.
So we needed to find populations
that weren't hybridizing with this common cactus.
So that's really,
so population genetics is looking at relationships
within and among groups, populations,
and that could be populations of the same species,
of subspecies, of groups within species,
so like varieties or cultivars.
You can zoom out a little bit
and do among species within the same genera.
And it's a way to use genetic tools
to look at these groups and these relationships
without actually having to sit in the field
and observe what's going on in these
and among these populations.
So you don't actually have to sit there
and observe these two groups of deer, let's say,
mating and having children with each other.
Like you just can take hair samples
and use DNA from the hair samples
to really uncover how these populations are interacting
if they're interacting, and if so,
how are they interacting?
Like what's the level of interaction?
And so when, and Philippe said,
he likes to validate in animals
and check work that's going on.
I have to say that my first publication that came out,
he contacted me and was like,
hey, can I look at your data?
Because I wanna run it through my R program
and see what it spits out.
And I was like, oh shit.
Yeah, sure.
And he was like, yeah, no, no, this is good.
This is great.
So I was like, oh, phew.
But yeah, so that's what population genetics is.
You're looking at different populations.
Sorry to cut you off.
Sorry to cut you off, but what exactly is that doing?
Like what is Dr. Philippe doing
by running it through his system?
Like, and what exactly is this system that you speak of?
I didn't mute you there
because I was having an echo back.
So you need to unmute yourself again.
But can you explain exactly?
Like you glazed over a little bit quickly.
It sounds really cool.
Yeah, so he was just, so, okay.
So I ran it through, like I was looking at,
the data that I had, and then I ran it through
the programs that I use to come up with the conclusions
and the results that I came up with.
And he took the data and ran it through a different program
that he uses to see if the results and the conclusions
came back the same, because like not every analysis,
like not every program that you run it through,
they're gonna use a slightly different way
to look at the data to come up with results
and that you draw conclusions by.
And so he wanted to make sure, or not make sure,
but he wanted to run it through his program
to see what his software and his program
came up with in terms of results.
To validate what I said, and it did,
it had private alleles, which mean that,
only these things have this,
like only this population has this specific part of the DNA
and the other populations don't have it,
indicating that they're different or whatever.
I wanna make sure that I use language that's not,
like use language that people understand.
And it's been a while since I've had to look
at all this stuff, but yeah, it's like, okay.
So if you think of like a school, like you have a classroom,
you might wanna look at classroom A versus classroom B.
You would assume that they have similar,
they have different children in each classroom, obviously,
but you might wanna compare those two populations
because in one classroom you have a whiteboard
and in the other classroom you have a blackboard, let's say.
Are there differences in those two classrooms
because there's something slightly different
about those two populations,
even though they're both a classroom in the same school.
You could take two schools and compare them.
Within those schools, they have different populations,
different classrooms, but they might be,
because they're in different like regional areas.
There's gonna be something different
about those two schools.
So you might wanna compare what are those differences.
And it's the same, that's basically
what population genetics is.
You're looking for similarities and differences
that show up in these various populations.
And you can zoom in to like the classroom level
and you can zoom out to the school level or the,
what do you call it, district level, even the state level
to look at these different populations.
And that's what population genetics is.
That was awesome.
So my next question coming up here
and I'll do a little reset
because it's been like 50 minutes into the show
and we haven't done that yet.
So, hey everybody, welcome to the Dank Hour.
My name is London, your master of moderation,
dictator of dialogue and all around weird guy
that likes to talk about weed with all of his close friends,
especially awesome doctors like we have today.
Dr. Philippe Henne.
Now we are talking about science breeding
and all sorts of stuff.
We've gone into a deep challenge
and kind of GMO and so on and so forth.
One of the things that you brought up earlier, Dr. Philippe,
and then I would like to love to dig into
a little bit further is production of a seed
with this altered DNA.
Now you mentioned, going the tissue culture route,
how you do the changes and then you create a callus
and so on and so forth,
and then you grow out a plant through
mostly more or less the same methodology of tissue culturing.
Now I've seen these artificial seeds per se produced,
but usually they look like and remind me of,
I don't know, there might be some food people in this space,
but you guys ever see like caviar?
And they remind me of agar-based gels.
Like they're not agar, sorry, I'm totally fucking this up.
Calcium chloride and sodium alginate gels
where you would create a spherification
and you can either do a reverse or forward
and you create a gel forming through two
chain polysaccharides that come together and do a thing.
So anyway, this gel form is where I was thinking,
so I've seen that, but that's like,
you can't put that in dirt and plant it.
Like, so is that what we're talking about
when we're talking about producing a seed?
Are we talking about like an actual physical seed
being produced that I could physically take out
and put in the dirt and plant like any other?
Yeah, you know, London, what you're describing there
is called a synthetic seed.
It really is just a tiny, tiny little plantlet
that someone encapsulate, maybe even an agar, like you said,
or some other gel like substance
with obviously a shell around it.
These are really cool.
I mean, you could probably, you know,
that is not the same as a,
it doesn't have to be genetically modified.
It's typically someone has a plant in tissue culture
typically regenerated from mericem
and you have something that's small enough
that can regenerate.
And again, you would probably, like you said,
want to start it on a specific type of media,
maybe even a rooting media.
So basically on agar, right?
Like TC, and then that can then be hardened
and then eventually transferred to dirt.
But I don't, the seeds that I mentioned
that are, you know, engineered,
these are actual seeds.
They're produced on a mother plant,
on a mother plant that was either self-pollinated,
an engineered plant that was self-pollinated
or that was outcrossed by another population
if it's the case that they're trying to now
essentially propagate that.
So, you know, that plant becomes the donor,
most often feminized pollen.
And then now the seeds are now available
for researchers to essentially, you know,
take in, you know, have the proper paperwork
to bring into their lab.
And pop them, and those can be popped in soil right away.
And that would be my preferred method.
Like I wouldn't go ahead and waste any time
and energy trying to, you know,
to like pop my seed on whatever, you know,
tissue paper or even agar, but you can do it.
You can sterilize.
And here's, you know, two totally different points.
Sterile versus something that has, you know,
all of the microbiome that's associated
with the fact that it's on a plant,
that it's in an environment, right?
I mean, that has a tremendous impact, you know?
So that's where we don't understand the impact
of any GMO or GE, you know, engineering,
because if it's something that's created,
even if it's not genetically engineered,
even if it's just a regular plant,
I would put the TC, because I've done this.
You take just regular seeds, sterilize them.
There's all kinds of ways to sterilize them.
And then, you know, pop them on agar,
pop it, essentially regenerate the plant,
never even let it touch dirt.
And it's like, well, where's all the other stuff?
You know, and then it's like, oh,
then you're wondering why this plant only has 1% terpenes
and is, you know, in the low 20s,
whereas you could possibly have something
that actually has full complement of microbiome
in a soil that also has its own, they interact.
And, you know, this goes beyond my understanding,
but as I'm, you know, moving from being, you know,
a weed population geneticist
in the sense of invasive plants,
that was my master's time.
I studied, you know, animals later on during my PhD,
and then went back to, you know, postdoc.
And then I was a professor too,
where I focused then more on human interactions and things
to eventually go back to cannabis in 2014,
when they legalized up here in Canada
or they commercialized in that case.
But that's what I'm kind of more interested now
is what is the impact of the environment
and those microbes that are in the soil
that are natively on the plant, on the mother plant,
that inoculate the seeds.
So why are we trying to sterilize
and make this a sterile thing?
We could, and there's multiple ways.
And I think there's enough room for everybody.
There's room for the sterile guy.
There's room for the pharma,
which will want something that's sterile,
which will probably want something that's, you know,
essentially API grade.
It wouldn't, you know, a plant that even 30, 40%,
if you can genetically modify a THC synthase
that creates a 40, 50% plants,
it's still not good enough for you to have to extract it
because the silver bullet concept makes it
that you want this molecule at 99.9% pure,
at least if not 100%, right?
THC, CBD, whatever.
And there's a great place for it.
And I think those isolates are great medicine,
but you still require the full complement
of everything else around it.
And the sterility thing is definitely something to consider
whether you're growing just the TC plant,
thinking it's better because you're regenerating.
But I would say quickly, you know,
do your TC stuff if you need to clean
and then quickly re-inoculate your roots.
Your root media should have that.
And you can see research and there's papers
and there's some IP being built around that,
beneficial soil microbes.
And, you know, I think that's super important.
So that's the part we're kind of ignoring
when we're raising the focus on GMOs and their impact.
It's like, well, you can be growing it perfectly
or, you know, call it organic or wild type cannabis plants.
But if, you know, you're growing in a facility
that has crazy SOPs and everybody's spraying
hypochlorous acid everywhere, and you know,
you're not growing, you're growing on salts or whatever,
very different than somebody on living soil.
And again, there's a place for all of those players
as you kind of zoom into the intricacies
of the cultivation side.
I think I kind of got sidetracked there.
A little bit, but it's like,
we're cool with that sidetrack.
That's definitely.
So these seeds, you sounded earlier
like you were a little bit like, kind of like,
I don't know if it's true,
like hesitant on the belief of that.
What exactly is there a particular challenge in-
Well, basically what it is,
somebody has a claim that they have a 50 pound bag
full of genetically engineered seeds that, you know,
has a trait that they either knocked in or out.
It doesn't matter.
You do both.
You want to add, you know,
you want to remove something or you want to add something.
And, you know, we use cannabinoids.
We could use terpenes, we use esters.
You know, you could essentially say,
hey, I want this.
I want my ghost strain haze line to have a fruity version.
You know, you can come and bring in some esters
from, so call it that.
And that's an imagining one because it doesn't exist,
but the ester genetically engineered ghost strain haze
that tastes like lemon blueberries.
That, somebody tells me I've got the bag.
Why I'm kind of skeptical is because I'm like, well,
he knows that not every single one of those seeds is taken,
much like somebody that claimed selling feminized seeds.
I've popped a lot of feminized seeds
that were either herms or, so, you know,
it's, well, those are all the steps
we've taken as an industry, right?
You learn how to avoid these mistakes.
And in this case, we're in the early days
with these genetically engineered.
So the 50 pound bag, you know, it's, I'm going to grow it.
I'm going to grow a subset of it.
You know, a thousand, 10,000, 100,000 seeds.
And out of that, the population geneticists in me
will now start seeing things.
And also, you know, the cultivation partners
will see the phenotypes as they come through.
You'll know, you're like, okay,
there's five different phenotypes that you can see.
There's, you know, let's now rearrange those
and subsample and, you know, maybe try different things.
But the most important thing is to be, okay,
well, if it's cannabinoids or esters we're looking at,
it doesn't express itself right off the bat.
And also, one thing that's crazy is that it's not like,
if we're looking just specifically for cannabinoids
and you say they only are expressed
in the glandular trichomes,
a genetically engineered seed will not just have
the trichome that are producing the enzyme,
but it'll have every single cell.
So root cells, you know, all those cells
will be expressing now this engineered enzyme.
And we don't know the impact of that.
And we don't know what else it will do to the plant
if there's gonna be some.
So that's where we're at.
And that's why I'm saying, hmm, you know, I don't know,
because I actually haven't even popped the seed.
I don't have the seed in my hand.
I haven't even filled the paperwork to get the seed,
but I'm working on it.
And that's what I'm hoping to achieve
is to be able to get the paperwork
to bring a large number of seeds
that I can have a facility that is isolated enough
and that has the ability, you know,
not just to import cannabis,
but to import a potentially genetically engineered organism
and have the proper biosafety.
So it's gonna take a while to get to that point
where I can actually do it.
But the concept is, as I described, you know,
pop those seeds, see how they do.
And then the validation part,
which is essentially knowing early on.
So I don't have to wait the full length
of the phenol hunt and flowering
to already sub-select and say,
there's 17% of the sub-sample that I took
and based on the qPCR assay that I'm running,
which is essentially how you detect,
you're probably familiar with how you detect COVID
with RT qPCR, so reverse transcriptase.
You take the RNA, create DNA,
and then you check for the presence or absence
of that particular fragment.
So that would be the same thing there
as you're doing a qPCR specifically,
takes 45 minutes to two hours to verify
that you either are male or female,
or you've taken up, or you don't have the knock-in
or the modified enzyme, however you wanna call it.
And then, yeah, from there, you can be much more efficient.
And I'm not bringing 100,000 plants to flower.
I can bring it down to a thousand
or a couple thousand plants that I can actually house
in a research facility that has maybe
a two to 500 square foot rooms, a couple of them,
and a small canopy.
So that's really the efficiency of it
is to be able to screen through it
and quantify as well the success of a thousand seeds,
how many of those actually have taken the knock-in
and how many of those ones that have taken the knock-in
actually are of the right phenome that we're looking for.
Or even just interest in the diversity,
say, hey, we have six different phenomes,
all of them have this,
but they're slightly affected differently.
So now we wanna characterize and understand it
so that then it can possibly be sold as a novelty
or something very specific that's targeted,
that makes sense.
And at this point, I don't think
the lemon blueberry concept really makes any sense
because we can achieve it, it's already been achieved.
So-
London, London, can I say like a little layman's point?
When I think of the detail that he's talking about,
getting down to the nitty gritty detail about something,
they study at such a close level
and you have to have a goal where you're going.
And so basically the scientific people
are going to build on what the old school people did
because this cannabis plant is a fighter jet.
It's a most sophisticated organism, it's very alive.
And I don't believe it's conscious,
but it is an organism and it is very alive.
And you can't just change things.
It's like these guys are like studying a 747
by taking it apart and they've isolated some things
that they know work like the landing gear does this
and that, but to know what to move from point A to point B
is a different thing.
But then I think that some of the old school guys
like myself, and I'm not tooting my own horn
because believe me, there's big utility
behind what they're doing.
But it's like, you're talking to the old school guy,
like that person is a 747 pilot.
We've been flying the plane for a long time.
We don't know how it goes.
We just know that if you push forward, things get smaller.
And if you pull back, they get bigger.
And so there's a balance between the two
because an organism is so complex.
If you go around changing things,
I know I can't breed certain strains with certain strains
but there's a balance there.
All you'll get is that one will steal the show every time,
like, you know, sour diesel or whatever,
anything you breed it to, it's gonna get sour diesel.
So anyway, that's just my two cents.
Okay, so I'm gonna take a moment here and open it up
to the rest of the panelists.
Anybody got any questions, comments, statements
or stuff like that?
And to get it rolling, I'd love to,
yeah, we'll bring you up, Dr.
We'll throw it out there.
But I wanna just, I have one question
that I wanna dig into a little bit here.
Now you said, and I wanna make sure I interpreted
this correctly before answering this.
And you said that when you genetically added,
it added like a THC synthase gene in
that not only would the head of the trichome stock
that puts out the enzyme to create THC,
but every cell in the plant would put out the enzyme
to create THC.
Is that like a blanket statement?
Like whenever you do something to, in these editing format,
do you end up affecting every single cell,
not just particular regions or groups of them?
And if so, is that one of the big challenges
that people are facing?
Yeah, I'm just walking out of the lobby here quick.
Yeah, so just to give some more context
to that point there about all the cells having that,
you know, that engineered enzyme.
All the cell, I mean, it's a minor point,
because I mean, yes, you start with a single cell,
ideally that protoplast I talked about,
which is a cell without the cell wall.
And then that cell is able to regenerate
and then create the full organism.
So every single one of those cells in the organism has that.
But it's locked away.
And that's essentially what happens in any cell,
in any development is this,
the totipotent cell, which is a terrible name,
and it probably sounds really bad with my accent,
but it's the initial cell that has the ability
to become a liver cell, become an eye cell,
become a hair cell, you know, or whatever,
on a plant, a trichome, a root, or whatever.
But it's the particular gene that causes, you know,
THC expression is very specifically expressed
in the trichomes.
So it's locked away in protein,
which is essentially, you know, what epigenetic does.
There's changes, like you say, well, you know,
it's all breeder, you know, it's not genetic,
it's something else.
That's basically what it is, is your environment
or the breeder or someone or the grower,
they coax the plant, they coax the organism
to now express, open up that DNA that's locked away
and packed in proteins, very often towards the telomeres,
if you look at the chromosomes, right,
you pack that stuff up when you look at the chromosomes
in the different phases, and they're not being expressed,
meaning the machinery, you know,
doesn't have access to the DNA,
the DNA doesn't become RNA, the RNA,
mRNA doesn't become a protein.
And so it's expressed in very small quantities.
And so that's the regulation of how the cell functions,
is it doesn't need to have every single gene on
at all times, it has the ability very initially to do that,
and that's why plants are special
and different from animals,
because even in very late stages,
you can regenerate a full organism from a shoot,
from the meristem, the apical meristem
or the root meristem, right?
That would be very difficult to take a human cell
or a mammoth cell, for example,
and regenerate from just like that, in vivo,
take it, put it in a, just as you can do with plants.
So that's the difference, but it's a small point
about the fact that every cell has that change,
but it's valid because what if that change
had an impact on how the machinery functions?
And now all of a sudden that THC synthase
gets turned on in the roots,
and then the roots has 10% THC, who knows?
We don't know that yet,
those are all the kind of interesting things
that I think are interesting,
and I wanted to share with the audience
to kind of look at it and say, well, okay,
we make a change and this is one of the ones
that really does have scientific support
in the sense that it could change,
it could change the way that the proteins
are packing the DNA around,
less likely if it's just a single base
of very, very targeted mutations,
and that's why I'm saying there's probably less risk
with these new breeding techniques
than the CRISPR-Cas9 where we're doing point mutations
or very short 20 base pair fragments
or 17 base pairs at a time.
But again, you may find that this is not,
you may actually find that theoretically,
even though your plant has taken this up,
you actually don't see it,
there's something else there that's actually causing
the high THC accumulation that you're targeting
or the resistance you were looking for.
So that's where there's still probably a lot of work
to be done because the first and second
and third pilots, chances are that they won't be successful
and even though you've got a GE crop,
you don't have the actual trait to back it up
and so it's not a commercial thing
that goes back into the locker.
Okay, so before you go, I got one more
and I got it just because I have to ask this.
So we haven't even talked about epigenetic effects
of these processes, right?
And we've chatted about epigenetics
and it's like, holy fuck, that's a complex topic.
Is that like, should we just skip that for now?
Is that, because like I imagine these things
have an effect on the epigenetic level as well
and not just on their genetic traits, right?
Well, yeah, the epigenetic is really just that concept
of protein packing around DNA,
not enabling it to be expressed, right?
And so you can achieve and you can say,
oh, it's an epigenetic thing because when you take the plant
and you grow it at 17 degrees centigrade,
sorry for the American listeners, it's gonna be purple,
but if you grow it at 24 or whatever, much higher,
it's gonna stay green, right?
So it has the gene for the purple
and it's not expressing it
because the temperature is too high
or you're purposefully keeping the temperature high.
So I mean, kind of what Ron was saying,
like you have to have a purpose, you have to understand.
There's no point in talking about epigenetic
unless you have an example of,
you know this is the same genetics, the same clone,
and you're convinced of it because you've been growing it
and you created it and you're currently propagating it.
And then when you grow it in different conditions,
it does something different.
And then that could be no temperature,
but as I said earlier, the stuff that interests me as well,
is there like a little bacteria you can throw in your soil
that is going to do something really, really cool.
And obviously there's a lot of them
because a lot of us use adjuvants
and have a vision for some of the living soils
and understand how they influence the end product.
All right, so now Dacta,
thank you for being patient for me, brother.
What question, comment or statement do you have
from us from the future?
Future, future.
Me?
No, Dacta, the guy next to you.
Oh, good, good, good, good, sorry.
Sorry, Dr. Filippi, it's Dacta.
I'm not a doctor by any stretch of your imagination.
The only imagination that I am a doctor
is that I'm a doctor of cannabis medicines.
Therefore by partaking in human clinical trials myself
with 25 years of test subject experience
in cannabinoids and cannabinoids experimentation.
I'd just like to point out my PTR,
if you guys can all see that.
I found that's the purple gas.
If you can somehow replicate that
or take it out with your CRISPR technology,
then we can either have purple gas weed
or not have purple gas weed.
Eureka.
Thank you for your great work in the industry.
Make sure you do keep those GMO cannabis seeds
in your, as you mentioned, secure facility.
I like the way you added that in there, Dacta,
just to make sure that we are all safe
with you having those certified, registered GMO seeds
to check on your CRISPR.
But yeah, we do need to look deeper and deeper.
But as Ron was saying,
you can't look at a Boeing 747 and a child's tricycle
and believe that they are both the same instrument
or utensil for travel because they both have wheels.
So yes, the cannabis plant has been gifted to us.
The scientists may slice it and dice it as they see fit
and good Godspeed, as they say.
God bless and one love from Aotearoa, New Zealand.
Keep it simple.
Stupid.
Fucking Dacta.
Like I just, every once in a while,
you just gotta be here.
I just love it.
We appreciate your soul.
I wanted to like see if you had something to add,
like the bacteria side,
like, and kind of what was spoken about with Philippe earlier
because you are in house microbiologist.
Yeah, I mean, I think that we've really touched on
a lot of the different ways that genes can be modified,
their expression can be changed.
I also, for my postdoc studies,
kind of did a lot more with gene expression
in not microbial cells.
So I know a little bit about mammalian cells
and I like the idea of epigenetic alteration
as far as like every single cell in your body
has the same DNA minus a couple of immune cells
we won't get into,
but what is it that makes a brain cell
turn into a brain cell and a heart cell
turn into a heart cell?
And it's very similar with what we're talking about
as far as the expression of cannabinoids and terpenes
in just trichomes.
What if you were able to turn on the expression of those
in other parts of the plant?
And actually what's really funny
is that one of my previous technicians
was texting with me today and he was talking about,
because both cannabinoids and terpenes
do have antimicrobial activity.
And he was like, well,
maybe we could select for specific terpenes
that would prevent microbes from growing on them,
microbes from growing on those plants.
Like, if you wanted to somehow use that
to promote resistance of like powdery mildew
and things like that.
And I was like, yeah, but the problem is,
is that those are really expressed in trichomes,
but what if we express them in other parts of the plant,
then we can use their own molecules
that are known to have antimicrobial properties.
We could use them potentially more effectively
if they were expressed in the places
where the disease actually happens,
but also disease is really prevalent
on the inside of the plants
and in the vasculature of the plant and in the roots too.
So that would be some crazy epigenetic changes,
but I mean, you can pop in and out different promoters
which are like, basically think of them
as the on and off switch.
Like for a light bulb,
you can use different DNA sequences
and put in basically,
they're called constitutively expressed
or they're turned on all the time.
You could put that on.
I mean, it would probably come at some cost to the plant
because then it's like diverting a lot of resources
to producing these molecules.
But I think that that's a really interesting idea
to be able to turn on and off these genes
in different parts of the plant
and maybe either increase yields
or potentially have other effects
like these antimicrobial properties.
But I'm really curious what you guys think about that.
So the same article,
so going back to the beginning of the show,
if anyone was here, for those who were here,
the same group that had the GE plant that produced
or were able to insert a gene to make cells produce
the water-soluble cannabinoids,
in that article,
their sort of explanation for why they wanna do that
was like not only because water-soluble cannabinoids
would be cool,
but also because cannabinoids,
the cannabinoids,
and I'm guessing the terpenes as well,
I'm not sure,
are toxic to the plant.
And so they're contained in the trichomes,
but if they escape from the trichomes,
if they weren't contained,
those cannabinoids are actually toxic to the plant
and will kill the plant.
I don't know if that's true or not,
but I read it in the article.
So I'm not sure that you would be able to produce a plant
that would be able to transport things like terpenes
and stuff throughout the plant.
I don't know if,
I don't,
is anybody else familiar with this idea?
Yeah, I don't mean to hug the line, guys,
so anybody can go,
but I definitely think that you have a really good point
there with the solubility point.
And again, that's one of the unknowns
with even just what we were saying there
with potential GE being able to express those in other cells,
you may never be able to actually even germinate
if that's the case.
So that's why I was so cautious at first to say,
well, I don't even know,
because I may have all of the best ways to pop seeds
or to regenerate them,
but those may never yield anything
because something could be in the way.
But yeah, that's a very good point, the trichomes.
And again, it goes back to the incredible machinery
that the trichome is
and that the cannabis plant is in general.
And the fact that we see 30s, upper 30s,
just as a result of the right breeding
and the right cultivation, I mean, I think that's enough.
It's the only cannabis,
only weed that I have to ever put down halfway through
anything above 30.
And I'm like, well, this is good.
Anything more, I mean, I don't know if we really need it,
so why the GM?
And that's what a lot of people would claim is,
oh no, we've got an improved enzyme,
you can have 50% THC.
But does it really translate on a large scale
at someone that wants to extract it
or even someone else to sell it as a flower?
At which point, would these become actually toxic to us
as well?
I know there is some toxic,
or there's some studies about contents of terpene.
I heard a number which was 7%,
which could have toxic effects on the human body.
So I love terpenes, but I'm like, okay,
this is an interesting point as well,
to be like there's a toxicity
and just more and more and more
isn't necessarily the answer.
We understand the synergies, but that's a good point.
And then water solubility would also tremendously increase
the availability of the molecules.
So that could be a scary thing as well
for patients that may have some of the digestive,
some of the metabolic enzymes are a little slower.
That could be a major issue.
And now we could go from saying cannabis is non-toxic
to being like, holy, don't take 1000 milligrams
of water soluble anything.
I was actually saying like toxic to the plant,
like that the cannabinoids that it makes
outside the trichomes are actually toxic to that plant.
Yes, no, no, I understood that, absolutely.
That's when I said the seed wouldn't germinate
if the cannabinoids now being expressed
at a very early stage in some of the primordial cells.
Now that wouldn't even germinate
because it could potentially just halt
the cell cycle as well,
because it does that in cancer.
It does stop or promote apoptosis.
So when I first heard about that, I was like, okay,
there's something, you've got to be cautious
and we have to,
anytime you change something,
so especially that drastically,
I mean, you can't just put it on the shelf.
It's not gonna happen.
It's gonna take a very long time
and a lot of studies and a lot of safety.
And then there's the public acceptance side.
I mean, organic, these kinds of labels,
certified organic versus, oh,
certified genetically engineered.
I don't know which one's gonna win on the shelf.
Depends on where you are,
but I would think people trust nature better
than would want to minimize the amount of processing
in the products that they consume.
Gotcha.
And I also agree with that terpene thing that you said,
where above a certain percent of terpenes,
it starts to get toxic.
Terpenes can be pretty caustic.
And when you're inhaling them into your lungs,
which is a pretty soft, sensitive tissue,
you start upping those terpenes.
That can get, I mean, I can just imagine tissue burn.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
I've definitely seen terps
degrade all sorts of plastics and things.
They're definitely, I mean,
they have their downsides for sure.
And coming from that genetic side
where you are talking about really high expressions,
especially in parts of the plant,
maybe that don't have the structures
that sort of contain that very lipophilic,
potentially cause breakdown, potentially toxic.
So in research labs,
sometimes you'll overexpress certain proteins in bacteria,
like in E. coli, that's the big one.
And a lot of times when you turn on those genes,
because it'll be on a promoter that will be turned off
until you add some little compound to the media.
And then it'll turn on that promoter
and that cell will start producing like crazy,
that protein that is just downstream of that promoter,
on the other end of that light switch.
And then the cells they'll grow for a little while
and then they're like, I can't do it no more.
Cause when they produce that much protein,
a lot of times it can be toxic.
So I'm wondering too,
if you could put it under some,
maybe instead of a constitutively expressed,
which aren't turned on all the time,
maybe it could be induced.
So maybe just right at the end of flower or something,
you could, of course you'd have to figure out
if these things would be potentially toxic
and you don't want to spray stuff on flower.
But at some point in the cultivation process,
you could induce expression with some small molecule compound
and turn on those genes.
And yeah, it might end up killing the plant eventually,
but you might end up getting something out of it.
Just food for thought, you know?
Thinking about microbes and how,
the way we turn genes on and off in microbes
and to mass produce proteins and other things,
like how we could also turn on those pathways within plants
to optimize dial in or like spread the expression
of cannabinoids and terpenes to other parts of the plant.
Very curious, let's go.
Boom.
Well, this is the fucking Dank Hour, guys.
And actually we're rounding to the end of it.
We've got like, you know, six and a half minutes or so left
before the end of the show.
And I just want to start off by saying,
thank everybody for coming and joining the show today
and checking everything out.
It's been a fucking brilliant conversation.
Thanks to all those in the chats and stuff that were there.
You can find a lot of the information
and connection to people in the description.
I've put Dr. Philippe's website in the description
of the show, I believe.
If not, I will make sure to add that in at some point.
Maybe today, but to start with,
as our special guest of the evening,
Dr. Philippe, if you could let us know
how the community could support you
and also get to know you a little bit better.
Where can we find you?
Where are you active?
What's going on in your world and how can we get involved?
Right on.
Yeah, so I'm based in central British Columbia, Canada,
a little place called Enderby.
Used to, you know, close to Kelowna,
and Kelowna is kind of the place
where I have most of my research sites.
I have on the research license,
nine different sites that targets,
that have both outdoor greenhouse and indoor.
And, you know, essentially what I have done
was pre-import large quantities of seeds from the US.
And have, you know, my own collection,
but the official is, you know,
seeds that I imported from the US, 25 kilograms of seeds,
so a whack load of them.
And essentially the ability to,
what we like to do a lot of is tissue culture
of some of the leaves from the phenohunts.
So we do the phenohunts with TC,
you know, put these plants in a sterile environment.
And then, as I was mentioning there,
you know, working towards understanding
how we can improve that hardening stage,
in particular with, you know, the right media,
the right counterparts, the right kind of, you know,
so looking at the metagenomic side.
And obviously the way that, you know,
I'd love to mingle with the community
and interact with is, you know,
kind of that sharing of something unique that they found.
I mean, I love following the, you know,
freak show or any of the breeders
that are looking at exotics,
looking at things that are very different
and are not necessarily interesting
from a purely commercial standpoint,
but that still have, you know,
tremendous amount of value and very often the ability
for, you know, these kinds of grassroot efforts
to, you know, kind of take advantage of, you know,
for example, a sequencing run or a genotyping run.
And I've done that a lot in the past
with different labs I was involved with.
I was involved with DigiPath Labs in Las Vegas since 2019.
And then up here in British Columbia,
Zen Labs in Kelowna.
And a lot of what we did was that,
is take samples in, basically bring the technology,
what we think is the best technology.
And so what we've identified and worked a lot with
was the Lighthouse Genomics chip,
which is a 40,000 array,
which is very price competitive for, you know,
and essentially is geared towards enabling, you know,
the micros or the breeders or the,
or kind of the craft community, you know,
to characterize and to know their varieties
so that they, you know,
they can either sell them to a producer
or kind of focus on their trade,
which is the generation of now the next novelty,
the next flavors and, or, you know,
any of the things that we were talking about, you know,
harnessing a particular resistance.
Somebody finds a, you know,
someone calls me up and says, I have a something, you know,
everything in my facility has hop latent by-rates.
So I know that one has it, but it's actually finishing.
It's actually finishing pretty good, not 50% loss,
but we're, you know, we're still at 25%.
So you'd see something like this is the kind of insight
that I've always looked for and that, you know,
I'd love to renew here with, you know,
through this invitation to the Dank Hour.
So yeah, please share my contact and otherwise, you know,
look me up, you should be able to find me relatively easy
online or Instagram or whatever.
I'm happy to, happy to engage and thank you so much, Lon.
And that was a, what a great,
what a great group that you've assembled.
And thank you everybody that's participated.
It was really insightful and I love the convo
on the microbes and obviously that's not my specialty.
So love to reconnect with everybody.
I love that.
And we do have a pretty damn fine community here
at the Dank Hour and you catch it's every Tuesday, right?
But also Dr. Flip, you're going to be on,
I don't believe it's this week,
but in the following week on Ron showed the SIFT
on Saturdays, you're going to be in for that.
That show is he's going to interview you
and you guys are going to shoot the breeder talk
and really get into it.
And Ron takes the lead on that one.
So I get to pick the back corner
and just be the Stevie in the background.
But thank you again, Dr. Flip.
And thank you again, Dr. Anna and Dr. Tess,
Johnny, Ron, Tey, Dr. everybody on the map,
Dr. Fez, Steve, Glenn, Robert, Taylor, Axel, Justin, Richard.
I appreciate each and every one of you
for coming to the show each week.
I see all of you here very, very, very often.
And as usual, we'll be back every Tuesday.
We're booked all the way out
till actually the 20th of December.
Then I'm thinking what we're going to do
is invite all of the people that we've had on the show
over the last year back for a Christmas episode
on December 20th.
So make sure to be back here every single week
for another episode of the Dank Hour.
Keep it growing and oh yeah,
butterfly sessions tomorrow night.
You got to check that out too.
And Crystal Walters said, hello, Dr. Philippe.
Thank you for your knowledge
and thank you for hopping on.
Going to close the room out now, guys.
