Yay, hooray, everyone have a wonderful day.
Cropped over, almost perfect.
Little song for the morning, how about that?
♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
Smoking the earth makes playing the flute really easy.
I haven't waked and baked yet.
Would you care to join me
with a little bit of this year's freshest?
I like to call it the Beaujolais.
Kinda like the wine in France
they have the harvest, right?
They have the specialty wine.
It's the stuff that they press out and drink it
extremely fresh.
They only give it a few weeks to ferment,
and then, bam, drinking it away.
And that's a term I came up with a couple of years
ago as we started to have overgrow in the industry.
And there's now warehouses of last year's weed.
The fresh stuff we call the boujoulet.
Or I would like to see people using that concept, right?
We've got the boujoulet.
We've got the fresh.
We've got this here's.
I started working in the restaurant to pay the bills,
keep the lights on, and keep on doing my passion breeding.
There's too many people with too much hype for anyone
to even know that I'm doing it hardly, except for the few of
you that join me here.
And I'm grateful for you.
I debate every day whether I'm going to keep doing this
for the 250 people.
But you know what?
You guys are worth it.
And someday, you're going to tell people about what it is I
teach you.
And so if each one teaches one, that's
500 people that heard it.
And then there's 1,000.
Anyhow, what do I have here?
This is my northern Utah hash plant.
And so I forget to tell people about this.
This is actually the 88 hash plant
that everyone thinks is like the godsend that everyone wants
to be breeding with and getting that gas.
But it was grown for just chatting
with the farmer that gave me the seed from his stepfather.
And I remember him saying about 17 generations.
The other day, he said 20 years.
But in Logan Canyon here in northern Utah,
where winters come hard, it's actually
Logan is one of the coldest places in the continuous 48
states.
And he selected it for a little bit more volume, I think,
than the ones he selected.
Because originally, the hash plant
was released as a small squat Indica style type of thing.
And of course, it's in North Afghan and primarily Hindu
Kush.
That all comes from the same region.
The walking corridor of the Hindu Kush region
right above Pakistan and below Tajikistan.
It's a little finger that sticks out
from the main body on the north part of Afghanistan
and points over into which is the main pass heading
from the deserts of Afghanistan heading
into Kashmir and northern Pakistan and India.
And so all those cultures came together there.
But my personal belief and understanding,
and especially after looking at the two science projects that
have looked at the origins of cannabis in the world,
I personally believe it all came from the Hindu Kush
and not over in the north central China plateau.
And if you look at where the two samples are
and you take the average, it's actually,
they're saying the Caucus, Kyrgyzstan, and then
North Himalayan China plateau.
The right back in the middle of those two positions
is the Hindu Kush walking corridor region.
So it's been my understanding forever.
And I still hold this belief that all genetics flow
downstream from that high elevation.
And if you look at the river flows and everything
and where things move to and where the hash routes were,
it makes so much freaking sense because literally things
flow north out of there into Chayika sand.
And then that goes into the regions of Kugar.
Sorry, I haven't looked at these names forever.
Those Western desert regions of China 500 years ago
were the massive producing regions.
And the best stuff going into India
was transmitted down through there.
Anyhow, so that's what this particular stuff,
it's really, really a dense.
I'm squeezing it and it's getting nothing.
So this is all no PGRs, right?
This is organically grown and living soil.
And teas, compost, and things like that.
So I've got, I'm going to put on my utensils.
There's my bong.
But I'm not seeing, I got a lighter.
I thought I brought a poke with me.
Astray, I'm not seeing my poke.
There's a chunk of hash.
Shucks.
I thought I brought poke with me.
I don't see it.
I set it down.
Anyhow, yeah.
Who likes looking at maps?
I don't have the thing set up to look at maps right now.
But it is the coolest thing to do
to see where in the world the origins of this stuff
come from.
I don't got it here.
I'll try this.
My stem is full.
And I, you know, let's take a little walk.
I'm going to go down and grab the poke.
I don't see where I got it.
But how's everyone doing on their cropping?
Drop a note there.
Tell me where you are on your crop.
How's the weather?
I literally just had winter hit hard.
And we had to, apparently I didn't grab a poke.
We had to, I had to bring the entire yard in.
We've had such a slow, slow, mild,
I can't call it an Indian summer out in Canada.
We didn't have any freeze yet.
But we did have, we just now, we're
supposed to have froze last night.
We didn't.
And we're supposed to have a couple inches of snow tomorrow.
And everything I've got, excuse me, out in my garden,
was, I've already tested.
Crop November, yeah, no, crop November's definitely.
I've got quite a bit here runs later,
especially if I haven't bred it for earlier selection yet.
And November, and then I also have
a secondary and tertiary crops.
So I basically have Thanksgiving or December 3rd in that zone.
I take my last crops of the year.
But also, if I'm doing a full sun
and I didn't pull tarps on it, and you've
got sativas that are running that long.
And incredibly, Nigerian Yerba Bueno
too does pretty damn good in the cold, right?
And they can get some big colas that I want in the greenhouse
because they'll rot out from the boitris.
Which I've tested the Hindu Kush plant down
to 16 degrees Fahrenheit.
These inbred regional heirlooms are pretty freaking awesome.
As far as all sorts of, and then I let several volunteer
this year, my yard from last year
is a massive open pollination project.
And I did something like a dozen of each, like full open.
And then I did the best out of 300 or so.
I did the best six.
And boy, I hit some of that this morning.
I also have a volunteer.
It looks like it's huge.
I don't know if you haven't.
We're getting some light.
Maybe I'll walk out there and show you guys
what's going on in the greenhouse.
I didn't have any plan for today except for I
haven't done a show in nine months.
And this is the first Sunday I had available.
So I only woke up a little while ago and decided, hey, look.
You can see the bags under my eyes.
I haven't hardly woke up yet.
Yes, I got one in the greenhouse.
It was a volunteer.
It's full season.
It went from a seed that I made last year.
And I don't know exactly what it was.
And the fucking base is like that, like huge.
And it fills up 2 thirds of my greenhouse.
The greenhouse is 9 by 10 by 13.
And that one, it's going to be mid to late November,
the way it's looking like it's progressing.
Oh.
This is a Nigerian.
No, not Nigerian.
This one is, what is this?
This is a breath of red dragon breeding selection run.
Left over all the plants I went ahead that I didn't select.
Let's see.
Where is the best focal point?
There it is.
Not touching it.
It's bubbling.
Anyhow, this is like, I like the way
they do it in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where they,
this was actually rolled into a ball.
And then you can see the flat bottom end of it there.
It's literally the weight of itself.
It's what I call full cold melt.
But they'll do, and I don't do a bunch of pressure on it.
I'll just roll it into a ball, or I'll leave it as chunks
and not really press it the way a lot of, like Frenchie says,
it's not hashed until you've pressed it and heated it.
So those guys, if you watch what they
do in the traditional Afghan Pakistan,
they get these, they fill buckets, five gallon buckets
up with keith.
And then they'll take that like I just did,
and they'll heat it up on their hand
even, and just kind of press it around a little bit
like this.
And that's like is real traditional,
what those guys are doing.
And this literally melt down from room temperature
without being sealed.
So it lost some volatile organic compounds.
Some of the terpenes definitely come out of these,
but you develop other flavors and subtleties and stuff.
And this one has THC-V in it as well.
So I'll quite often just like pack my green bowl just
like that.
But I'll also, after I've taken a bong hit
and there's ash still in the bowl,
I pack them pretty fat that are not snappers.
And I just do crystal hit.
I'm kind of snob as far as that goes.
And I used to have people that would just,
after they purchased their medicine,
they'd ask me if they could take my ashtray,
because it would double their take for the day.
I'd just burn the crystal and pop it out.
And you can do that when you're a snob like me.
And I grew up with you had to wait for the press
weed to show up.
And then we'd have a couple of months of green bud.
Anyhow, let's see.
We can watch this bubble, bubble, bubble, bubble, bubble.
More is a good focal point.
So that stuff, I can actually dab it.
And I cleaned it last week.
It's fucking cropped over.
I just finished my job.
I cleaned it like a week ago.
I smoke a lot, right?
It's not even that dirty.
Usually it gets all black out in here.
So everyone teach their own,
but I've smoked more weed through this
than you can even imagine exists.
I've had this since I bought my house.
It was a housewarming gift.
And I figured the one, this one retired,
I'd probably smoked a couple of tons through, literally.
Right?
So, I mean, when it comes down to it,
you should see what there used to be the back of the day
when people didn't actually clean their shit.
But yeah, so it takes time.
And I literally almost didn't do this this morning
because it's cropped over.
I've got trimming to do.
Yeah, I've got a bunch moved into the greenhouse.
And they are packed full.
So anyhow, I'm gonna hit that again,
play a little more flute and we'll do something else.
Oh yeah.
So someone was asking me what the nose was
on that North Utah hash plant, right?
And the honest quick response was,
hippie chick, dirty armpit.
Yeah, you know, I used to trip out when I was younger
because there was like all these hardcore fucking snobs
that did coke because they smoked weed
was too dirty for them.
Like, man, I ain't that Mr. Animal Repentive.
I do like using my bong and I don't,
I like it clean, we all like it clean.
But you don't have a life if you have time
to clean it all the fucking time.
I got shit going on.
I used to actually have stigma because people would say,
your bong's dirty.
It's like, fuck.
That's like, your car is your social status.
It doesn't, yeah.
It's like people choose to make up their own little thing.
I know in India, how clean your chillum is
determines what kind of human being you are.
Yeah, cleaning a chillum is fucking easy.
You fucking pull your rag through it.
I heard someone also talk about baseline flavoring
for like when they bring them in for testing
for competitions and cups and things like that.
And you see these dudes, they're like me, old timers,
old salty dogs, and they show up with their dirty bong.
And you're like, where the fuck am I at?
Like, man, if you can't taste the shit
through my dirty bong, what the fuck,
what are you growing it for, right?
And that's a very true thing.
It's like, man, I can taste the spill through the dirty bong.
You can taste my stuff on the exhale, et cetera.
So there's different levels of how we see what is.
The whole concept of no two sentient beings
have the same perception of any other sentient being.
And you yourself, no one you've ever met
knows you the same way as the other person, right?
And you, your own egotistical, personal perception
of whom you are does not change.
Of whom you are does not coincide
with anybody else's perceptions of who you are, right?
Which means that we are actually as many people
as we have encountered other sentient beings.
Man, makes me think this way.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Someone gave me a hit of acid like a month ago.
I haven't had acid since I was arrested
for attempted manslaughter of a police officer
when he touched my 11 strip
that was left over from summer tour in 1989.
And like the fall color, I've had so much fucking work
that I haven't, I'm like, man, I went,
and I had this job that just kind of ended for the season.
I think I'm gonna go down south in the Red Rock
and walk around and blow my mind open again
on the next level.
So do I have a wormy?
I need a wormy.
It's a little chilly outside.
We'll go explore.
I just packed the greenhouse up.
Let's see.
Really good weed.
I had a wormy somewhere.
Here's one.
Oh, boy.
Boop, boop, boop, do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
Man, the colors on some plants went off this year.
This is one, a question I've had lately.
What exactly makes the,
where's the, somebody probably has the answers.
Why do some plants go multicolor and fade out
and others don't?
And then even then I know.
So it's gotta be something to do
with how much available nutrient there really is
in the long run.
I know the fading colors and the purples and things
definitely have to do with the sugars
are pulling back into the roots and stuff like that.
But like I can have a cup from the same plant
and it's not usually in the same year,
but they're the same time period.
I can have them in different systems at the same time,
but different, different crops.
Some will stay green, some will stay not green.
And you guys know I grow cactus.
You can see one right?
That's the mother ship that Peter Parisi
hooked me up with years ago.
And it's produced 300 feet in like four years
since I take cuttings and replant them.
All right.
Oh.
Down the, we've had some frosts coming
because at 40 degrees here,
we get this weird sublimation thing that happens
and all the temperature exchange and all that stuff,
it keeps like evaporating and makes it cooler on the surface
and then the surface sucks more water down to it.
It's dew, but it freezes cause it's cold
and then it sublimates out.
And here's a crazy one.
I had my greenhouse land ground is so fertile.
I planted one, one aloe like two years ago.
And it filled up.
I just had to get the space back
and it filled up all we got here.
Molting chicken.
This is an organic chicken.
You see like Peter showing these chickens
that it just did lost all its feathers.
Roo's losing some too.
Oh, the rain came hard.
Knock this one down.
This is the same Bernard that's a back cross with an odd.
Oh, there's a little bit of sativa form to it.
This is what most of the St. Bernard's look like.
All right, nice big chunky cola.
This is average, the smaller size on them.
I just let a couple of the later ones go through
and see how they're gonna deal with this frost.
Again, another one that I had to pinch the top on.
So here's a neat thing I'll teach you.
These things I was planning on
just growing them in these little pots,
but they were growing so aggressively
that I went ahead and dug them on in, right?
And let them root out.
And so what does that do?
It saves my good soil, doesn't put it into the garden
and I can pull them up.
It doesn't disturb them when they're transplanted
and kind of controls them a little bit.
So ain't disturbing the neighbors and such.
Here is actually, I let some of the very,
these are Beldea on the dry farm, right?
And I was hoping to dig up a root and show them,
but this didn't, now that it's wet, it's not gonna happen.
I gotta put the garlic down.
But this is like the very first one that went
and it just doesn't get any more riper
if you let it go any longer,
but that one's putting off some smell more than it did.
Here's the other one that just,
this is a volunteer that grew dry farm all summer
until I finished the Beldea, started watering it.
I believe it's a Hindu fish that dropped out.
And again, leaving it for some testing.
More of that St. Bernard, right?
So I had same deal through here.
Yeah, so this is where I had that dry farm of the Beldea,
right, all through here.
And yes, you can see some drip lines,
but there's a valve back there and I turn it off.
Here's some of them, let's see.
I've pulled in most of the corn
and what's left I wanna finish.
Chickens eat some of it.
See if there's any of that pretty blue color left in there.
Yeah.
So people, the question keeps coming up,
who's and what makes a breeder, right?
And I've been doing this corn project for 22 years now.
All right, all right, all right.
So tarps down under that thing.
We can see there's a whole lot of moisture
accumulating on the inside there, right?
And this works pretty good to help pull moisture out.
I mean, I should set up my dehumidifier as well,
but this cold surface, warm air in there
and it accumulates and condenses right there.
So I've got multiple series of time in here
and we've got stuff September one flips
through September 15 flips.
And then in the back, you can see I've got,
no, I've got, it's a desert here.
That's not gonna help me, but that's a great idea.
It's I got too much plant matter
is the biggest interior moisture problem.
And then it gets to deep freeze.
You see how the heat are going, but you can't,
when it's 20 degrees, you can't really be pumping dry air
and it just doesn't work, especially with the cactuses
and stuff and the citrus plants and the tomatoes.
There's a, let's see, I guess I can walk through here.
Here's, I got my basil, got, where is it?
There's an eggplant.
I've got all my chilies, right?
These chilies are three years running.
They need water bad.
I got everything packed in,
but I didn't necessarily tomatoes and things,
things cut back.
But this is right where this, this whole barrel pot is,
is where that aloe was grown.
And I got more back in there.
I got figs growing.
I got fence post cactus.
I got tomatoes just barely hold on down in the shade.
There's my eggplant, more peppers, right?
And so a lot of this is testing.
And then my personal headies,
this is the Dr. Dream Hulk here.
That one is Zacca Standy Rock Candy, I think.
I've got two phenos of that that I've been holding on to.
Um, that, this one's definitely a Zacca Standy Rock Candy.
So these are like September 15th or something.
And then I lose all my freaking light
is the sun goes below the trees here.
There's the Zacca Standy Kush.
Um, and then the leaves fall on the trees
and I get great light again through, you know,
until it's less than 10 hours.
And then you kind of,
of course not everything's perfect in here.
Having a job, everything's,
it's harder to keep everything going, taken care of.
And I'm probably gonna come through
and do another heavy defoliation pretty quick
just because this much stuff in here, here's a neat one.
This much stuff in here, there's not,
not enough light to get into the lowers and stuff,
especially down in here and whatnot.
So if I pull some of these leaf, right?
Like is able to come through.
West is to the right, east is to the, to the left.
And like over here though, I went with this cool crop.
Small pots again, planted in.
And I planted them in before I pulled the other crop out.
And you see everything's green out there
and these ones are yellow.
This side here had more crop in the ground competition
and didn't get the root out of the pot into the ground
and therefore less nutrient, right?
Smaller flower, less water, everything.
Okay, so mad science, not real science.
I have a degree in agriculture
and I do the experiments and observations,
but it's based in a lot of deep knowledge,
not just like, oh, I heard this, whatever.
And this just filled up yesterday
because we have this deep, deep winter coming in, right?
And so one week of 40 degree highs and down in the lows here
see them, that one's pulled out.
All of those were sitting right here
and I was just pulling a frost layer over them,
soil processing.
Again, I got so much freaking aloe, still growing.
More testers, right?
I seen, me and Gene just posted a whole bunch
of showing how he does the same thing
with testers and small pots and stuff.
And sometimes I'll put them into some others.
This is scrap.
Slurry cane into crap cush.
Chris Roberts, Afghan Pakistani.
Right, that's some stuff.
These are fucking insane.
There is some, these are for adults only though, right?
Yeah, these just got pummeled
with like two inches of rain yesterday.
That was the North Utah hash plant.
Here's a neat one I wanted to show everybody.
Maybe we can do this right now.
This is gonna be wet though.
People talk about doing potatoes in your root zone, okay?
So yeah, we're gonna do this right fucking now.
So this is a potato plant.
And I was gonna show this while this plant was in veg.
That's all potato plant.
See what we can do here.
I got an, let me try.
Let me try, I got a barrel right here.
Doing setup and tripod.
Oh, that's gonna fall over.
All right.
This is a sips right here, by the way.
It produced a beautiful plant as well.
Oh, I wish you could see all the worms underneath there.
Okay, so this whole thing is just solid root.
So if I wanted to dig out those potatoes,
I wouldn't be making holes for my roots.
I would be destroying the entire root zone, right?
Okay, that is why, not only that,
no, I'm gonna do this later.
It's just a lot of work, but look,
my Irish clown suit, cloud top, cloud bottom.
But, right, we can see that entire thing is root zone.
And you're destroying the roots to get these out.
The other thing is, it's real important to understand
is potatoes take the exact same nutrients.
Oh, this just broke.
I wanted to show this off.
It's not that one, it's over here.
This is cool.
Another volunteer.
Now I went ahead and scrogged it out.
But look at this.
See that split?
Let's see, can I zoom to that?
My hand is filthy now.
Let's see.
It split, and then that top held it together.
So that is a hole there.
Oh, you can see that shit.
Oh man, all this stuff just reeks of skunk right now.
I cropped it all yesterday.
All right, let me zip that back down if I can.
There we go.
Okay, these cups right here, I use,
these are for earwigs and pill bugs or whatever.
So pill bugs use oil.
Now I know that people buy them.
I'm gonna figure out another trap for them,
live traps that you can use wet cardboard and stuff.
But earwigs use beer.
No, I'm sorry, the other way around.
Earwigs is oil, just cheap oil,
and then pill bugs is beer.
Slugs go into the beer as well,
which reminds me, I got some in here.
I forgot to fucking get the salt for.
Anyhow, jimmy rig, prop it up, right?
I got, but it works.
Working on a budget,
because I got a passion to do this shit.
And, well, I moved my door.
I've got heavy duty frost cloth on this one doing that.
And then we're packed in here.
So this fucker here.
All right, so I'm at,
we're at eight and a half feet on the camera.
I'm holding it right now.
All right, so it's,
10 feet wide, and that thing's going,
that one goes across from the center and up, right?
So we got a tree,
and how do we define trees is tree trunk.
Okay, oops.
So this is one of these,
sorry.
All right, well, we got that.
And got a little electric heater in there I turn on.
It's just started up.
And, yeah, I got a bunch of cleaning up.
Getting this stuff into,
getting this stuff into the compost, right?
Compost is, here's a horrible,
this happens every year.
I got to figure out better bug control.
Most of these are salvageable,
and I can go through and harvest a lot of it,
but the best stuff.
All right, enough of that.
We'll get, we'll stay back to the,
connectors.
Here's a,
I got little gardens and composts all over.
This is some of the,
the attempts at dry farm and the corn,
what was like not bred to it, right?
I'm gonna do a whole dry farm review show,
but here's a volunteer that pretty much,
never got watered,
but once or twice.
Scraggly little fuckers, but,
I mean, I had,
I ended up with a dozen good volunteers this year.
It's time to get the garlic in, right?
Here's another year of,
multicolor corn.
This one's got the really high end,
white kernels and sweetness going on to it, right?
Oh, okay, let's see.
I'm gonna turn this around.
There's my ugly mug again.
Oh.
No, I can just do that.
So turn around.
Tomatoes got stripped out.
My daughter came by yesterday,
helped me strip out the tomato plants.
Yeah.
How long we been running here for?
35.
Oh, here.
I've got,
neat cuts.
I got cuts.
So,
let's see.
You don't got any questions for me.
Let's see.
I gotta wash my hands.
Shit.
Let's do that then.
Here's a neat one.
This is a,
quick reading, but,
right here is,
North Utah hash plant.
And,
what's this one?
This one's slurry cane right here.
And both of them got pollen,
last night,
out of my PBS pollen,
bag,
from a Nigerian Yoruba Bantu male.
Single male.
So that's gonna be some crazy shit right there, right?
Oh, here's a neat thing we can show off.
But that light don't work right now.
There's nothing here.
Maybe if we turn some more on,
I bet it's fuzzy for you guys.
Let's see.
I just got this guy here to defoliate it,
and it's gonna get broke down and moved in.
I wanna show you, look at,
look at how tight the fucking nodes are on this thing.
Now these aren't my genetics.
This is from Exotic Genetics,
and it's their,
look at this,
the bud spacing on it's all tight, right?
I just pulled all the major fans off of it.
And we wanted to show people this.
I might use it,
like all of the,
the 12 or whatever in the pack,
it was freaking,
all her meat,
it was mostly males.
I got one decent,
and I went ahead and kept the male that I liked,
and made another
batch of seeds from it.
And this was a volunteer
that grew from it.
And it takes forever to finish up,
and it has very, very little nose.
But otherwise, it's got those solid golf balls
just strung up right next to each other.
It's a great genetic for that commercial production thing.
I debate whether or not I wanna put any time
into trying to get it to stink,
because,
yeah, for fair use.
Here's the,
I got so much work I gotta do.
That's Beldea,
my main seed crop plant.
But then,
there's the main crop that's gonna get sifted here
the next day or two.
It'd be really neat if
there was space in between a Guerrero show
that I could actually do this live.
That's a whole nother thing,
is not people get to see this,
because that's running all the time.
It takes up the whole algorithm,
kind of sucks for,
awesome, they got an awesome show going all the time.
Here's the,
there's the one that was way bigger than pineapples,
and that's,
I don't got any way to really
get my hand over there at the moment.
I got so much shit piled up in here.
Yeah, that's the,
that's Beldea, it don't suck.
And that's dry farmed, right?
So, if y'all were catching that stuff,
I did not water those but once.
You know, I seeded them in March,
and we missed the rainstorm,
and then once in
late August,
and they were chopped mid September,
and that was,
so we had six inches of precipitation
from January 1st till they were chopped,
or maybe eight, seven or eight,
but then there was like two,
two inches of that would have been monsoon rain
scattered out and never penetrated through the
mulch layers, right?
So it just changed the humidity.
But we also had record heat this year,
more days over 107,
or at 107 than ever.
I think we had 22 or 24 days at 107.
In those days,
the relative humidity drops down to single digits.
It goes as low as nine, seven.
And then we still have 40,
40, 50 degree temperature swings.
It drops down cold and cooler at night,
and swings back up.
And they did get some radiation burn
on those super hot, dry days,
on a few of them.
But for the most part,
this stuff is pretty hard.
You know, I'm at 4,500,
and this stuff was heirloom or land-raised,
bred at like 9,000 to 14,000 feet.
So I really would love it
if more people could learn about the possibilities
of doing this.
And like Deepak Azarian from Full Power Selections
in Indian Land-Raised Exchange
is gonna send me some of the Bolchia stand to show.
I'm a little afraid,
because those things get huge.
And then,
but again,
we get about the same as they do
in those dry parts of Pakistan right here.
And so I've been working on this kind of stuff though,
for what?
30, 30 years, right?
Trying to get it all figured out.
How can we just natural craft this stuff,
and be as pure as possible.
And you know,
there's guys that have been hopped on the,
the Guero show to show you their dry farm.
And that guy, Robin is right.
Literally one of the first places I tried doing this
when I was in college.
He's like not 10 miles away
from where I dug my first hole
to try and dry farm guerrilla style.
Some cool stuff.
But again, you know, people up in,
where is it?
People up in the Triangle
who are doing this kind of stuff.
People are complaining about the ladies
that are on the aquifers.
Like, oh, you've got a tap room into the river basin.
It's like, they got 70 fucking inches of rain.
10 times what it took to grow that stuff, right?
So if you give that some thought,
like I literally believe,
and not again,
so I showed that corn a little bit ago,
the failed corn.
I didn't get,
it gets too fuzzy in the back corner
to show the full year that grew
from the strain that I bred for,
from Native American corns, right?
And that does much better as a dry farm,
just like the Hopi do.
And I use some Hopi strings in that.
So if we look at these concepts
of agricultural and sustainability
and true regenerative capacity
and what is actually terroir,
you know, the actual earth,
and we study our personal location,
our genetics,
I'm sorry, our geography
and our climatology, right?
And we can understand the weather.
And then we look at how plants grow in nature
and whether wild or these long worked heirloom,
regional heirloom land races,
that they work, right?
They aren't going out there necessarily
and putting plugs in the ground, are they?
No, they're broadcast seeding.
And quite often, they're not even,
they're letting the seed drop from the year before
in some of these places too,
like in the high Himalaya,
the Shiraz zones, right?
The police come in and chop it down.
They've got some reserve seed
and they go and broadcast it somewhere else.
But Pakistan and Afghanistan,
you know, they're, they've also,
I don't think they're drilling seed there so much.
It's kind of a broadcast and maybe raking it.
And I haven't seen,
I've seen so many videos of what the,
how they do their process and I haven't,
but whatever.
So what I've determined is
if you've got 20 inches of precipitation in a year,
you don't need to water.
You can find a plant that produces high grade craft quality.
You don't need to fucking water.
Every one of us knows someone who's had a volunteer
in their compost pile
and we've seen it on social media, right?
And they let it go.
And they're like, wow, look at this.
I never watered it.
It's one of the best plants I've got in the yard.
So if we do a little bit of selection and crossbreeding
and utilizing the,
the wolf and bringing it back into the pedigree dog, right?
All buzzwords.
Yeah, I'm not caring in the garage.
Just so many, it's the funniest shit.
I'm the person who taught these buzzwords 10 years ago.
The people who are saying it three times around.
So I'm trying to make traditional Moroccan belledia, hash.
Okay, something you can't get in the world.
And they actually dry it on rooftops in the sun.
All right, so I took that to dry it in the garage.
If you missed it, it froze last night.
I brought this in to pull the fan leaves off.
Let's go look at my curing process.
Yes.
What's.
So again, I use,
I use jars anymore primarily,
but I also use totes when I get enough.
The funniest shit.
So quite often I have to fill this whole closet up.
And right now, because everything else is full.
Love it.
This closet here has been my traditional.
And usually it's just a couple pounds in here.
I can dry it out, right?
So this stuff was all chopped yesterday morning.
It'll dry for four days, dry trim, and then cure.
So right now I need to actually refill my humidifier.
So we're going into a four by eight tent.
We got the humidifier, everything's in the dark.
All right.
And there's not enough light in here.
Let's open the other side.
Give it a good burp.
All right, so this is,
I like here actually.
And I'll dry trim this.
I've been too busy.
I would have had most of this done already.
But yeah, so I don't know.
That'll go into jars.
That'll go into, I used to just use turkey bags and stuff.
So kids who talk shit on the internet
don't know what the fuck they're talking about.
Wah!
I have been doing this for 35 years
and I do have a degree in agriculture.
And I studied under like medicine women,
cure herbs long before there was any science known to this.
Left California in 97, a year after we passed medical.
So it's people, you jump on, you see something,
you don't know what the fuck you're talking about
and just blast it out of your ass.
That is so fucking typical of industry today, right?
Buzzwords that everyone else uses because I taught them.
But I'm just a nobody here in the desert
with the rock over my head in the cave.
Okay, so this is what I've been doing
since about the year 90.
I bought my first, here, actually,
this is my very first trimming silk screen right here.
Let me turn this shit around.
All right.
So I have, there's my hash dryers.
I only worked the, this was zero temperature heat on it
and air flowing over it when it's below 50 degrees.
It's a wine chiller I can use in the summer,
but it's usually just too fucking hot
to even do the process.
It turns to goo before I can get it there.
What was, oh yeah, so silk screens.
All right, so there.
This is trim from St. Bernard.
And I just single balance dry trim over my silk screen.
And I'll run this through the silk screen two more times.
That's already full melt, five star.
So yeah.
I posted a really fun, oh yeah.
No, the dry farm and the old Mexican strains,
that's how I started.
That's literally how I started back in the day.
You know, I say I started selecting land-raised strains
in 85 and it's like by default, we didn't have a choice.
That's all we had.
It was what we got imported, right?
And so, but we learned a lot, right?
And people who like want to call themselves breeders
or whatever it is, you want to be an expert grower,
you should take some old shitty bag seed
and grow it and see what it does, right?
And so there was no selection of those plants in the field.
The males would like intersex pollination and everything.
So you get some really crazy expressions,
weak stems, small stems, but also some of those
are some of the very best things we can get.
I'm gonna go back and read some of these questions
in a minute here, but more buzzwords for you.
All right, so the runts,
and this is shit my mentor taught me,
Rip, hardcore, I'm sorry, different friend,
but those guys were connected to the hip when we'd ski.
So the runts, the ones that, not the strain,
but the smallest, scraggliest little plants,
quite often are the ones that have the best medicine,
that you're never gonna get anything better,
you know, before testing.
Those were the ones that were hitting over 30%
and they were just like all crystal.
There went nothing else there, right?
There's, they have different terpene profiles,
they have different stuff.
And I did this experiment when I was growing the PCK
and the PCK that I got, that I bred out the,
the Zachy Sandy Kush out of,
ended up having some sort of bizarre mutation going on
and I determined it's from inbreeding
because it had been selected by Canabidia
and they did their inbreeding selections
and released this seed.
This Chris Roberts fella got that seed
and he took it like seven generations.
And so my mentor told me it did have the PCK in the field,
he saw had the narrowest leaf he'd ever seen, right?
And dispelling those concepts of fat leaf, indica,
narrow leaf, sativa, and how the stuff,
you can't use narrow leaf to describe the chemistry.
And I, right, this is why I stand by these things
and use sativa and indica in context, right?
But in a different context for using them.
But I've taken these, the narrowest leaf,
the runtiest male I could possibly select
out of hundreds of these PCKs that I was running through
after I expanded the gene pool.
And I literally had to teaser out with a razor blade
and teaser some pollen from the anthers and the pollinate.
And that's, I created a hybrid of that
that produced the largest cola to date
grown in a five gallon pot.
Okay.
And there's people growing that,
the fuck is that one?
Sorry, that weed I smoked earlier has got me brain farting.
I can't remember the name of that strain at the moment.
So yeah, those runts quite often that we find
in these scraggly populations can be the things
that the true medicine comes from.
And that's where actual breeding comes from
is running through all these different,
yeah, I'm not gonna get into it right now.
I've got entire shows just talking about that.
Go back to my paradigm shifts and watch the entire show
where I talk about the etymology of the words,
where they originated from in the world and time
and how come they actually are valid use.
Okay.
And then like you can just blabber, blabber, blabber
all you want, but I've gone through and done the history
and showed the etymology of these words
and why they are valid use and everything we make up
until the future, until we actually do have proper taxonomy
to break it all down.
The biggest thing is using context
instead of not being fucking thinking you're on some high
horse telling somebody they're using the words wrong.
Ask them, what do you mean by that?
Right?
This isn't a competition.
It's all let's get people healed with a plant
and whether it's just getting high
because we're stressed out living in this fucked up society
that makes us rat race, right?
Getting people the right strains and everything.
It's, but everyone thinks like this kid earlier
was saying buzzwords.
These is buzzwords, tears in the garage.
Like, dude, like I literally, I hear,
I've heard you have George reusing stuff I taught
six, seven years ago in the land race traders club, right?
And he's using these words that you can't call buzzwords
about using land race and back crossing and shit.
All the shit that I was teaching years ago,
I actually taught him about where do we find the fields
for a skunk project is we need to go back
and get the shit from Afghanistan and bring it back in.
Okay.
And so like, I'm not known.
I actually just sent him a couple of messages asking him,
please, everyone sees you, hears you.
You're on all the fucking time.
Can you pass on this information?
No one hears me.
No one listens to me.
I get Utah shamed, et cetera.
Right.
But I left California in 97.
Remember that I've been doing this since 85.
I went to college to, right?
It's just what it is.
I've accepted the fact that that's how it is.
I'm gonna keep doing what I do and teaching people
and the people that hear are gonna hear it
and move forward with the information
and make the world a better place
in the meat scoot they were given to do it in.
Right.
All right.
I wanna look at some of these questions people were asking.
Let's see if I can move shit up.
Let's see.
Live, there's the chat.
Let's see.
Can I make it roll?
All right, here we go.
Do I make traditional hash or bubble hash
from the Moroccan belt?
So I'm gonna be doing a single bounce dry drop
with the Beldea and the original,
the main purpose of the Beldea
actually is a cancer medicine for my daughter's mother.
And it's a three to one THC CBD.
And so I'm just gonna pull the very finest off of that.
And then the rest of it's going into alcohol for a FICO,
low, slow, cold, THC, A and CBD with chlorophyll.
So again, that's what this stuff
drying in the garage is for.
Completely different concepts from,
I do, I tried a little bit,
I had some dry ice here from the restaurant I was working in.
They get dry ice ice cream deliveries.
And I tried, it wasn't dried all the way though, the Beldea.
And, but I just have a whole bunch of residual flour
from reading stuff sitting around
that I just shook out with dry ice hash
just because it's easy process, fast, blah, blah, blah.
I do make, but I've just recently gotten bubble
to be as good as what I just showed you
is that dry sift first drop.
After I sifted three more times and clean it up
and I cut the tails off
because the vegetative matter is lighter.
If there's any in there corruption,
it doesn't bounce through as quick.
You can do the stack and all that shit,
that stuff, I don't got time for it.
I don't got time for it.
I made good enough and I'm not selling it to anyone
who has a, I don't know anybody that buys hash honestly.
So I have pounds and pounds.
Someday, someday is gonna appreciate aged traditional,
but yeah, so I've been making,
trying to make stuff to press for,
I do know a few kids that like rosin,
but I can never get it to the press before.
It just goes full and I keep it in the fridge
and I might pull it out,
the look at it and stick it back in the fridge.
It just goes and fully melts together and recrystallizes,
you know, some trips come off and liquefy.
And so it's like, well, why even bother pressing
if I can produce hash that that's fucking good.
And I can dab it and it barely leaves a residue, right?
And all of that takes a lot of work, a lot of time,
a lot of study and other people's processes,
learning the whole freaking thing.
And let's see, Afghanistan is a TV, this hemp.
Yeah, no, people got to do different stories of this
till you've grown them all, right?
Chat is always right, don't you know,
amen, love and respect, heart.
Hey, it's all right, man.
We learned lessons, right?
But yeah, I get upset when people don't know
what they're talking to about me.
Because I get a hard time, I'm here where I'm at.
There's a lot of people don't even realize
that there's like real people all over the place.
Smoking some of that hardcore by Peach CBD Cross
I sent you seeds of,
it smokes like a one-to-one, nice.
And that's from Robin over in Central California.
He's doing the dry farming as well.
And we've been interacting, I'm sending him some seeds.
He's been sending me seeds.
Farming using less water is a good idea.
Yeah, no, especially here in the,
you know, we're in extraordinary drought, right?
They're just talking about the Mississippi River
just ran dry as well.
We had zero marks on Mississippi.
Supposedly these storms are gonna recharge a little bit,
but Mississippi doesn't run dry, does it?
They have zero elevation marks
on many parts of the river this week in the Mississippi.
So it's not just everywhere, the West,
it's everywhere needs some thinking about
how do we fit these genetics in looking at,
so I saw you rambling earlier,
got off on a drought-tolerant easiest to hunt for,
but you miss out on lots of the,
if that's all you look for from the start.
Yeah, and that's with anything.
That's a great point.
Doesn't matter, I tell the story about the 22 Monterey Pine
that we see all the dead forests
in the Lord of the Rings movies, right?
And they bred a 22-year rotation Monterey Pine
for world production of timber.
And the only thought was we're breeding
for speed of production, right?
And they bred out all disease-resistant.
So these things got seven, 10 years old,
they're halfway to harvest,
and they all croaked from some disease came through
and wiped them out, right?
And so, yeah, if we're just selecting for drought tolerance,
you might lose terpene, like I've got,
been working on the St. Bernard
and trying to get it to the earliest production, right?
And so I got stuff, it's flowering first of April,
dropping pollen, or August,
but I've like lose terpene a little bit, right?
Or some volume in the ones that,
and so all that sets a trade-off.
And that's where I preach about bringing land races in,
because you've bred out something like stem strength
or disease resistance, and this is the wolf, right?
You hear people using this buzzword
about breeding with the wolf,
and I'm the one that taught it, okay?
And you just haven't heard me say it,
because I don't, I'm not, this is me,
this is my publicity is this little teeny show,
and my Instagram that I'm like totally,
some weird logarithm rock on there.
I get very little exposure through there.
They want me to pay them, I think is what it is.
I'd say if I pay them 30 bucks,
they'll show it to as many people as follow me,
but I do this for free.
So yeah, that's a pretty good roundabout,
back in the seat, not done this one for a while.
And again, yeah, it's lessons, right?
And where do we take things to?
Where, why do we wanna do these things?
What are we doing them for?
It's definitely not money at this point.
That's something Kevin has definitely,
I've been hearing him say, and a lot of other people,
it's like, yeah, if you're making money at this,
you're doing something.
There's the super flood, right?
The progression is like, I used to get 400 prepaid an ounce,
and then Colorado came along, and people were like,
I can get it for 200 an ounce.
Like, look, you're buying a pound, buy a pound.
And then it was Oregon came legal,
and it was, we've gone to $50 a pound.
I'm like, you're buying 10,000 at a time?
The fuck?
But the year Oregon came legal,
there was so much freaking overgrow that I didn't,
I almost lost my house.
I had to get help from people to pay my mortgage,
because this stuff just sat, and I have now,
every year a little bit accumulates,
as there's so much.
Anyhow, let's see, is there any more?
A chat said, I think it's gonna be like,
a four-year-old skunk male, generational,
disease, excellent.
Does it have the feel, Brian Jones?
Do you get the feel expression from that thing?
That's the thing that I've been searching for is feels.
And I wish I had the laboratory access
to test for things like that,
because it's just down to my nose.
And one reason I wanna, this has been great for two years,
but at some point, all this is coming off,
because I can only smell so much through it.
But it also allows me to tell
which ones are literally the strongest.
It doesn't mold.
Western New York.
Yeah, so I've done some breeding for places
like Western New York, where it's moldy.
And I have one called the Peacemaker I made,
where I crossed, oh shit, India's,
is there anyone who picked the seed for me particularly?
Saw the plant and says, I'm picking those for Alex.
And, damn, I'm sorry, brain farting on the strain name,
but it's big open sativa,
like all the flowers are foxtail.
Big, huge arm length.
He used the picture I sent him,
of a huge arm-sized foxtail cola branches.
And then I crossed that one to the PCK.
Call that the Peacemaker.
And the concept being having something
that's maybe a little more, you know, it's a true F1, right?
So you're gonna have a small distribution
of basic phenotypes, and they're gonna be leaning
towards the PCK, leaning towards the, sorry,
other one, and then the hybrid in between the two,
there's gonna be like maybe three of those.
And the hybrids, the ones we're looking at
for those northern latitudes,
where you have the sativa structure,
and then the small little dense nuggets of PCK
growing at intervals along that, right?
And those are ways we can think about,
instead of like, whoa, I wanna take
one of these hype strains,
you can create something like that,
or think about the land race like that,
and like, how can I open up those hype strains?
People aren't really smoking flowers,
they just want the big pops that are gonna be dense,
and then the rest of it can go into a wash, right?
And that produces a multi-spectrum product,
and it works in your landscape, right?
Diana Oji gave me some Wahakengold from Cryptic Labs,
and I have a mail that was surrounded by PM.
Yeah, you know, and different kinds of PM, too.
So I'm gonna, there's,
I don't get any PM here in my cannabis,
but I have tons of PM on all my tomatoes and squash plants,
sets in like, first day of September.
So there's different strains of PM
that I don't necessarily wanna bring it in here
to test it on.
And let's see here.
How do I bring,
my chat, there's that.
There were some more questions before.
I got a couple of minutes left here.
Biodynamic gardening methods.
I do utilize,
biodynamic is,
on face value, it looks like witchcraft,
but it was pre-science when they developed that stuff.
And if you think about it,
there's two different things that are going on.
They're producing, they're creating a bunch of microbes
in these concoctions.
It is a buzzword that people do try and throw around.
The main thing I utilize biodynamic for in my garden
is when I'm having a hard decision,
when it's time to chop a crop,
I will, and then also I'll,
I look at moon cycles and shit like that in my planting.
And if it does nothing more
other than gives me a time schedule,
that's what it's doing.
But, I'm not gonna get into the whole,
because it borders on bro science
when we start talking about,
this is what moon does,
this is what gravitation does,
this is what, right.
And so again, biodynamic looks like,
it looks like witchcraft on the surface,
but when you really examine it
and understand it was created when,
as a replacement for the new chemistry that came up
back around the last turn of the century.
Excuse me, I need some water,
but they didn't really necessarily have access to science
as we do as folks, right.
And my dad, after I grew my organic farm for five years
and only thing I could ever tell him was like,
fuck the weed dad,
was like, well, you can't blame your great uncles
for having taken on those magic sprays, can you?
They killed them in the long run.
That was difficult.
All right, well, I usually do this for an hour.
We're a minute over an hour.
So, we should tune in next week,
same bat channel, same bat time,
and we'll do it again.
I appreciate y'all.
Thanks for the conversation.
And sorry if I missed your chats there.
I only get so much of that.
And y'all have a great day.
Go out in the world and make it a better place.
Let me see you as given to do it in.
Appreciate you.
Peace out.
Let's see, and I go right there.
