Oh, hey, we gotta go.
Sorry, folks.
Don't always have everything set up all the time.
Here we go.
Hey, that's me.
There you are.
Thanks for joining us.
What we got today?
Oh, I'm looking for, I'm looking for, there it is.
Would y'all come for him?
Morning, everybody.
Kind of got it just started right before,
so the notifications didn't go out.
People start popping on in chat here today.
Trying to figure out my way, just like everyone else
in another day.
Couldn't find my keys for an hour.
Now I see them at my feet right here.
So I was busy this morning, and I didn't
get things set up as usual.
And we're going to try, I'm just going
to have a little discussion on what's going on right now.
Because it's springtime, and we just passed solstice,
and time's passed.
It's not the same as time's present,
and we're always looking for the future.
But we got to be here and now.
So I've been trying to do the review of my Instagrams
and share that information with people,
and kind of go back over all those lessons.
I teach quite a bit in there, but those things
are hard to access.
So one of the things that I've come to realize here
with this new phone is that the viewership is down,
primarily because my imagery sucks on my computer cameras.
And one of the things I was trying to do this morning,
and I just didn't get enough time from when I woke up,
was how to use my phone.
And this new phone doesn't actually
have a jack after you've got Bluetooth,
so I'm learning a whole new process of how
to cloud and everything.
Old dog, new tricks.
Takes a minute.
And so what are we doing?
Let me grab something.
I haven't even pulled it out of the box yet.
Got myself a camera stand and light and all that shit.
There's things I do that I've been trying for years
to try and figure out how do I.
My daughter's like, get a tripod.
I'm like, tripod for the phone?
And then I realized they have these little clamps and shit.
So we're not all building up everything.
And one of the ones I started doing here
is because of this blood clot in my spleen,
is I had to quit coffee.
And I went for a while without any.
I made it like three weeks.
And then it's like, you know, I really enjoy a cup.
But how can I enjoy a cup without?
How do you enjoy anything more than just overusing and abusing?
We're going to side here is one of the things I advocate people
is to take a fast from whatever it is.
And primarily, we need to fast our cannabis every once
in a while and reset our consumptions
and our tolerances.
I know some people have pain issues to where they can't
really do that.
And it doesn't work.
And just changing up our strains up
and make that help for them.
And sometimes, it doesn't matter what it is.
We can be consuming too much of any given thing.
I know I get to ski in too much.
Sometimes, I really enjoy skiing.
And at this job, on the best days,
I kind of tend to refuse breaks.
Because I know I go, I'll go and hurt myself
because I'm having too much fun.
I cut loose.
So I always like coffee.
Don't need as much as I've always drank.
And how did I reset?
So one of the things I did was I started,
like I really like my coffee.
And I hate the cheap stuff that's instant.
And I broke out the mortar and pestle.
At the same time, my coffee grinder broke.
And utilizing a mortar and pestle
to grind your coffee, right?
And so you have a much more higher appreciation for it.
And actually, I hadn't had drinks.
And I kind of quit drinking in October.
But I really haven't had drink at all in three months,
or three or four weeks since I was
diagnosed with this blood clot.
And I went in because I see my friends.
I pray a ski in the bar.
And I went ahead and had a nice salty margarita like I like.
And the salt really retains your hydrology and stuff.
And I sip that over the course of an hour and a half,
talking to some friends instead of drinking three of them
in an hour and a half.
But I still had a wonderful experience
of the flavors and a little bit of alcohol.
And I could feel it relaxing my muscles a little bit.
And it was a lot more like a microdose.
But I got this because I really wanted to,
I want to make a video of grinding coffee beans by hand
and doing things.
And so I know I'm a lot different than most people.
I've always liked the simpler ways of doing things.
The road less traveled is the more rewarding road, right?
And I actually have my grandmother's hand grinder box.
We could run down and grab that.
And I could show you.
Here, go ahead up here.
I think it's downstairs in the, yeah, above me.
Some of you have seen I have a collection of antiques
and bottles and things up there.
So less is more, right?
And I grew up, some of you might know,
I grew up with great blessings in Southern California
and had beach all the time and stuff.
And I always preferred a sailboard over a jet ski.
Jet ski is fun.
Sailboard is technically more rewarding when you actually
are able to get that speed up and do the things
that you can do on a sailboard, right?
All my friends I grew up with had Boston Whalers,
little power boats, right?
And I always wanted to be on a catamaran.
I really enjoyed hanging out with the guys
on their power boats.
We had some fun.
But when you could get on a catamaran
and get that sail cranked, and you're up on one pontoon,
and your buddy's flying the trapeze,
it's a whole other level, OK?
And so here we are discussing the stuff
on the show, The Paradigm Shift.
And the entire concept of The Paradigm Shift
is that we get set in these group think, mindset
way of doing things, right?
I really, really, really enjoyed my Chevy truck
hauling ass uphill after I drove my old leaky Volkswagen
and spit fuel and literally shot fuel
off the side of the carburetor.
I was down in Mexico in Punta Conejo and Rabbit Point.
We were coming back from Cabo San Lucas.
And there's three salty dogs and five surfboards
and a conga drum and two guitars.
And we get down this road, and it's way out
in the middle of nowhere.
And I look in the engine.
There's gas squirting out the side of the carburetor.
And I'm like, that ain't good.
So failing wire and duct tape, put my engine back together
for the next 1,000 miles home to California.
Simpler, easy, but that power in that Chevy
is pretty fucking awesome, right?
Brrrr.
But I also, so at the same time, I had a bicycle.
And it finally got stolen here once I moved to Utah
out of the back of my truck.
But I really rode my bike.
I would park my car in college.
I had a Hot Rod Volkswagen, Stinger, dual Webbers,
a big old fat mud tire.
It was like a eight point welded internal roll cage
on the Baja Bug, right?
And I parked it one time.
Actually, it happened twice where I thought
I'd been stolen, because I couldn't remember
where the fuck I put it, because I'd been so long,
a month or two, between driving the damn thing.
I rode my bike everywhere, 250 miles a week, right?
300 miles a week sometimes.
And we'd do like century bike rides for fun.
Actually, it was part of training for triathlons,
but that was fun too.
So what I'm getting at here is there's different ways
of perceiving the universe and how we interact with it.
And just because like, you know, that gas
is 13 miles to the gallon in the truck.
It was excellent for moving through the snow.
It was excellent for when I had a tree service
and I was hauling around a 13, 14,000 pound loaded trailer
and all my gear and the tree trimmer and whatnot, right?
But for driving around country, it's not the best thing.
So we have, we just, everything,
we have different aspects of intense energy input
versus returns, right?
And we always need all that stuff.
And so that's kind of leads towards
where I was getting today with land raise and dry farming.
We don't necessarily always need that moonshine ever clear.
Ever clear, right?
And sometimes it's nice to mix that moonshine ever clear
with a bunch of punch and mellow it out, right?
Tuck tape is awesome.
Duck tape always works.
I actually, I got a video.
I got to figure out how to load this thing up.
This stuff takes forever and hopefully Google cable
or whatever that's gonna be, is gonna be here.
Google fiber soon.
I think they're putting it into local neighborhoods here
and I'll be able to start uploading some better video
in real time.
I can never really get this whole editing thing figured out.
I just edited some video last night
and it went into the cloud
and I can't get it onto YouTube.
I'll get there.
Yeah.
So, so,
brain fart, saw something and that happens
when I look at the chat,
what it would throw me off there.
I can't see everybody on here at once.
So I can't do a shout out there
when effectively I have to spin through it all.
But good morning to everybody.
Everything in moderation, including moderation.
Sure.
Right, I get a little bit going crazy.
If anyone sees my personal YouTube, Alex Hardy,
you'll see me doing some real,
check out the six figure ski bum as well.
It's a whole nother.
And I still haven't really done a whole lot with it
because I'm trying to figure out
how to upload this stuff in longer terms.
But I want to make some meditation shorts for my
ambrosia and soma or soma ambrosia, I'm sorry.
I'm dyslexic, I can't remember which one it is.
But yeah.
So I'm heading towards those kinds of things,
but I want to record everything that I'm doing here.
And one of the things I want to show you,
I was trying to figure out this now,
right before we set up this, how do I do,
I can get director's view on this phone.
And I don't know if it means I can just,
I don't know if I can do it live.
And I want to figure that out
because what I want to show you guys today
is some of the stuff that's going off in my yard.
And my phone's plugged in.
So we're going to hold off on that
until I go outside because it was charging.
But I want to show you some other things
that I've been working on.
And so landrace and landrace breeding,
and then bringing it back into, I'll show you.
So I've started some Valeria.
I want to show you the Valeria outside,
but in the meantime, right here,
and this is just, I have no extra light.
We'll just see how this picks up.
But I took my, no, the Zacchistanis, right?
And this here was crossed with the GMO.
Let's see, does it focus at all?
It's not, I'm shaking too.
I don't know.
Anyhow, this guy is like,
I'm getting three times a bigger cola.
And it still has some, so I'm calling it a Z-Funk.
And the stuff is pretty, so it's just,
it just went in the jar.
And I had, you know, I left the males in too long
when I grew this on the stress test.
And this was fully grown in the stress test
in a teeny little pot with hardly any nutrients
and fucked up light.
This camera's pretty good, but it's not that good.
Anyhow, that's not working the way I was hoping it would.
The Zacchistani, so like when I cross different,
you cross these different land races
into these polyhybrids,
and you're gonna get different results, right?
So when I did like the red dragon, right?
And that's more, so I had the Nigerian
already crossed into a poly,
but more of an open flower, right?
And that totally had big open flowers.
Crossing the Pakistani or the Zacchistani,
I think this one, this is the Zacchistani rock candy.
So these were the slurry cane, right?
Again, this made much, much larger flowers
and they're still retaining,
because the Pakistani can definitely have
nice hard, solid crystal covered.
I mean, you've seen some of the mails I've posted.
That's one of the things I wanna review.
I didn't turn this up.
You're not gonna see it, nevermind.
The smell's coming off of this one.
I had to re-veg it, because the phone didn't go.
It just, yeah.
Anyhow, instead of going back
into all those polyhybrids and stuff, right?
You get all sorts of mixed results
and you get a lot closer to the same results
when you use your,
a very well inbred line of a landrace, right?
So I've discussed this in the past shows
where it's not necessarily,
I believe this is the wine.
And then some of these are purple and whatnot,
but this is the grape pie.
And the grape pie was just like, it's all leaf almost,
but it's all covered with frost, so it makes great hash.
And this turns this in,
all of these into big smoking flower, right?
Instead of this larky or small little just frosty flower.
The same stuff, and I put most of it's all in the freezer.
I did not jar up tops from everything I tested this year.
And I'm just pretty much,
everything's going into the freezer
for fresh frozen at this point
for high-grade solventless medicines.
I just, I can't find a better use for it.
Let's see.
I'm just a rambling.
I was gonna compare some flower sizes,
but it's not even coming in.
But I do have the original GMO.
I could have shown you the difference there and it's,
yeah.
So I'm wondering if I'm plugged in enough here.
Dude, there's fucking insanely stinky.
You can't hear them scream over that loud.
Yeah, they're extremely stinky, extremely loud.
So the Z Funk,
which is the GMO by a Zafkastani Kush,
which is my multi-generation inbred PCK,
purple Pakistani Sichel Kush, right?
Originated from Canada,
and I got it from a guy who had inbred several generations
and bred it several more,
and I took it into a couple of directions
in this one particular,
it has frosty males.
It's super stinky.
A couple of times there's some,
in the pack, there's not gonna be necessarily,
there's gonna be some diversity of the size of the PCK
because, but it seems to,
when I've hybrided out here,
really, really be doing a good job
of keeping awesome structure, solid flowers.
Didn't have any scragglers.
Pretty intensive light stress testing.
With leaking and low light source when I'm flowering,
I did very intensive pH swing,
nutrient starvation, root binding,
and root rotting on this cycle.
And I got just incredible results on all of these things.
It just blew my mind.
The Who's Your Mama also did incredibly well.
That one, the Z Funk, though,
the one with the GMO,
the GMO, out of all these cuts
that I was given to work with from the Clone Ferry
a couple of years ago,
the elite known names, et cetera,
give me a little bit of product recognition
for folks to understand and see the whole process I do
with something that they already know.
The GMO is the one that showed
any hermaphroditization to me, right?
And there's other issues with some of the others,
like the Rainbow Sherbert,
too, tends to have
a propensity to bud rot
and a hard time cloning, eye finding.
But it's nice trial crossing.
Everything I've trial crossed to it.
I think I have way better turf profiles on this
Zaccastanny than I did with the FF1 Red Dragons.
With the FF1 Red Dragons,
the ones that have the stank, really stank,
there was just this more, some of the,
I don't know if you take, or icing,
where it just has a sweetness to it sometimes.
But the one, you know,
you get six of those and one or two of them
are gonna have that stink and a couple of others aren't.
But with the, again,
so that polyhybrid of the dragon,
there's more diversity I'm seeing
than the more inbred direct land race breeding
crosses, right?
And that's typical and should be the way that is.
Let's see.
Anyone got any questions right now
where I'm sitting?
I'm just kind of letting the phone charge a little bit.
I wanted to walk outside and,
oh, looks like I got a chicken out.
Oh, she's trying to get into the small greenhouse.
I just closed up.
She did.
And she's got, she lays her eggs in there
underneath my Hydro, my Emix,
Ecosystem Mimicry Energy Cycling System, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So land race allows us some different things
when we get backbreed into it.
And dry farm, land race and dry farm,
I put those both on the title here.
So these things here were definitely not there.
And I don't, I haven't been doing any
under the lights lately,
except for this time of testing and stuff.
Moving more and more towards the,
I've run into friends who, you know,
at the ski job and stuff,
everyone goes off to legal states to grow cannabis
or has friends who do,
or they help move product on the gray market for them,
whatever it is.
There, one of the biggest things in California
that comes back is the small operators are losing out
because of water permits, right?
And that's something, if you pay attention,
you're observing.
Anywhere you go, you're gonna have water issues.
The cost of water is expensive.
And people who like to super intensively water things
without microclimate protection
or artificial microclimate,
like I use my low tunnels,
I use the poly fiber and things like that, right?
You, depending on your environment
can really lose a lot of water too.
We here locally, I'm in extraordinary drought conditions.
We had a pretty sad snowfall again.
Virtually I shoveled twice all winter.
So we don't have a lot of rainfall.
They don't have a lot of rain water, groundwater.
And so if we take what is our end goal in mind, right?
We start realizing that so much of the industry
is moving towards solventless extract, for instance, right?
And it's really gonna be kind of one of the craft end games.
And then, but just extracts in general
is a huge part of market, right?
So we're not necessarily looking for this perfect jar appeal
we're looking for.
And I didn't even dry trim that stuff.
It's, I pull off the big leaves and that's it.
And so how do you, how can you reduce costs?
And especially watering is a huge cost.
It doesn't matter where you're at
unless you have sufficient rainfall,
people are gonna, or for what it is you desire to do,
people are adding water.
Now, when we back cross into these base land races,
I advocate, yeah, a lot of stuff needs to get back
across a lot of stuff, but there's,
so again, if we want seed stability
or if we're looking for clones to reproduce
in a personal medicine,
there's a whole bunch of different purposes for,
different purposes for having a seed
and you're going through a pack of seeds, right?
And so if you want a bunch of seeds, it's all the same,
you're looking definitely for something that's more inbred
to an F3, F4, F5, F6, F15s, whatever.
But the F1s and 2s, you're gonna be,
so depending if it's a true F1, not polyhybrid, right?
If it's a true F1 where you've got something
that's kind of stabilized as in a clone
and you hit it with something that's like,
as inbred is like 10 generations of this IBL PCK
that I call Zacchostanian Kush,
it gets to become pretty uniform, right?
And the same thing, like when I outcross
with the Nigerian dads, right?
You get, if I take a single Nigerian dad,
you're gonna get a huge outcrossing.
And so that's what I'm doing right now
is I've taken all three generations
of my new Nigerian dads as well, or seed.
I've got 22 plants right now
and it's gonna be a full open pollination
of all my three, the original
and the two selection cycles I've done of that
to just do management preservation.
But that stuff, it, everyone says when they plant it,
they don't gotta do shit with it and it grows like,
it can grow 20 feet in a good garden
and it'll grow six, 10, 12 feet in one
where you just neglect it.
And that's that Nigerian Yoruba Bantu.
Again, that's been inbred for whatever, 800 years
or thousands, a thousand generations.
And so when you cross those,
you get pretty stable F1 crosses, right?
But if you're crossing polyhybrid to polyhybrid,
your cross isn't gonna be,
it's gonna be extremely more diverse.
So the more poly you've got in one side or the other,
it makes a huge difference.
And if you can get stable, like advanced,
what we really like to see for osteogenetics
and cross them up like I did with this Zac-istantic fish,
you get the kind of sentiment there
where it all comes out stanky fresh
and there's already stinks in that Zac-istantic,
it's just amazing.
So, but in all these regions,
they don't do a whole lot of irrigation, right?
And the primary end product quite often
is actually a concentrate and dry sifting
or whatever it is.
So it's just the thought of changing
how people look at things, right?
And so I'm not that popular
because most people like to really like
give their water addiction to the plant
and pump the water in.
And it's just my personal experience
that you don't have to if you put your mind to it.
And one of the key things is dropping tap roots, right?
And so right now, ground fog goes on in a lot of places,
we're thawing up a little.
You look around and you see your sunflowers right now,
lettuces and things like that.
If anything went to seed in your garden
and the seed blew around,
you're gonna have that kind of stuff
that's starting to sprout, right?
Arugula's been up for a while.
Brassicas will start popping
if there's any seed left sitting in the ground.
And of course, ground temperature makes a difference
and all that stuff.
So in my time in Alaska on Fort Wainwright,
we had a pretty neat example of ground temperature
being a limiting factor for plant growth.
And this is a very true thing,
but the seeds, if they're naturalized
over a couple of seasons,
and if you're utilizing that ground,
and then this is stuff that you might not be able to afford
to pay somebody for a thousand seeds.
So it's something you need,
take some time and figure this out yourself
or you'll find somebody who can,
that you can get that base stock
where you broadcast or drill, right?
At the right time or have it in there in the fall
and let it overwinter and pop on its own.
There's different ways to set that timing,
looking at your own moisture and temperature regimes.
I've shown, I showed this winter seedlings
that popped in the fall,
making it down into like 16 degrees, no problem.
And I screwed them up,
we were heading down into the single digits
and I took them into the greenhouse for two weeks
and brought them back out and they adapted and warmed up
and softened up a little bit, started growing.
I brought them back out and they killed them, right?
And so that shows exactly what I screwed up.
I should have left them outside,
just shoveled some snow over them and kept them insulated.
But that can, if you have some places green up in the fall
and get a little water, a little bit of rain
and some places don't actually freeze hard.
When I lived in San Luis Obispo,
I noted that it was actually mid-December
when the seeds that would get thrown out
of from partying in the college house
may all start popping up on the,
around the front porch, right?
And that would be mid-December, right?
So depending on your observation and your temperatures,
oh, I was talking about Fort Wainwright.
So we had this, the temperature of the soil
being a least limited factor.
And there was the field we exercised on
and it had the steam pipes,
went from the steam plant to barracks
or buildings across the military base.
And they were like buried six feet down or whatever it was.
But there was just this line of green grass
where the steam pipes ran, right?
And it pretty much stayed green all freaking winter there,
even with no light,
because it was warm enough for the roots to work, right?
And so plants that are adapted to the cold temperatures
can and do, it's been freezing temperatures out here
at night, some nights, but we're,
our last frost here is Mother's Day,
essentially is planting date around here.
And so a few days before that
is usually our last latest free frost,
but the ground still can freeze here.
I get ice buckets and stuff
and the Veladia is up and sprouting.
And I put it down about a month ago, I think, right?
And I put down just three rows of it tightly spaced
as I've seen, I used to follow some guys
who live up in the Atlas Mountains and stuff on Facebook
and they would show their entire process
and they seemed to look like they were,
I never saw them toss a seed,
but the way they were growing just a thick carpet of plants,
it looked like it was pretty much a broadcast seeded, right?
And so the Veladia up there in that super high elevation
and stuff, for whatever reason,
it's their first harvest and it's basically done,
it starts flowering at solstice
and up in that super high elevation,
they're nine to 11,000 feet up there where they're growing.
And it's right near the equator somewhat
or Mediterranean even.
For whatever reason, that stuff,
it's done by first, second week of August.
And so they harvest it and set it aside
and then they get their next crops coming in after that.
So I'm hopefully gonna get something like that
will happen here and I'm gonna do my best not to water it.
I watered in twice because we were supposed to have storms
and I just mocked the rain.
The rain didn't really come down here,
my head is so freaking dry,
but there is some ground moisture
and they're dropping tap roots right now.
And I'm gonna go on out there
and there's a couple of them that are sprouted up close
together and stuff and we'll just, they're too close,
I need to pull some anyhow.
So I'll dig a couple of tap roots out
and show you what's going on with that
and how the tops don't really start growing so fast.
And let's see, what else?
What else?
I think, where did I put, just had that in my hand.
I wanna find, I wanna take a puff
before I step outside honestly.
I had some really bad arthritis this morning.
I just had, I'm sorry, there it is.
Oh, my fire kit.
All right, cool.
How's everyone doing today, huh?
You guys, is it spring where you're at?
Anyone gonna grow some land raise?
Anyone trying, anyone besides Robin doing some dry farming
out there, trying it out, you know?
I always say don't do your whole fucking farm like this
to start with, you need to experiment,
you need to try a couple of different types of seed
and stuff and this is, again, things that I've been,
I have a degree in agriculture
from the School of Agriculture, actually it's forestry,
so that is agriculture, growing trees is a little different
than carrots, but it's mostly in time span.
Two inches of snow for Cazo, buffaloes always spring.
You can provide a fair amount of moisture, yes.
You know, there is, I'm trying to remember
if it's 40 to 70 inches of dew fall on the California coast
from fog in the redwoods each year.
So, no, no, diatomaceous, I think I have,
and besides diatomaceous earth, what else is there?
There's some neat clay you can drink too, right?
Impact is low, cost is low, cost of pumping water is low,
cost of water shares is, I mean, cost of pumping water
is high, cost of, oh, you're having problems
from too much dew.
Yeah, I guess that can cause mold issues and stuff.
I didn't see, yeah, is that what you were saying?
Everything was going by so fast there,
sorry about that, Robin.
Buenos dias a usted también.
Yeah, the dampen off, all that can,
and once that stuff, once you get those freaking things
in there, the root rots and stuff of the babies,
that stuff is horrible, and really the only thing
you can do for them is just sterilize the soil
or huge, huge amounts of labs.
And have I tried, personally, I'm trying to think,
just drinking dew, okay, so when I went to college
in San Luis Obispo, this is the closest thing
to dew harvest I've ever done, is,
you're all gonna trip on this, but I didn't cut my hair for,
I stopped cutting my hair when I was 18.
Stopped playing football, and that's actually
the only time I ever cut my hair was each year
for football season, and so if I was sitting on a hilltop
in the dew, fog, after hiking up the mountain, right,
and usually it wasn't like all my hair hanging out,
there might be a couple of draps, couple of things
like this hanging in the breeze, right,
and I could be sitting on top of, for instance,
I could remember sitting on, oh shit.
Can't, I just have the name of the town,
the mountain in my head, and it went away.
But so I'd be sitting there in the fog and the wind,
and it'd be blowing through your hair, right,
and it would literally, you'd start getting dew
glistening on your fucking hair, and after hiking
up the mountain, I was training for firefighting
or whatever it was, I'd be thirsty, and I'd just,
and I could drink the fucking dew off of my hair.
I've never set up a harvester or anything like that.
Currently, with this mustache, I get all sorts
of condensation, water, right, it actually,
literally I have to now, I rarely share a pipe at all,
but if I'm sharing pipe, I have to tell people
that it's mustache water, because in the cold
when it's freezing out, and I'm just breathing
through my nose, all this ice forms up there, right,
and that's just how things are.
Yeah, so it's not even the certain soils,
as far as not watering, it's timing and utilizing
the natural cycles of water, so if we look around you,
all of the plants that grow naturally
do not have irrigation, right,
and cannabis is called ditch weed, you know,
for a reason, because it grows like a weed in ditches,
because it doesn't need, that's where there is more water,
and the words from the guy who I got
the New Mexico land grant from, which is the only I know
of North American land race, would've come
from the Spanish land grant that was granted in 1700
in the same family, and the grandfather
from the guy I got it from says it was old
when he was a kid, and it has been there forever,
and we can conjecture that the priest brought it
and they set up the reals in that location,
in that area back in the late 1500s, early 1600s, okay,
and anytime between 16 and 1700 there, it went feral,
and it grows all over the mountainsides there,
and when Nixon said, hey, I don't eradicate, right,
and war on drugs and eradicate all the feral cannabis
in America, right, and this guy, all his neighbors
went out and actually did it, and he said, fuck that,
this is all part of the land now, and part of the heritage,
and I'm not destroying this genetic heritage
of mine here on this land, and so I got it from the kid
who inherited it from his grandfather, right,
it's been in the same land forever, and his words were,
it grows all over the mountains on the dry, barren hillsides.
It grows in the arroyos, it grows on the hillside,
rocky mountainsides, and it grows on wet years with rain,
it grows everywhere densely, and on years
where there is no water, it grows only in the rills
and the arroyos, all right?
So we're talking the New Mexico panhandle
of the Rocky Mountains, one of the drier places,
you can definitely compare that to Nevada and here in Utah,
being extremely dry places, so it's super adapted,
the plant can do this, but it's the paradigm shift, right,
of overwatering, and most people who are actually trying
to do these kind of things live where there's
a lot of rain or groundwater, okay, and that is,
those are definitely benefits to the process
if you have those available to you, but thinking,
observing, testing, and selecting is all any of us
really, really need.
I see Mount Shasta question, I don't, that's probably,
yeah, that'd be a great place to do it at, definitely.
There's all sorts of freaking groundwater
flowing off of Shasta through the volcanic soils up there.
And yeah, overwatering, so some plants,
like from tropical sativas are adapted
to more moist environments, right?
They have naturally selected to those higher levels of,
so if you're having issues with moisture,
those are things you want to look at backcrossing
to utilize for your, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
yeah, the blue unicorn with pink highlights,
pink and electric blue, right, these are my favorite.
And so, yeah, those are things you gotta look at,
your environment, the issues you're having,
if you are having issues, right, if you need water,
but what's interesting is a lot of those tropical sativas
are also highly adapted to drought
because they have monsoon seasons
and they have dry seasons, okay?
And people who, if anyone's watching in from a tropical zone
you can tell us about your weather, right?
But my experience and knowledge about places
is you go through generally, quite often 10 months of dry
with a short rain period here or there,
and then you have two months of flooding, right?
And maybe three months, okay?
So there you've got these cannabis strains
that are adapted to that,
but also the long running, I've discussed this,
the long running auto flower, right?
And sort of the short day of auto flower,
the ruderalis, these are long day of auto flower,
that it can be, because the days don't change
between 11 and 13 hours in those tropical zones,
they will go 100 days or 300 days or 600 days
or 400 days of vegetation before they flip.
And we can manipulate that by growing them
at 20 hours of light and then banging them down, right?
Because they have that genetic potential is still in them,
but they've adapted and expressed these other traits
because of natural selection becoming dominant, right?
And then, but, and that's one of the things,
the biggest things that Zarian has found,
he says in trying to change things
is those number of days of flowering length time.
And so that environment really,
this is one of the hardest things to get around
is how long it takes for a plant to finish flowering
and the differences from the higher elevations
to the lower elevations of the mountain,
tropical in the mountain temperate zones.
I encourage anybody to follow what he teaches and stuff.
These do amazing work with the land race
and distributing, acquiring and teaching
and gathering information about all this stuff
for preservation around the world and everything.
I didn't have nothing to sip on.
Give me a second and I'm gonna be right back.
I just wanna drink the water, sorry.
Well, you're all looking at my beautiful picture of nothing.
I'll just ramble, blamble, bamble, yamble.
Hey, did you, wait a minute.
Oh, hey, did you guys hear that silly rap I came up with?
Once upon a time, a grower's task was just to grow weed.
What more could you ask?
But then came, oh, hydroponic cue salt was easy as can be,
but then came organics, what more could you?
And some growers gave up.
Then came BHO solventless, what do you know?
I can't rap, I'm a white guy.
Actually, I started writing that one down.
And it comes from, once upon a time,
a DJ's task was just to play records.
What more could you ask?
Then came remixing, scratching was tough.
It was too much for many, so some DJs gave up.
But the DJ named Ruff was reigning supreme
as a DJ wizard of the hip hop scene.
So listen to me, check it out.
Hear what I say.
Yeah, this shit's been around for a fucking long time.
Look, I just lost like seven people from rapping.
I like people, people, people.
I like people, I like them.
Here, here, how about,
have I seen you guys $100 tank of gas yet?
All right, and this came up when Bush was president.
♪ $100 tank of gas, $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ You bet your ass you don't drive so fast ♪
♪ When you pay $100 for a tank of gas ♪
♪ Oh, when I was a young man, I bought myself a car ♪
♪ Handful of change, you know I could drive it real far ♪
♪ I put the pedal to the metal, I could haul some ass ♪
♪ But that was long before I paid $100 for a tank of gas ♪
♪ $100 tank of gas, $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ You bet your ass you won't drive so fast ♪
♪ When you pay $100 for a tank of gas ♪
Oh, let's see.
Don't you be a fool, son, just buy yourself a meal
instead of that nasty $100 tank of gas.
♪ Another tank of gas ♪
♪ Oh, how I wish I had my old bottle of tea ♪
♪ Got better mileage than this here GMC ♪
♪ $100 tank of gas, $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ Now I'm an old man, I can't understand why it costs so much to fill this five-gallon can ♪
♪ $100 tank of gas, $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ Oh, Mr. President, why can't you see what this here economy's doing to me? ♪
♪ $100 tank of gas, $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ Don't you be a fool, son, just buy yourself a meal instead of that nasty $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ You bet your ass you don't drive so fast when you pay $100 for a tank of gas ♪
Now here, what's really neat about this song is I can do it.
♪ $100 tank of gas, $100 tank of gas ♪
♪ You bet your ass you don't drive so fast when you pay $100 for a tank of gas ♪
♪ When I was a young man, I bought myself a car, a handful of jeans, and I had to climb the roof, I... ♪
You know, you can get trash metal, you can do it in any style you want.
Yeah, cheers.
Yeah, I was paying $100 for a tank of gas back before the economy crashed last time on the housing debacle bubble.
And here's another truth, it was I was sold my house completely illegally on bubble economics.
They did all those illegal loans and they fudged the numbers for my summer firefighting and stuff like that once upon a time ago.
So, sacred Pipestone, peace on y'all.
What's up, Piper?
Let's see here, I'm gonna try and take this thing outside, mobile.
Oh, you know, it's sunny outside so I'm gonna...
Right.
Meow, cat's on the trampoline.
So, I don't know...
This thing turns around...
Oh, let's see.
I've got the case on, I gotta pull the case off and I think I can turn around the camera.
Let's see.
I had it set up on... Oh, no, it's just changing...
There we go.
Can I zoom? Oh, I can.
I love... See, this thing's pretty badass.
Let's see here. There's all sorts of stuff popping up.
I need that tripod.
Shaking it all... Oh, what's that?
That's not a sunflower.
See, everything else is popping here too, right?
And then, like, arugula, it started months ago already.
And onions go.
I've got to go through and I've been cleaning up.
You can see though, I got Brussels sprouts still rolling.
Okay, and what's up, chickens?
So, but in all these here, I got...
So, oh, what's this one?
This is another heirloom land raise, if you want to call it that.
This is a... Oh, seminella durum wheat that I was handed by a pasta maker, actually.
Okay, and so you can see plants grow, right?
And wheat's usually dry farmed.
And I think we got... I'm not sure what these ones are.
There's all... I had a whole bunch of stuff just go to seed.
You can see all the arugula's growing too, right?
Okay, and here's alfalfa that overwinter.
And then there should be a bunch of alfalfa sprouting around here too.
It's teeny, but this here's cilantro, right?
We got cilantro all sprouting.
We got sunflowers, okay.
Oh, yeah, so I think here we have alfalfa's all sprouting.
Okay, alfalfa, right?
So, stuff grows and the ground is still half frozen, right?
You can see I have extremely sandy soil.
I live on Dusty Rock Place in Sandy in Utah.
Crazy stuff.
So, here's a bunch of... Let me zoom back out.
Get on the trampoline.
Dogs in a pile, let's see.
I don't know if that zoomed out or not.
That's me again.
That's me closer.
There we go.
So, here's...
What's over here?
My worm pile.
Oh, it looks like...
Looks like I got ants too.
All sorts of stuff going off in here.
So, this is all wood chips that have been composted at.
I might have turned this whole pile like twice.
You can see it's crawling with worms.
Straight up.
Huge pile. I had like 12.
And then, you know, I put other stuff in here.
I put grains in and over here is a bunch of beans and things that I get from people throw away there.
One of the benefits of living in Utah is part of the Mormon culture is food storage.
And then they replace it every few years.
So, quite often I haven't got it because I've been working.
I haven't had the time. I took this job.
This stuff is usually already started with cold frames over it.
And I can use this for pulling tarps and everything too.
You can see here's some of the hemp that I've allowed to just go natural here more or less.
And it can go dry.
It's gone a couple of seasons without any water in this yard.
This one here, this is a remnant.
Oh, so here's a neat little lesson.
How do you ret your...
So over the winter I retted fiber.
You want fiber after your stalks.
That's it right there.
Okay, there's some cordage or fiber for whatever you need to use it for, right?
You can spin that stuff up.
And so every branch and everything, you let it sit out over winter.
And this is a herd, right?
Okay, so...
I'd leave it out for the birds to eat or whatever.
But again, here's...
I'm going to have these three rows here, a whole bell idea.
Again here, so...
One thing I've noticed though when I broadcast out in the wild is...
I wish I could have the director's view on this.
No, that's just a filter.
All right.
Sometimes they like to grow together in little groups.
And they do really well.
All right, so those ones were under the leaves, right?
But they're way too close together.
You know that.
So what I'm going to do...
It's really cold soil.
Fingers are cold.
These guys are teeny, right?
Let's just see, Emma.
That one's loose.
So the ratio already is that...
It's teeny little cotyledon and hardly even a leaf.
And this massive taproot dropping down.
All right, so...
I've got pictures on my Instagram that show roots with the top that's just twice that size.
And a seven or eight inch root, right?
And...
Yeah.
Anyhow, that's kind of the whole story there is these things will do it if you allow them to, right?
And you don't have to have the best of soil.
You don't have to have...
Yeah, little clusters like this I found out when I broadcast.
They'll actually all work together instead of against each other.
And then they end up like branching out to the sides.
These ones here tend to be more of a straight...
A spindle.
You can use a spindle with those fibers.
You collect enough of it, you get it, you read it right.
And then here, let's go on over into this greenhouse for that chicken went I saw earlier.
And what else we have?
Things sprouting.
I think these are more weeds than anything, right?
But again, things grow, right?
And they grow naturally and you have to look at the natural cycles instead of the ones that we want.
Here in...
I had this one's probably a Hindu kush and then a sunflower, right?
This has just been exposed and re-sprouted.
I had several growing in that over winter that were great.
And I'm looking at some missing chicken sprouts.
And so, she's down in there, I bet.
No, clean.
There's definitely eggs in there.
Oh, there she goes.
All right, here we go.
So I wanted to show this as in the video.
Here's some various stocks that got frozen over winter, right?
And that's why I bought that freaking tripod for us.
I could do this and I still have to do this by hand.
All right, one branch right here.
Didn't stick it in there.
And these guys, they would have a thing that you can...
I didn't even get to see it.
I stuck it in there and bend it and you can see there's the fiber.
So this is off a THC plant.
Any branching like that.
So this one was not outside.
It didn't get the freeze-thaw.
It's a little browner.
And then I don't know where to put that.
I don't know where I dropped that other stuff.
You can pair it too.
I've shown some that's extremely plain and white.
But you can see it peeling off here, right?
And they used to have these shock breakers.
They take a bundle of straight hemp stock.
And it was like a kind of a wooden V with a big old...
Oops, rotate device.
There we go.
It would be a big old V and a big old wooden bar.
And they'd cramp this thing down in there.
And they'd break the branch.
Basically, they wouldn't be branches though because it would just be a stock, right?
They plant it all close together.
So it would be not branched.
But you can get fiber off of this.
And again, I'm not very efficient with one hand at doing it.
But all of this has fiber on it.
And that's what all this came off of.
So if you leave them outside...
This one here again was inside.
You know, but that's the fiber, okay?
And you can water-red it.
You can freeze it.
You can chemically red it.
Here's... These are bottle gourds.
And they do the same kind of thing where they're allowed to go rot for a season.
And then you take all this stuff off and carve on them.
So I need to open these up and clean them and start working on them.
I was thinking I might make these into like a smoke carrier.
Anyhow.
Boom.
So right now I have like bags of wet, dry leaf in here, right?
And I didn't use this all winter.
But all of my overwintered crop just got potted up.
I had like 150 little...
And these 4x4s that are kind of like...
You just keep them alive.
And then under a little bit of LEDs, this stuff here should all be...
I just... The chickens tear it up.
So I just repositioned it all.
And there will be watered it.
And there's all sorts of seed from lettuces and things that are going to start popping out of this.
You know, I'm 3 minutes from being done for the day.
I wonder where I put...
Here's garlic.
I got another compost over here.
This has gone to wildflowers mostly, but there's strawberries in here as well.
And this is asparagus.
Asparagus is popping up.
I need to chop these guys off.
Here's a compost.
It's got all sorts of stuff popping.
I need to turn it.
It's full of worms as well.
Let's see. Turn around.
Love to everyone.
Yeah. Let's see.
Let's see.
Wow.
I'm looking for... I don't know where I put it.
It was right here.
The little clamp with the tripod on it.
Well, I'll just prop it up and see if I can.
Last minute here.
I'll play you all a little more flute.
Appreciate you all dropping in.
Look, here's some of my rock collection.
Let's see.
There they are.
This Lexic.
This is a big old agate I picked up once.
Let's see. There we go.
Big agate.
Smaller agate.
Copper.
Copper.
Yeah. Most of those are there for throwing it.
Bad birds.
Yeah, I misplaced the little stand.
But we can do this.
Again, have a wonderful day.
Thanks for joining.
Go out and do wonderful things.
Hope you learned something today from what I had to say.
My words came across true.
And I'm just going to try and prop you up.
Oh, that'll work, right?
It's in one place.
And we'll take it out with a little bit of, I'm already over an hour.
So I'll give you a minute of flute.
Appreciate y'all.
Love y'all. Peace out.
Oh, I think it's this one right there.
