Good evening everybody, hope you're doing well.
We have Jota's Grow and Tell, should be a fun and enjoyable show as always.
I'm excited, Peter is flying to Hawaii right now.
And I'm pretty sure Jason can have me playing in the background, but anyways, let's get
the show rolling.
...down for us today, helping us produce while Peter is flying to Hawaii this week.
So good stuff, good stuff.
Very excited, very excited.
All right, I got the volume down on YouTube so we don't get any echo from that.
Welcome, welcome.
I'm sure Nick will be here in just a minute or two.
How's the sound everybody on YouTube?
Am I coming through okay tonight?
Can you guys hear me?
How's the sound on YouTube?
Stoner, Donkey Kong, Robin Wrecker.
How are we doing?
Loud and clear.
Perfect.
That's exactly what I wanted to hear.
Yeah, great.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate that.
You know, sometimes we need to...
It's a night of massals.
That's right, Miranda Family Farms.
We'll have to get you in here too one of these weeks, my friend.
Get you on here.
But yeah, tonight we're going to talk about some exciting stuff obviously going on here
in Massachusetts.
Kyle and I have known each other for a couple of years now.
We actually met through a mutual friend, Eric Groveshow, and he gave me some of Kyle's
seeds.
It was interesting because they were labeled as feminized and there was one seed in each
package but there was no labeling on what the genetics were.
I didn't know until I asked later that it was a wedding cake, if I remember correctly.
That was actually how I got introduced to Kyle.
I've since grown the New England Rock Candy.
I'm actually smoking on the New England Rock Candy tonight.
The New England Rock Candy is the plant that's in the background of the poster for tonight
as well.
So for those that have been following me on Instagram, you got a front row view to both
the praying pheno and the bushy pheno.
I had two phenos of that New England Rock Candy and they were super easy to grow.
Something that I noticed with the wedding cake as well, the plants themselves are just
naturally bushy.
They're naturally smaller.
They had good noting.
I didn't have to top them.
They just bushed out all by themselves.
Super easy for an indoor grower like myself because I didn't have to put a lot of controls
in place.
I didn't have to do any LST or super cropping or anything like that.
In fact, that bushy pheno just made itself a bush.
It's like, yeah, I'm just going to be a bush.
Then I had that praying pheno, which was an amazing plant.
It didn't matter what was going on in the rest of the tent.
That one was always happy.
Funny enough, I moved during the grow on that plant.
It was in the moving truck.
I moved just about 90, 95 miles away.
I was in the back of the U-Haul.
It actually had a leaf blower fall on it during the drive.
When I got to the Cape and opened the door, I was like, oh no, because it was the praying
pheno.
It was a super happy and really, really super plant that I was super psyched about.
It was just leaned over.
The stalk didn't snap.
The blower was just leaning on it.
It was just bent over.
I brought it into the new tent, into the tent in the new basement, and staked it up to straighten
it out.
It didn't miss a beat.
Really, really fantastic.
Super frosty, super frosty plants and just a punch.
Kyle and I talked about this a little bit.
He warned me and he kept warning me.
We'll talk a little bit more about that tonight and do Kyle's intro in just a few moments
here.
It's a plant that just caught me by surprise on how high it got me when I smoked it.
I made the mistake of smoking some of it first thing in the morning before work.
It was a couple of hours before I was really productive.
It really just swung me for a loop.
I was just in meetings.
I probably had a big shit-eating grin on my face all morning.
People were wondering what was going on with me.
It was impressive.
I had to say it was impressive.
Kyle not only is a tremendous breeder, he's a man of his word.
If he warns you that a plant is a strong one, you really need to be careful.
Let's set the room.
Let's set the stage.
Let's get going here.
Welcome, welcome, welcome everyone to Hooked to Herbs Grow and Tell.
This is episode 14.
This week we are talking with my friend Kyle Connolly, who is the breeder behind Pure Breeding,
which was also known previously as Predictive Breeding or Predicative Breeding.
I didn't quite know how to lean the accent on that one.
Just a really, really tremendous breeder from here in Massachusetts.
It's really nice for me to not only highlight and do my first breeder spotlight of the grow
and tells here on Future Cannabis Project, Kyle.
You do have that honor of having the first breeder spotlight on the grow and tell.
It's really good to be able to highlight some of the folks from Massachusetts.
They're doing great things.
We really have just a tremendous core of genetics and breeders here in Massachusetts
that a lot of people just don't know about.
Hey, Peter, how you doing?
Are you in the airport?
Are you on the plane?
What's going on with you?
I'm good, but I can't talk right now.
I got you.
I got you.
Thanks for joining.
Thanks for joining.
I appreciate you being here.
As I was saying, welcome, welcome, welcome everybody to Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
We are here every week.
This is our weekly cultivation club, Thursday nights, 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific time,
brought to you, recorded and simulcast on the Future Cannabis Project FCPO2 channel
on YouTube.
So please, if you're not already a member, join the Future Cannabis Project here on Clubhouse
by clicking on the little green house at the top right next to where it says Future Cannabis
Project and join the club.
Please give all the moderators a follow.
Give Kyle a follow.
He's brand new to Clubhouse.
He joined Clubhouse just to be in the room tonight.
So definitely give him a follow because he doesn't have very many followers yet.
And as I mentioned, this is recorded, simulcast and available for replay, not only here on
Clubhouse, but available for replay on YouTube.
Helping us out tonight, as we mentioned earlier, Peter's on a flight, but we have London, who's
also hosts a tremendous couple of shows on the Future Cannabis Project as well.
The new show that we've been really enjoying is Ask a Weed Nerd, which is a fantastic,
fun thing that we do on Wednesday nights.
That's a lot of fun where we just open up the floor and we have a whole bunch of cannabis
growers and cannabis folks up there that you can come in and check it out and listen.
Chase is another gentleman that I wanted to mention tonight who hosts a Breeders Roundtable,
which has some fantastic folks like Trevor and Mr. Toad and just some other awesome folks.
So if you're not familiar with the Future Cannabis Project or the FCPO2 channel on the
Future Cannabis Project on YouTube, I highly recommend you go check it out and subscribe
because not only am I bringing a couple of hours of content a week, there's a whole bunch
of us bringing multiple hours of content a week.
You can probably pretty much watch almost all day just to keep caught up.
There's really, really a lot of great stuff going on with the Future Cannabis Project.
Thank you, Peter.
Thank you, London, for helping out and for keeping us going here tonight.
All right.
So I want to jump in a little bit here and give just a quick background.
So the Grow & Tell is a cultivation club that I actually started here in Massachusetts at
a place called the Summit Lounge, which is in Worcester, Massachusetts.
That's not Worchester as it's spelled, but Worcester, Massachusetts.
It was a monthly get together of local growers.
We would just all get together on a weekly basis, sniff each other's jars, smoke each
other's cannabis, and talk about how we were growing and what we were doing to produce
these plants and what kind of cultivars we had and what breeders we were experiencing
and talking to and all this other great stuff.
Unfortunately, Worcester, that's right, Shedda.
That's a good way to spell it.
Worcester.
It's actually, you got to have an AH on the end, though, instead of the ER to really get
the real Massachusetts feel on there.
Worcester.
It's like chowder.
There's no Rs in Massachusetts.
And so the group used to get together on a monthly basis and there was always some educational
component.
We had a couple of breeders come in and do seed company launches.
All of it was a fantastic, fantastic time.
Unfortunately, we shut down because of COVID.
Summit Lounge shut down and we weren't able to get together anymore in person and actually
share a joint like we used to in the times before the COVID attacked us all.
That's where the grow and tell comes from.
I think it's important that we continue to share information about growing.
Grow and tell about it.
That's how people learn.
We have a lot of hidden knowledge, a lot of stuff that we kept to ourselves for many years.
Many people who are underground and black market, gray market, off market, traditional
market, whatever you want to call it, didn't share because it's dangerous to share.
We kept these things, these secrets, these techniques and all these things to ourselves
for a very, very long time.
We weren't able to talk about it with each other.
We weren't able to share.
I think it's really, really important that we all spend time talking about this plant
we love so much and the ways to care for it so that everybody can be successful and
get to experience the joy of growing their own cannabis.
That being said, let me go ahead and introduce our grower spotlight of the evening.
We have my good friend Kyle Connolly joining us.
He is the owner and creator of Pure Breeding.
It is a New England, Massachusetts company.
It's been around for a couple of years now.
Primarily, for a long time, I think you specialized mostly in feminized seeds for the most part,
a lot of the stuff that you've been doing.
Kyle, why don't you go ahead and give us a little bit of a hello and an introduction?
Thanks, Jason.
I just want to say I appreciate all of you, Jason, London, and Peter for allowing me to
be on this platform and to be able to help people.
I'm based out of Acton, Massachusetts.
I started in Holden, but the company's been around for I think going on three years now.
What kind of started off to just be originally the company was started to try and help vets
with PTSD.
It's just really hard to try and navigate financially with doing just that.
I ended up kind of, which I still do that.
I still kind of give flour to vets and anybody that's kind of in need and stuff like that.
I'm still in the process of trying to create a variety that not to cure PTSD, obviously,
with me with trying to help some of those guys because my whole family is military.
But that's kind of how it started.
And then it just kind of ended up being more of a community-based seed company.
And again, like kind of what started off to just be trying to help people and maybe messing
around a bit actually ended up coming to what I have today, which is basically a real company
that's doing very well in regards of just kind of competing in the industry and stuff.
Yeah, I love it, man.
I love the community.
I love that we all kind of work together.
I love that we're all just a big family.
There's a lot of love and there's not a lot of just hatred going on and stuff like that.
And this kind of type of people I like to surround myself with.
I guess the comment on your one of the things you had mentioned was the feminized breeding
and rake seeds.
So all I do is femme seeds.
And I just recently, if you look at my social media, I did just drop our first rag line,
which is a New England rock candy by Cinderella 99, which is a pretty ferocious line if anybody
wants to get in on that.
I'll see again, like I said, traditional.
So there's boys and girls.
But yeah, I just stick with girls, man.
With females, I just achieve what I'm trying to achieve a lot faster than with males.
It's not to say that you can't use males and still achieve things.
Just for me, it's just what works for me.
Yeah.
And that's, I mean, that's, I think a lot of the, you're one of the few breeders I know
that I, that I've grown some stuff from and that I talked to that focuses on feminized
seeds.
Most of the guys that I have worked with and have worked for and done stuff with are primarily
regular, focused on regular seeds.
Green Team Genetics is all regular seeds.
Most of Dynasty's stuff is regular seeds.
Mosca was mostly regular seeds, but he definitely has done some feminized lines more recently,
which is also nice to see.
And just lots of the different things.
I tend to grow a lot of regular seeds, not so much of the feminized lines.
We got some folks on that I do see.
Just a couple quick shout outs from YouTube.
We got Let It Crobe, who's growing Kyle's rock candy cake right now.
And he also has the Hindu root beer on deck.
So looking good and some Western Mass love for you.
Right.
I know a lot of people who look at martial artists didn't realize that Kyle was Northeastern
and the Mass.
Miranda Family Farms is on here.
So that's also some, you know, that's the Plymouth County area.
So we got a lot of Massachusetts folks online tonight sharing some love, saying hello.
Good stuff.
So the, you know, one of the things I wanted to ask you though, is what's the first time
you smoked cannabis?
How long ago?
Yeah, that's a good question.
And talk about it.
Yeah, well, I think it was eighth grade summer year.
We're all on summer vacation.
I just remember being one of my friends at the time, his mother smoked weed.
And I just remember being somehow he stole some weed from her or something.
And it was like, you know, the black and milds that they sell and they have the plastic tip
at the end.
Well, somehow all we had was like a dud out of a black and mild.
I remember like we ran down the street and hid somewhere and we like broke off the little
nub of the cigar that was left in there and packed the plastic part with weed, which probably
wasn't the smartest thing to do.
But so we ended up smoking that.
And I just remember basically being right near his house walking back and I had no clue
where I was.
And I basically spent the rest of the night thinking I was going to die because I didn't
know what was going on.
You know, I didn't have the most enjoyable experience of my first time smoking.
But I mean, after that, I became I tried it again.
And then I was just like, basically, I became a very, very indulged in the cannabis scenario.
You know, so I was just gravity bong hits and anything else I could think of.
But yeah, maybe not an extravagant story to most, but that's where I first started.
So how long ago is that?
Oh, yeah, I'm 33 now.
So 16 years ago, I guess.
So I only ask because I've been smoking a little longer than you've been alive.
So yeah, no, that's that's interesting.
No, I I'm always curious about how, you know, when people started and how long they've been
smoking.
I mean, I smoked a little bit in high school, but I didn't become a really serious smoker
until I went to college.
That's when I started being an everyday user.
So that's, you know, that's when it became a little bit more important.
Once I was I searched for those seeds.
Yeah, yeah, you know, I had many, many a day tilting the tray, just trying to get all the
seeds out of the out of the bags.
Unfortunately, there's a lot of a lot of Florida brickweed involved with my early cannabis
smoking.
But we did used to get a lot of really, really good flower.
I'm a head.
I used to follow the dead around the country a bit.
So I used to just have really, really great friends that would get amazing flower from
tour and a lot of that came from Humboldt.
We also used to get some awesome stuff from Tennessee and Kentucky down in Florida, just
some great stuff during the harvest from there.
And there was just a ton of indoor being grown in Florida for the headies and the high end
cannabis consumers.
If you could find it, if you could find it.
So talk to me about growing.
What what what got you growing your own?
It's kind of interesting, man.
I don't know.
I was just I had a friend of mine.
So I was living in Florida from when I was 16 to 18.
Florida, there we go again.
See, Tampa was where I learned to grow.
That's where I got started.
Yeah, I was in Jacksonville.
I was kind of I was kind of a nuisance for I was basically I kind of got sent there for
to kind of straighten out of it.
I was I wasn't walking the cleanest path of hunting as a young male.
In Jacksonville, that's like crack city, too.
Oh, man.
Well, right.
Well, tons of drugs in Jacksonville.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If you're anywhere near the Jaguar Stadium, that's that's it's where they'll basically
take off.
They'll you know, they'll steal your normal clothes and find it to be appropriate.
But I was in Arlington, which wasn't anywhere.
It's a little bit better, but not as bad as like, you know, like the main downtown here
near the football stadium there.
But yes, when I got there, I don't know.
I had a friend, met a friend there and his mother was getting weed from Cocoa Beach.
And I'm not too familiar with Cocoa Beach, but I just remember the weed that his mom
had was like this like neon, very light colored neon green.
It was like beautiful, this beautiful weed.
And it said it was it was one of the some of the prettiest weed I've seen even to this
day.
And, you know, she would buy like a couple ounces and she would just basically save,
you know, because there'd be like one or two or three seeds after this ounce and she was
saving them.
And after a while, she had a bunch.
Me and this kid decided to grow a bunch in his backyard.
And instead of starting off with a couple and trying to figure out what to do with it,
we kind of did a lot.
So I think we had like maybe 10 or 20 plants.
It was kind of a big ratio, but it was either 15 plants.
But and they all got like seven foot or seven foot two.
They're huge.
And I just remember like walking through them as if I was in like some like some dream of
a valley, just walking through these plants.
And I think they were like week two or week three of flower.
And this helicopter started like hovering above his backyard.
And we we just panicked and didn't know what to do.
We brought it all in and we we made brownies with it.
But at that point, we didn't know like it wasn't going to do it.
So we made like brownies that was like 90 percent flour, 10 percent chocolate.
And then we didn't even get high off it.
Obviously, there was nowhere near we weren't educated in what stage they were in.
That's where it all started, man, with those cocoa beech seeds.
And still this day, I wish I still had some of them things.
But that's where it all began for me.
Cocoa beech seeds.
Yeah, yeah.
No, there's there's I think, you know, a lot of people think Florida, they think vacation,
they think beaches, they think Disney.
They don't understand that Florida is society gone awry.
Everybody who's lived down there, it is truly still a pirate's haven.
All those coves and inlets and all the waterways and everything have made it a smuggler's paradise
forever for for over 100 years.
And so you just have these it's a crazy the amount of drugs that are that go on in Florida
really is really a wild, wild place to be.
I was I was in Tampa for 14 years and just crazy, crazy stuff I saw in my time there.
It is a it is a wild place to be sure.
So so obviously, that one didn't turn out too well.
And I imagine that the nothing ever turned up from those helicopters.
Luckily, no, no.
Not surprisingly, no.
But it was pretty obvious what was going on from their view.
Awesome, awesome.
So so from there, obviously, do you did you just keep going?
Or did you did you stop for a while?
Or did you just catch the bug at that point?
Yeah, I definitely at that point caught the bugs.
I mean, from there, I kind of dabbled.
You know, I didn't know where to get seeds.
So I was kind of just using seeds that came from bagweed all the time.
Yep.
So kind of just doing my own thing.
And I ended up coming back to New Hampshire when I was 18.
And I kind of just dabbled here and there.
I was just kind of busy with, you know, I wasn't I wish looking back now, I mean, I
would be so much further in a lot of ways, if I were to just kept very consistent and
did you know where I'm at now and just like got really into it and the studying aspect
and the research and the education part.
But I didn't really get like extremely serious about the industry in regards of what I was
doing and stuff like that until maybe like four or five years ago.
You know, I had like some some auto flower seeds.
And, you know, I just found it really interesting.
And I had a male and I pollinated I got more seeds.
And I just kind of started doing research.
And I met a couple people that I really looked up to and, you know, just bought books and
just started playing around.
And, you know, that's kind of where I was like, well, what could I do to help?
You know, I knew one thing in regards to it.
It's not just all business for me.
It's about helping people.
But I was like, what could I do?
And I was like, well, find a way to help the many, you know, and then return.
Everything kind of just works out.
So I was like, well, maybe I should help military people with PTSD.
Because that's that's a real thing.
And, you know, and I know that a lot of them don't want to take pharmaceuticals anymore,
even though it's a whole nother conversation to have.
But so I was just trying to come up with varieties.
And so I knew that a lot of the now that they're not here anymore, but a lot of it's
kind of missing is like a lot of the good cannabinoid profiles are in the, you know,
some of the older stuff that basically, you know, for the last 30, 40 years, people have
just been chasing structure and turps and visual, but no one's been following labs.
And some of that's because we didn't have access to them.
And I get that.
But there's a lot of really good properties that aren't available anymore.
And so I kind of started playing with that and working with that and trying different
flowers that work for them.
And again, that's kind of where I just ended up getting other seeds.
And I just ended up creating the company that I have today.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Got some we got so Guerrero grows, man, if you want some root beer, you got to hit up
pure breeding.
He's got the root beer cross.
I'm growing it.
I got one going right now.
That Hindu root beer.
So if you're looking for some root beer, I don't think you have to look too much further.
Shredder, I agree.
The you know, shout out to that East Tampa Worms Way.
Absolutely.
That's where I bought my first light.
It's also where they followed my buddy from and they busted his whole house.
So yeah, you know, mixed mixed mixed relationship with worms way in East Tampa.
I'll tell you that.
Soma seeds, bears, great stuff.
You know, one of my favorite plants I ever grew back in the day in Tampa was was a goofy
grape.
And the goofy grape was a cross with Soma's lavender.
And it was an amazing, amazing plant that we had that was floating around Tampa for
a while.
All over Florida was really, really great stuff.
Mike Blackstone.
Good to see you were in Worcester, man.
You got to hit up the Summit Lounge.
Go see Kyle at the Summit Lounge.
Another Kyle.
There's a lot of Kyle's for some reason.
My son's name is Kyle.
I think it's that age group too.
It's that age group.
I was gonna say it's that age group.
There's a lot of Kyle's.
My son is 30.
You're 33.
His name is Kyle.
Kyle Moon, who owns the Summit Lounge, I believe is like 32.
So something with that age group.
There was a lot of Kyle's for some reason.
Well, my backstory is I guess my mother, my mother was at the movies when she was pregnant
with me and they started the first Terminator Kyle Reese.
That's where that's that's where we got Kyle.
That's exactly where it comes from.
Absolutely.
100%.
Small world, right?
Yes, absolutely.
My daughter's name is Bailey and we got that from Party of Five because Bay.
We like the nickname Bay.
So that's Bailey was actually a boy in the show.
But my daughter's name is Bailey.
That came from Party of Five.
You hear these names and you like them.
You're like, hey, that's going to be a good one.
That's awesome, though.
That's too funny.
It's a small, small world.
I see.
Awesome.
Great.
Thank you so much, London and Peter.
London's got the picture up of the Hindu root beer up on the YouTube feed right now.
The GMO by root beer BX that that's up there.
And then also, Peter puts links to the to the spot for that plant on the menu, I think,
on your pure beating Web site.
So good stuff.
Thanks, Peter and London for keeping things going on the YouTube side.
All right.
So what else?
I mean, you know, what are some of the who are some of the mentors or some people that
you learned from in your journey to to to start breeding?
Was it something more you did from books where there's some other growers or breeders that
you worked with or talked to?
Obviously, you have a relationship with some folks for some of these new crosses.
But who are some of the folks that you were mentored by or look up to?
Yeah, that's a really good question, actually.
So when I first moved to Massachusetts, originally not by choice, but I am happy that I ended
up here because I'm from New Hampshire originally.
But I met I was I was trying to buy supplies at a grocery store because I was like wanting
to really get into it.
And, you know, I was like trying to get serious about things.
And there was a an Asian guy there who's roughly around my age, and he had just moved from
Colorado and he was a master grower in a big facility down there.
And he taught me a lot.
You know, I mean, I kind of knew some things.
I knew how to navigate my way around things, but he brought me to the into the deeper part
of things.
And basically what he had told me, and I found it to be wisdom, is like, you know, master
the soil and you master everything, you know, and I was like, oh, that's pretty true.
It makes kind of sense.
So then I started diving deeper into and I'm nowhere near as educated as you Jason, for
sure.
But I'm just well into kind of somewhat backtrack.
So I started off with Pro-Mix and Botanicare, which is kind of how he set me off as and
I went through my journey, I kind of wanted to go into more of the organic side of things,
because if we're going to, you know, consume things and stuff like that, I feel it should
be organic.
And I live my life like that in my personal life.
I try to eat stuff that's very true to, you know, like a paleo diet, basically what's
you know, hunter gatherer type stuff.
And yeah, so I started and I'm just maybe I think in the last year and a half, I've
been doing organics and I'm still learning every day.
And I'm sure there's always something to learn every day.
And in regards to that, and, you know, I think what you're doing is amazing.
I've been kind of following your journey with the plants that you're growing and my stuff.
And yeah, I said, I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Yeah, yeah.
No, I'm curious.
And for several reasons, and I'm happy to go into those.
We're going to, we're going to, let me just quickly relight the room because we are at
the 30 minute mark and then we're going to talk about growing for a couple of minutes,
especially because you, you spark the organic or regenerative part of the conversation.
So definitely going to jump into that a little bit.
But I think it's before I relight the room, I think it's important because it in some
ways I think it affects how those plants get started, especially if you're growing
in an organic environment.
So if you're growing in a natural environment or an organic environment and you're getting
seeds that were produced in that type of an environment, they seem to understand what
they're supposed to do faster.
As opposed to some of the people who have grown, you know, maybe their breeding styles
are a little bit more synthetic.
The plants seem to take a little bit more time to get acclimated and to get going.
So quickly just to relight the room, this is Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell hosted every
week here on Clubhouse by myself and my good friend, Nick RLA, who's not here tonight.
Nick from the Rooted in the Leaf is usually with us every week helping me host.
We are recorded and simulcast brought to you on the Future Cannabis Project.
So shout out to Peter and London and for all the folks who are helping us out on the Future
Cannabis Project and the FCPO2 channel.
If you like what you hear tonight, make sure you join the Future Cannabis Project Club
and give all the speakers as well as the other folks in the room a follow.
And if you're on YouTube, make sure you subscribe to both the Future Cannabis Project and the
FCPO2 channel.
All right.
So let's get back to talking growing.
This week we are with my friend Kyle Connolly from Pure Breeding talking about some of the
fantastic stuff that he's got going on over there.
So let's talk about the growing aspect is something that I think everybody has their
own journey.
And one of the things I like to mention is that there are plenty of ways to grow.
And there is no right way to grow.
There's no, well, there are some wrong ways to grow, I guess.
If you're using lots of chemicals and pesticides, it's just wrong.
But synthetic, natural, organic, whatever.
If you have the right intention, if you're growing with the right intention, then there's
really nothing, there's no wrong way to do it.
Growing is about for people to be successful as growers, as cultivators.
They need to figure out what works for them.
What fits their style, their environment, the types of things they're trying to do.
There is no one size fits all.
And I've done lots of different styles of growing and there's lots of styles of growing
I've never tried, especially because I'm a home grower and I've always been a very small
scale grower.
Even when I was growing in Florida, we still had only small amount of plants going at a
time.
And so I've never run a large facility or anything like that.
So in general, there's a lot of those types of techniques and things that I've just never
tried myself.
But it's about that evolution that we go through as people who enjoy growing.
If you love the plant and you are interested in it, you learn about it, you dive in, whatever
aspect of it you might be more interested in.
For you, obviously, it's about the breeding.
For me, it's a lot about the biology, what's going on in the soil and the plants.
So there is no wrong way to grow, is really my point.
And to me, it's very interesting to find out some of what you're doing and how you're growing.
In your environments, are you growing in pots?
Are you growing in...
Because you said you're moving more towards organic, so I'm assuming you're using soil.
Are you doing beds?
Are you doing pots?
Are you in the ground, in the greenhouse?
What are you doing?
Well, at the moment, I'm growing indoors.
And unfortunately, it's not that you can't, but it's...
Recently, it's...
So there's two different styles, right?
So when you're using...
With breeding, you're always rotating things and you're trying to keep things in small
areas.
And especially for me, that's my issue, is because I have such small area.
I don't have a bunch of land to work with and stuff like that.
So I'm forced to use smaller pots and that was easier using the Tandicare line, if you
wanna call it like a synthetic.
It is a synthetic, but maybe not so much heavier on some of the salt sides, because they claim
to be a semi organic company.
So doing that process, it's a lot easier because you're forest feeding it and you basically
have full control over everything.
Not that you don't with organics, it's just it's a one-on-one basis daily.
I'm able to basically do things in one gallon pots versus if...
And you know how it is when you take organic soil and put it in one gallon pot and try
and grow the plant to four or five feet, it just doesn't work out.
You're trying to feed daily or it's dry in 24 hours and it's just becoming issues and
deficiencies happening.
So what I've had to do now, because I am organic, is I've had to radically switch my entire
style.
Trying to...
Everything's like a minimum of a five or seven gallon pot.
So I use fabric pots and stuff like that.
And it seems to be doing well.
I use Michigan made mix.
I don't know if you've ever tried that.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, so I tried...
I just...
I recently finished...
Well, not too recently.
I'd say it was about six months ago, I finished my last bag of the pallet.
And Swanny had sent me of M3.
So I know Swanny Swanson and the M3 guys.
They actually came.
They were here for...
It was either CannaCon or NECAN or one of those, but they actually came one year.
And really, really just great good old boys.
They were out there in their overalls and they just had big bags of soil.
I think they even ran out of bags of soil and were filling plastic bags with extra soil
that they had brought with them in the truck.
So funny.
Just really, really great guys.
And so out of the blue...
Yeah.
And so out of the blue, he sent me an entire pallet.
He's like, I'm going to send you some soil.
I'm like, great.
That's awesome.
I figured he was going to send me a couple of bags.
He sent me a freaking pallet.
For those that don't know, a pallet of soil is about 42 bags of soil.
And so I was extremely grateful because I wasn't going to need soil.
And it took me about a year and a half to go through all of that soil.
Just as an indoor grower, you can only use so much soil at a time.
So it took me like a year and a half to go through all of that soil, almost two years.
And I took the stuff outside and recycled it and used it in my vegetable garden and
my flower beds and some other stuff too.
So it wasn't going to waste.
I was reusing it a lot for vegetables and herbs and things like that.
But really, really good product.
I do miss it.
Finding a place to store 42 bags of soil is another story.
My wife was a little bit upset with me because I filled part of the shed and she thought
the shed was going to like, part of the floor was going to fall because of the weight.
So yeah, I'm very familiar with the M3.
Thanks.
Yeah, and I've tried Costa Maine.
I've tried, what's that?
I can't remember what the other stuff is there.
It's got like that green, it's like a greenish black label on the front.
Soham.
Yeah, so I've tried Soham, I've tried Costa Maine.
I've tried all of them.
And I mean, in my opinion, I've had the best response in regards in overall.
Yeah, I think I've had the best, most consistent response with the M3.
I did just, I am going to give Soil King a shot.
So I've got a whole, I've got like three bags of Root King and I'm giving that a shot now.
That's the next soil up.
I did grab some Costa Maine and it's just such an inconsistent product, mainly because
of the way that it's stored in most places.
And that's part of the problem.
Anywhere, you know, if you buy from a good grow store, good hydro store, they keep the
soil inside.
If you go anywhere else, they don't.
It's outside.
And so I was desperate for a bag of soil.
I grabbed one from the local store.
They had it on the pallets outside.
It was soaking wet.
And I think my plants are still suffering from some of that soil.
I had to work them back to health.
And it didn't, I shouldn't know, even when I opened the bag, I could smell it.
And I was like, this is not what soil is supposed to smell like.
Good soil is supposed to smell like, but I used it anyway and it kicked my ass.
But yeah, the big root stuff, that's the soil I'm giving a shot.
Smelled actually, it smells wonderful.
It is probably the best smelling bag of soil I've opened up.
I will see how well it does.
Looks like loyalty didn't seem to like it.
We'll see how it works for me.
You never know.
You never know.
I'll probably end up back with the M3 again.
Oh, and I tried Lush.
I tried Lush a couple of times.
And I don't know, there's some kind of, I don't know, I don't think it's a NAS, but
there's some kind of issue going on with them that I've noticed on my plants.
Some kind of IPM problem in their soil.
I'm not sure what it was.
So yeah, I don't want to spend too much time talking about soil companies.
I'd rather talk about you because we're here to talk about you.
But I did, yeah, so Coast to Main, that's a good soil.
And are you making your own?
So you're moving more towards making your own stuff?
Are you using ferments or what are you, are you still using bottles?
What are you using?
Yeah, I currently use, so I'm using the M3 plus the Roots Organic line, which, yeah,
it seems to be pretty, pretty efficient.
I mean, I enjoy it.
I mean, I don't know if you've ever, if you've used that product and don't like it.
Yep.
No.
And I do appreciate the folks at Roots Aurora.
They do a tremendous amount for veterans.
You want to talk about a company that does a lot for veterans.
They brought Neva out to their plant multiple times.
They have a facility in New York and their original facility, which is out West.
But they brought veterans there.
They were part of the sponsorship program for when we got full tents and things for
five disabled veterans.
So they contributed soil, they contributed nutrients, and they're just, they're great
informative folks to talk to.
I've used some of their products periodically, like the Terp T and a couple of their other
products.
Most of the, you know, today, these days, most of the things that go into my garden,
I make myself.
So I've moved away from most bottled nutrients or most bottles in general.
But they do, you know, they do a good job over there.
And I did use their soil for a while too.
But again, I found that the M3 was probably the best one of the soils that I was buying
in a bag from a store, at least from my experience.
Yeah, I would agree.
Yeah.
The Fox Farm Ocean Forest is pretty good.
I actually used that for a lot of my vegetables before I had all that extra recycled soil
to use, to be honest with you.
I do like the Ocean Forest as well.
Fox Farm Ocean Forest, I think that's a pretty good soil as well.
All right.
And if you mix lots of worm castings in it, they're all the better.
All right.
So let's talk a little bit.
So do you do, do you have just a supply of pollen from some males that you've selected?
Do you use a single male in your, a reverse, single reversed male in your breeding program?
What does that pollination and pollen process look like for you?
Yeah.
So one thing I would like to say before to go into that is, you know, there's been a
bad stigma with feminized seeds in that they all cause Hermes or AKA intersex traits.
And you know, I spent two years strictly stress testing all my parental stock because I knew
there was a problem in the feminized industry, right?
With Hermes and everything like that.
So I spent a good year and a half where I literally just fucked my plants up, you know?
So I had a tent, I had a four by eight tent in the basement and I basically would seal
it all up, have minimal airflow in there to where the temps were getting to like 105
degrees some days and definitely high 90s to 100s.
And basically I would put them through that environment and then I would flower in solo
cups.
So I'd flower these two or three foot plants in solo cups and make them extremely root
bound.
I was having to water them every so many hours and I would just, I just kept doing that over
and over.
And basically a lot of the seeds that had collected before I started this process, basically
90% of all the Hermes.
And what I was left with was the 10% that didn't show any signs of that.
And that was the breeding stock that I've created this company with.
And so to kind of go back to what I initially was just saying is, it hasn't, you know, unfortunately,
and I'm not trying to like be competitive against other people, but a lot of these breeders
say that it's the grower's fault.
And sometimes it is, I mean, whatever, like, you know, I'm sure maybe they have thrips.
But at the end of the day, a plant is going to revert to throwing pollen if she feels
that she's going to die or she's being hurt.
You know, the goal of feminized breeding is to find a female variety that doesn't stress
easily because they'll all do it naturally.
It's basically if they were in the wild and something was eating it and then he was going
to die, it's going to revert to blow pollen on another girl before she completely passes
away and it's just part of their system of passing on their genetic code.
So it is a natural tendency, but the goal is to find a female that doesn't do it at
ease.
You know what I mean?
So I had to find a females that didn't like doing it.
And that's when I created the breeding company.
And I've sold, I've given out a lot of seeds at this point and I have barely any issues
in that area.
And there's still a lot of people that are, and people that we all know, people that are
still buying seeds from these guys, a lot of these hype guys.
I don't need to go into names like that, but just it's a big problem still.
And it's just because they're just taking two fire plants and then crossing them and
like, you know, like, oh, here's the, you know, they're both super icy.
They both test really high and cannabinoids.
Let's just cross it and send it to the public.
Well, the problem with that is, you know, 30% or 40% of the seed stock from that has
a tendency to harm on easily stressed levels.
But that also goes back to the beginning where somebody had an originally selected a plant
that was easily stressed and harming, and then just kept getting passed forward and
passed forward and passed forward.
And that's why there's so many perm problems.
So like the flower is good, but in, in people can use it in commercial facilities and it's
still good, but to use it for seed stock and a breeding company is a horrible idea because
you're just going to implode your own company using varieties that are easily sensitive
to stress.
So it's, it's really crucial in regards to this whole conversation about feminizing is
if you're going to start or do anything with it to ensure that you're using stock that
is very durable.
And as long as you start with that stock, you'll always be 99.9%.
Okay.
Do you never know what biology, but so I just want to throw that out there.
And in regards to my process you know, I've used collodial silver.
If you are going to use collodial silver there are many methods to getting it.
Some you even just tie two electrical leads to some iron rods, silver rods into a cup
of water.
And that process works as well.
So if you're going to use that process, cause they sell kits online, make sure you take
a laser pointer and shine it through the jar.
And if it refracts a solid beam, that means there's enough particles in that water that
it's going to coat the plant.
Cause what you're trying to do in this whole process is like how humans have porous skin.
Well plants are porous as well.
And female plants while they're growing they produce ethylene.
So while they're, while they're growing and they're dioecious plants, I know you know
this Jason, but so cannabis plants are dioecious plants.
They have, they inherently have male genetic genetics in them.
So when they're growing how they know she's a girl or a boy, she'll smell, she'll you
know, basically absorb ethylene.
She's like, oh, I'm obviously a girl.
So once you know it's a girl, and like I said before, it's a strong girl, cause that's the
kind of girl you want to use.
We spray that, that plant.
And what we're doing is we're covering all the pores and now she can't absorb the ethylene.
So she's like, oh wow, I must be a boy then.
And then she starts growing male parts and you take those male parts and eventually they
throw pollen.
And once you collect that pollen, that pollen you're holding in your hand is all girl pollen
because you know it came from a strong female that you got it from originally.
So collodial silver is a method.
Silver thiosulfate is a very good method too.
Just make sure you're wearing a lot of personal protective equipment.
I would probably wear a PPI with all that stuff, but definitely STS, just not stuff
you want to handle without stuff like that.
And then they have a new product.
And I don't know too much about the guy himself.
I'm not getting into that part of it, but I guess his product is actually pretty good.
And what's awesome about it, so with STS, you got to spray every couple of days before
the lights go off.
And you have to do that for the day you flip the timer until maybe like two or three weeks
in until you start basically seeing definite male parts growing.
And then you can kind of fall back.
And it sucks because you're always mixing shit.
You're with your family.
You're out.
You're doing stuff.
You got to run home to mix it and spray it.
And it just becomes a problem.
But there's a new product out on the line now.
And I have two friends, good friends that use it.
It's called a Hybritec.
And basically it's a one and done, which is like a blessing in disguise.
So you just spray the plant once and then just let it do its thing and it'll throw pollen
everywhere.
So those are the three methods.
There might be some other stuff, but I don't know about them.
If they are, they're probably proprietary.
Those are the three methods.
And that's basically the concept of what we're trying to achieve.
And then again, I mentioned the type of females that you want to use.
Because a lot of breeders blame it's the grower's fault.
And sometimes it is, but it shouldn't be happening all the time.
Unless you have some serious issues going on, they shouldn't be doing that.
I have a lot of people that have fucked my plants up and they do just fine.
Yeah.
I completely agree with you that feminized seeds in general have gotten a bad name.
There are definitely many breeders who do not work with reversals as the place to start
their breeding programs.
But it is an extremely important tool in breeding in general.
And it is definitely a set of techniques that is important for us going forward.
And just like the rest of the hype cross or things that get released without testing,
if you don't do testing, this stuff is going to happen.
There's not going to be any consistency.
You can't guarantee anything that you're going to get out of those.
And so it's a problem, I think, across the board.
There's a lot of people who make crosses, sell those crosses.
They don't work those lines before they made the crosses.
And they don't work the lines after they make the crosses.
The folks that put in the work are going to give you good quality genetics.
And it is important.
Genetics are very important.
You can see the difference in the plants in the way that they react, the way that they
grow, the way they produce, and the way that they finish.
I have absolutely seen the difference in different sets of plants that I've grown over time.
And specifically, I think I've grown, I was going to add it all up earlier.
And I'll probably do it.
I want to do a wrap up to figure out how many plants I've grown since I started growing
again in 2017.
But I think I've grown somewhere upwards of 90 to 100 different cultivars over that time
from probably 40 different breeders.
And there is definitely genetics that are above and beyond other sets of plants.
And you can tell the differences between plants grown from seed from people like Dynasty and
Mosca and yourself for that matter, who put in the work, and people who just made some
crosses that they're passing out.
Yeah, and you know, with me too, I think a lot of it, or the problem is, if F1 crosses
aren't that bad in regards to how the plant will end up turning out as long as both parental
stock have been worked.
So that way, if you're not getting much variation on the mother and the father, and then you
cross the two, typically whatever is homozygous is going to stay that way.
So that turnout isn't horrible.
The issue, or one of the issues, or a big issue is when the mother and the father are
just a bunch of cross after F1, after multiple different parental lines, and then you have
the same thing on the other side, and then you cross those two, you're going to get a
crazy variation of the grandparents, the parents, and it's just because it's all over the place.
And that's kind of what, like you mentioned earlier, it's revenue driven versus trying
to take time.
They couldn't take, you know, you figure it takes maybe four or five months to do a generation.
Well, you know, so you want to try and get to at least F3 where it's somewhat probable.
Right. Well, now you're looking at a year and a half.
They wouldn't be making any money, so they would never take that long to do it.
And not that all people do, but that's kind of where, like you said, across the board
where there's like a kind of an issue involved.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, and I mean, I guess it's the same way with anything, right?
You know, people who put in the work, you've got to get that quality craftsmanship.
Right. That's what we're talking about with craft.
Right. It's a craft, craftsmanship that is a it's it's supposed to be a symbol of
mastery. Right.
We you know, the the master grower term is looked upon poorly by a lot of people.
I think it's a joke in some ways.
But, you know, being a master carpenter or being a master plumber, being a master
mason, being a master gardener is a sign of putting in the work.
And is something that should be earned as part of craftsmanship, right, being a
craftsman, it's part of a journey.
That's where those titles actually come from.
And so although we look down upon that term, many people do because of all the
people who've kind of pulled this master grower title out of thin air without
putting in the work. You know, it's it's a profession that needs to be taken
seriously. And the people who take it seriously are the people who are going to
succeed at the end of the day because you're doing it not just because you are
trying to build a business, but because you love this plant and you enjoy breeding
this plant for people.
Right, I completely agree.
All right, it is just about 10 o'clock.
That hour flew fast.
I'm going to go ahead and relight the room.
Welcome to Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
We are here, our weekly Cannabis Cultivation Club, every Thursday night, 9pm
Eastern, 6pm Pacific, being recorded and simulcast on YouTube Future Cannabis
Project FCPO2 channel.
Please give this club all the speakers of follow and make sure you subscribe to
YouTube as well as check out the other great shows that are on there.
So we're going to open up the floor in a couple of minutes, but let me just check
we talked about the first time you smoked and started growing and what got you into
breeding. We talked about your mentor and your growing style now.
And, you know, we've talked a little bit about your breeding and how you do your
reversal.
Why, you know, is there any other reasons why you specialized in feminized for so long
as opposed to regular seeds?
Yeah, I mean, there's definitely controversy around this subject and, you know, to
that your own. So I just want to start off with that.
But, you know, with with female breeding, you know, I know what the females are
looking like, so I know what traits are going to be passed on.
You know, I could tell like the calyx and just everything about the variety.
I could see everything visually.
I could see the whole person there sitting there, you know, the color.
Let's just say it's a human, the color eyes, the color of her hair, her body or
shape or her complexion.
I could see everything with a male.
You don't get all the features.
So you're basically just taking the male and then dusting it.
Then you got to pop those seeds and see what carried what carried over from the from
the dad. And if that and if it didn't, basically, if that male wasn't carrying the
traits you were hoping for because you can't really see much on the male plant, you
have to take a different male.
Then you try that again.
Then you see then you. Oh, wow.
Yeah, that one works.
But you might be going through three or four males before you find a male that works
for you. But by the time you did all that, I already found I already had a girl that
worked for me on the first try because I knew what she what she what she looked like,
you know, and that's just for me, it's it's it's faster, you know, and I mean, people
do. There are a lot of things that are said about, you know, because I think it's
having a brain fart right now, but I think it's like, you know, how girl females are
XX chromosome. So you're missing the Y chromosome and the genetic cross.
And I don't know too much about that.
And as far as I know, there hasn't been any suggested details from botanist that
because you're missing that chromosome, that you're missing something by doing girl
on girl all the time.
That has been said yet, at least in the community.
But for me, it's just it's a lot faster.
So, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah, no, I appreciate that.
I appreciate that.
And, you know, I think and you're right, there's a lot of controversy about this.
Right. I go, I think for new growers, if you can get good, solid, feminized seeds,
absolutely. That's the way to go.
If you have very small, limited plant counts.
Feminized seeds are also, again, a good way to go because you're you only can grow
four plants.
And if three of those four plants you try to grow turn out to be male, you're bummed.
Right. And a lot of the states that have turned on that very, very limited plant
counts here in Massachusetts were lucky.
Right. Six per person, 12 per household.
I can I can pop some seeds in rotation and, you know, if I get a couple of males, a
couple of females, it's OK.
I got some other ones and keep the rotation going.
But I think if you have a very limited plant count, feminized plants are really a good
choice for that consistency.
And, you know, for new growers as well, I think it's it's easier for them to learn to
grow as opposed to maybe focusing so much on sex, the sex part of it, part of it, just
the general process of growing a healthy plant and getting that successful harvest right
off the bat is so is a way to really, really hook those folks in, I think.
Yeah, I remember I still remember trying to remember.
I don't think it was Google back then or what how I found it, but trying to figure out what
was a boy and a girl.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely. I'm still trying to figure it out all the time.
I'm looking at the plant like, come on, I can't tell.
Yeah. Throw a long hair so I can be sure.
Well, sometimes, yeah. And especially in the fem seed, sometimes they throw out this like
tranny sex.
It's like a it's like a combo of the two.
Like you don't really know until it gets a little bit further developed.
Yeah. And then I think also the sometimes with the males, I just I'm optimistic that at
some point in time that plant is going to throw a hair, even though I know it's a male and
I just keep seeing that claw.
You know, I'm not going to it's not going to be a female.
I know it's not going to be a female.
I keep growing that plant because I just I for some reason I'm hoping that it's going to go
female. Has that worked for you yet?
No, no, it hasn't.
It hasn't. And in fact, it it usually leads to what I like to call happy mistakes.
So so recently.
Right. So actually, I have a accidental cross of the New England rock candy, Bushy Fino
with a grapefruit web from Dynasty.
So I got a lot of the Dr.
Lime seemed to pick up a lot and I haven't dug too much into the rock candy as much as I've
been smoking the Dr. Lime, which is probably why I haven't found as many seeds yet.
But I did.
So I had this.
I had this beautiful grapefruit web plant and I had convinced myself that it was a female,
so I threw it in the flower with the with the Bushy Fino of that New England rock candy
and the Dr.
Limes and, you know, let it, you know, it was in there and flowering, you know, about a
week later I was in there and I'm like, man, that's a that's a male.
I got it.
I'm like, all right, fine.
And I pulled it. I guess I didn't pull it fast enough because there are some seeds.
But you can tell it was a very early seed because the only there's no seeds in the buds.
There's only some seeds at the places, you know, at the branches where.
Yeah, exactly. So it obviously was very, very early in the process.
And so none of the buds have seeds in them, which is fantastic.
But I got some seeds off this plant.
So I'm really, really interested to see what those will look like because Dynasty always
throws these monster colas.
So throwing some monster colas on a couple of those Bushy Fino's might be something very
interesting to take a look at.
And then it's got, you know, that grapefruit web is from Charlotte's Web Cross and the
grapefruit I've grown.
That's a little bit more sativa.
It's a lighter up type of a high.
And so it might be an interesting cross with that.
So we'll see. I may pop some down the road sometime and see what I get out of that.
Yeah, I'm sure it'll be fire.
I mean, that rock candy is a very, very, very special girl, man.
Even just so the mother I have that nobody I'm the only one that has the mother.
I mean, there's someone else that has it, but I know it's not going anywhere.
But the mother, I don't I can't smoke.
It's just like way too intense for me.
It's just the last time I tried to smoke it, I was like curled up on the ball, get my
head, get my head rubbed.
I was like having like a panic attack.
I was just wicked lit.
You know, it's just it's just very and it's hard to describe.
I mean, maybe and you kind of somewhat did.
It's like it's just really.
I don't know if it's like narcotic more, but it's like or like a mix of narcotic and
just like really strong. But like it just kind of on sets.
You know, when you take the hit, you feel you definitely feel high, but like slowly.
It's like a slow roller coaster clicking up the thing and it just drops and then you
get. Yeah.
Yeah. It's not it's not a creeper because you definitely feel it like right away.
Right. It's not something that like you smoke a joint and then like, you know, 10, 15
minutes later, you're like, holy shit, I'm high.
No, this one like you start to get high.
But you're right. It just kind of it keeps clicking up.
And then like, I don't know, man, I was like drinking my coffee and I sat down in my
first meeting. I'm like, damn, I'm high.
I'm glad I'm glad everything's remote these days.
I got to tell you, it's good to be home in my room and be and being able to just shut
off that camera and talk to people when I need to.
But yeah, no, it's but it's it's it's interesting, though.
It's a very you're very aware.
It's not like you're sedated type of a high and but you do have to keep focus.
Otherwise, if you have any bit of ADD, forget it.
You're getting nothing done.
Right. Yeah.
So it's interesting.
It is definitely enjoyable.
All right. So I'm going to let's see.
We've got so we've got some other locals on.
I see Teddy's is on Teddy's veggies is another one of our friends who's actually
working out of Worcester.
And that's another Massachusetts person on there.
And thank you for joining us, Matt and Matt and Jacob and Ty and Brian and an owl and
Tyson and say and anybody wants to come up and join us tonight and ask any questions,
feel free to.
I'm going to take a look at what we got going on here on YouTube with Sunnyland.
Grow there.
Grows it has this Abraham Espinosa.
We got Miranda family farms again, my friends from Plymouth.
You know, I do have the Pilgrim's Punch going right now.
Miranda family farms.
But, you know, if you have something else, we can talk.
We can talk. I still need to make the trip out to the store as well, which is just over
the bridge. So I will be making it over there.
So shout out to my friends at Miranda Family Farms.
Who's on YouTube, John and Grace on grows to Dankovich.
Alex Hardy passing on some knowledge earlier.
Nali grows Sonny Chiva D.
Rell loyalties hanging out.
Appreciate everybody being here tonight with us to listen to this week's grow and tell.
And I do appreciate the love loyalty.
Usually we go for a good solid two hours, three hours.
I don't know. What is is pushing it a little bit for me?
It's definitely getting a little bit late here on the East Coast.
I get a bit punchy after 11 p.m.
at night. You know, I get up early.
I can't help it. You know, it's just the way it is.
All right. So let's talk about the batch.
Oh, yeah. Let's get Matt up here.
And I just want to talk a little bit about before we.
Answer Matt's question, thanks for joining us tonight, Matt.
So just to talk about real quick, how did that partnership come about with the hazy
Kush line? You want to talk about that one?
Yeah. So I don't know.
I'm all about kind of just like collaborating with everybody and just reaching more
people, helping more people.
I mean, but, you know, basically what I try and do with anything is just the more
people I can help, the better my own life is.
And I just that's just where I find joy.
And so I basically reached out to a bunch of people that I kind of respected.
Some of them shut me right down.
And I guess I get that because some people are just don't feel the same way as I do
about certain things. And so I reached out to John from Green Boaty.
And, you know, I said basically I had mentioned if you want to do something together.
And his first response was that he was just really busy.
And so I was like, you know, I had mentioned, well, I guess everything happens for a
reason. And then he wrote back to that was like, well, what are you trying to do, man?
You know, he gave me like it was just trying to give me the time of day, see what was
going on. And I said, you know, I was like, I'll do all the work.
I'm just trying to, you know, it's trying to collaborate with somebody and think that,
you know, you have some good material.
I have some good material and we should just take both of our best plants and cross
them together and give them to the community.
And, you know, so he said, all right.
And he ended up sending me like a lot of feminized female, you know, which is obviously
feminized female pollen from a hazy cush is hazy cush breeder cut.
And I basically took that and dusted all my my my my breeder cuts, like my elite breeder
cuts that I only use for breathing.
And. That's how it came about, you know, so it is an F1 cross, so this specific drop
that I did with those didn't get completely work.
But at the same time, the varieties that I used weren't all over the place.
So it shouldn't be too too crazy in regards to what people are getting for expressions
and stuff like that. Plus, I just thought it was just really cool for just me and him to
kind of do the collaboration. You know, it's not like it was like a personal line that
I've worked on and said it was a it's just a just kind of just two guys taking their
best plants and just, you know, in most scenarios, I would say in most that's a lie.
Again, if you have if you have parental stock, that's pretty decent in my experience
making F1s, nothing really typically keywords, typically something ugly comes out of
that, you know, so I knew it wasn't and I grew out the testers, too, and they were all
they all seemed really beautiful.
That's why I ended up releasing them.
That's just kind of how me and John came about.
And he's a really good guy. I met him at the Harvest Cup.
I don't know if you met him there, too, or said hi to him, but I met him and we took a
picture together. He's just a really, really, really good man, you know, and just
fortunately, I missed him, actually.
Yeah, he was there with Mr.
So, OK.
Yeah. OK.
Yeah, it was unfortunately I was only at the Harvest Cup for one day this year, and so
I didn't have my my normal time to to really get around.
I mean, I missed Ed Rosenthal.
I missed Mike Tyson.
I got a picture of Mike.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, it's funny that.
So Mike walked by.
I started interrupt you when Mike walked by.
I when I found out he was there, I was like, oh, my gosh.
And I know he's got a kid farm.
So I grabbed I grabbed some of my gear and I just took off and I had my girlfriend, man,
the booth. And so I found him and there's like a little aisle that led to him because
everybody was just hovering around him.
You know, I'm surprised. Oh, yeah.
Getting all antsy and stuff.
So I I went down this direct aisle and I got like right basically like right in his face
and I put my arm on his shoulder and I said, hey, man, you should you should grab these.
And he's like, you know, he's like, well, what's this?
I'm like, it's my genetics.
And he's like, he looked at me, looked at it, looked at me and he put it in his he put
it in his little satchel and then kept walking.
I was like, hey, I got it.
Yeah, he must have walked away with a satchel full.
I got to tell you, he definitely walked out of there with a ton of samples.
It was funny to see him there.
I love that Ed came out to to Massachusetts.
I think it's fantastic.
I really appreciate him doing that.
I know, you know, I'm good friends with Professor P and I know Professor P's in the
book, in Ed's new book.
And that's kind of where that relationship came from.
So it was awesome to see him come out and recognize Mass, you know, help with the
recognition of Massachusetts and what's going on on the East Coast.
Even here on Clubhouse, I get into all these rooms and people are talking about
California, California, California, Colorado, Colorado.
Where's the love for the Northeast?
We got some crazy shit going on out here.
There's a lot of you know, there's a lot of the East Coast in general has had a part
of the game for a long time that isn't necessarily as recognized or as well known
necessarily, I guess.
But, you know, I have a lot of respect for California and California cannabis.
I do enjoy my humble county bud, but I can get my hands on it.
And I do appreciate all the things that they've done for the legalization of the
plant. But this plant has been grown and bred all over the planet for centuries.
We go back like 13,000 years, 15,000 years.
Humans have been cultivating this plant.
And so I do I do love having a chance to shout out all my New England friends.
We're doing there's some fantastic cannabis being grown and bred here in the
Northeast. And so it's good to recognize that.
Matt, what do you got going on tonight?
How are you doing, sir?
Just hanging out moose and lobster, man.
That's one I have to just just just on the topic real quick, like, you know, mate,
you know, the whole like Northeast, you know, like, you know, like Professor has
done some amazing work out there.
And one of the strains, I think, is put the Northeast on the map.
Wherever out there, anyone find some moose and lobster like that shit is fucking
incredible. And we've read by Dynasty Genetics as well.
Is that correct me if I'm wrong?
It's a Cali Snapple crossed on a blue magoo.
Two really old school strains, just absolutely fantastic, though.
It's kind of like he's primarily out of Oregon.
But yeah, no, he's he's done some tremendous work in a family in New England and
Maine. Yeah, no, he comes all the time.
He actually knows the Worcester restaurant scene better than I do.
He's a professor.
He's an amazing guy. I love hanging out with him.
It was really it was really good to see him for the first time in a couple of years
when he came out when he was here for the Harvest Cup.
And, you know, Ralph Rosenberg, who's the main seed bank that you can get his stuff
through, is is he's a local as well.
He's here in Massachusetts, in New England.
And so, yeah, no, the New England family runs deep in the professors in the
professors world. Absolutely.
Hey, and then another shout out to Ralph Rosenberg, too.
Like right now, you guys like he's doing a amazing discounted deal on seeds.
And you guys like Jason is explaining how amazing Dynasty Genetics and Professor P is.
His seeds are on sale and all those proceeds through through Ralph Rosenberg right now
is going to a gentleman in the industry that is badly.
Yes. Leukemia.
And honestly, we're all just trying to help each other.
So if you need some seeds, buy some through Ralph right now.
Not only are you buying some of the greatest fucking genetics on the market, I believe
you're also helping somebody who's going through a hard time, too.
So I think it's awesome that that they're even doing that.
They're willing to put all this money towards JD.
It's really cool. JD is an unbelievable human being.
I love JD to death.
He is absolutely just an amazing guy.
He is a true plant person in general.
He used to run horticultural greenhouses for different industries as well.
He's got deep roots in the cannabis community.
Many people know him from the fact that he always worked either the Mosca booth,
Mosca seeds booth or fish shit or next light.
I mean, he's been he's been around the industry for years,
and he's also just a beautiful human being.
JD is so much fun to hang out with.
And I had some great times working Mosca's booth with him.
So, yeah, no, absolutely.
Check out Kyle's new seed lines and definitely hit up
that sale that's going on that's contributing to JD.
I appreciate you bringing that up, brother.
It's really important that we can help JD out at this time.
It's kind of hard to imagine being, you know, an older person
and having to deal with leukemia.
It's kind of something that definitely hit him sideways.
So I appreciate that, Kyle.
You know, we covered, I think, pretty much everything about,
you know, but this latest feminine, this latest regular seed line.
So you want to talk about this latest release a little bit?
Yeah. You know, an interesting thing I do have since,
you know, you've definitely been around a lot of the older stuff, too.
Have you heard of Kevin Jodry?
I know Kevin as well.
He actually sent me a cut of his BLRF2.
It was that unfortunately I lost.
But yeah, no, Kevin's a great guy.
And I'm looking forward to I'm looking forward to seeing him in Maine
in March when he's out here for the
let me know. Regenerative.
Yeah, it's for the Regenerative Cannabis Cultivation
Conference that comes to Maine that our good friend Dutch Blooms
Josh is one of the main people on.
But I'll pass you the info for that.
Yeah, definitely.
You know, he actually so I there's a grower that I
I don't know him personally, but he had mentioned some old seeds.
And he had reached out to me on the DM and said that
his either his grandfather, his father had some
bought some NL5 seeds off of a back of a Scenty seed pack
way back when they were doing that and that they've been being inbred
in New England for the last 30 something years, however long
since they got from that magazine.
And I was like, wow, it's like, you know, the epigenetics of that
growing in New England and being resilient to this weather is is like
and being historical is like means a lot to me.
You know, that's like, oh, yeah.
Yeah. So I'd ask him if he has any.
He showed me he took a picture and it was like a lot of them.
And I was like, geez, what do you want?
He's like, oh, you can just have them.
So he sent me the bag and I have a lot and I posted it on
Instagram, you know, and if you look at my feed, you can see it.
Nineteen ninety four Northern Lights.
And I seen Kevin post something about an NL5
that somebody had from like
somewhere down in the 90s or something like that.
And I said, hey, you know, I was like, shoot, I kind of want to do like a back
or maybe just see kind of I wanted that cut basically.
I reached out to him and he was like, yeah, yeah, I'll give you this cut.
If you give me some of those seeds, because I guess he looked at my feet
and I was like, oh, no, he said he's like, as long as you do a few,
cross them together to give him some some seeds.
And I was like, well, how about I give you some of these seeds now?
And he's like, oh, that'd be awesome.
And then and basically so I had sent him that.
And that's before he sent me the NL5 cut.
I said, hey, if you ever want to, if you feel a little froggy
about adding something in with that, you know, that'd be cool.
I said maybe some skunks.
I know he's been doing the skunk project and stuff.
So I was hoping he'd give me some kind of like some old skunk.
Well, he ended up sending me an original and it's in his words,
the original purple oracle cut.
So I have. Yeah.
And that's I don't think that's kind of floating around too much
these days anymore.
Very nice. Very nice.
Yeah. No, Kevin is amazing.
I love I love listening to him talk.
Just really, really, really
full of fantastic facts and information and the history.
I love I love listening to him talk about the, you know, the generations like him.
So they came over with helicopters.
And so we dug tunnels into the into the mountains and just
he's awesome.
So much fun to to talk to Kevin.
I always learn something every time I listen to him and have a chat with him.
So, yeah, I'm absolutely looking forward to seeing him up in Maine.
It's always good to chat with him and see
see the whole region crowd actually be looking forward to seeing blue
and blue or green tank, I'm sure, is going to come down and we'll hang out
and talk avocado tech, among other things, and some other stuff.
So, yeah, it's always good.
Steve, Steve Reisner is going to be there.
I love hanging out with Steve.
Awesome. Awesome.
He was on our show when we talked about water
of kelp two weeks ago.
So just really, really good stuff.
All right. So anything I'm excited to go up there.
But I guess to answer your question about the so I have a friend of mine
that lives in a red state.
I'm not sure which one, but yeah,
he had gotten into into breeding as well after I started getting into it.
So he's been kind of been doing it for a couple of years now.
And he decided to one of the things he had popped open
and one of the facts he got was Brothers Grimm Cinderella 99 seeds.
And basically he found a and he went the male approach,
which I tried to tell him to do girls, but he wanted to do male, which is fine.
That's and that's nothing wrong with that.
So he did the male approach, found it, ended up finding a male that
basically was giving out the correct traits that he was looking for.
And I had give him some of my cuts just to kind of give him
some good material to start with, because it's like you said, genetics is key.
And I was trying to kind of give him a kickstart.
And he ended up crossing his his studded male into my female.
And he grew out a lot of the seeds.
And they're all pretty damn close to, you know,
being on typical expressions. They weren't that far off at all.
And they're all beautiful.
And I went over and I checked them out.
I was like, oh, yeah, I mean, it's beautiful.
So, you know, because the 99 strain is pretty well worked heavily.
You know, Brothers Grimm did a very good job on that.
It's cubing, which is a whole other conversation and how that goes on.
But, you know, and then my the rock candy is pretty, pretty stable in herself, too.
So between the two, we decided to launch it, you know, and some people like regs.
And I think it's going to you know, I think people really love the product.
I mean, a lot of people seem really excited about it already.
And I'm excited for people to get their hands on it.
That's 10, 10, 31.
Wow. 10, 31. Like we're in October.
Well, 12, 12, 31 at 10 a.m.
Eastern Time at pure breeding dot com.
That's my website.
You're reading your pure slash breeding or breeding.
They all lead to the same website.
So feel free to.
The food, I want to get some fantastic New Year's Eve seed drop.
Got to love it. Something for the new year.
Yeah. All right.
Random news, Jota, is I reached out to Mr.
Soul himself because, you know, me and John, I did a collaboration.
And I was like, well, let's just try that again.
So I reached out to Mr.
Soul. I said, hey, I have a plant that nobody has but me.
And it's very valuable to me.
Would I want to give it to you?
Would you be a.
Not share it.
And I was going to try and do contracts with him, because, I mean, he seems like a pretty trustworthy dude.
But I was like, would you be willing to do a collaboration?
He's like, well, you know, I sent him some pictures, told him about the plant.
He's like, well, let's let's let's do it, Kyle.
So I sent him a clone last week and he has it.
He showed me a picture that he got it.
And me and him are going to be doing a collaboration together.
So that's going to be really, really, really for me as a, you know,
I guess I want to call it a young breeder or young company getting into the industry.
For me, it's pretty high on the pedestal to be working with a guy like him who's
paved the way in a lot of ways in regards to
just really good varieties that's been in the industry.
And so super excited about that.
Another guy who's very active in New England.
This Mr.
So is very active in New England.
He sponsors a
he sponsors one of the cups that's up in Maine.
That's that's that's annual.
And so he's he's a he's definitely some guy
who does a lot of stuff in the area.
He's always at the he's always at New Kensin, Canna, Kanzi.
He's always been at the Harvest Cup the last couple of times as well.
Absolutely. Another supporter of the area.
I didn't know he was up in Maine doing stuff like that.
That's kind of cool.
Yeah, there's a there's a well, he gave genetics to
and Scott will have to forgive me
because I can't remember the name of his cup.
It used to be it was an empty
empty seeds cup originally
that he started some he started his own thing, annual cup.
And they had three different breeders, one for Sativa, one for Indica,
and one for hybrid.
And so Mr.
Soul gave the Sativa
seeds for that cup to get Scott going on that process.
And our friends at
Joe, who's also in the
Joe, who's on the South Coast as well. He.
He also did he was one of the people in there and then Tori
Tori Gates, Orange.
They had the I think they were the hybrid.
I can't remember if they were the house of Orange.
I knew I would remember that eventually.
So Tori Gates and House of Orange and House of Orange is also interesting.
New England again, they used to come to the grow
and tell at the Summit Lounge all the time, actually.
Tori and her mother are.
So it's a mother daughter breeding female breeding company.
And they're they're they're very interesting.
Tori Tori grew up in Amsterdam
collecting packs of seeds when she was like 13.
So yeah, this long storied history of them
growing the plant and being around the plants as well.
So very, very, very cool ladies.
They do some really cool work.
And Tori is also somebody who is often in Massachusetts and Maine.
All right. So anything to wrap up?
Anything else you'd like to say about pure breeding or anything else
in general that we covered tonight before we
start wrapping things up here tonight, sir?
Yeah, just that, you know, if you're going to breed with them and I seeds,
start with really good parental stock.
You know, I can't I can't talk on that much.
It's huge.
And if you do take the time to do that and stress test your plants,
stress testing in regards to like some things that I do is, you know,
some of the best triggers to get them to hermaphrodite
because you're basically trying to do that to see how the female plants are is
high heat and.
You know, I would flower for the cost, but he is the biggest
one of the biggest triggers for for me, you know,
typically on the flip, if you're if they're on high heat and you flip them,
the first batch of herms will go and then, you know,
but then you have to want to do other stuff to like flowering and silica.
So like that.
So if you want to do that, that's something you really should
really look into doing. It's worth it.
You're if you you know, it's in the long run, your company will be OK
if you take time to stress test varieties or else you'll just be known
as the guy selling herms and you don't want to be that guy.
No, nobody wants to be that guy.
No other than that.
So I was supposed to move to Oklahoma.
I'm not going to get too deep into that.
So I'm not moving.
But what I am doing now, which is really awesome
and I'm extremely excited about this, Jota, is so.
Basically, I don't know if people know this and it's,
you know, I'm starting it now, so whoever's starting out with me,
then good for them, too.
But what I didn't know that they offered in Massachusetts
and I just found this out because I know a guy that literally has one.
Is, you know, the typical scenario is you need
a lot of capital to start a company here,
a facility here or dispensary here, you need a lot of capital,
you need investments and stuff like that.
Well, apparently there's a way for Joe, the plumber and whoever else
to get involved in the cannabis industry and have a facility.
It's like, well, what is that?
You might know this, Jota, but there is such thing
as a residential cultivation license.
I didn't know that.
I just found out six months ago that that was a thing.
It's like, well, what is that?
Well, apparently in some parts of Massachusetts, they allow you
if you have if you're in the right zoning and you're in the right town.
And there's not many towns that do this.
I've been spending the last three nights
till like two, you know, one, two in the morning, trying to find
looking through these town bylaws to see how their rules are.
And some town bylaws, you can't find anything on it.
Sometimes we'll talk about it and then sometimes don't say anything.
So it's extremely frustrating.
But what it is, is they allow you to grow on your own land legally.
And basically, as long as you have enough acreage to put a greenhouse on
and they allow you up to do, they're allowing you to put a 5000 square foot
building on your land.
And as long as you have a fence, security cameras and you abide by
whatever the town wants, they'll allow you to grow on your own property
and then to then basically cultivate it commercially.
And I was like, well, what the hell?
You know, so then I so I found out the guy who has this license
and I went and spoke to him and it's 100 percent real.
He has it. He's building his greenhouse right now.
And I was like, man, I was like, could you please help me with with mine?
He's like, well, you got to find a place in the town.
But yeah, I'll help you with the paperwork.
It's like that.
He's like, it takes about a year to get to get anywhere even near
getting a license because how Massachusetts is, which is fine.
Yep. So currently I'm in the process of looking for a house in the town.
So I already know the towns.
I have about five towns.
And so basically I'm going to get the town, get the license,
and I will be able to be cultivating myself in Massachusetts,
which is essentially the dream. Right.
So. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
That's fantastic.
I wish you the best of luck.
And, you know, I think, you know,
there's obviously opportunities for some partnerships as well.
And you never know.
Things may work out for you in Oklahoma.
Things may turn around. You never know.
So it's it's
things happen that are supposed to happen. Right.
If they don't happen, they weren't meant to happen.
And that's just the way it is.
But yeah, no, I I I completely I have.
I was aware of that.
And, you know, it's not for myself.
I'm not really looking to do that.
I like being just a hobbyist
and I'm not looking to grow large amounts of cannabis and sell it.
So for me, it's not an option that I looked into.
But yes, you are correct.
If you have the right town,
you can definitely get away with setting up a relatively
inexpensive facility and getting going.
And it does take time to get through the process.
But, you know, for the most part, a lot of the stumbling blocks
for most people trying to get into the industry is not the basic license.
It's the real estate and the build out
and everything else that's involved in getting going.
And so if you, you know,
many cases you have to get a community host agreement.
And have a location.
And then that landlord needs to either work with you
or he's going to charge you until you actually put something in the facility.
And it may take you, as you were saying, it might take you a year
if you're doing a build out to get your facility put together,
to get your licensing, to get everything signed off on.
They're going to yank in and and get you every step of the way.
So if there's a inexpensive way to do that on land, you have
to get going.
You're going to that's that's where a lot of the the the startup issues are.
That's where a lot of the burden comes from on trying to get going here in Massachusetts.
It's not so much about actually growing the plants.
It's about getting a place to put the plants.
That seems that's where all the cost is involved.
And, you know, obviously, if you're going to do a state of the art greenhouse,
it's going to cost you a couple of million dollars.
So that's not necessarily a cheap situation either.
But if you're just going to put up some some, you know, some plates
and put some plants in the ground and get rolling,
then you can do that relatively inexpensively.
Yeah, yeah, I agree.
Me, too. It's exciting.
The girlfriend's doesn't quite understand what's happening,
but I just tell her to have trust in me and it'll all work out.
So, yep, yep.
And, you know, I think
the dispensaries here in Massachusetts can buy product from other licensed grows.
So, you know, there is a market there if you can develop those relationships
and have some place to move that material to.
You know, we do have a great community here in Massachusetts.
And, you know, I'm sure that if you don't know somebody, our mutual friend,
Eric Robichaux, probably knows somebody who can use all of that biomass
in some way, shape or form
for edible businesses or chocolate businesses
or the twelve thousand other businesses in his network.
Agreed.
He's a good guy.
Actually, it's funny, I actually just met with Eric two hours ago.
We met up. I had given him some seeds for his his website.
So and he's doing well.
Awesome. Awesome. Yeah, I miss I miss seeing Eric.
I miss going to we had he runs a weekly nor.
Well, it used to be basically a central Massachusetts
networking group.
Yeah, it was it was a weekly.
It was a weekly networking group for people in the Canada industry.
And it's all now on LinkedIn and Zoom.
So if you are interested in networking and the people
in the networking group from across the country,
just it's a really, really great group.
Reach out to me and I can try to connect you with Eric
so you can get involved in that.
And it's really I spent I spent over a year in that networking group.
And it was really, really interesting.
A lot of that you get a good cross of ancillary businesses, because that's
that's the part that a lot of people also don't think about off the bat is,
you know, you need an accountant, you need a lawyer,
you need packaging, you need cleaning of your facility.
There's all these other ancillary businesses that you need, along with,
you know, the the people that you need to sell to distributors
and facilities and things like that.
So he's got it.
It's a really, really great group of people,
really, really diverse community of businesses and professionals
who are really looking to help get the business going.
If you need insurance or payroll or real estate or I mean, you name it,
there's a business that's connected in that group.
So it's a really great place for people who are looking to get those
businesses going in Massachusetts to learn about the industry,
about what's going on in the industry, what some of the other things
that people are having the similar issues with and how they get around them.
There's just a tremendous wealth of knowledge to be shared there.
So really good stuff.
It's not just about growing the plant either. Right.
It's about actually getting it to the consumer. Right.
Awesome.
Yeah, that's all I got.
I just want to say, you know, thank you for everything.
I appreciate it.
I just appreciate you promoting my genetics, you know, in regards to you
growing them and then sharing them every day you're posting about it.
Just let me on here and setting this all up and taking time out of your own
personal day and time to make this what it is and give me a chance to just,
you know, get my name out there and just to just kind of converse with you
and maybe maybe it helps some people and some of the knowledge that I share.
I just want to say thank you.
Oh, yeah. No, absolutely. You're very welcome.
I definitely enjoyed growing your cultivars.
I've enjoyed chatting with you
and I absolutely want to support people who are,
as I mentioned, they have the right intention.
They love this plant.
They're putting in the work
to produce good quality cultivars for folks.
And it's important because it is it is tough out there for people to know.
I think many times.
We get for those of us in the know, so to speak,
for those of us who spend a lot of time in the community,
as well as more deeply in the breeder community,
some of the shenanigans that go on.
And so even with those shenanigans and the fact that some people are just
terrible people and you shouldn't be giving them any of your money.
It's hard for most consumers to keep track of all of it.
That's just way too much. There's too many breeders.
There's too much drama.
It moves too fast.
And most people don't really care.
At the end of the day, they just want plants.
Right. They want good, dependable plants.
So, you know, for me, when I run across people who are,
as I mentioned, doing things for the right intention,
they're not out there to cause drama or screw people over.
They're good people doing good work
and stand behind the plants that they're growing.
I want to help promote them and, you know, and give and help.
I want to grow their plants and see what it's about, you know,
because for me, that's what it's about. It's the experience.
That's why I'm not really into breeding myself.
That's why I don't breed. People have asked me that a lot of times.
I don't want to be a breeder.
I find it really interesting and I love hanging out with and talking to breeders
because they understand the plant at a extreme level.
People who put in the work
obviously have to spend a lot of time with the plant.
And so they understand a lot about the plant.
And so that's why I love spending so much time with breeders,
as well as obviously getting genetics to grow.
But for me, it's about the variety.
I love growing different types of plants,
as many different types of plants from as many different breeders as I can.
That's what it's all about for me is experiencing all these different aspects
of this tremendous, tremendous plant that we that we have here.
So that's why I just keep moving on from plant to plant.
And it's very rare that I keep anything.
I know that's why when I found out you were re-vegging the plant,
I was like, well, I must have made a way in his heart.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
So anything that can anything that that
it's just again that that specific plant was special to me. Right.
It was constantly praying.
And, you know, I took three clones.
Right. Two of which I gave to you.
Right. And one of them,
the runt of the group, so to speak, I kept.
And that it was a special plant.
Like I said, man, it survived a leaf blower, a backpack leaf blower falling on it,
being veg too long.
Didn't matter how it was treated.
New environment, not necessarily the right temperatures
or having everything set up properly, all these other stresses
and things that went on with that plant.
And it kept praying the whole way. It didn't care.
It had leaves up is like, yeah, hit me again, hit me again.
And then and then of the two phenos, it was the stronger pheno, too.
It was the one, like I said, it's that one that is that one
that kind of reaches up and grabs you by the boo-boo that you got to be careful with.
So, yeah, no, I kept that that third clone.
And it's it's growing.
And I will I will most likely relatively soon
take some more clones off it to flower off for another batch or two
to give out to people in the spring
or actually really summertime by the time it's I get through everything.
So definitely some stuff to hopefully give out at some events and things come,
you know, that May, June time frame, depending on what's going on.
That would be honestly, that'd be really cool.
Honestly, that would mean a lot to me, you know?
Yeah. Yeah, no, absolutely.
Excited to to keep that one around for a little while.
And to be honest with you, it's right now it's the happiest plant in my tent.
It's got the best color.
It's got again, it's got its leaves up and and she's ready for more.
So it's impressive because it was I took a clone.
I took a cut off of the plant while it was flowering.
It was a month in the flower when I took those cuts.
Thirty one days and all three of the cuts rooted
and all three of the cuts were they did well and they were responsive.
So again, strong genetics, strong plant
able to put up with pretty much most
most of the stress I could throw at it and still was still was good and happy.
So really, really great stuff.
All right. So anybody in the audience want to come up and ask a question?
Want to make comments?
Anybody on YouTube have anything else that they'd like to me to ask
or comment on before we close it up for the night?
I know we had some great Cheech and Chong comments going on here.
You know, Dave's not here, man.
Come on, man. Open up the door.
Hurry up, man. Open up the door.
It's Dave. No, man. Dave's not here.
You got to be careful when you're snorting tide, though.
It makes you make elephant sounds.
You know, it's dangerous stuff.
You got to be careful.
Isn't it on the car?
Yeah, man. My life. Yeah.
Can you see your license registration?
It's it's on the car, man.
Thanks, Chad.
For those in the clubhouse room, you're missing this.
We've got the Cheech and Chong comments running on the live chat on YouTube
tonight, so appreciate that.
Appreciate the whole crowd hanging with us the whole time.
Jacob and Matt and Teddy's Ty Albright and Tyson Adele.
Smoke Gordo area.
Thank you so much for being here on Clubhouse.
We had you know, we had over 100 people on the YouTube feed tonight.
So that was awesome.
Really, really great crowd active, as always out there.
Appreciate everybody for joining us every week.
So thank you so much for joining us.
Next week, I don't have a topic yet, so I'll be coming up with a topic
and announcing it soon.
I got to get with Nick and see what he wants to talk about
for our last Grow Intel for the year.
Maybe we'll do a wrap up
of some of those plants I was talking about.
Maybe I'll run through those 90 or so cultivars
that have grown over the last four years.
We'll definitely do that wrap up.
Oh, man.
Chad, Chad, Chad, Chad, we got Chad on YouTube joining us late.
Thanks for coming, brother.
I appreciate you.
For those that don't know, Chad, Chad also hosts a fantastic room
on you on the Future Cannabis Project, just like London here
has a couple of rooms.
And as I mentioned earlier, Chase has been doing some great rooms
on Future Cannabis Project.
So definitely check out the Future Cannabis Project for more shenanigans,
Cheech and Chong references and a whole lot of plant geek info.
If you are a plant geek like we are,
then definitely the Future Cannabis Project channels for you.
And check out some of the stuff by Light Morrison as well.
He's got some amazing, amazing soil info on there.
Just great stuff.
The news hour, Cannabis News Hour is on there.
And and I did want to mention the name of the cup
because they did my buddy Miranda Family Farms chimed in to give me its
see if I can find the name of my buddy Scott's cup here.
Before we close out.
I lost on the Fino Cup.
That's it. Thank you so much, Miranda Family Farms.
It's the Fino Cup.
That's the cup that goes on in Maine that Mr.
Soule participated in, gave some genetics to Kyle.
So good stuff there.
The Scott, Scott actually lived in the same town I did in
in Mass, just south of Worcester as well.
So Scott was also another fantastic Massachusetts person.
Appreciate that, Chad. Thank you so much.
Thanks again, everybody, for joining us.
Thank you so much for being a part of Hota Herbs Grow and Tell,
our weekly cannabis cultivation club that is recorded
and simulcast on the Future Cannabis Project FCPO2 channel.
For those that are looking to find me, I'm always on Clubhouse.
I'm on here probably more often than I am on Instagram these days.
But you can definitely check out my feed on Instagram at Hota Herbs.
J-O-T-A-H-E-R-B.
That is Hota Herb, not Jota Herb.
But it's OK, Kyle. I'll forgive you and I'll let it slide.
But in the future, I expect to hear a Hota with an H
instead of a Jota.
But I appreciate it anyway that anybody calls it.
As long as it's not Hoda, I don't appreciate being referred to
as being linked to the same,
to that alcoholic lady who's on NBC News.
So anyway,
speaking of TV, just as another funny reference,
if you Google me, go ahead and Google Jason Gideon,
all you'll find is references to criminal minds.
So you're probably more likely to find Hota Herb on
on Google than you are my name, Jason Gideon,
because all you'll get is a whole bunch of criminal minds,
references or pictures of Manny Tenkin.
So
if you want to find me, grab me on Instagram,
grab me here on Clubhouse or find me on the Future Cannabis Project,
where all of these episodes are recorded and saved.
Thank you, Peter.
Thank you, London, for standing in for Peter
and helping out while Peter was flying.
I appreciate you being here with us tonight.
Sir, and everybody else who joined us.
I'm going to go ahead and close the room.
Everybody have a fantastic evening.
Thank you again.
And we will see you here next week on The Grow and Tell.
Take care.
Hello.
Hello. Can you hear me?
Can you see me? There you go.
Awesome show, as always.
What's going on? I got to leave the remove and put the thing
and then we've got a bunch of comments.
Chad, we will see you on the 27th.
We will see you all in the morning as well.
So I've got to I think tomorrow, if anybody's interested and would like to,
I'm going to make.
Mold. You guys know what mold wine is?
Somebody if you know what mold wine is, give me a thumbs up in the chat.
Mold wine is like a European drink,
so I'm going to do an infused mold wine tomorrow afternoon at some point,
depending on how much of this infused mold wine I drink today.
Depends on what time tomorrow I decide to do the infused mold wine recipe.
But I'll probably drop that in the next year.
So it depends on how good it is and how much I drink,
because I love mold wine.
But anyways, Jason, I appreciate it.
I see you in chat there. Chicken beer?
No, it is. I hope you're all doing well.
Keep it growing. Happy holidays.
And to those who celebrate or what have you, Jason as well.
You guys, I'm purple.
I'm going to go eat cookies and stuff.
Put some hash in at London.
I always there's always hash in the in the wine.
No, in the mold wine?
No, I don't get that.
Anyways, evening.
