with my space cheese male that I've been using
for the last year on all my breeding
that I've been sending all my girls through testing with.
So yeah, my whole outdoor was,
I put 30 girls out there and 30 or 60 gallon pots,
ran them from the end of June
and then put five clones off of my space cheese male
out there and allowed it to pollinate the garden.
I live way out in the sticks
and there's nobody around me that
I have to worry about pollinating.
So I've been able to do this for decades.
So that's how I go about doing my stuff.
Had to pull it in because this rain was coming
and if I would have lost all those plants full of seeds,
that would have been kind of rough.
Yeah, that's definitely a big no-brainer
when that stuff happens.
I know that you definitely start getting
a little bit more prone to watching the forecast
on the weather once, usually at least for me,
once October hits.
Wheelchair and pulling down seed before.
So it was kind of fun this year.
Lucky I started pulling down stuff earlier.
I started a week earlier than I thought I needed.
I got everything in the day before the rain started, man.
Hopefully everyone else got their stuff down.
100% hope that.
I have some cultivars that have extended flowering times
and I had some stuff that I put out too early,
just trying to be a go-getter
and have some things that are taking a little bit longer
to finish out.
So I'm hoping I can probably get into the second,
maybe third week of November before I have to really worry
about these things.
But I have a couple of them that's gonna be kind of
pushing close to Thanksgiving
before they're completely finished out.
But it was just kind of me messing around.
I do most of my breeding indoors,
just getting where I'm at.
Right on.
Yeah, like I said,
I've been using that Space Cheese male for just over a year.
That was sort of that in testing
and starting to track the traits that are showing up
from the cultivars that I crossed it to.
So I did have some long flowering girls,
but because they're seeded,
I don't have to have them go the whole time.
But that GMO would have easily went into end of November.
Same with the, that Roberts Creek Congo
that I have out there.
That thing was gonna go for quite a while.
What else do I have out there
that would go for a little bit?
So a lot of the, like the sour crosses, the dog walker,
that's gonna go for a little while.
And the Death Star,
that's gonna, would take a little bit longer.
Nothing I'm running really is very fast
except for my Space Cheese size.
That's what I've been using to track the trait of it,
cutting down flower time on the cultivars
that I've been crossing it to.
That kind of leads into the topic of our day to day work,
where I was interested in how other breeders
go about tracking the traits that they're after
in the plants that they use in the libraries
that they house.
How do you go about figuring out the traits
that your male or the females
that you're choosing are passing?
That's kind of what we were gonna talk about today.
So for me, I've been running everything indoor and outdoor
that I was going to use in the public drop
of my Space Cheese crosses
through breeding projects that I did indoor and outdoor
to test how the seeds would come out.
If there's a difference on how they're showing up
indoor and outdoor.
Is a plant going to produce more seeds indoor or outdoor
under specific light spectrums?
I ran it under different indoor lighting systems.
I've used HPS, Metal Halide.
I put it under LED and two different kinds of LED.
And then also ran them outside for two years.
So I've been testing everything that I can
to come out of that Space Cheese line
that I made back in 2008,
which I've already ran through
and knew what I could find in all the females.
I just wanted to know what that male was gonna bring to me
when I started to cross it to some of these elites
that I've used in other breeding projects
that I know what they are going to produce.
Will this male pass on the traits
that I wanted to come out of it?
Will it shorten the flower time?
Will it cut down on the stretch and flower
on a lot of these cultivars?
Will it bring a little bit more terpene profile
that isn't there in the mother,
but let the mother shine through?
It's a lot of the traits that I like to find
in the males that I use.
So yeah, that kind of stuff
is what I'm interested in today.
How do you guys go about tracking
some of the traits that you use?
And the collective that I used to manage that,
I used to be able to take information
from all the people that I was consulting
and run it through our computer system.
I'd be able to track down temperature, lighting spectrums.
I'd be able to tell if it was indoor or outdoor.
Was a person using synthetics?
What type of synthetics were they using?
Were they an organic farmer?
I used to track so many different information.
It was crazy, man.
So we used to have a spreadsheet
that we created in the system,
which I ended up losing when the collective went down.
But that's how I used to go about tracking it
in the two 15 days.
Prior to that, I used to basically track everything mentally
because you weren't allowed to write this kind of stuff down.
You were risking everything that you owned
if you got caught back in the early 80s, late 70s,
even into the early 90s.
Yeah, I got you.
Well, since everyone's here,
I know that we had a couple of people pop on
since you had started talking.
So I just wanted to take a second to reset the room
and just to let everyone know what our topic is this evening
and before we take a complete dive into it,
I know that Peter was getting everything set up on YouTube.
We're live.
We are live.
So anyways, I just want to say
that Mr. Toad had brought up a really good topic.
One of the traits that are important to track
during plant breeding,
just because I think that all of us on this panel
at one time or another had to discard all of the data points
that we were collecting at the time.
And because of that,
how much information have we all lost?
And second, at the same time,
we were all just trying to avoid enhancements
from if we were to get hit by any type of legal charges,
because that would put us into a different category.
That would put us into like a criminal mastermind type thing
or just some type of enhancement
that would make us a lot more sophisticated
in comparison just to grow on a couple of plants
in the backyard, which now we all know
that it's all about data collecting,
but I'm sure that everyone on this panel
and even some of the people that are viewing
have had to throw away notebooks,
had to throw away anything that would resemble
just being a good grower that we all know
that's extremely important
to being successful in today's market.
So, and I know that I'm just as guilty of doing that.
And it's something as serious as that,
you potentially, if you had a little group of people
that you were dealing with,
you could potentially be thrown back in the day
under the category of RICO,
which for the ones that watch like the sons of anarchy
or anything like that,
that's what they use to take down biker gangs, gangs,
mafia, any type of criminal enterprise
that was using any type of substance,
gambling, racketeering, all those things
to be able to kind of hide their business dealings.
But at the same time,
there's really no difference in my eyes
between doing that versus a publicly traded company
doing things just to be able to mitigate mistakes,
stuff like that.
So anyways, welcome everybody.
I'm glad that everybody's here
and I will let you back to what you were saying, Tony.
Cedric, you are new to this chat.
So I wanted to welcome you
and if anyone wants to start, just jump on in.
So yeah, that's before I guess everyone else jumps on
just in case the people listening that just came on
don't know what's happening.
Today we're gonna kind of talk about the traits
that some of us breeders like to track
through our breeding projects.
What are the most important traits we're after?
How do we go about doing it?
And this is so we can possibly help some of the folks now
that are just starting to get into
the seed making side of cannabis.
So if any of you guys have anything you wanna throw in,
go for it.
Tony, you wanna kick it off
by just kind of talking about the traits
that are important to you to track and monitor?
Alrighty, so in my breeding,
I always start with a plan
on what I'm trying to accomplish with my crosses.
So it always starts out with that initial idea
of what I wanna cross out of some stuff.
So with my male that I've been using lately,
it's the space cheese male.
It's a cross of my angel to a blue cheese.
It's a plant that I made or a line I made back in 2008.
So from that cross,
I'm looking for a plant that's going to shorten flower time,
increase density, help with mold resistance
on plants that are susceptible to it.
I want it again with the terpene profile,
I want it to not completely alter the female side,
but if it does, I want it to be something
that's more enjoyable,
not something that comes out of that cross
that's going to be,
not going to be palatable.
Some of us have our own type of herb that we like,
and for me, I like fuels.
So what I did is I took that plant
and I started to cross it to a lot of the OGs
and the diesels that I have here in my collection
to find out if it was going to have the ability
to allow those females to retain some of those traits.
So like I said,
the first thing I do is I do small pollinations
on select females so that I can run some of those seed lines
out in my own garden to find out if that's the traits
that I'm looking for in the progeny that come from them.
And then from there,
I'll start to send out seeds in testing
to find out if those are going to also start showing up
in other folks' gardens.
Now, every cross is going to be slightly different.
So if I'm looking for a haze,
my haze is I'm looking for something
that's completely different on the spectrum
of plant structure, the flower time, terpene profile.
So like I said, every project's going to be different,
but it always begins with an idea
of how I'm going to go about to accomplish this.
So I always start to work,
and then I,
that's why I use some of the females
that I use them misbreeding.
And why I also use the space cheese male.
It's my own plant.
It's something I created myself.
I know that quite well.
I've grown it many, many times.
So I know the structure that should show up in the progeny
that will look like the father line.
And I know what the progeny of the traits
that are coming from the females that I use.
That's how I usually start everything.
And then from there, we start going into,
is the line that I'm working with,
say I used a female that's higher prone
to a powdery mildew or something.
And the plant that I'm using to cross it to,
does it have the ability to start giving me progeny
that now are less susceptible
to this powdery mildew in the area.
So I'll start running them.
That's how I used to go about doing all my stuff.
And from there, I just used a large number of folks
in my area.
We had 4,400 people in my club.
I was a consultant to roughly 400.
So I was able to put plants in multiple gardens
and track everything that was coming out of these gardens.
Again, like I could track temperature,
I could track soil, I could track nutrients.
I could track the area of a garden it's being grown in.
Is it in the South?
Is it in the North?
Is it getting a lot of light?
Is it shaded?
Are they using shade cloth above it?
Because a lot of people here used to use shade cloth
because of the flyovers that we have
with a ton of, they fly over us,
like it's still the 80s here.
It's crazy, man.
So people are hiding what they're growing
and that can alter the phenotypical expressions
of the plants that we're putting out in those gardens.
So I would use multiple growers, multiple gardens,
and we would track everything.
Tony, can I ask you a question?
I know that I try, obviously,
not at the same type of numbers that you have,
but I know that for me, it's extremely difficult
to be able to find really skilled testers.
And I don't know if you were just looking at it
from a numbers standpoint, the more the merrier,
just because the more people that are growing something,
the more data that you could potentially receive.
But I know for me, I always have issues
being able to find people that I can give
this big checklist to where every single day,
I wanna know how much water you gave the plants,
what type of lighting technology was used,
what kind of feed was being used,
just to see if there was potential mistakes
made by the grower, or if it's something
on the genetic side that I'm having to worry about.
So that's the reason why for myself,
I've chose to do most of my breeding projects in-house.
But as we all know that the problem with just doing that,
is it turns into a plant count issue
where you're not looking at high enough numbers of plants
to be able to actually really find those true outliers,
because as we all know, buying a 10 pack of seeds,
sometimes isn't a good representation
of what that particular cultivar has the ability to do.
And we've all experienced different cultivars
that are supposedly come from the same line,
but are completely different.
Either the turps fall off,
there was bad selecting that was being done.
All the markers that we would say,
this wasn't a good selection piece.
So I didn't know what you were doing,
because I pretty much give people almost a book
whenever I have them to test my genetics.
And I know that a lot of times,
it's very overwhelming to people
where they don't wanna necessarily allocate
30 minutes of their day documenting all this stuff.
And I don't have any type of program
that I can share or use with people.
And I've not looked into,
I guess some of like the grow diaries and stuff like that,
that kind of takes all that information
and condenses it down.
But wanted to kind of get your guys' opinion
on how to address those kinds of issues.
Well, for me, it's been hard lately.
After the two 15 days,
and when we started getting into illegal cannabis,
testing changed for me.
More people became about just showing off pictures
and not any of the information that came with that picture.
So a lot of what you say rings true for me.
It's been hard to get a lot of the in-depth information
from a lot of the new testers.
There's a couple of them that are going out there.
I would say that there's three people that I can mention
that are testing some new gear for me.
There's Mr. Magpie, there's Jen's Garden,
and then there's Ganja Farms.
Those three are sending me quite a bit of information
from the new test group that I've found.
I do have some older testers.
Like I've got a tester that's named Rain Man,
and he's been testing for me since 2011.
And he sends me in-depth reports quite often.
But it's hard to find people
that wanna actually document everything they're doing
out of 10 or 20 or more seeds that you're gonna send them.
They always wanna add multiple lines to the room
and then claim they're dialing everything in.
And it's really a test of whether or not your gear
can handle the average grower's setup.
Because what I found after consulting hundreds of people
is most of the hobby growers,
and I don't want anyone to take that as like,
I'm trying to put them down or anything,
but they're always trying to put more lines in a room
that need to be in there and trying to produce
the best cannabis from those lines with an environment
that really isn't conductive for all the lines in that room.
So you end up only testing whether or not that plant
can handle what they've been tossing at,
something that they've had in their room for a long time.
So if someone started with a plant
that could handle high nutrients and could handle pH swings
and didn't care about the light that you were putting on it
and then you go in there and threw a highly sensitive plant
in that room, you're probably gonna have issues
from the aviatic stress that shows up in there.
And a lot of people just argue with the breeder
that they've now found a homorphodite in the line
that they've picked up.
Instead of running some tests, take clones,
run that in another room and find out if the stress
showed up from the gardener, the room or the line.
And that's how you find out whether or not it's working.
I used to always run my stuff
in three different environments,
twice indoor and once outdoor
before I would release the seed line,
before I even used the mother to breed with.
That was a way for me to find out if aviatic stress
in different environments were going to have an effect
on the plants that I was using.
Yeah, I think that that's something that's very challenging
because we all know, and it's one of the reasons
why I don't release a lot of my gear to the public
because I think that even the word stabilized
is not really understood very well in the cannabis community
because for me, whenever I hear the word stabilized,
that means that if I plant 10 seeds,
that all those seeds are going to be generally
identical in nature.
And that's what I consider to be stable.
And I know that a lot of people,
they consider stable to be whether or not
a plant has intersex issues or not.
So just being able to educate the average user,
and that's why for me, it's so difficult again,
to find testers because it's very easy
since we all live in a world that if you do by chance,
I have a lower skilled set operator or a grower
that nine out of 10 times, it's human error that I see.
It's not a failed light.
It's not a failed component of their grow.
It's usually they forgot to water, they forgot to feed.
They forgot to, if they weren't on a timer,
they forgot to turn something on at the right time.
But at the same time, those are usually the same people
that are very quick to say, hey,
I had intersex issues or I had hermaphrodism
with these plants.
And the problem is that if I was to go to their operation
and go in, then I can see, oh, well,
they have major light leaks in here.
They are doing things that are conducive
to a successful grow.
So that's why for me, data is so important,
but just being able to collect that data
from other individuals has always been the challenge.
What does the rest of the panel do
in regards to being able to use testing?
Do you guys do all of your testing in-house
or are you guys using tester growers?
I suppose that's where I come in.
I'm not a breeder, but I have tested for miles
over at Weed Should Taste Good and Tony up above me here.
And it's nice being a tester.
So that you can see what's coming through in the genetics,
if that makes sense.
And what Tony did was he sent me the mother
of the Bob's Cheddar.
So I could visualize the Bruce Banner number three,
cause I had never grown it.
So that's something as a breeder,
I was blown away with.
One, that he would send me that,
but two, that he has that much care for his genetics
that he wants you to be able to see the comparisons
from the mother coming through on the lines
that he's running.
So I'd love to see more breeders do that
with trusted testers, I would throw in there.
Yeah, I forgot to mention,
Cedric had run that Bob's Cheddar out for me
and he did a killer job with the test reports
and everything that came with testing that line out there.
And I did, I sent him the mom to the line
so he could actually visualize the traits
that should come from that plant.
Is he seeing a higher allele frequency
from the Bob's Cheddar side?
Or is he seeing something that's not even in that
completely at all so that we can tell
that it's coming from my space cheese side,
which we found the one phenol on there
that was highly space cheese dominant.
And most of everything that we could see visually
from what he reported in the smoke reports,
it's all coming back space cheese on that phenotype
with a few getting dominated by the Bruce Banner
in plant structure, bud structure,
and some of the terpene profile prior to breaking the herb up
was it's in the bud, what's in the bag.
So you got a better bag appeal,
you've got better bud structure,
you've got a plant that finishes quicker.
And then you have the increased
and different terpene profiles added on top
of that Bruce Banner, which everybody knows
and what made it famous.
That's why it's still around for so long.
But yeah, Cheddar Bob did a killer, killer job there.
Cedric, I appreciate that, bro.
I appreciate you.
I try Mr. Trees here, family tree seeds.
How's everybody doing, man?
It's raining here.
Welcome, but I'm glad we got the plants in.
As far as testers for me,
I try to not expect anything from anybody on the test inside.
Shit happens all the time.
Some people have lives and mishaps
and not everybody's the best grower or whatnot.
So my approach is I try to run it out
as many times as I can in multiple different environments.
You know, LEDs, outdoor, light depths, greenhouse,
stuff like that.
And I try to get a good grasp of what's coming out,
you know, what the features are, where the weaknesses are.
And then if it's worthy enough, you know,
to be out in the world, I figure as soon as it gets
into the hands of the people,
even the worst growers should be able to come away
with something good or something
they're really, really proud of.
And if not, then it's not up to par.
If it was too hard to grow or it just didn't turn out right,
then those are things that I need to work on.
I need to make sure that it's easier.
And, you know, like that goes back to like the traits
that you're looking for or that you should track,
you know, along the way.
A lot of times what I do is I,
I don't know if any other people do this,
but I'm always pulling out the plants if I can,
if they're in pots, if I'm doing stuff in pots,
I do a lot of stuff in beds
and then I'll do different investigating that way.
But if I have things in pots,
I like to pull out and look at the root balls.
I like to see what color they are.
I like to see how big they are.
I like to see how vigorous they are.
I like to see what's happening with them.
If there's any abnormalities or strange stuff,
I want to see, you know,
how healthy and vigorous are those roots.
And then, you know, on the counterpart side,
how quickly do they root once you take clones,
male or female, looking at the roots of everything,
smelling the roots, trying to figure out, you know,
what is gonna transfer from good roots to good fruits?
Because what I've actually found is
the worst rooting plants are the dankest.
The ones that have the shittiest root systems
or the least amount of vigor,
those ones are usually the better smoking plants
at the end of the day.
They don't have that knack daddy root system.
So I've really tried to improve that
and bring that to the table on that side.
So, you know, bringing the dank with the roots
and by having strong, durable roots
that are, you know, resistant and vigorous,
and, you know, you can out-compete a lot of things,
that seems to give people a lot more success,
you know, even if they're marginally, you know,
adequate at growing or whatnot.
So that's just one thing that, just one thing,
I mean, that I look for,
but I'm not gonna try not to have too much diarrhea
at the mouth, I'd like to hear from some of the other people.
What's up, everybody?
What's up, Dan?
You look at the roots, did anybody else do roots?
Yeah.
I don't know.
I do, yeah, man, I was gonna say,
I think that's a really important factor
that a lot of people probably don't go to,
but yeah, when I grow in pots, I always, you know,
throughout the growth cycle, you know,
I'll pop them out, and when you see something
that has a standout root system, you know,
it's like one example, I tested out a bunch of genetics
in a friend's licensed nursery once,
and so they let me pop like 1,500 seeds,
and then we flowered everything out
in small, like two-gallon pots.
So I would go over there every once in a while,
and as I'd go through each variety,
I'd pop everything out of the roots,
and these things got pretty neglected,
but they were still fed, and so they ended up
being kind of like just super tall, stretched out plants.
But it was amazing, like in some of the varieties,
you know, the root systems just became
these like eight-foot-long dreadlocks, you know,
and just went for it and found a way
to just excel no matter what,
while, you know, some of them clearly struggled
and didn't like, you know, the neglect they were getting.
So that's a really important factor.
Looking for the root systems,
vibrant, white, healthy roots, you know?
I like that term that you coined.
What'd you say?
Good roots make good fruits?
That's right, that's right, that's right.
Good roots, good fruits, man.
So I was also, like, anybody else notice like-
Yeah, but I mean-
Oh, go ahead.
Sorry, I lost you.
Oh, no, go ahead, man.
No, I was gonna say, like, did you notice,
like in any of those pots,
like with the Mac Daddy root systems,
like the difference in the smoke?
I mean, were the weaker root systems, you know,
like turning out to be better smoke,
or were the more rigorous root systems
turning out to be, you know, better smoke in those cases?
I mean, or did you take notice of intent?
Yeah, so as much as I wish that it was that way,
it's more almost like what you said,
where sometimes the weaker root systems
have like the most fire herb.
But really what it is, it's a percentage game.
Like that 1% or less than 1%
is gonna have every category, you know, check a box.
And it was variety specific.
So like there was one variety
that just had like 50 foot dreadlock roots,
you know, popping out of two gallons.
But whenever I'm growing stuff, you know,
for seed breeding and selections,
I definitely like to pop them out of the pots
and see how the roots are doing.
Another thing, just to answer the question
about testing genetics, you know,
I try to test everything that I can,
but I have a lot of stuff.
And also with the legal market,
which spaces in mine are like,
this is a personal home grow versus this one
is in fucking metric and needs to be production
and how all that works.
I guess most of my testing these days gets done
when I do the next round of breeding.
So like I was just harvesting some seeded stuff
a couple of hours ago.
And, you know, I had a couple of lines
that I've grown like two or three plants of,
but that's all I've seen, you know,
but now I grew out a good 20 or 30 of each
and they're small little, you know, plants and hoopties,
but now I'm able to go through.
And the way that I do most of my selections
is if I pollinate a whole female population,
you know, I check them out,
I take pictures of them and note anything down
when I'm harvesting them.
If anything is super crazy, I'll try to re-vegetate.
And when they're dried,
I'll bag up all the seeds individually
and I'll go through every individual plant.
And that way I can see, you know,
did this fit the profiles that I was looking for?
And so what I'll usually do from a run like that,
I'll end up with three or four different batches of seeds.
One batch is gonna be,
this is not what I was looking for and I don't like it.
This is not what I want this variety to represent.
Goes into the bird seed compost pile.
And then there's, yes, this fits the realm
of the way that I've envisioned this variety
and how it's developing and what the parents are.
I think people are really gonna like this version of it.
And then those get broken up.
And then I take my individual standouts
that represent different phenotype styles, you know,
say that there's diversity in it
and there's four main groupings.
I'll try to find the best standout individual
from each of those four groupings
and set those ones aside, labeled accordingly.
And then I'll be able to continue working it.
So the way that I usually test my stuff out
is in smaller plants these days,
as opposed to when I was able to, you know,
grow bigger plants outdoors under the 215.
And with giving testers out to people,
it just depends.
Whoever said expect to be, you know,
don't expect anything.
It's like, if you give out free seeds to like,
you know, 20 people, you'll be lucky
if two or three of them give you good reporting.
But nowadays just following the model
of what I see other breeders doing,
I'm trying to stay more on top of that.
You know, recently I gave out some fem seeds to test
and I like made a thing of it online.
And a bunch of those people definitely, you know,
sent me some great photos and they sent me notes.
We had discussions about the way the plants grew.
And at the same time, you know,
I tested them in a bunch of different environments myself.
But yeah, I mean, I always attempt to grow what I can,
but half the time I pop seeds,
I don't have the space to grow them out, you know.
But definitely I try to test myself stuff out
when I'm breeding the next generation
and just get whatever feedback I can from people.
Hey everybody.
I'd like to echo a lot of what's been said,
but personally I just feel like giving out as many seeds
as you can of different varieties.
Obviously there are limitations for people
who are selling seeds, but for people who are, you know,
breeding and participating in the community
of sharing and trading genetics,
getting your genetics out there
and into other people's hands,
particularly if you're just messing around
and dabbling in breeding, it's definitely worth it
because I know that I and a lot of other people
will pop just random things that I get from people
just to test them out and to see what I get out of them.
And that's something that, you know,
it would be nice to see a lot more bigger names
popping other people's genetics and giving them a chance,
putting them in the rotation, just to see what comes up
and give other people some opportunities
to develop as breeders and to get some feedback.
And for me, I give, in my area,
I've always given lots and lots of starts to people,
seeds to anybody who wants them.
And that's one of the ways that I've gotten feedback.
It's never been systematic or comprehensive.
And, you know, some people do get back to you,
other people don't really get back to you with anything,
but that sort of aggregate system of crowdsourcing information
from a large pool of people definitely helps you make decisions
and get a feel for where your genetics are.
I would also say that in-house testing
is absolutely imperative,
that doing larger populations of your own genetics in-house,
ideally in multiple environments,
like Toad was talking about, doing indoor, doing outdoor,
doing greenhouse if you can,
doing those multiple environment trials is really important.
I know Kevin just jumped on and he's done this for years
where he provided genetics to people all throughout,
not just the Emerald Triangle, but all of California.
And having the amount of data that he's had
from different people in different regions
and being able to identify cultivars
that succeed in particular environments
and actually developing systematic ways
of capturing this data
and then optimizing it for breeding programs
is really where it's at.
And it's not just for breeding programs,
it's also, you know, useful for cultivation programs.
But that's something that as we move online
and develop more and more commercial cultivation operations
and have more regional sort of hubs
where, you know, we're in Calaveras County,
there's a number of different commercial farms
operating out there.
I've had my genetics grown by multiple farms over there.
There's also people up in Humboldt and Mendo
doing similar things.
I think that once we start bringing this data online
and aggregating it
and actually applying advanced statistics to it,
we're really gonna start seeing some enormous gains
and also checking back some of the error rate
and the issues that we have in our populations
with regard to intersex traits and variability
that's being, you know,
that isn't being captured in our current testing methods.
What's up, Kevin?
Yo, what's going on?
What's up?
Good to hear from you, brother Kev.
What's up, baby boy?
Are you doing any breeding?
You're breeding this season, right?
Yeah, I am.
I'm doing, well, yeah, but it's more of a,
it's a preservation project.
So I'm working on some Afghani lines
that got sent to me from Afghanistan
from a group that was attempting to gather stock from farms
and get them into the hands of people
to kind of spread into the world
so that in case anything happened to those populations,
at least we had some of the base material.
And just like Trevor was saying,
it's the shared data,
it's the information that you can pass on
because it's just anything that you know
that allows you to do a better job as cultivator,
breeder, just enthusiast,
it's what allows you to continue driving forward.
You have to get more and more people involved
and excited about cannabis.
And when you have enough of it,
what you'll have is you'll have enough diversity of people,
enough diversity of locations,
enough diversity of desire in terms of what traits
that you'll really start to have some
killer information to work with.
And so that's really what it comes down to.
It comes down to what are you doing?
You have to have a clear idea of what it is you're seeking.
And then you work towards that goal.
And I fully agree with Trev's approach
about the crowdsource where if you can get it
into the hands of many,
then you'll be able to get some information
about how does it work in a tent?
How's it work under lead?
How's it work under CMH?
How's it work under HPS?
How's it do on the coast?
How's it do with altitude?
How's it do in the hot dry?
How's it do in the moist wet?
And pretty soon, you have a really good view of the plant
and it starts to let you tap into
which plants are really, really flexible,
meaning that you can basically put it into the system
and people can work with it.
That's why I think the ability for us over time,
that's why these types of things,
I always give Peter a salute, man,
because without these round tables,
without these platforms,
you can't get enough people to talk and communicate
so people can realize that it's a process
and it's one that's gonna go well past my lifetime
and hopefully 10,000 lifetimes afterwards.
Can you talk about just from the,
I feel like a preservation project
kind of what your intent is in terms of,
I guess one thing would be identifying like,
yes, this is authentic to what people
who know what they're talking about
kind of view as a certain Afghani cultivar genetics,
lineage, whatever.
Can you talk about kind of like,
do you start with a ton of seeds
and then what's the process of,
like, what are you trying to achieve and what's the process?
Well, in this particular case, I don't have a ton.
I only have limited numbers, right?
And so it's kind of funny
because it's a really truncated population
when you preserve it out of a 10 pack.
But at the bottom line is what I can do
is I can crack the 10.
I pulled two males out that were just beautiful structure
and morphologically solid and had dissimilar scent profiles.
So I got lucky that I had some diversity
in my male population.
And then in the female population, I ran them all outside
and it lets me see what they do in this climate.
And we went through this terrible rain,
which was an incredible situation
because it let me see that one of them was prone to betray
and the others weren't.
And coincidentally, the one that was prone to betray
also went intersex indoor.
So typically you see intersex traits
under indoor lighting more than you see outdoor.
So what I needed to see was,
can we look at these plants and find some stability?
And I think that we know in years past
when I went through large populations of stock
that would just gathered,
I didn't have anywhere near the stability
that this small population gave me
because this was absolutely selected by the farmer
who selected it over time for their purposes.
So they were not leaving,
I would say dysfunctional plants into the selection.
And so what I'm trying to do is find plants
that are gonna be able to give me
a variety of traits I'm seeking.
In this particular case, it's primarily first,
things that were selected for quality of effect.
And then secondly, things that had survivability.
So what I need to find out is,
can it work in an environment?
And if it has any type of intersex traits,
that shit's going out the window period
because you can't put instability into a line,
it will come out.
And so the thing is you have to be really, really tough.
And just like with the breeding operation,
I've gone down the road like a year or two
and realized I went down the wrong road
and just trashed the project
because the progeny didn't exceed the parents.
And so it's like I see people breeding gas all the time
and I'm like, is it better than the reference?
And if it's not, then really, what are you doing?
You are creating your version of something,
but if we scored them head to head, you'd score lower.
So where's the improvement?
There has to be some desire to take a base
and then improve it over time.
But with preservation,
we first have to increase the population.
I have to take what I have, which is just this 10 pack.
I need to open it up into a thousand.
And now we can start to look at some outliers,
but the base situation is if I did the 10
and all of them just fell apart and they were bunk
and they didn't have any qualities, agronomic,
what I'm seeking for quality experience,
if none of that existed, I just wouldn't do it
because you're preserving shit that shouldn't be preserved.
It's genes, but it's bad genes.
It's the same with dog breeding, horse breeding.
If they're faulty, you just don't continue the process.
So you really just have to be discerning
and realize that what are we really trying to do?
And if it's to create something that's trendy, that's cool.
In this case, it's really more of let's get
an open pollination of what I have.
And I was thankful that the males were different,
both in flowering time, subtly different in morphology
and then radically different in scent profile.
So I'll have enough of a shift
so that I don't skew the population into only one direction.
And then I can open it up.
And what I'll do is I'll take this whole project
and I'll turn it into seed.
And then I'll go to the region conferences
that Josh Rutherford puts on.
And I'll pass out seed to the people at the conferences
across the US so that what we have is we have people
who can then go through the populations
and hopefully they maintain contact
with the other participants,
just like I am with the other participants.
So what it does, it allows us to be able to move
the population into the world
and people can start to steer it.
And what you have is you have non,
I would say lab-based work.
You have human-based work.
And I think the biggest part of that
is it connects people in a different way
where you all get to work on a common goal.
And I've done it for years with people
where like I'll locate something unique in a population
and I'll let my partners know,
yo, I located something crazy.
Let us try to go into that population and keep digging.
So what it does, it lets more than one person do the work.
And you're all trying to steer to a common goal.
And I think that that's one of the best parts
of cannabis in general is that,
it brings people together to work on cool shit.
You have to tie the community together somehow.
And in these types of projects it does.
And then you'll see people take the mail
and then they'll lay it into all kinds of current things
because it's gonna throw a flavor profile,
a scent profile on it that's not common.
And who knows where we go.
But that's really the goal,
to take stock from another country
that was cherished and held for centuries,
to put it in the hands of modern day cultivators
and let them work with it, move it forward
and then just hold the base stock.
And every so many years,
you'll just have to go through and do a pollination
so that you can keep the stock current
if you're not gonna put it into a deep freeze.
Out of curiosity,
as someone who definitely has access to more than 10 packs,
why did you only start with a 10 pack?
Could you not have gotten more?
Did you not need more?
Well, no, I would love to have had a thousand,
but the truth of it is,
is that when you go through work like this,
sometimes it's really hard to tie up facility space
for your personal chase.
So my old Wonderland days,
I could do what I damn well chose
because it was all my shit.
But with the new world of cannabis
and the fact that you're all basically
taking a financial ass kick in every step of the way,
you have to be pretty smart about it.
And so what I'll do is I'll just do this 10
and then I can open it up
into a reasonable size population.
But a lot of it was that when they did the initial,
the project, I got offered the stock for free
and I paid for it because I wanted,
which is fucking ironic,
but I wanted to see the money go back to the farmers.
And so it allows the farmers in Afghanistan
to receive some form of compensation
for the seed that got put in.
And it's just really,
how do you contribute to some degree
to the core groups that have done this work?
And so when I got the box of stock in,
I just went through it like that and just said,
look, we're gonna work off a 10 pack
and we're gonna open it up.
And once we open up that population,
I'll be able to see the outliers.
And because it's conventional propagation,
and I'm not self in a single female,
I'll get a much larger gene diversity.
And then once people get ahold of the seeds,
they could take a look.
And if they find something that's exceptional,
they can self it and open that population up
to the level they want.
But a lot of the work we do now,
if it's what you call compassion projects,
things that are in your heart,
they don't have a lot to do with the business of cannabis.
And the business of cannabis
is a fucking meat grinder right now.
So you just have to be able to work at a level that you can.
And so I would rather work with 10 than none.
And as long as we're honest about that with the people,
I'm not trying to sell the seeds.
I'm not taking a 10 pack and then starting a seed company.
I'm taking a 10 pack and I'm opening up in population
so I can create a peanut butter jar full of seeds
so I can give them away to people all over the country.
So what they can do is benefit from it.
And the group that gave me the stock,
they know exactly what I'm doing.
I'm not competing with them as a seed company.
I don't have a seed company.
That's not my intent.
It's really to drive awareness to land-raised populations
and then selected populations that they work with.
So what you get is you just get interest.
You've got to get people interested in breeding.
You've got to get people interested in preservation.
You've got to get people interested in cultivation.
And if you make it accessible, it's a lot better.
I mean, back in the day, I would build males
and then I would run them
and I'd know what the progeny came out.
And if people wanted a gas male,
I used to set them up with gas males,
where if you take this male and you lay it on top
of anything, it'll bring the numbers up
and it'll lay a thick, funky gas down.
So people who were getting into breeding
would have an ability to be able to have that trait.
And it was the same thing.
I didn't sell those either.
That was just stuff that I worked on and did
and shared it to people that I know
so that they could go forward
and hopefully have some success too.
The more of us that make it, the more of us that do better,
the better we are as a community.
And through the genes and sharing the genes
and spreading the info and giving the data up
and laying it out, it just makes all of us better
because somebody is gonna do something awesome
and then they're gonna help me understand
how they got there.
And so I'll get the education back
and I'll definitely get the good feeling
of being part of a wonderful community
I've been involved in my whole life.
Amen to that.
Is everybody, whenever they are choosing their progeny
for a breeding project,
or is everybody looking to actually grow that plant
all the way through completely?
So that way they have an idea
or like on the mail, for example,
some people don't literally let that thing go full term
so that way they can collect pollen.
And just allocating the space for it.
So does everyone here grow plants completely
before they start making their selections?
Oh, I mean, you have to,
if you're really trying to take a look,
I mean, you can reverse the mail
and see what it looks like as a female,
but if you're not running the fucking progeny,
you're not as, you're just a scam artist.
You're banging stuff in your closet
and you're releasing it to the public
and you have no clue what's coming out
of the back end of it.
I mean, holy shit.
That's not the point.
And I think that for a lot of people,
I mean, I have different access
and so I can fuck around with marker assisted breeding.
And so stuff that I'm involved with professionally
is we're identifying traits of interest
and then we're able to look through
the juvenile at seed form and locate those traits
so that we can start to concentrate them
in a breeding project.
So you don't have to grow everything out
once we have the markers that we're seeking,
but you better grow it out fully
and then give it a full evaluation,
not just on agronomic traits,
but how does it affect you as a drug?
Because that's why I'm consuming it.
I don't smoke cigarettes.
So I'm looking for a cannabis high specifically.
So without the grow out,
how do you really know what you've grown out?
And because you're chasing, you know,
visually sexy, scent sexy,
you could be growing hay.
And I see it all the time.
And I used to do this.
I used to use COAs all the time
to sift and find populations,
but no matter what, you gotta go through,
you gotta smoke it,
you gotta sit back and figure out
what was the legs of the high?
What was the intensity of the high?
And what happened after you come down?
I was gonna say, I keep males around, man.
I love revegging them.
I love seeing the ferocity
and how much frost they put on it
after you chop the shit out of them,
after they put on their full flower
and put on their display
and caused a mess of everything.
And then you chop them down to almost nothing
and then, you know, throw them back in and reveg them.
And then they get all pissed
and start throwing a lot more frost and stuff.
So, well, some do.
But yeah, I like that whole display.
I'll keep them around for years or months
or multiple projects and flower them several times,
you know, just for the sheer fun of it.
You know what I mean?
I was actually trying to figure out
if there's a use that we can make use for pollen.
Like, I've heard people trying to eat it
and all kinds of other stuff,
but weird experiments, man.
And then you turn them into compost
and feed them to the worms and all kinds of other stuff.
So I love playing around and searching for males
and keeping them around
and seeing how cool they can get, you know.
I juice them.
I run them through the juicer and use them as green juice.
Yeah, hell yeah, hell yeah.
Oh, and so it's the same thing.
And it just depends what I'm doing
and it depends on how much time and effort I have
to invest in it.
Because, I mean, Jesus Christ,
like you gotta have a life too.
And it's hard when you're obsessed with weed.
I mean, I remember I had a girlfriend
that was, you know, weeping to me years ago
while I was obsessed with weed.
And I said, oh no, baby, it's way past fucking obsession.
This shit's possession.
Obsession is something that you have,
but possession has got me.
And it's just, you know, you go so far.
Hey, Kev.
Sorry to interrupt.
Sorry to interrupt you, Kev.
I was just gonna say,
I tell people that story all the time.
About a conversation you and I had about it.
Well, you understand, Rebel.
You're living the dream as hard as anybody I know.
And matter of fact, every name I see
on this upper panel is weed freaks.
And so we're all in the same situation.
We all love what we do.
It's just a matter of trying to be able to do a good job.
And so what I noticed is that
when I spread myself out too much,
I'm kind of half-assed and everything.
And so I try to like work a project specifically
till I feel that I'm comfortable with it.
And then it lets me really feel
like I'm getting something out of it.
And because I'm not a seed company,
and it's mostly just because I don't have the time
to really go through and do that,
it lets me kind of play with it differently.
But, you know, for you, for Bone,
you guys, I've ran your work for years
and referred rivers of people to you for access.
You know what I mean?
Like they've come in.
And the same thing too with trees,
that these are guys that I know that have done work.
And as we go forward, we'll have way more of these people
that have done work that are reliable, that are consistent.
And you can refer them to people saying,
hey, when I want something that's good, what do I do?
And I'm like, oh, they have some beautiful work.
They specialize in different things.
Their selection process reflects this.
And so what it does, it just creates a killer network
for all of us to exist and enjoy the world of herb
because it's basically unlimited.
You know what I mean?
It's just what we got to do is we got to get out
of this fucking truncated population we're working with,
which is whatever's selling hot right now,
we're banging the shit out of.
And the problem is that you have these homogenized highs.
And so I'm fucking bored with it.
I get high, but it comes down.
It doesn't have any length.
It has a muffled feeling.
It's great for people who want Instagram dope.
But if you really like to get high,
some of this shit that's merged
doesn't really have the separation.
And so what I want to be able to do is, you know,
get a selection from Tone and a selection from you
and a selection from Trev.
Because I know all you guys are pulling out what you dig
and I know that it's going to be a quality.
And what takes place then is people get to be happy
with the selection and choices.
And it's not that I'm against good looking herb.
It's just that when you're picking a drug on its looks
versus its effect, it just doesn't make any sense to me.
It's so funny that you said that, Kev,
because I guess I'm kind of isolated.
You know, I see weed, but I don't smoke other people's weed.
And I'm, you know, me and my crew were so high all the time.
And then, you know, we'll smoke our weed
with someone who's pretty seasoned.
And, you know, but I call it cardboard weed,
the trendy stuff.
But I just want to tell the story of when you told me
that story that you've told me before.
You know, it's like, I was living in the hills
and I didn't come into weed nerds.
So I talk about cannabis all day.
Most growers are not like that.
Most growers do not, first of all,
always care to talk all day long constantly
about all these things that we're so fascinated with.
And then a lot of growers also just don't articulate
that well, you know, or have a certain type of charisma.
And so when I met you and I'd hang out in the shop
and I'd hear you talking to people all day long,
I was like, oh man, this guy's like above my level.
I've never seen that before, you know?
And then getting to know you better one day,
I was like, man, you know, I was like,
I think I was telling you a similar story
about like an ex-girlfriend of mine who didn't like me,
you know, being so obsessed about weed.
And I was like, do you ever think it's unhealthy
the way that people like us?
It's just like, we don't get tired of it.
It's like day and night, it's like a driving force,
you know, just like a pushing urge.
It's just natural, you know,
just like talking about weed all day.
And then you told me the story about your ex.
Yeah, just like you did.
And I tell this story to people and you go,
you go, yeah, same thing.
And she'd say that I was obsessed by it.
And I said, no, no, I'm possessed by it.
And that's what's driving us
to do all these awesome things through it.
But anyway, thanks for retelling that.
Oh, no, my pleasure.
But it's real, it's okay to be that driven
in what you're into, because if you weren't,
you wouldn't achieve the objectives.
Nobody casually fucking does the Sistine Chapel.
And I'm not trying to say I see myself as Michelangelo,
but I can kind of emulate that desire.
I can work till my eyes burn.
I can apply myself following those that came before me
that had huge application.
And I'm not against the, you know, the hustler way of life.
Did anybody see the article about the tunnel?
Do you see, do you see the,
and go check out kimkemp.com, right?
And one of my friends got popped
and the feds were grabbing him,
but he had a tunnel that went from the kid's bedroom
into a secret vault area, all underground.
And it's shit like that that I love.
You know, it's, that's not about,
that's about how you protect yourself in cannabis.
And so, you know, you have different kinds of obsession
and different types of drive,
but ultimately you're driven.
And what you have, I think, for a lot of individuals
is not that, they just want to exist
because they haven't found what really drives them.
And in cannabis, for all of us that were really driven,
we were fucking ostracized when we were younger.
I mean, holy shit, man,
I was basically a fucking heroin junkie
as far as everyone was concerned.
And it just that I knew that I wasn't.
And I knew that I was really inspired by cannabis.
And I was just like, well, fuck it.
If everyone wants to,
you want to cast me out of your world, that's fine.
I'll build one of my own.
And I think most of us really did that to some degree.
And only now do you have any kind of normality.
And that's where, you know, these discussions
on this platform and on Pete's, you know, web platform,
it allows there to be people who listen and check it out
and start to realize, hey, this is some stuff I'm into.
And I find, you know, commonality with this group.
And it's a beautiful thing.
I mean, I'm 55, I'm going to blink and I'm going to be 70.
The dream is that when I'm 70, there's normality
and people are growing everywhere and everywhere you go,
someone's busting off some herb they grew
and they're showing you what they're breeding
and what you have is a preservation of stock and time
so that we really do keep that chain of custody unbroken.
Regardless of what we do with molecular breeding,
which I'm fascinated by
because it lets you do some unbelievable shit,
but the craft breeding is still where it's at.
And no matter how much you do molecular breeding,
it doesn't mean you're going to do a better job
than someone's going to find in their trailer.
That's to me, one of the things why,
that's the beauty of the genome is that you can take kids
and put them into shit schools
and give them no fucking support.
And their gene pool allows them to transcend that.
It's the one outlier that money has to fuck with.
They have no choice.
They can't fucking deal with the fact that you're smarter
or you're faster or you're better looking,
whatever the fuck it is, you're kinder.
Whatever gene it is that's making you special
is making you special.
And so we can selectively choose all we want.
We can stack the pool, but that doesn't mean
that somebody's not going to find something in a 10 pack
in their closet that somebody bred
that is the best cannabis anybody ever smoked in history.
It's just that simple.
The genome is big, man.
You're not really in control of it.
I think that's a great point, Kev.
And so many of us who've been in this for our whole lives,
I mean, I remember being a 12 and 13 year old
around the trim table up there in Bell Springs.
And it's people like us who have dedicated our lives
to this, gone through the absolute worst
of the drug war time period in the 90s, 80s, 90s,
up to the present.
It's continuing to go on for people who are still
living that hustler lifestyle.
But, and things are changing,
but I really think that the fact is
that it's dedicated people like Luther Burbank
did most of the most incredible breeding
long before molecular breeding.
He didn't even necessarily understand all of the advances
in genomics and in breeding during his time period
in terms of Mendelian inheritance and things like this.
But he did understand that growing out enormous populations,
selecting the absolute best and discarding all the rest
was a very good way of doing mass selection.
And he did it for countless different species and varieties.
And I feel like that kind of passion is something that
if you really look at the history
and the present of cannabis is here.
It's all the preservation work that's been done
is something that people had to do it.
And like, I really love back East.
So many cats who grew are back East,
Florida, Virginia, New York.
So many of the keep of Massachusetts,
so many of the keeper cuts that are in circulation
come from back there and were maintained
by people back there.
And a lot of it just had to do with the sorting process
of the constraints of prohibition.
You were only allowed to keep the absolute best.
And if it didn't meet the bar of what was already available
and at that level of the keeper, it got discarded.
And the people who were willing to take the risks
in many of the worst places
with the absolute worst penalties
are the ones who kept the genetics alive
and really kept things going for years.
And so I just wanna echo that,
that like marker assisted breeding,
breeding with genomics,
even just traditional sort of conventional breeding,
but doing it in a very systematic way,
those will produce without a doubt.
And there's ways of doing it.
And we can get into all those details,
but just through the dedication and perseverance
of people who care about and love this plant,
we can do incredible things.
And that's the thing that like with so many of us,
you know, I've got friends who have licenses.
I don't currently have my license
that theoretically I could set up operational,
but so many people are being pushed out
of the regulated commercial space.
And so much of the preservation work is gonna happen
outside of that commercial space.
And so that's something that I just wanna echo in second.
Well, you know what you're doing, Trev,
is you're laying out an unbelievable amount of information
on concepts of breeding
from a lot of different high-end breeders historically.
And so I think you might be the only person I know
that aggregates that information in easily accessed way.
And because you've gone over so much of it yourself,
you become the holder of that key.
And so for anybody who wanted to understand,
how do we approach it?
All they'd have to do is just go to your site
and you've laid out about as much content
as anybody could lay out on this topic.
And so, it's that, that if I have an idea,
where do I begin?
You can go online and check out your work.
And all of a sudden people can go,
whoa, look at this massive rabbit hole of information
I can go down into and pull from it
to understand what to do.
Because so many of us don't have a classic education.
I mean, we're self-educated and we're community educated
and it needs to be easily accessed
by the people that come after us.
And so, I salute you with the work you've been putting in
because it's been a body of work.
I mean, you've been laying it out
and then you're covering all these historical people
so people can kind of see
who are the cats that came before us.
And it's a huge deal.
It's not putting out the work,
but it's putting out the work that lets you put out the work.
So, all of us together can do something good.
Thanks, Kev, that means a lot, man.
Oh, it's genuine, brother, it's genuine.
Yeah, I was gonna say, Trevor,
all the work that you're doing and all that information,
it's there for anybody to see.
Anybody who wants to dive into it can get pretty much
most of the knowledge that they're gonna find
on that shit from a very intellectual standpoint.
And thinking about the way your mind works,
watching the shit that you've been writing
and finding it and researching it,
I'm like, wow, my mind is the polar opposite.
My mind jumps around too much
and I like to experience things
and reading some of that stuff,
I'll take some time and I'll read things like that.
But to me, it's dry.
I always had those types of learning disabilities in school.
I wanna just go fucking see it at a museum or experience it.
But it's an invaluable resource that you put up
and it's dope that you've put so much,
I can only imagine the amount of time that you put into it.
And then, from my side, there's that side
and appreciation of knowledge and forward moving science
and access to all the technology and genetic markers
and things that are out of my head as a breeder.
My whole thing is I'm tied between these two worlds
where cannabis to me is still a spiritual thing.
I smoke weed because I get super, super fucking spiritual
and just my personality.
I look at cannabis as a guide through life.
Once I found it and I started smoking weed regularly,
I was like, wow, this can be my homie
and my guide on my journey and help me break things down
and use when appropriate.
And so, it's intimidating to see all that components
coming into what's available in cannabis breeding.
And I guess a lot of it's always been there
for plant breeding.
And what I do is I just like to be around
a shitload of plants and smoke weed with the plants.
And I just, my mind obsesses with the details of the looks
and the colors and the feelings.
Another thing I was thinking about all the legendary
preservation, these days, there's so much stuff.
If you grow enough plants, you're gonna find
something legendary from most lines.
It's just that very few people are able to grow out
a couple thousand of something.
And then even if they are able to do that,
the time that it takes to actually get in tune
with those plants.
I think most of the breeders that I see in California
that have licensed nurseries at scale,
just imagine how long it takes to go through
row crop in plastic with a really nice native amended soil
and then get to know a couple thousand unique individuals
over the course of the season.
It's a lot, it's a lot of time.
And that's to me the thing that I like about plant breeding.
It's like your own experience of getting to know
these plants, like a person.
I always try to use analogies, comparing the plants
and how they grow and react to things like people
or other animals.
But anyway, those are just some of my
smoking joint thoughts.
Is anybody here on the panel growing or breeding
for minor cannabinoids and terpene specifically?
Stuff that would be considered a minor cannabinoid,
I guess for most people would be like CBT, CBL,
CBND, CBG, CBE, CBC, obviously CBN, CBD
and then Delta nine, Delta eight.
I have in the past, I've done some work with a lot
of the different CBD varieties that were going around
back in the day and did a lot of different testing.
Worked with the different Kanasu lines and stuff like that
or sour tsunami lines from Ringo.
So I've got experience with it, but it's not really
something that I actively do now that things have
kind of shifted with the medical scene,
no longer being what it was.
Under 215, it really, in California made sense to,
you know, work those lines, preserve those lines,
keep those genetics around.
As of now, I've got them in the fridge,
but in the current commercial market,
nobody that I know that has a license has any interest
in running mixed chemotypes or, you know,
type two, type three, type four, et cetera.
So that's.
I can second that with that nobody really wants
the type twos or the one to ones or, you know,
the mixed ratios for the most part.
I mean, a lot of people do, but I always make them.
I'm a big believer in like one to ones
or a THC dominant plant with, you know,
a little bit of CBD on the back end, you know,
three, 4%, if you can get there
and other trace cannabinoids with that.
If I had more access to like testing, you know,
because that frigging, breeding for minor cannabinoids
is like, you know, you better have deep pockets
because you can't smoke that,
you can't experience that very clearly.
It's hard to quantify when you're looking at these plants.
Like, does this one have it?
Does this one have it?
Which one has the higher ratio when you can't experience it?
So you gotta be testing every single plant.
And I went down that rabbit hole a few years back
doing CBD lines and dabbling in some CBG,
you know, when it was coming out, you know, fairly recently.
And man, it just costs too much and it's hard to do.
So experience wise, I always liked making a few plants,
keeping them around that are THC dominant
with some CBD on the back end.
And that really alleviates, you know, anxiety.
And I think it helps with the carrier, the high, you know,
in a lot of cases.
But yeah, I like plants like that, so.
Yeah, I'd probably echo the same thing that Trevor said.
I've, in the past, I've worked on some one-to-one CBD lines.
I've actually done three of them.
But in today's market, that's not what people are after.
They're looking for more high terpene lines
and on the CBD side, they don't really care
about whether or not it's one-to-one.
I do find a ton of people looking for high CBG lines
and other minor cabin annoyance,
other than the one-to-one with CBDs.
It seems like that came and went,
but I still keep them around like Teresa's talking about.
I've got them in the fridge,
waiting for whenever I need them.
I was just speaking today to my partner
that about actually doing some work
with a high CBD Lebanese line
and possibly doing some more one-to-ones with that,
with possibly my Mudbone male
and see what we can come out of that.
But again, the testing becomes almost astronomical
when you have to start running 100 plants through there
and then start testing 10 or 20 of those
to find out if you can start to pick out the phenotypes
through plant structure,
or maybe there's a terpene profile that's coming across
with the CBD that you're looking for, the CBG.
Once you find out that cultivars' preference
of the environment and how it's going to start
to show itself and not have to worry
about phenotypical plasticity changing
what you're seeing as an expression,
then you can start to tell what's gonna happen
with the seed line that you're producing
without having to test major amounts of them.
Yeah, I had to test lots of males for different,
different CBD and CBN, different things like that.
And it's, yeah, it's hard to do
because you can't even smoke the male for the most part,
but yeah, testing the males gets pretty crazy too.
Something I threw in there.
Yeah, from a more of a general perspective,
there is a lot of information that's out there
on the inheritance of cannabinoids
and really how the entire system works.
There were some papers done in the early,
early 2000s by Etienne de Meher.
They postulated a couple
of different inheritance mechanisms.
At first, they thought that it was
a traditional Mendelian inheritance system
with co-dominant expression.
And that's why you would end up with a pure THC variety,
an intermediary to mixed chemotypes
or mixed ratio phenotypes, and then a pure CBD variety.
Then a guy named George Weavlin wrote some papers
subsequently, and also I think someone named Van Backel.
They came up with some papers in around 2010, 2015 time
period that really kind of laid
out the overall inheritance mechanism
for cannabinoid ratios.
And you can go through and look at the work
that Etienne de Meher and GW Pharmaceuticals did
with inheritance for particular chemotypes
or cannabinoid profiles.
They've done a lot of different work for like CBC or CBL
or some of the minor cannabinoids that are, you know,
other than just the traditional CBD, THC sort of breakdown.
And all that's really been elucidated.
And Kev may be able to talk about this a bit more
but I'm pretty sure at this point
through medicinal genomics and other genomic companies
there's different ways of doing marker assisted selection
that would actually may even actually be more cost effective
to do early screening for particular markers
as opposed to what's just become an outrageous cost
in terms of COAs for getting your cannabinoid test
in California at least it's like it's hundreds of dollars
where it used to be, you know, $100 or something like that.
So that sort of, that approach may be one
that becomes increasingly more economical.
And I'd highly recommend people go read that paper
that you're talking about by Arm VanBakkel.
It talks about a couple of strains being tested genetically
to find out what's being passed from the plant
and how it's being passed.
It also tells you about like how many genes
a plant can pass when it's being bred
and how one line compared to another
will not pass the same genetic material
just because it contains it.
So people can kind of go into diving into the word
is it stabilized?
So when you start thinking about stabilization
and find out there's 30,000 different genes
that a single plant can pass progeny
and they can pass half of that along with the male side
or the pollen donor side.
You've got so many different genes that you're playing with.
The ones that the breeder may be trying to stabilize
or work with may not even be the ones
that you're looking for in there.
So when you start diving into the seeds you bought
and you don't get what you're looking for
may not even be what they were bred to express.
And those are two things that you need to talk
to the breeder about and yourself about
when you get the seeds and be really truthful
with what you purchased and what's happening
with what you're seeing.
I think that for me, it's making me kind of question
moving forward to be able to have
a really robust breeding program
that you almost have the ability
to perform all those analytical tests in house.
Obviously you can't offer that service to your own product
because of ethics violations and stuff of that nature.
And I obviously know that most languages
are written where you can't
but just from the standpoint of data collecting
because I know that in the past,
the markers that I would use,
and this was before I had access
to any type of analytical testing
that it would be kind of like the potency,
the taste, the bud color, the shape of the leaf,
the flowering time, height, resin production,
inner nodes, the branching numbers,
obviously yield and smell.
But that was the things that I used.
Two in the past, but I know that it would be nice
to be able to have all those,
especially just because of cost standpoint alone.
Going back to when we were talking about
the advantages of scientific based information
and all the future breeding stuff,
I sounded grumpy like complaining about it,
like, oh, cannabis is spiritual and artistic,
but I see both sides of it.
For instance, I was learning from some people actually
in a room on here like a while ago,
some science-based folks talking about triploids.
And I had never really heard of a triploid.
And that was a really fascinating breeding theory
like cannabis is a polyploid and has a couple of chromosomes
but you could manipulate it by spraying a certain chemical
kind of similar to a silver reversal or something.
I mean, totally different chemical,
but it's kind of similar to the point where the progeny
from the seeds, if you breed with that after applying this
would be a triploid,
meaning that it would have three chromosomes instead of two.
And so the extra chromosome would then give it
this advantage, this not proven,
but a likely probable advantage to be just a stronger,
more robust plant, stronger immune system.
So that type of science, that shit is fascinating to me.
It's really interesting.
And I applaud everybody who's gonna just do anything
innovative and unique and genuine with breeding.
But then at the same time, the other theory is...
Sorry, I don't need to cut you off.
The other side is, isn't it kind of like doping in sports?
Because that's the way I see it.
It's like, if people are doping and using substances
that are giving them an edge in sports,
that's kind of cheating over somebody
who's like doing a million pushups
under a fucking waterfall becoming like a warrior.
So, I see both perspectives.
Hey, Dan, sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off there.
My apologies.
It's just, I have Anna Downey and Dr. Anna Schwabe.
She's this amazing geneticist specialized
in cannabis population genetics.
She's actually got a show in like eight minutes
that she's gotta be at.
I shot her an invite to come up.
Maybe she'll be able to come by after the other show
if you guys are still going.
But I think you would definitely enjoy talking with her.
She's an amazing knowledge
when it comes to cannabis population genetics.
And I would love to...
She just popped up.
She might have a quick moment to just say hello to you guys.
And that's it.
Awesome.
Hey there, I just thought I'd pop in here and stir the pot.
I've just been lurking down in the audience,
listening to what you guys are talking about.
And you know, like you're talking about
classically trained scientists
and the scientific literature and all that.
And I have a pretty good background in that
given that I have a PhD in cannabis genetics.
So I just thought I'd pop in here.
You were just talking about polyploids.
So generally speaking, there are no polyploids in cannabis.
The only polyploid that's out there right now is a line.
They bred it into, it's a company called Oregon CBD.
They have a line of triploids.
Basically, it was a lot of money, a lot of resources,
and quite a bit of luck that they were able to create
and develop a viable line of triploids
that actually will grow and be stable as a triploid.
Other than that, like tetraploids and anything above that,
they just either don't exist or like they're not viable.
They don't, they end up all dying or they're not stable
or they're just, they don't give you a lot of,
they don't give you any difference really in yield
or terpene or cannabinoid production or anything like that.
So they're really not worth all the time and money
and effort that it takes to develop and have a polyploid.
The advantage with the triploid is that random pollen
can't pollinate it because you've got diploid pollen
trying to pollinate a triploid female.
Those two things won't come together and create anything
because they've got different chromosome numbers.
And so that's like the big pull towards this triploid line
is that you can grow outdoors and not worry
about somebody else's hemp crop
or medicinal crop pollinating your plants.
But they're only hemp right now,
so, but I know that I'm, well, I don't know,
but I am sure that they are working with THC lines
so that when it goes federally legal,
they can then move into that market
because what they've developed is truly remarkable,
but honestly, like it's very difficult to do.
I mean, the actual process doesn't seem that difficult,
but actually creating something that is stable
and that is viable and that will reproduce
more polyploids is very difficult.
Yeah.
See, that was dope.
I really appreciate that you-
Go on, sorry.
Yeah, I was just gonna say real quick,
I really appreciate that you came up here
and there was something that I was just talking about
how I know very little about it,
but it's really fascinating to me.
And then you were able to come up
with so much enthusiasm and passion and break it down
where everyone just got to learn something
that like most people wouldn't comprehend,
who are interested in plants and plant breeding.
So thanks for that, that was dope.
Sure, and the other thing I just wanted to mention
is that the gene thing with,
you mentioned Van Bakel
and I can never say the person's name, D. Mehar,
and all the people who are working on the genes,
like I feel like the housekeeping genes
that are just common to most plants
are pretty well worked out.
We kind of know where they are in the genome,
but Van Bakel published the entire genome,
although it was in a lot of little teeny tiny pieces,
back in 2012.
And it still hasn't been fully assembled,
which gives you an idea
of how complicated the cannabis genome is
because it's not for a lack of effort or people trying.
Obviously, medicinal genomics
is also doing their own genome
with their pan genome project
with their inbred Jamaican lion,
but they still haven't put it together either.
They've got it down,
I think they have it in something like 38 pieces,
which is as comprehensively put together
as it has been so far.
But as far as working out where all the genes are,
and we know that they are also,
they repeat in different places in the genome.
So like there's not just one THC synthase gene
to make THCA, which then converts to THC.
It's located multiple times in the genome.
Same thing with CBDA synthase and CBCA synthase,
not only that, those genes also make,
like THCA synthase can make CBD and also CBC.
We call those promiscuous genes
because they do other things
than what they're supposed to do.
Or leaky genes, you could call them leaky
because that's why you would never get like a zero,
0% CBD in a THC line and vice versa
because those genes,
although they may even be like dysfunctional
or whatever throughout the genome,
they're still gonna be able to make a little bit
of those compounds.
And so it becomes really complicated
because different genes in different places in the genome
can be turned on and off.
And we don't know in what combination
and in which locations they're on and they're off,
or if they're all on or if they're all off,
like we just don't know how that works very well.
And it's the same thing with terpenes
and however many terpenes there are,
it just becomes a really complex problem.
This whole genome thing is a very complicated problem.
And it's not very well worked out at all.
I have a quick question back to the triploid thing.
I've been doing little bits of research,
but once a plant is at a triploid state, so to speak,
doesn't it contain like more genes
and more possibilities to like increase the level
of like your terpenes and your cannabinoids
and actually a better overall plant
because of the increase in potential?
That's one of the ideas, but the few,
the triploid line, they say that the buds are bigger
and that the yields are higher
and that the terpenes and cannabinoids are increased,
but that's coming from their tests.
And I haven't really seen a whole lot of data
from those lines.
The tetraploids definitely don't make anything more
or bigger, the yields aren't bigger.
The leaves are a little bit bigger, but that's about it.
But the idea is that it should,
because it's not that they contain more genes,
they contain a complete set of all the chromosomes.
So cannabis has, what is it, 10 chromosome pairs.
So you would have 20 chromosomes altogether
that includes the sex genes.
So then with a triploid, you would then have 30 chromosomes
in the cell instead of 20.
And in order to house all of those extra chromosomes,
the cell might have to be a little bit bigger.
When you start getting up to like octoploid,
which is what the strawberries in the supermarket
that we buy, they're octoploids,
they are much, much bigger than your standard diploid
that you might find when you're hiking in the mountains
or something like that,
because they have eight sets of chromosomes.
So the idea is that, yes, it could increase yields
and cannabinoids and things like that,
but it hasn't panned out yet
as far as they have been able to make tetraploid,
which is four sets of chromosomes.
They just don't seem to be any different.
Not that anyone has, I mean,
there's only been a couple of papers published
that have been successful in doing that,
and they were small studies.
So not to put a whole lot of weight in that,
and absolutely, you could potentially,
depending on if there are strains out there
that are conducive to making tetraploids
and getting bigger yields
and higher phytochemical production.
But as of yet, nobody has done that
and been able to show that it was anything,
you know, super impressive.
Awesome.
No, thank you.
Thank you for that.
That's very cool.
All right, I gotta dip out.
I got this other show.
I was gonna go talk about a science paper,
a cannabis science paper,
but I'll try to stop in on your Mondays
and, you know, see what you guys are talking about
because it's super interesting to me, obviously.
You're always welcome.
All right, thank you.
Bye.
Thanks, Anna.
Chow, guys, I gotta go help produce that one,
so I'll see you in a bit.
If you guys are still running, Chow.
Cool.
For reference, the paper
that the Crawford brothers,
they were some of the co-authors on the paper
that describes what was just discussed,
and that paper is called
Characteristics of Diploid, Triploid,
and Tetraploid Versions of a CBG-dominant
F1 hybrid industrial hemp cultivar.
So if people wanna look it up,
you can look up that paper.
And it is very interesting,
the work that the Oregon CBD have done
and the Crawford brothers.
They're definitely,
I know they also worked with Medicinal Genomics
on developing some of their marker systems for,
basically, I think it's marker-assisted selection
for cannabinoid production,
but that's definitely,
it's groundbreaking, like she said.
Like, there were previous studies
that had discussed the possibility
of creating polyploid or tetraploid.
Varieties of cannabis,
and most of them showed
that it either was incredibly difficult to do
or that the results weren't really worth it.
And what this paper shows is that,
at the very least, there is benefit
in terms of creating sterile plants
so that you can't create offspring.
And if you're growing out a flower production run,
that has certain advantages.
So what's everybody's opinion
on the comparison to doping and steroids?
Like, we're supposed to express ourselves
through this plant.
It's like, that's the way it's always been.
You didn't have ancient tribes of people
in civilizations 5,000 years ago
fucking looking at computers, right?
They were out in the fields making choices
that are gonna increase their quality of life.
And whether it's their livelihood, food source,
all the different uses.
What are your guys' thoughts,
just because I'm stoned and thought of it now,
on comparing that doping, steroid shit
to like people should use their own experience
and intuition?
I guess it makes it competitive,
which wasn't my intent.
I know that I can throw something in real quick on that.
As for me, it's the same thing that I look at
when creating a feminized line using silver thiosulfate
or something else to be able to suppress ethylene.
None of us just have that naturally.
I might be wrong.
You might be able to just make something relatively easy,
but I would say that that goes back
to just breeding as a whole.
And my thoughts that I've discussed before
in previous conversations,
I look at that as all the same.
I think that it's pretty much a way
to get a competitive advantage.
And I think that's neat, but at the same time,
that boils down to a business model
and then just the capitalism behind cannabis,
because what happens when that federal veil gets lifted
and we have organizations that can throw
every kind of technology into our previous work
and can really address those numbers
and higher levels than what most of us can
just because of infrastructure restraints.
Man, I think intuition is the ultimate.
I don't think any computer can really tell me
that this cannabis is the one
or can justify the experience.
It's definitely a living thing,
just like me has all the same needs, wants,
relationships, all those things.
Go ahead.
I feel both ways.
Sorry, I know I interrupted you, my bad.
I mean, I feel both.
There's the intuition side
and then when you also can apply science,
just have both of them.
That's the way that I see it,
because I am fascinated by both.
You have to have both, you have to.
Every tool in the toolbox is a use
for something that you need.
But as a competitive thing,
I think that if you do something pure of heart
and with good intention and you do it good
and you're working with good shit,
I think that that plant could compete
with a built or steroid used to use that type of comparison.
And Chase, it's like I used to have the exact same opinion
about fem seeds and thiosulfate
and that whole application.
I felt the exact same thing,
but then I spoke with a bunch of scientists,
like fucking people with dual degrees
in chemistry and botany,
and I asked for them to break it down
and I'm like, okay.
And then I started to see more fem lines
and I was like, oh, well,
they're probably not gonna be as vigorous.
But now that I have years of experience
of seeing the fem lines and them broken down,
and it's a chemical treatment,
but there's nothing left,
there's no remnants of that chemical in those seeds.
It doesn't exist in the seeds
or in the plants that are grown out from them.
And then smoke it and I'm smoking it
and I'm like, wow, okay, yeah, this is,
if anything makes my life easier.
But again, then it's just a balance again
of having both regular and fem seeds.
But I used to feel the exact same way
until I learned that I just didn't have the.
Yeah, I think that there's value in both models.
So essentially we have a traditional system
of cultivation and production
that is akin to what you see in heirloom varieties
or in the seed saver sort of vegetables,
as opposed to the more commercial
industrial agriculture applications
of what you see with tomatoes or corn breeding.
Now, the vast amount of market share
is controlled by the breeding systems
and the varieties that are produced
in the breeding systems that use advanced,
it used to be just statistics and mathematics
and now it's developed into marker assisted genomics.
But those systems certainly control market share
and they're bringing to bear all of the tools
and technologies of modern advanced science.
And there's a reason why yield gains
have been what they have been
in a whole bunch of different varieties.
And there's also been all sorts of drawbacks
that have come along with the yield gains
that have been experienced in corn, for instance.
And Camara a couple of weeks ago mentioned it
with the blight that happened in the 1970s
that basically wiped out huge amounts of corn
because it was so bottlenecked
and everything relied on cytoplasmic male sterility
that came from one specific gene
that came from one variety
that then ended up being susceptible to this blight.
And so I don't see these two systems as necessarily,
while they can be put into a sort of competitive model,
at the end of the day,
we're talking about cannabis genetic resources.
They're going to be put
into modern scientific breeding methods.
It's already happening
and there are going to be advances and gains.
And we, you know, kind of the stuff that I've talked about
with historical breeders, part of like going back
and reading and figuring out what Neville
and David Watson and all the different breeders
throughout the years have done
is trying to figure out basically what was the system
that they were using to breed
and how does it make sense essentially?
And how can we explain breeding to, you know,
somebody who may be interested in cannabis history,
but also ends up essentially learning
about the scientific methods of breeding
that have been applied to cannabis by different breeders
and who have worked with cannabis over the years.
And we can see like that traditional system of breeding
that we're all a part of that we're, you know,
trying to keep going.
That's largely based off of somewhat scientific
and somewhat pre-scientific
or sort of intuitional based understandings
of what we're doing.
There's still value there.
And a lot of that has to do with one,
we don't bottleneck genetic resources as intensely
and as quickly as you'll see
with modern industrial agriculture plant breeding,
because what happens there is essentially just a system
of trying to increase homozygosity
at the most rapid pace possible
and make it so that you're able
to produce commercially successful and, you know,
viable products in the shortest period of time possible
to get as much returns as possible.
And there's consequences to that breeding model
that are offset by the breeding models
that don't do as intensive in breeding
that allow people to have, you know,
perhaps not the most economical sort of end goals
or intensive selection process.
And that's why a lot of land race varieties
and heirloom varieties are maintained
by traditional cultures that have just produced a variety
and a place for a purpose that's specific
to their own needs and cultural dynamics.
And so we need to encourage that to really just,
you know, both of these systems are,
they have value and we shouldn't lose sight
of the value in both systems of breeding,
the less formal intuition-based system
and the much more scientific methods.
And, you know, yeah.
Most of the money like in fruit trees and stuff,
you know, like they get bred for color
and ripening time or shippability.
You know, when you start getting commercial,
things start getting bigger
and things got to stay on the shelf for a lot longer
or stay in transit a lot longer, got to stay good.
So you start selecting for different traits
or as soon as like certain nectarines ripen up
or they get fully colored,
they're not ripened for another few weeks.
As soon as they get full color,
they pick them and send them off.
And then that has a detrimental effect
on the actual quality or overall method
because they're not thinking about it
from like a completely good taste point of view.
Citrus, and you can go with every variety.
There is known to man of almost any fruit tree in the world,
but you could go to the CCC or the CCPP like websites,
citrus, you know, organization
that houses all of these different varieties of citrus.
And a lot of the characteristics are listed
on like these killer tasting,
like rare Italian oranges or tangerines.
It's like poor shipping, you know, quick, you know,
quick rot times and different things like that.
But you'll never taste anything like that
under the rainbow.
So like, just like you said,
there's a need for that commercial side
where you can get things to the table
and they can sit there and be usable for the people.
But the true, you know,
edibility dankness is gonna always come
from the little guys.
I mean, there's just no way around it.
As it does in fruit trees, it will in cannabis, you know?
So that's how I feel for sure.
Yeah, strawberries too.
They got mentioned earlier.
And that's one where like you read the description
of heirloom varieties of strawberries
and they're incredible,
but the sugar content's so high that they, you know,
they have no shelf life.
And, but they're like the best strawberries
you could possibly get.
Yeah, like there's like white sapotes
or a plant that most people will never taste, you know?
And it's just, they're impossible to ship
because as soon as they're ready,
they'll explode into like custard.
And it's just, they're so fragile
and there's so many things like that,
that are just, you'll never see them in the stores
because they just, they can't make it.
They can't make that time, you know?
So the best stuff will always be close to heart, you know?
Can you guys maybe one by one talk?
I'm a big fan of like concrete examples of,
like I'm trying to get back to the initial topic,
which is like traits you're looking for
and then kind of how you currently set up
your documentation and, you know, data collection
and maybe like some bad news bearer stories
of like when you were first doing this
and trying to remember what was what
and tagging stuff and all that.
I have no problem talking about the mistakes
that I've made throughout the years.
I know that whenever I first started breeding
was just out of necessity.
I didn't have the money to be able to buy cannabis
from other people.
And at the same time, even though my family was growing it,
they definitely believed in waiting until I was older
to be able to smoke their product.
So I know that I started breeding for those purposes.
And this was obviously before we had all these breeding
and growing bibles that were out there.
I had high times at the time to be able to give me
some type of direction, but I failed
with a lot of my breeding projects
where it's like I didn't know like what week
that I needed to put my males in with my females,
you know, how many days and stuff like that.
So it took, you know, a lot of trial and error.
Most of the breeding projects that I did at first,
I was trying to breed for what I thought was
just terpene specific characteristics where, you know,
if I would do a stem rub and it was extremely potent
welding that I would just be the male that I selected.
It had nothing to do with structure or body
on the male side because, you know,
I had always been taught to be able to call those things.
So I wasn't selecting for the right reasons
just to make the long story short.
So over the years, I've realized
that there's different attributes
that I need to be looking for,
but it still turns into for myself,
a problem that most commercial operations,
you know, if there's any extra space,
they want another flower room for production.
They don't really care about the R&D side.
So it's the reason why I believe it's important
moving forward to structure a business model
that is conducive to one,
having the ability to have in-house testing,
two, obviously having, you know, the ability to pivot
where you're not just a production business model
because, you know, I'm worried about, again,
that federal veil being lifted and, you know,
how that affects small operations and whether or not
we can weather the storm of a company, you know,
throwing cannabis at the market
for way less than we can produce it,
even being fully automated.
So that's extremely important to me.
And two, just trying to put as many people on the team
that are smarter than myself,
just because I feel that if I'm the smartest person
in the room, that I'm hanging out in the wrong room.
And that's been my brief history in breeding.
So I gotta get going here in a second,
but cool thoughts on like when I hit more dead ends
when I used one male.
One male doesn't carry enough information.
And I learned that using a multiple male setup
or choosing several males made better seeds for me
in the longterm for generational purposes.
So I've been doing that.
I'm doing a lot more of that.
I still hunt for like resin males and things like that
cause I like doing that and I'm weird like that.
But most all my pollinations and things, you know,
as of late and from now on, well, most definitely,
most of them will be multiple male pollination.
So that was something that I, you know,
I learned and I had to go backwards on a few projects,
you know, with the PAM and other stuff.
But as of recently, it cooled like trait wise,
things that we're looking for.
I've been doing this Australian bastard project
and the Australian bastard leaf is a, you know,
really it's a real recessive trait.
So I got some stock and I crossed it
to lots of different things,
we're on several different things,
but ultimately I crossed it to the PAM.
So Australian bastard, pure Australian bastard to the PAM.
And in that first generation,
because of that leaf mutation,
you won't see any of the Australian bastard children.
They just don't exist.
It doesn't pop up.
So you have to do an open pollination
and breed them all together.
And then in that F2, all those mutants will pop up
and you can, you know, so just tracking that leaf shape,
you can, you get to the point if you were just to do the
cross and then grow them out, you'd be super bummed out.
You'd be like, oh shit, it didn't work.
Or what happened?
You'd be super bummed out.
But you gotta know that chasing that leaf shape down,
down the generational paths,
you can pull out those mutants and then, you know,
kill the rest and then breed the mutants together.
And then you've got, you've got,
you've got good leaf traits stability there.
Then you can kind of work on your selection.
So that's something I've been working on lately,
just as like a passion project,
trying to grow some weird leafed personal stuff,
you know, doing it from scratch.
So that, and then with males,
people are trying to do earlier flowering stuff.
I found that, you know, the first males to flower,
those are the ones that are gonna send that earlier
flowering trade over, you know, a lot of the time,
you know, maybe not all the time,
but a lot of the time those first males to kind of throw out
a couple of flowers that are gonna open up,
or the first one to set flowers heavy
and stack up really quick.
Those are always, those are always a good choice
for shortening down those flower times.
So if you got something really long,
you look for a male that's gonna flower first, you know,
and you're gonna start, even within a population,
you can kind of shorten the flowering time down.
So, you know, a couple of things that I play with.
If you're looking for gas,
it's usually not on purple petiole plants.
It's usually the green petiole stuff,
but check your nutrition levels and stuff like that,
because sometimes it can happen,
but rarely do I see gas, heavy, you know,
nastiness coming off of those purple petioles, you know?
So that's something else that I've kind of noticed.
I don't know if anybody else has,
but I'm gonna sneak out of here in just a minute
since my wife yells at me,
but I wanna, you know, listen to what you guys got to say.
That's a really good point about mutation breeding.
Using these types of mutations, these recessive mutants,
is how a lot of the early breeding
and understanding of genetic structure
were done back in like 100 years ago.
And so if people are interested
in looking at Mendelian traits in cannabis,
that's a good place to start.
If you're interested in the ABC or the freak show,
cross those out, make an F2 population,
look at how many of those end up displaying
the freak show or the ABC leaf type,
and you'll be able, it usually,
depending on the population size,
you can have some bias in small population,
but if you have a large enough population,
you're gonna see the traditional Mendelian ratios pop out.
And that's something that just from a genetic standpoint
is really nice material to work with.
What was the whole question, Peter?
You did understand.
We're still on the same topic.
I think it was kind of just like concrete examples
of maybe your current process of documenting
and keeping track of the traits you're looking for,
and then kind of maybe in your early days,
some of the, when you were just weighing it,
kind of how you approach, like,
all right, I got like 20 plants,
a bunch of males, a bunch of females,
I don't know what's what.
I got these seeds from a friend,
and I wanna work with this line.
Sure.
I guess, I'll go back to the third year
that I had ever made seeds intentionally,
I decided to like take a good chunk of my time
and I brought in some extra help for the farms
that I was running so that I could kind of do that,
not full time, but put a lot of my energy into it.
And so, I had had very little experience
because I'd really only made a few hybrids,
and grown out a few things,
but most of what I was growing was other people's stock.
And for me, what was cool was I'm a seed collector, right?
I just got seeds in the mail
from fucking Todd McCormick today,
a bunch of NL5 and NL2.
I've wanted to grow those fucking varieties
since I first smoked that weed
when someone's older brother in high school had some, right?
So I was seed collector first,
and I showed up with an expansive seed collection
because I nerd out and spend,
used to spend all my money on other people's seeds.
And so what was cool was I was able to grow out
some of the hybrids that I had made in the years previous,
and then do that side by side with all of these cool genetics
and popular stuff at the time that I had bought online.
And at a pretty large scale for the time.
Now, it'd be small fry, but for back then,
it was, I would say the upper echelon,
2%, 5% scale production for Humboldt County.
And so while we had to grow these farms
and run all this production,
we'd from our collective, which was a whole experience,
I just took my time in the morning
to spend time with the plants in the nursery.
And back then I used to take pictures
of every individual plant's leaf structure,
and I'd say, okay, I'm breeding a headband.
So here's a headband clone.
Let me take pictures of the leaf pattern
and the structure of these moms.
And then I'll compare that to all the F1 seed
and all the F2 seed and start guessing
on which ones are gonna be leaning towards more
to the headband.
But what was cool was seeing all that stuff side by side.
That's what I would do with my free time
is I would water those plants by hand
and spend a lot of time just getting to know them
and kind of organizing them and grouping them.
And from that, I'd never started that many seeds.
So I'm starting around a thousand seeds,
which was like fucking something I never in a million years
would have dreamed I'd ever do.
And then from that, I eventually selected it down
to about 30 males.
And really eight of them are the ones
that I collected a shitload of pollen from.
And so for instance, that year,
I actually had some Northern Lights hybrids
from Dr. Atomic.
And I grew up reading about Dr. Atomics,
Northern Lights hybrids and weed magazines.
And they were like the most bunk plants I'd ever grown.
They had no vigor, they had no resin production.
It was very unfortunate.
I found that from that seed collection,
there were some modern people that were small,
heady home growers that participated in Overgrow
and ICMAG and THC Forum that actually knew
what good weed was and had made some good hybrids.
But almost all of the legendary stuff
that I paid $200 a pack for, $150 a pack for,
back like fucking 10, 12, 13, 14 years ago,
most of it was garbage.
It wasn't even fun to grow.
And so, but that year opened my mind up to like, wow,
there's a lot more diversity than even I had kind of
tried to imagine or fathom in it.
So that was a couple of tricks back then
as I'd take photos of the moms I was breeding with
and try to compare them to what I'm seeing
in the next generations.
And really just carrying everything out.
Also, being in the area,
there's access to all these commercial clones.
So whatever popular growers who are growing
for their livelihood had to grow
what was commercially viable.
And the older generation at that time,
they had all these amazing seed varieties
that they had been breeding and working with for decades.
And I thought all that weed was so cool.
And I showed up in Humboldt right when most of them
couldn't sell that stuff anymore,
because it wasn't a headband or an OG or a sour
or a blue dream.
So I showed up like right at the end of purple
and as like OGs and sours were taken over.
And I always thought that was so unfortunate
that these people had like what I thought was the coolest,
such unique terpene weed
and these beautiful fucking stoic buds.
And they're like, no, I'm just gonna grow
a third of my crop, Mr. Nice,
a third of my crop, Blue Dream.
And then the other third, headband, sour and OG.
And so in that early experience, I was like,
well, I think we can do better as a neighborhood.
And so anyway, so that year,
I don't know if I'm rambling, I'm sitting here, stone.
But I definitely, that opened up my mind to like,
holy shit, this is my like, this is kind of like my thing.
I'm just gonna go down this route and just keep doing this.
Let's see, I can kind of start from my own story here
with what I started with.
I started early by just starting to breed with seeds
that I knew came with provenance
and were the same genetic lines.
I started back in 94 with my very first breeding projects.
And I used pure haze and pure Afghani
when I did two different crosses for my uncle and my cousin.
And then I crossed the same Afghani to the haze
and made a line for my grandfather.
In the early days, I did what I recommend everybody does
when it comes to wanting to get into breeding.
That is to just do it.
Because the longer you wait, the more you just
sit on your ass, you'll never get anything done.
So it starts with starting a project.
Don't overwhelm yourself.
And like I said earlier, I started with two lines.
And those two lines ended up with three different strains
that I created from those that I used to give out
to anybody that asked for seeds.
Because in the early days in my area,
I come from a very small spot.
I was known as the kid that had all the weed, right?
So if someone wanted some seeds or if they wanted some weed,
they would come and hit me up.
And the reason I started with those two lines
was because of the cannabis that I was smoking at the time
came from those seeds.
And everyone I smoked that weed with
always wanted more of that weed, right?
Everyone's asking me, you got that weed?
You got that weed?
Especially the Afghani side.
To this day, people ask me if I have any
of that Afghani line left, which I do not
because I was busted two times
and the police ended up taking what we knew was the stock.
What's left is in mixed up seed stock
that I have left from that time period.
And I cannot verify it without getting them to pop
and grow out.
So from the early days of just doing it,
I ended up being a backwoods gorilla breeder
because of my area.
Again, it's a spot where growing and breeding cannabis
is not something that you wanna do publicly,
especially in the time period in the early 90s in this area,
80s, 90s, you're gonna get busted, right?
So I started up in the mountains
with patches growing outdoors.
So as a child, I seen large scale outdoor patches
with thousands and thousands of plants in it,
spaced in large areas and in multiple sections
of different forests that we're in up in Humboldt County.
So that's how I ended up learning how to find
different plants that might become special
from what you're growing on a large scale.
But I learned this in the early stages,
something people don't learn when they're starting to breed
that you should start with a larger scale of plants
and not start with a small scale,
unless you just wanna continually bottleneck
the line that you have,
you should do what Kevin had spoke on earlier,
open what you have up,
and then from there you can use selection to line breed
the seeds you have into terpene profiles
and cannabinoid profiles and the plant structures.
It's not hard to do.
It just takes a lot of time and a lot of plans
to get that done.
And in these days where you have plant numbers,
it becomes hard to do.
So I recommend giving seeds out to as many people as you can
just don't give them the full name and genetics on it
when the people are just growing them for free,
as long as they'll give you information back,
tell them you'll give them more seeds
and most of the time people will continue
to give you the information back for the seeds.
And eventually you can learn a lot of stuff about your line
on a larger scale,
something that you were not able to do.
In today's market because of the laws,
it makes it very difficult when you grow
even in a 10 by 10 room,
or if you've got a 10 by 100 greenhouse,
it's still not very large scale.
And when it comes down to it,
if you read on plant breeders like Luther Burbank
that was brought up earlier by Trevor,
he used to pull a hundred thousand seeds
to do his selection on plants.
And that man bred over a hundred different plants
that we know today from white blackberries
to cactus, right?
So, and he does all this through selection
on our large numbers.
So that's the first thing you start to learn
once you begin to breed and become serious
about your project is the only way you're going to get
to the numbers using a polyhybrid selection
is you're gonna have to have massive numbers.
And then you eventually find out
you need to steer away from those
and go to something as close to as inbred as possible
as a true breeding align for you to be able to start
to create your own F1 hybrids from those selections.
And the only way you do that
without doing genetic sequencing that I know
is through running larger numbers of plants
and checking phenotypes.
The phenotype plasticity that comes from them
is the plant doing what you expected from it?
Because not only are you trying to find out
if a plant is producing what you thought
was gonna produce from it,
but you're trying to find out if your educated guess
from having experience with these cultivars
is something that you can rely on.
Are you going to be able to predict
what the next cross is going to do based on the male
that you use or the female that you use?
So that's why I always recommend people try to create
a male from the stock that they want
that they can call their own
and become extremely intimate with
and understand what this plant can do
when it's crossed to the other lines
that you wanna play with,
the other seed packs that you're buying.
Just keep this guy around,
use them for your breeding projects,
find out if he's gonna pass mold resistant,
does he pass a density in his flower structure?
Does he stretch?
Is it cutting down flower time?
Does this plant have a specific expression
to the phenotypic plasticity under a certain type of light,
say like the original haze that I have?
Once that plant is put in an indoor setup
and under a very high amount of light,
it has the expression of not wanting
to start the flower for a very extended period of time,
which can make growing that plant inside
a pain in your ass.
And you only find this out from running enough of them
or having an experience with that plant for long enough.
And I've got both of those when it comes to that.
So that's why I kind of recommend people
to try to learn one plant so that you can find out
what's coming from not only that plant, the male,
and from the females you cross it to.
You're gonna find out every time you cross that
to something called diesel, if they're true,
you get a specific phenotypical expression
from a certain amount of the phenos
that come out of that thing, 50%, possibly 25.
And you'll find out if the mother female
becomes a dominant or a recessive plant
in the breeding that you're using.
And once you find plants that are doing what you'd like,
now you can add those to your catalog of seeds
that you either wanna produce and give away
or to reproduce multiple times
and start to add to the public.
Cause you'll find out a lot of the breeders here
will carry males or females that they will use
at breeding projects multiple times.
And this isn't just because they're slacking.
It's because they understand that plant
more than some brand new plant
that they've got to dig through a hundred
or a thousand seeds of to find the plant
that they're looking for now
to now reintroduce into brand new populations.
That might take five years for someone to go through
when they've already done that work
and can just continue to add this to some new stock.
You get a new female that comes in
that you like the terpene profile
or the structure and color of.
And you know if you cross it to this male
you've been carrying for a while
that you're probably gonna get an expression from it
that now you can start to line breed
into a brand new direction.
And this will help you learn how to do this
with other plants.
You'll be able to see what a plant's passing dominant
once you start to have experience
with one particular cultivar for a longer period of time.
That at least that's something that I found
in the years that I've been messing with plants
since let's see 1981.
It's when the first time I started to learn about plants
how to clone plants like trees talked about earlier
find out which plants are rooting easier.
And that's something that I found out
when he was talking about less roots
on a lot of plants was giving these superior phenos
or genotypes out of the line.
That's how I found like the fire OG and the bubble.
These are two plants that do not like to set roots
as quick as anything else around them.
I found that in my space cushion line that I used
by running enough of those out.
I found out there were phenotypes in there
that were more medicinal for me
but they were hard as hell to clone.
Like the pheno number two that I carried for 15 years
that plant was extremely difficult to clone.
I would have to take 10 sets of clones
just to get one out of it every time, no matter what.
And I knew that.
So eventually when I was running the club
I'd be taking 50 to a hundred cuts of just
that one cultivar just so I'd have enough to run
on my system because we used to give that plant away
and work on medicinal purposes.
I used to give it to the seniors.
I used to give it to the veterans.
So I used to have to have that available
and only through experience with that plant
and actually breeding it.
I know what I was giving to someone
and what they would be able to do with it.
So by giving them my number two pheno
I knew I was giving a plant.
They were gonna have the extremely hard time cloning.
So back in the 2015 days
not a lot of people understand how to clone.
So by me giving them that plant
they weren't able to reproduce it
and pass that cut around to everybody.
Yo, that's so funny that you mentioned
that people didn't know how to clone because well
so I'm from the East coast and it's like
if you're gonna grow weed
you better fucking know how to cut your own clones.
Nobody's gonna tell you they're a grower
let alone fucking hook you up with any clones.
And so I moved out and I just couldn't believe
I met a buddy who's one of my best friends
this day we became tight.
And I'm like, so everyone here is a grower
but like why are people not cutting their own clones?
And it was crazy.
It was like nine out of every 10 growers
did not cut clones or they were really shitty at it.
And I think it just became easier
for people to fucking score a batch of clones
for their 10 lighter or for their outdoor patches.
But I thought that was like a required thing.
Like if you're gonna grow weed
like you have to cut clones.
Like you gotta learn the basics.
And I found it, I still find it unbelievable.
Like I think it would be painful emotionally to grow weed.
It is actually, there's been times
where things have gotten fucked up for me
and I've had to buy clones.
It's emotionally painful to fucking grow clones
that you had to get from somebody else.
It's fucking terrible.
But that's what's ill is because clearly Tony
in California, like if you just knew the basics
and could hustle clones, it's like,
that's a huge advantage over everybody else back then.
No, I agree.
That is so true.
Oh, I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, no, you're good.
I was gonna say,
cause I learned to clone when I was eight years old.
I learned how to do the air layer technique
in my backyard on the Afghanis
that I eventually bred with.
So I knew the Afghani like it was my pet, right?
I grew up with it my whole life.
My mom moved here because of that plant.
Someone gave her a nug of some Humboldt green bud
and she moved her ass to where we're at now.
And then we go up to Humboldt
and we buy a hotel and fishing lodge there.
So she had a place that she could scout out herb
and she eventually finds what she's looking for
and brings it back here.
That's how I learned how to do large scale growing
and stuff that a lot of people didn't grow up doing.
And I thought, just like you said,
I thought everyone knew how to clone a plant.
When I'm eight years old, I learned how to do it.
You need to know how to take cuts, keep them alive.
So when we go hiking, that's what they called it,
you had the shit in your backpack.
So each one of the kids that was going up there
had a backpack full of herb.
The uncles had backpack full of herb
and we'd go plant fucking 100, 200, 300 plants,
just depends on what was going on,
which patch we were heading into.
And this is how I learned in the early days how to clone.
And then to 15 rows around, just like you said,
people get either lazy
or it comes down to number counts, right?
So some states are like California, it was county by county.
In my county at one time you could have 99 plants.
They didn't give a shit.
As long as you had a script recommendation, 99 plants.
So in my collective, I roll up in one day to this place
and I ended up getting a job there the day I'm in there.
And within a week I'm the clone guy
because the guy that says he can do clones, he can't do shit.
And I know how to clone.
I just know how to do it.
So I tell him I can clone.
I bring in a hundred plants and the guy's like,
what the fuck, you got a hundred plants?
I'm like, I can bring a hundred plants every day, dude,
no matter what.
So fucking the next day I bring a hundred plants in.
The next day he's like, holy shit,
what the fuck are you doing?
I'm like, well, you don't need to know that shit.
I can just, I can cover this.
I can do what you need done.
And I started doing it
and nobody's fucking doing clones, right?
Because anyone can bring clones in, in the two 15 days.
You can bring urban, you can bring clones in.
You can bring seeds in if you wanted.
And that's how I started making seeds for the public.
I'd been making them for myself and my friends,
but as we get seniors and vets that come in
that are living on incomes that are basically nothing,
because the government ain't paying them jack shit.
Well, fucking, I'm like here, free seeds.
Or if someone came in and bought seeds
from one of the other breeders,
because our club started to pick up seeds
from the breeders that the people were reading about
in high times and it's called magazine
or treating yourself.
So they're reading about these strains.
They want to buy them.
And they, so my owners like here, dude,
you got this much money, I need a bunch of seeds.
So we buy seeds and I'm like, well, fuck,
I'm going to give away some of my seeds
anytime someone buys them.
Because it turns out no one wanted to pay a hundred bucks
for a pack of seeds because now they can't buy no weed.
So I start giving my seeds out.
Eventually the veterans come in there
and basically demand I start taking money for my seeds
because they're tired of being given something for free.
And that's when I had to explain to them what I was doing.
I was using them basically as the information.
They were giving me all the information I needed.
What does the plant do?
It worked for this ailment.
It grew this tall.
It took this long to flower.
It didn't get any powder mildew in my garden.
That's always got powder mildew.
It didn't get any bugs.
And I started learning information and I'm like,
oh, holy shit, I'm going to be able to do
all kinds of breeding.
And that's when I start breaking out all my breeding.
I started giving out seeds.
My packs were $30 a pack all the way up until last year.
Like, so like anybody could access the gear that was there
and do large selection if they wanted
to do their own breeding.
And that's how I found out what I was doing was working
is because the patients started coming back and telling me,
I'd rather have your stuff that's free
and I'll pay you for it than the other stuff
because it just didn't work for what I thought it was.
The book said it was going to do this.
It didn't do it.
But you told me that the plant you bred
would probably work with what I was after, right?
Because someone would come in and say,
they want to grow some weed for their uncle
that's got seizures.
I'm like, I've been breeding for that for a little while
because my uncle had seizures his whole life, right?
So I was breeding towards that specifically for a reason.
So I give them seeds that I believe will work for that
and they can buy whatever the hell they want.
So they buy some seeds from a breeder
that one of the books had worked for someone seizures.
They didn't work for them, but the one I gave them did.
Right, so I started giving that bud out to people
that came from those seeds and find out
that the flower's working for maybe six to seven
out of 10 people that I give it to.
So now I find out that this line and Different Females
are working to help me find out that this line
specifically works towards seizures.
Or I have one that will help with people
that have like MS muscular,
or other muscular issues, right?
I'm sorry for coughing, excuse me.
And I only find this out by actually giving it
to the patients that actually had the ailment
that I was wanting to breed towards
because my whole breeding career
I've always wanted to breed towards something medicinal
to help somebody that was literally sick
beyond just having like a sore back or something.
Like my whole family's all died from cancers
or heart attacks or strokes.
Every friend I've had in the past, the same thing.
So I wanted to breed to help these kinds of people
and people that had the same issues with plants.
I wanted to give them something that they'd be able to find,
keep, call their own and not have to go buy the stuff
because the price of herbs astronomical
and the more it becomes legal, the higher the prices get.
That's why I believe we should give away as much as we can.
And even if you've got a, this is a business
and you're selling seeds,
throw a free pack in every time someone makes an order,
give them something extra, tell them thank you.
Ask them to send some information back
and tell them if they do that,
you'll give them another free pack.
Extend what you're trying to do
with helps other people
just to give them something free to somebody.
You'll find out a lot about your line,
especially when it's free
because now no one's gonna expect nothing.
Like I said, when they were reading a book
that it's supposed to do this and it doesn't.
And you give them something that you believe you bred
will work for that.
Start talking about it.
Because I always ask someone, what are you looking for?
What do you want?
Someone will just call up and say,
I want the highest producing plant with the highest THC.
And I'm like, well, what are you trying to do?
Are you trying to breed?
Are you growing for sick people?
Are you growing for production?
There's multiple reasons.
And I can dive into my lines
and give you something that's steered for that
instead of you trying to buy what you think you're after.
Because I know my stuff better than anybody else.
And I should.
If I don't, it's like Kevin said earlier,
you're just a buster.
You're just taking advantage of people.
And I never wanna be that in my breeding.
And I don't wanna support other people that are doing that.
When I mention people on my Instagram or my Facebook
that I support, it's because I support their mentality,
not the production that came out of the plant
that they produced.
I support the amount of time it took to produce the seed
that is now up to me to dig through
to decide whether or not it works or not.
We're in a system where this is our paintbrush
and we're all painters.
And you can't paint a complete masterpiece with one brush.
You're gonna have to change eventually
so you can put different textures
on what you're trying to do.
And if you don't buy enough seeds,
you're never gonna find out that the line
you're looking through is gonna do what you want.
Just because you found one pack of bad seeds
and 10,000, 30,000, 100,000 seeds,
doesn't mean they're bad.
It just means that's the luck of the draw.
We gotta look for something else.
Maybe I didn't research enough.
Maybe that breeder sucks.
Either way, it doesn't matter.
Yo, speaking of the clone cutting,
if you reset your screen, check out the photo.
Definitely got started.
How often do you replace those neoprene washers?
You try to do that-
I've sold your seeds before.
Those, I don't usually use those.
That was from a year ago.
About a year ago, I just borrowed one from a buddy
and was just doing a little fun project
and teaching my kids how to cut clones.
I clone in Oasis cubes mostly, or sometimes Rapid Rooters.
And honestly, I like to clone in a soilless medium,
like a Pro Mix or even a lightly amended soil.
I know that I always had to,
everywhere that I went as a child,
that we would always bring aloe vera with us.
So regardless of whether we were growing cannabis or not,
we always had that aloe vera plant to be able to use
as our cutting agent, to be able to put our cuts in,
just so that way we'd have some type of rooting hormone.
And it also brings up the point that Anthony was saying,
it's sometimes about doing smaller populations of things.
So that way you actually know the ins and outs
of the plant that you are working with,
that you're going to breed.
What I had brought up earlier in regards to asking
if people were growing all their plants out,
is because I like to see
what other supposed breeders are doing.
And I've been in a few operations
where people are just trying to use
predicative testing only,
and they don't grow their plants out,
even with any of the selecting process.
And then a lot of times they'll go and buy whatever,
female or clone that is available.
And they'll pretty much do the same thing
where they don't even know if the parental
or the receiver was even a good selection
from the very get go.
So, for me, I'm always kind of iffy
whenever I see people that are releasing,
I don't know, 40 plus new different cultivars a year,
just because for me,
I kind of question how much time is getting put into that,
or do they have an army of testers to be able to do that?
And for me, I'm still having this disconnect
where people are able to do some of these things
because I want my genetics to be
obviously as stable and uniform as possible,
but at the same time,
just like Kevin also said earlier,
sometimes you work a line for a couple of years
and you put all that time and effort into it,
and then it ends up petering out
or you make a bad selection through the process somewhere,
and you just run into a roadblock,
then you've just pissed away that much time.
And I don't think that the average grower,
the average consumer even understands
the amount of work that it takes
to be able to put into a line,
especially when you're trying to do everything
with the utmost integrity and candor
with your selection process.
Yeah, I mean, speaking of what you were just saying,
let's talk labor.
Labor's a big issue for me in my breeding programs
because it's like say that I'm trying to get into something
and there's a weed farm that needs to get operated,
so it's not that easy to be like,
all right, let's stop everything
and transplant these 2000 fucking irrelevant plants
so that Dan can have his breeding programs.
And so that's the thing is having the time
to go through large enough plant populations
is fucking really, really hard
unless you're a huge company with a giant labor pool.
And I do the best that I can just trying to balance
everything in life.
And it's kind of like there's overall not going broke
and being homeless.
And then so all the things that you have to do for that.
And then there's like the balance between career, family,
and then the breeding side of it
kind of plays into both of them.
But yeah, I mean, it's a challenge to grow plants
from start to finish
because it's a lot of work to actually do it.
And so a lot of my breeding programs,
what I end up doing just naturally
is that unless they're with like a licensed partner
or it's like a specific place where like,
all right, these are gonna really get great daily care.
The plants are usually neglected
because there's not enough time or resources.
Like I can't hire someone else to do it or all of it,
or I can only put in what I can.
And so what is great,
I learned really quickly what can handle drought resistance,
what's tolerant to drought, what's mold resistance.
Like one of my breeding projects I have this year,
it's like there's hoops, right?
These little hoopties and they get a variety per hoop.
And once they get put in there, they're in there.
They get one top dressing with compost
and they get watered in once.
And then they got a fend for themselves.
So it's kind of like a side project.
It's not like a major seed production thing,
but a lot of the plants die or they just look like shit.
And some of them will just fucking stick a taproot
out of a pot into the ground
and somehow find a way to survive.
And then when you do that with a whole plant population,
some of them will actually thrive.
And you're like, holy shit,
these plants are looking so miserable,
but that one looks like somebody's been like
foliar spraying it with like sea algae extract every day,
even though it's had nothing.
So this is clearly a strong, healthy, easy to grow plant.
And then with the rains too,
it's like then go look in the seed hoop and it's like,
oops, those ones molded.
Okay, cool, here's the standouts from this variety,
the standouts from this variety.
And then open this one hoop to be like, wow,
every single fucking one of these is shining
and it liked all that rain and there's not a speck of mold.
So it make this year,
with that it makes it easier to spot the mold resistance
when you're like, cool, I'll go through these like 40 females
and these ones over here clearly don't make the cut,
but these ones, not only do they make the cut,
these specific ones really shine through.
This can get labeled like serious fucking mold resistance,
like this thing's not gonna mold.
But I think I was just rambling again.
You made a lot of good points though.
And I think that's something that people can,
like some takeaways from it are,
if you're going to do something like cultivating,
exposing things to adverse environments
is how you're going to be able to breed for resistance.
I know Peter asked for topics
and that's one of the topics that I wanted to bring up.
Even given what we're talking about today,
you can go through some of the examples
of how you would breed and that's doing that test grow
that you've done where you've exposed them
to adverse circumstances.
You've seen how much of the pest pressure
for mold and pathogens is impacting certain cultivars
and genotypes versus others.
And from that, you can basically start a breeding program
that's selecting for pathogen resistance.
And basically what you would do
is you would create a binary score
for those that do get it and those that don't get it.
And then after you would input all the data
for the plants that do get PM
or whichever pathogen botrytis, whichever one,
you have the population that is susceptible
and phenotypically exhibits the trait of susceptibility.
Then you have those that don't exhibit it.
In that subpopulation that doesn't,
or in the population that doesn't exhibit it,
or excuse me, that does, you could score them.
You can be like, okay, this group, they're like the fives.
They're just like fully covered in PM.
This group's like, yeah, there's a lot.
This is an intermediary and then not so much.
And then a little, but very little.
And then you could have those
that are totally none whatsoever.
And with that data,
you could then identify the trait inheritance of it.
You could identify susceptibility and non-susceptibility.
And all you'd have to do is collect the data,
make the selections and do the breeding
from generation to generation, compare that data
and track your progress over time.
And so if you were able to take, for instance,
those low susceptibility, but like super fire varieties
that may have some susceptibility,
but you still want to save them
and breed those away from susceptibility,
that would be a positive selection breeding program
where you're essentially trying to track susceptibility
over multiple generations and seeing your gain
from generation to generation in terms of the outcome
and testing that.
And that's like, when people talk about testing,
like that's testing,
like going through that level of rigor
and having that level of a population
and those sorts of pressures
that you're exposing that population to,
to then be able to select against the pest pressure
is really what like stabilizing pathogen resistance
is all about.
And there's a whole bunch of different like
breeding strategies.
Cause like once you were able to find a variety
that just doesn't get it
and doesn't get powdery mildew at all
and can survive those really bad environmental stressors,
you can then identify the genes for resistance in that group
and introgress those back into the rest of the population.
So even though you have a segregating population
where some are susceptible and some aren't,
you can use the non-susceptible germ plasm
to breed back into the susceptible germ plasm
if it happens to be the more desirable,
from a commercial or a chemotypic standpoint.
So here's another thing to consider.
So mold resistance, PM resistance, that's one trait.
What about all the other traits, right?
So what percentage can you find
and does that even exist in certain varieties
that's gonna check all these boxes, right?
Because it doesn't do you any good
having a mold resistant and powder mildew resistant plant
if it doesn't have a lot of terpenes and trichomes,
if it's not visually appealing to people,
if it doesn't smoke good.
And so that's a tricky thing.
Like for instance, today I was walking around
these breeding groups making these little fucking videos
that I keep for reference.
And so I have one variety where I'm like,
wow, these ones, okay, this mold over here,
these are the survivors with mold resistance.
Oh, great, I really like this one.
This was a trait I was looking for in a flavor profile.
So that's fine for that variety.
But I have another variety where there's one specific
phenotype that I'm looking for and I found it.
So I'm like, cool, I've been looking for this
for five years, this is great.
There's a whole bunch of these in here.
I can see there's about three of them
that are consistent like this,
but this is the one that's more like robust
with the resin production.
It's a little more vigorous.
So this is my winner.
However, the top after going through all this moisture
and neglect and all this water is molded a little bit.
And I'm like, okay, well, that's the phenotype that I want.
It doesn't mean that it's prone to mold.
It wasn't like the whole plant molded.
Like it had one speck of mold in the top, which I cut out.
But either way, I'm taking that plant,
I'm trying to revegetate and I'm collecting
all the seeds from it.
And that's what I wanna offer from that line.
So I guess my next step would be to take that,
those seeds and try to find how many I can find
in that next generation,
consistent with the flavor profile
and the beautiful colors and the look and all that.
And then test them the same way and take the,
I guess the most mold resistance.
But just another thing to consider is like,
it's very hard and very challenging to find something
that checks all the boxes.
But that's the fun of it, right?
And that's what fucking,
makes it exciting and entertaining still.
Totally.
And that's something that, I mean,
pest resistance, while it's a complex trait to breed for,
it's actually one of the traits that back-crossing
was really initially developed for.
There's a dude, I think his name is Fred Briggs.
And he did a bunch of papers in the 1930s to the 1950s.
And really he developed the method for taking
pest resistance or pathogen resistance from wild germ stock
or germ plasm or less developed varieties
and breeding that into commercially
already existing varieties.
And that's really where marker assisted back-crossing
is going to be one of the things that makes it
so that becomes a much more viable strategy long-term
and something that people can do.
It will cost a lot of money,
but it will really save a lot of the labor
associated with those types of breeding systems.
But it's still going to depend on doing experimental trials,
growing out the populations,
exposing them to the adverse conditions,
seeing which ones demonstrate the traits, which ones.
And these are usually quantitative traits.
So it's a quantitative trait loci
that controls the actual resistance.
And so you're going to want to be able to identify
the entire range of genes that are controlling the trait
and select for those as a group, essentially.
And so that's something that it can be done.
It really involves pretty straight forward statistics
and doing the breeders equation
where you test each generation
or you evaluate each generation for the phenotype
and do the variance analysis.
And that's something that we can get into
probably at a later date,
but that's really when you collect this phenotype data
and collect pedigree data over multiple generations
for whatever trait you're looking at,
that's really what you're going to be doing.
You're going to do some statistical analysis
and see how much variance is accomplished
from one generation to the next generation.
So if there's an intersex expression in a population
and you want to reduce that,
then you're going to look at the population
that you're working with,
score the population for the trait,
be it positive or negative,
and just a very simple binary.
And then also in terms of a more of a continuous variation
in the phenotypic expression,
you're going to look at the extreme phenotypes
versus less extreme or moderate cases,
and then analyze that for every one of these traits,
every generation for the population.
And if you're trying to select against intersex
or select for pest resistance,
you're either going to do a negative or a positive selection.
And that basically involves weeding out those types,
the off types, the intersex traits,
or selecting positively for those
that have the pest resistance or pathogen resistance.
And ideally when you develop,
like, you know, as the discussion is about,
really what we want to do as breeders
is develop an index of traits that are desirable traits
that can be selected positively for or negatively against,
and have that be the basis on which to, you know,
to breed those sorts of checks all the boxes
type of cultivars.
Now that's not that we can do very easily
in small populations or in a sort of decentralized system,
but technology is making it so that it's easier.
The more we aggregate data, the more we come together
and, you know, build relationships with testers,
have that data then aggregated into our own in-house testing,
use that to then do the variance analysis.
You know, we can build out the data sets.
And another thing that also has been mentioned
or that is worth mentioning
is there's ways of passive data capturing.
There was a paper that was written recently about the,
can public online databases serve as a source
for phenotypic information
for cannabis genetic association studies?
The results basically found that
for cannabinoid inheritance, yes,
for growth traits and yield potentially,
and for more subjective things like taste
and physiological effects, no.
So the fact that there's already been peer reviewed studies
into how to develop online database,
just, you know, capture information
from existing online databases
and use this as a source for phenotypic
and genetic analysis,
that means that we're getting into a phase
of big data capture and metric online,
you know, the different environmental probes
that people have and sensors that people have
in their gardens, the more people move to automation,
capturing that type of data and overlaying that data
is with your phenotypic and genotypic information
in comprehensive pedigree charts
is really gonna move things forward at a rapid rate.
I will probably be too high to do that.
That's what's dope, you're able to do it
without even knowing it.
Is there, I guess for any of the listeners,
is there any books that you guys recommend
for people to learn?
I know that once I started actually buying books
on breeding, I remember buying,
I think it was called the Cannabis Breeders Bible by,
oh my gosh, I wanna say his name is either Mike
or Greg Green, but have you guys read anything
or recommend anything on the breeding front?
Yeah, that's Greg Green's book, it's all right.
Robert Clark's book is Marijuana Botany
is oftentimes cited as one of the go-to sources.
It's a little dated, but it gives a very good introduction
to basic principles of like Mendelian inheritance
and how to breed cannabis and early experiments
that he was doing with breeding.
There are a lot of really good,
more like textbooks of flamp breeding.
I would suggest Robert Allard's Principles of Breeding
of Flamp Breeding is a really good book.
It's kind of like the seminal textbook
that's been used since the 60s.
He really explains things in a comprehensive way
and a straightforward way that most people
who read it really, really enjoy it.
Unfortunately, there aren't any digital copies.
There's some digital copies of books like Walter Fares,
I think it's Principles and Techniques
of Cultivar Development, which is a very comprehensive book
and goes through all sorts of different
scientific breeding methods and really kind of
the statistical analysis that has to be done
to breed for quantitative traits
and essentially all traits that we're selecting for
aside from different sort of like mutant traits
or there's a few traits, auto flowering,
things like this that seem to display
more of a discrete Mendelian inheritance system
but almost everything else from yield
to cannabinoids to terpenes,
all the secondary metabolites seem to correspond
to much more of a complex quantitative,
multi genetic or polygenetic inheritance scheme.
And the way that you select for and breed
for those types of traits is typically
through using advanced statistics
and it's all the variance analysis
from generation to generation and seeing how much gain.
There's a specific equation,
it's called the Breeder's Equation
that essentially looks at the response to selection,
the heritability of a trait
and selection intensity and accuracy
as being the information that essentially
like through the statistical analysis,
you can evaluate your genetic gain
from generation to generation
and that's essentially how they breed
for quantitative traits.
Is there, I guess what is everyone's average plant count
that they are selecting from
whenever they're doing a breeding project?
I know that I'm usually stuck around 50.
It really depends.
You know, it's, go ahead.
Oh, sorry, I was just saying it really depends for me.
It depends on the number of seeds that I have,
the intensity of selection that I wanna do.
If I'm doing a preservation breeding project,
I wanna do as many as I can as possible.
If I'm just fucking around and throwing some pollen,
then a lot of times I'll just see
what different things I have are and how they express,
but that's mostly just for shits and giggles.
That's not really a systematic breeding program.
And typically if I'm gonna do something that's systematic,
it's doing large populations.
I think this, we pop 300 of the TKM10s.
And so I did a large selection from that,
but that's still just for shits and giggles.
It's an outcross population that's being hit
to a bunch of things that I think will make good pairings,
but that doesn't mean that it's a comprehensive
or systematic breeding program
for a particular end goal or result.
It's just seeing the combining ability
between different gene pools I like.
Yeah, I was gonna say, generally,
if I'm doing a round for making seeds or breeding,
the minimum that I'll start is 50.
I like to try to start around 200
if it's like a small personal thing
and I'll whittle it down.
I won't flower them out, not all of them.
And recently I've been able to work
with some partners in California
that have a shitload of production, a lot more than I do,
and a bunch of nursery licenses.
And so now what's really cool is I can basically
take the selections that I've been making
and take the production clones that I've vetted
through multiple years at least,
and I can do reversals on those
and then see the entire plant population grown out
row crop style with pretty intelligent
ag techniques grows really good clean cannabis
and walk through and see a couple thousand.
So what I'll be doing now is my male and female
regular seed projects will be these small little
50 to 200 seeds to continue to preserve my lines
and go through them to select the best.
Just try to refine.
Some of my lines are really great,
but there's still a ton of variation in a lot of them
because the way that I was doing it
was to preserve all the diversity in there.
And so now I'm at a point with some of those lines
where I'm like, okay, that's cool and all,
but now I'd like to make some choices
of what my preferences are and breed those down
towards those preferences rather than preserve parts
of the gene pool that I don't care for as much.
So my regular male and female stuff
is gonna be like 50 to 200 seeds at a time
whenever I can and figuring it out,
on my farm I can make seeds for R and D and nursery,
but it's really small and those have to stay
for my own production versus like home gardens
where I've got a couple of different medical licenses
and X amount of square footage, this and that.
And then different partners for their home gardens
that I can just roll over
and check out different varieties at.
And then different licensed farms
who wanna do R and D with my seeds
and their kind of nursery space.
But so small scale stuff for the male and female,
but this time to refine the lines
and find clone phenotypes that I can really vet
are among the best of the best of that variety
that I've wanted to represent that variety.
Then take those, do reversals on those
and see the whole plant populations
with partners that just have so much weed.
And then what's cool about that is fucking
when you find the standouts out of 2000 plants,
dig them up, cut the branches back, dig them up,
revege them and the next step will be to start making
S2s and seeing what's in the second generation
of stuff that's self feminized
and continue to make hybrids,
both the regular and the non.
And honestly, the feminized hybrids are kind of the shit
because at a certain point with maybe a certain variety,
once you've reversed it into a few things,
you know what it does.
And then that's really, really cool being like,
cool, well, I can take this incredible flavor profile
and like really good mold resistance,
but now I can like add that I already know,
like take this reversal that's already been proven,
it's just gonna do this.
It's tough because there's a fine line between
this search for craft, this, that,
and the other and want really amazing herb.
And then there's also,
the stuff that you hear people talk about within the market
about how consumers are misdirected
to buy the most potent stuff,
and that it's difficult to sell anything to a dispensary
with under 25%, THC.
I mean, for me, I've tend to grow stuff
that's really strong.
So for me, I'm always challenging myself
to grow frostier, more beautiful resinous plants.
And a lot of those varieties happen to be more THC dominant,
you know, like really, really high, a lot of it.
And then there's also unique floral terpenes
from varieties that might only test, you know, 17, 18% THC,
but could, you know, potentially hit over 5% terpenes.
And then another, I know I'm rambling
and I should go soon,
but the last two comments I'd make is
when people do hit 16 and 17% THC on high THC varieties,
my opinion is they're probably harvesting it too early
and not growing it that right.
Because I'll take a variety that tests, you know,
for other people, 16, 17, 18%.
And if I grow it well, I know it's gonna be 19 to 22, 23,
24%, but I really like the challenge of trying to combine
the highest terpenes that I can find
with the highest cannabinoids at the same time.
I know that's not what everybody likes,
but to me, that's a challenge
and something I'm working on.
Living in Jamaica for a little while,
I was able to see breeding done
in multiple small scale operations.
What was neat there was depending on what part
of the island you're on,
you have pretty much different climates.
I worked at a sandals in Ocho Rios,
and Montego Bay, but I also would go to the grill area.
The Ocho Rios side is on the Eastern side of the country,
and it rains there every single day.
It's very much a rainforest type tropic.
And that whole area, everyone bred for resistance to mold,
just because of the water, either being PM or betridus.
And then you would see on the Western side of the island
or the Negril side that people would grow more
for just kill purposes,
just because that's where a lot of the Bob Marley shrines
and stuff like that are.
So it tends to have more of the population base.
So there's more of a demand for cannabis
from the general public in that part.
That's where like the seven mile beach
and stuff like that is.
They grow for a completely different reason
and breed for a different reason
on that part of the island.
So I think that it's really interesting
just how different breeders will grow
based on the environment.
And obviously everyone is growing for different purposes.
So I think that it's neat to see
what other breeders are doing,
because I think that as a breeder
or even as a commercial grower
that is just running a few lines
and kind of get stuck with their head in the sand
because they're only looking at what they're doing
versus looking at what other people are doing.
Because I know that there's a lot of cultivars
that I'm just like, oh, I'm emotionally attached to it.
And then I will smoke something
that is similar genetically to it.
And then I'll be like, oh my gosh,
where have you been all my life?
And then it makes me kind of question what I was doing
at the same time.
So I know that it's really important
to be able to see what other breeders are doing,
but I know that that's definitely a problem that I have.
Do you guys have any similar issues of that?
Or do you guys try to grow out a lot of other people's stuff
either being your home grow or just kind of dicking around?
Yo guys real quick, I got to bounce.
But anyway, Peter, thanks again for inviting me
to speak and I know I get a little bit long winded
sometimes so my apologies if I was talking too long,
but appreciate you guys.
Not at all, man.
It's always good to hear you.
What was the question again, Chase?
Do you guys kind of get in your own world
when it comes to breeding
or do you guys grow out other people's stuff?
And then if you are,
is that mostly like your home or your head stash type stuff,
not necessarily commercial
or something you would be doing from a business standpoint?
Yeah, I mean, I've always grown the smoker
first and foremost.
And so that's been my primary motivation.
And I like seeing what other breeders are doing
and what other seed makers are doing.
And I know that it's, we live in a really unique time.
Like the accessibility of incredibly dank herb is really,
and I mean that in terms of like genetics.
Like I grew out, we popped 300 of the TKM seeds
that came from Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannah Humboldt
when they were with coastal seeds.
It's the second time I've grown that out.
There's a range of some really
incredibly heavy Afghan leaners.
I started out smoking one of those
while we initially turned on the,
when we hopped on here and yeah,
it just is some heavy potent GANY.
And a very classic M10 was the Afghan one
that Super Sativa Seed Club released.
That was genetics that Skunkman Sam or David Watson
had brought over to Amsterdam with him
that had been bred initially by Mel Frank
and David Watson had gotten them and taken them with him
when he went to Amsterdam.
And there, it's some really impressive stuff.
Obviously a triangle cush has a big influence
on a lot of the other variety or phenos in there.
They're all across the board, very, very nice.
Nice cross then I grew out a bunch of the Masonics.
I see him, Edgar's in here down in the,
whatever this is called, the rest of the room.
And I grew out about 30 packs.
We ended up having about 30 plants
that we grew to completion
and smoked some Code Red just now that's super here.
Lots of turps on there, very clear that those are,
you know, I'm pretty sure that we're gonna have
some washers in there.
It's just very, very resinous, very turpy plants.
Grew out a few Bodies, the Hell's Angels OG 88 hash plant.
I think it was called Angelica, the Hollyweed.
And then a bunch of my own 88 hash plant crosses.
And I gotta say that like growing out about 300 plants
from seeds this year was a real joy
just to see a whole bunch of different people's varieties
and to, you know, yeah, I encourage everyone
to pop as many seeds as you can
and to grow out as many varieties
and to share as many seeds as you can
because there's definitely a lot of things out there
that, you know, I shied away from the hype for years.
I preferred gas.
I liked my OGs and I liked my chems,
but the more I've branched out
and checked out some of this hype stuff.
Oh, also CSI Humboldt's Skittle ones on,
get those, grow those, shit's fucking fire.
It is on point Skittles.
So yeah, shout out to everybody
who's herb I grew this year
or really shout out to Landhammer Farms, my homie.
He really, he grew it all.
He's the G and it's fire.
Hello, was I invited in here?
I actually threw you an invite up
cause Trevor mentioned that he was running
some of your seeds and I thought you might wanna jump in.
There's a breeder round table, man.
I'm just fucking around.
Yeah, Trev did grow a bunch of my gear.
Trev is a good friend of mine
and I just love popping seeds and crossing it to my Wilson
and spreading the love that's kinda how I get down.
So he's growing the Code Red.
That is not a Wilson Mel that hit it.
That's actually GMO I-95 Stardog Wilson F2
times Malawi Panama Red F2.
That Malawi Panama Red F2 seed stock
was gifted to me by intentional misuse.
I grew that out with a preservation,
whatever I described as preservation.
So my point, I didn't F2 it or F3 it,
but I did a hybridize it.
So I used the male and the female pieces of the plant.
So I did a Malawi Panama Red Wilson
and I also did a GMO I-95 Stardog Wilson F2
that I was growing at the time
and I found a Malawi Panama Red male.
So I moved those to a separate location
and did a hybridization amongst those.
And that's what Code Red is.
That's what he's smoking right now.
But it does have Wilson in it,
but it's GMO I-95 Stardog Wilson F1
times GMO I-95 Stardog Wilson F1
that actually my buddy, House of Wax in Arizona
did some seed stock of and he shot back my way
and I grew those F2s out.
And that's actually known as everlasting fire,
but I just like to grow tons of weed
and smoke it even more so,
but that's kind of how I get down.
I don't really take myself,
I'm not the guy you go ask for a breeder equation,
but I am the guy you kind of go ask about taste
and just growing tons of people's gear because I do.
And I'm in the freaking trenches growing everybody's pot.
Thanks for coming up brother.
I appreciate that you come up here.
Oh, I'm not a breeder for a round table
and then talk like that.
You kidding me?
I don't take myself too serious.
I just, I'm here to listen more than anything.
You guys are really well-spoken.
I'm a little intimidated coming on here, but here I go.
Well, I appreciate what you do, man.
And the Wilson it's,
I hit it or I've grown it to like,
what 20, 30 different crosses that you made.
And it definitely has some traits that it passes on.
It's got a banana turf that comes through
in a number of different crosses.
And there's intense amounts of fucking frost
on these plants.
You know, the end point of a lot of this
will probably be for concentrate production
and for fresh frozen.
And it, I can see where the Wilson is adding
into a whole host of different things
that it's being crossed to,
traits that are desirable for that end market.
And that's something that, you know,
it's an example of very intense pedigree selection.
You have a male, you've hit it to all sorts of things,
and you can see the combining ability of that male with,
you know, at this point,
I have no idea how many crosses you've made with that male,
but the fact that you've kept that male
and hit it to so many things
and see what it's combining,
what comes out in the crosses
and that it actually adds value in a lot of those crosses
is something that, you know,
even if you're not necessarily the most,
you know, you may not know the breeders equation
or the science, but you're doing the selection
that's working.
And that's something that I think we all need to like,
you know, combine those different elements
and also like look at it and try and understand
breeders are coming from and how they're working
in ways that there's something that's working there.
Sometimes there may not be, but like with the Wilson,
I think there's definitely proof in the pudding there
with what I'm seeing.
So Masonic, you pretty much,
what my understanding is, is that you just keep a,
just one breeder male and then you just source,
or you growing out people are using like dark heart
and just getting, you know, nursery genetics
to be able to make with your Wilson or what's your process?
And heads up Edgar, I don't know if you know,
but you might need to take your mute button.
Okay, here we go.
A bit shattery in the back there.
My apologies for that.
I just turned it off because there was a little bit of.
Yeah, I was over here messing with some weed.
As far as cuts go, I'm pretty transparent
of where I source any cuts from.
Like if I got a Gary Payton bag seed, it is from a bag seed.
Or if it's from the skunk tech auction that they had,
that's where it's from.
That's what it's labeled as.
If I got an Indiana bubble gum from somebody on Instagram,
that's what it's labeled as.
I have a lot of friends in the industry
and sometimes I'll get some stuff firsthand.
I'll win some auctions from some places
where people are dick swinging
and selling the F1 last of one of one exclusive.
You could throw all the freaking cream on it
type of seed stock and I'll end up winning some of that.
And people will be like, yeah, he won that.
Dark Heart, all those places that you mentioned.
If I get a Chile Verde, so on and so forth,
it'll be labeled as that.
I pop tons of seed stock.
So that's that.
I got my keeper cuts that float around
and I got back crosses that I hit to those.
So on and so forth.
So as far as what I hit to the Wilson,
it could be from a nursery.
It could be straight from the dude himself.
It could be from some dude on Instagram.
So people will have to kind of do their legwork
or like it's as is, it's sold as is.
So I don't necessarily go grab nilly willy
anything from anybody.
I try to keep it like, show me some proof
or somebody that I know, so on and so forth.
Sure, that's interesting.
And just because the fact that you're able
to work so many other lines,
I know that I was just talking about the fact
that it's like, I kind of almost sometimes
have my head in the sand because I'm only working
the stuff that I'm messing with
and that I put into production.
And it doesn't give me a chance to be able
to see other stuff except for what I see on Instagram
and then whatever I'm given gifts
whenever I'm in other people's operations
and they wanna give me whatever flower it is
that is the flavor of the week at that time
from that particular operation.
Yeah, I'm also like, I do travel around.
I do go to Emerald Cup.
I do live in Southern California
and we have tons of clone dudes around here
and just dudes selling hike cuts
and Northern California isn't too far from us.
And I'm just friends with a lot of people,
quote unquote friends and people give me stuff.
I have resources to allocate some of these cuts.
It's my passion.
I love, I eat, breathe, sleep freaking,
I'm freaking messing with some Gary Payton
that I grew right now.
It's what I do.
And this Gary Payton was actually sourced
from a buddy of mine named George
and he worked for a couple of indoor facilities
out here in LA and I grew it out
and I've grown Gary Payton.
I've smoked Gary Payton straight from Powers himself.
He went to one of my pop-ups in San Francisco
and blessed everybody in the line with weed,
super down to him.
As far as cookies is concerned,
he really put a good name for them right there.
I think Trev was there.
I believe he parlayed with Powers for a bit.
And yep, this is Gary Payton.
And as far as the turf is concerned,
it's not Gary Payton from Powers.
It's not Gary Payton from Cookies Maywood,
but this is Gary Payton as far as the turf
and the flower is concerned.
But it's Gary Payton from George.
If I go sell it to somebody, they're like,
hey, where'd you get this Gary Payton from?
This is Gary Payton I got from the homie George.
I grew it out, I flowered it.
Shit, I flowered out to smoke, no seeds in it.
So it's pretty Gary Payton-ish.
And I also had Gary Payton from Smoked Out Skunk.
He's pretty credible in the scene.
He's the guy who does all the work
with the Freeborn Selections,
releasing the GMO root beer, so on and so forth.
And I also have a Gary Payton that I found in a bag seed
that I call Gary Payton Bag Seed.
And I have Gary Payton Bag Seed Wilson,
and I have Gary Payton Wilson Bat Cross.
I'm just over here all Gary Paytoned out.
Yep, that's kinda how I like to get down.
I just pop seeds and grow clones.
Outside, all in my backyard, very hobbyist.
Nothing too crazy.
Yeah, that's where I started growing in the backyard.
And I think that it's one of those things where
you do it, just go out, breed, make crosses,
do have passion about it and go hard.
And that's something, Chase, you've mentioned
the need for testing and the need for a bunch
of other things like on an agronomic level,
when we are talking about doing scientific breeding,
absolutely, you need multi-environment trials.
You need to do multiple generations of inbreeding.
You need to be able to do test crosses, et cetera.
And you have to have a bunch of data to back up your claims.
And there are people like Oregon CBD
who are doing that type of work.
And they can show not only that they're doing
that kind of work, which is essentially
just traditional plant breeding,
but they're even doing totally new things
in terms of polyploid breeding with cannabis.
And that's going to operate at an agronomic level
that's gonna operate in acres upon acres upon acres
of hemp grown all across the country.
And when we're operating on that level,
like, yeah, I totally understand the necessity
for everybody to be very rigorous in their methods.
When we're hobbyists who are breeding cannabis,
who are sharing cannabis in a cannabis community
that has largely been shut out from academic institutions
and lacks access to just traditional
university systems and the plant itself
isn't incorporated into these systems.
Like it's very difficult.
You have to like actively seek out this information
to take plant breeding information, generally speaking,
and then translate that into the specific reproductive system
that cannabis has because cannabis isn't corn.
Cannabis isn't a lake.
A lot of the grains that are grown
where the vast majority of breeding information
has been compiled over the last century.
It's an obligate outcrossing species.
Its population structure hasn't been very well elucidated.
And we don't know all of the implications
of different breeding methods
or what are the ideal breeding methods
for the plant necessarily.
We've seen some very small samples of scientific breeding.
You can read the Robert Clark paper that talks about,
really kind of shows a systematics approach to breeding
for the skunk one that supposedly was the way
that skunk one was bred by David Watson
and Robert Clark decades ago.
You can read the Crawford Brothers paper
about triploid cannabis that talks
about their breeding method.
But like by and large,
the actual ideal breeding mechanisms
haven't even been fully elucidated in cannabis
and we're just now scratching the surface.
So it's one of those things where I encourage everyone
to just participate in the process
of making cannabis crosses, testing your cannabis crosses
and the more rigorous the data, the better.
Thank you for you guys for calling me up.
I raised my hand just to back up what Trevor says.
I work for a university system
and I work for Nevada, excuse me,
Nevada system of higher education.
So I oversee UNLV, UNR and it's, it can't,
I can't second what he says more than anything I've heard
today in any clubhouse.
I, even at the right hand of many politicians
that I work with closely, senators, county commissioners,
city councilmen who have been using me to bring cannabis
into the Las Vegas region, into community gardens,
do education, I've been teaching classes
on the university level for over five years here.
And even with a department in the system
that even the local government thinks
we have a hemp pilot program,
just even getting funding for testing
for my variety trials, I can't even print a business card
for myself right now because the university system,
because we're federally and state run and employed,
you know, or it's a state system and federal system.
Our funding goes through both.
It's been insane.
I can't print my business cards
because my printing department isn't federally approved
to do anything in the cannabis space.
So I can't even use funds from our printing division.
So things like that, that are just still hurdles
that we're jumping over
because the infrastructure hasn't been set up.
And as long as we are scheduled still,
which even through, and I play in a lot
of different legislation circles,
but I even challenged the department of motor vehicles
in Nevada a couple of years ago here with a senator
by my side in the university backing me up
because we were trying to get a custom license plate
that said hemp.
And even so, even though we're past the farm bill,
even though we're past all this, you know,
we think we're past all this stigma,
I'm still fighting with the department of licensing
where they say, well, THC is still a compound in hemp.
I don't care what the farm bill says.
THC is a derivative of hemp.
So therefore you do have a derivative
that can be considered a drug.
So therefore we're still gonna consider
the word hemp a drug.
And that's, I mean, that's coming down from federal
and state across the board.
It's not just Nevada that I deal with this.
And Trevor, you nailed it on the head there.
I've been doing variety trials out of our own pocket.
I paid for my own lab tests last year
because I didn't have a budget for it.
I paid farm cash myself because I had to test my hemp
to know more than just what the department of agriculture
was gonna give me.
So it's really a humanitarian effort on this part.
And even with the system, it's not in our favor yet.
The university system is definitely one of the last places
that's willing to turn for this.
I keep my position because I'm afraid of somebody else
coming in and taking big money from Monsanto
and the other chemical people in a horticulture department
and pushing data out that is pro
towards the money that's coming in.
But I hate to say it,
that is very much how the system works.
So I can only imagine that other departments,
other universities across the United States
are definitely funded with some alternative gains
and ulterior motives than keeping the plant
at the forefront.
So yeah, just keep doing what you guys are doing.
I love it.
The passion in this room is great.
Thank you so much, you guys.
This is Marisha.
Cool, thank you.
Yeah, the institutions has been really tricky
over the last five or six years.
That's kind of when I first started trying to go to UC Davis
and do breeding seminars and stuff.
And it's traditional plant breeders are very interested
in talking to cannabis breeders.
And they liked the idea of cannabis breeders
being interested in traditional plant breeding.
But the moment any talk of like,
going to the programs and doing work
that could somehow further your own breeding goals comes up,
it becomes very clear that they have to steer away
from that because of funding issues.
Are any of you working with any land race varieties?
And if you are, what would be the first,
once you pop those seeds
and you start the selection process,
what are going to be the things that you would look for
in the, I guess, in the direction of being able to make
something commercially viable that just doesn't have
the aesthetics of a land race cultivar?
I am currently growing every single cross
that inoculate the West drop.
And it's like, Rustan, Kush, Kushkak,
all these names that I can't remember at the time.
But I'm just crossing them to Wilson and seeing what happens.
So as far as like, what would happen,
it's hypothetical all at the end of the day.
So I just do the work, see what happens.
So I have a variety of land races.
I just got some Congolese from Freeborn Selections
that I wanted a big dick swinging auction as well.
Cost me $2,000.
I will be Wilsonizing them and F2ing them maybe,
not for whatever reason you think,
just because that's what I do with stuff
that I spent a bunch of money on.
And it's kind of like, you know,
keeping it around for myself and, you know,
so on and so forth.
But yes, I am growing a variety of land races
and I'm crossing them to Wilson and whatever's dope,
I'll just put in my notes as I'm harvesting.
This one is gangster.
It's doper than the other ones.
And, you know, very remedial note-takeage,
but coming from like a stoner standpoint,
like I'm not, I know what I'm looking for.
I know what I'm doing,
but that's kind of like where breeding comes.
Like when a farmer on the hills, you know,
fucking his chickens around,
he's like not a scientist for the most part.
He's just like that chicken is good at fucking roosting.
So we use her and that's kind of my fucking analogy.
I'm sorry, that's my analogy when it comes to breeding.
I think there's people like that.
So that's kind of how I get down.
I just choose the best looking one.
I use my eyes, I use my nose and shit,
we smoke it sometimes.
And that's kind of how I get down
with my breeding seed making.
Is that on the Nick's Riseden's a little auction thing?
I think that I was on Instagram live when you won that.
Yes.
Yeah, increasing those would be a good thing to do.
And that's one thing about land-raised varieties
is that it's typically the genetic diversity
that you're really looking for
in terms of the breeding value.
Turning it into a commercially viable
product, really the best way to do that
would probably be to inbreed it over several generations
and then hybridize it with something else that's similar.
So you would take, for instance,
a Congolese variety and an Acapulco gold.
Like I've got the Congolese from the Real Seed Company
and I've got the Acapulco gold from Bodie.
If I were to grow out those populations,
inbreed them for multiple generations
so that they're relatively homozygous
within the actual particular lines that I'm selecting
and then cross those with each other,
I would create a hybrid and then hybridize
and in that hybrid, I would potentially produce
some agronomically valuable traits
or commercially viable, narrow leaf or long season,
quote unquote sativa.
That's what, if you go back and look at what
Marijuana Botany and what Robert Clark did,
he really kind of describes that process
of breeding sort of land-raised varieties
and creating those hybrids and the outcomes
from those types of crosses.
Now, would that be commercially viable in today's market?
Certainly amongst a certain segment.
I suck at pronouncing their names,
but there's the group out of Washington
that does a lot of land-raised varieties
and they do a job of marketing
and presenting a particular aesthetic
combined with their sort of heirloom land-raised varieties.
And that's a model that could be pursued.
It's a very niche model and that's very specific,
but with those, the primary value of those genetic resources
is not so much in their hybridization
or in their mixing in the gene pool.
Now, haphazardly, it's more their preservation long-term
because a lot of those gene pools,
like we discussed last week,
have been, they've had foreign genes introduced into them.
And as a result, the integration of these new modern hybrids
into these traditional places of origin
has made it so that it's harder to access
or locate some of these more traditional varieties.
And the more that we lose those traditional varieties,
the less genetic diversity we have.
So ideally we keep those, you know,
open pollinate as many as you can to create the F2,
do some hybridization and keep those gene pools
under some form of open pollination,
random reproduction that happens cyclically
or in cold storage.
And like, you know, that's all of mine are in cold storage.
I keep having the idea that I'm gonna pull them out
and do something and want to do something.
But then, you know, the realities of trying to cultivate
multiple different land-race varieties
and preserve and increase those populations
is logistically just very tricky.
And so that's the thing that's kind of held me up
from working those populations.
But it's something that, you know,
there's gonna be unique genetics and traits
that you can pull out of those populations.
And that's one of the reasons why they're uniquely valuable.
They're adapted to much more pest pressure
and pathogen pressure.
And so you're gonna have a bit more resistance,
greater probability of finding resistance genes.
You're also gonna have a greater probability
of finding different cannabinoid profiles and terpenes
just because they haven't been put
into the breeding programs.
And kind of like when Kev earlier was talking about
how everything's kind of muddled together,
a lot of that has to do with the fact that
if you look at the terpene profiles
of the vast majority of varieties
and the cannabinoid profiles, they're pretty similar.
There's about four or five major terpenes
that are predominant in most crosses.
And, you know, THC comprises, you know,
upwards of 20 to 30% of most varieties
that are on the commercial market these days.
So when you take these less worked varieties
that have more divergent or just a single terpene expression
or different cannabinoid profiles
because they've been maintained in an open pollination
sort of genetic population that you'll see in land races
or particularly in hash production in Afghanistan
where it's just kind of bulk selection going on,
those population dynamics maintain diversity.
And that diversity is something that's gonna,
that is a good genetic resource.
So I also have a Acapulco Gold from 1976
that I got sourced through the modern epigenetics camp
in the worst way, but I have kept it close.
I'm not sure if that Panama Red classifies as a land race,
but I got some of those from Trev
and I've been growing that variety
for close to feels like three years now,
probably two years.
I love to put cream on my taco, but yeah,
I like to grow anything and everything, honestly.
I'm like hitting everything, like the hype,
the legacy strains, all the new packs that are dropping.
And as far as land races are concerned,
like I'm gonna use every piece of it.
I'll, you know, do an F2 open population.
I'll hybridize it to Wilson.
I'll keep cuts around, I'll keep the mail around.
That's kind of how I like to get down
with some of these packs that are, you know,
kind of lost and forgotten.
As we sit here and talk about this,
it makes me wanna kick myself in the ass
for not learning how to speak multiple other languages.
So that way I can go into some of these areas
and do a lot of these cultivar hunts,
myself versus having to develop relationships with people
and just use that as the excuse to go on vacation.
Yeah, there are a number of good seed providers out there
that have done a lot of the work.
You know, I grew up,
I really grew up reading Marijuana Botany
and it's funny when Tony and Dan
were talking about cloning and stuff.
Like I grew up in a time when it was like,
you have to make your own seeds.
And I was given Marijuana Botany
and told to figure out how to make my own seeds.
And in it I'm reading about like, okay, you need a P1.
Well, and the P1s that they're working with
are land race varieties.
And so I thought that I had to have a land race variety
and start from there.
And 20 years ago, yeah, there were things
that were really heirloom varieties
that people would be like, oh yeah, this is an Afghan.
But it wasn't like, you know, what we have today
where there are multiple seed collectors
that are going out there
and collecting directly from the source.
There's a number of different accounts on Instagram
where you can really see, you know, the harvest,
the process of collecting the hash,
the different varieties that they have growing out there
in the fields.
And that's something that, you know,
through the internet and through
these sort of collective efforts for going out
and collecting and preserving
and distributing these sorts of genetics,
things have come just an incredibly long way.
And I think that now you don't necessarily have to be able
to speak the language and go to the place
while ideally, you know,
everybody should learn multiple languages
and travel the world
and going and developing relationships with people
and other places, particularly cannabis cultures
around the world is like ideal.
But in the absence of that,
modern technology has connected us
and there's definitely ways of getting,
you know, not everything,
but there's definitely things out there
that have been impressive to me
in terms of how accessible different
Central Asian land races varieties are
and different equatorial quote unquote,
sativas or narrow leaf drug varieties as well.
So I can shy away from what's on the market.
I don't know if that's just me coming, you know,
from black market roots that you always want to,
you know, be the person that inspects the product
at the same time, just cause you know,
I guess on the playing devil's advocate that,
you know, at the same time,
even though we have access to great resources,
you know, what happens when a seed bank normally uses
three people to produce their seeds
and then, you know, the one of the three
is out of those seeds.
So then they have to say, hey, you know,
breeder one, where can I get some more
of these seeds from?
And then they go to some other random person
that, you know, doesn't have those particular seeds,
but then it's like, hey, well, you know,
I really need to make some money.
So I'm just gonna just throw out some random things
that's somewhat potentially similar to that
and call it good.
And that's where, you know,
I'm personally kind of scared with that.
And it's the reason why, when it comes to, you know,
obtaining genetics that I always want to be able
to see the operation, you know, see the plant growing,
if I'm going to take and work something,
just because that's what I would try to offer,
you know, whenever I'm giving my genetics to somebody.
Yeah, authenticity and verification is always an issue.
I think it's one of those things
where there are reputable seed breeders
and seed collectors out there that you can go to.
I think, you know, it's one of those things
where my expectations when I get land-raised varieties
is not that I'm going to get, you know,
a true to type particular specimen,
but instead that I'm going to get
relatively variable path that should be true
to some like range of types.
So for instance, I grew out Bodie's Malawi Gold,
and it very much reminded me of the African seeds varieties
that I had grown probably a decade earlier
when I had tried the Transkei Green.
And they were very true to form,
long season narrow leaf drug varieties
that pretty much went from full term
until like they probably could have gone longer
than mid December when I finally took both of them down.
The product was not necessarily
what I would call viable commercial material,
but for somebody who wants to try something unique
and exotic, so to speak, it definitely was unique.
And there was certainly psychoactivity,
but you know, the amount of time that it took to grow it,
the just really incredibly difficult nature
of trimming it and processing it,
and the less desirable nature of some of the smoke
and some of the phenos made it so that like, yeah,
it's not a very commercially viable thing,
but I was stoked because that's exactly
what I expected to get out of it.
And so I preserved the population as best as I could.
But that said, I could, you know,
you have to have properly calibrated expectations
if you're going to be getting land race varieties
and seek out the most reputable sources that you can.
I suck at pronouncing people's different IG names,
but there are a number,
the Indian Land Race Exchange is a group.
Real Seed Company is another group
that collects land race varieties.
They've talked about their difficulty
with maintaining connections with different sources,
particularly with what's happened politically
in Afghanistan in the last six months or last year.
And so it's a reality,
but I think that the more reputable collectors
and distributors of seeds are very open and transparent
about what happens to their relationships
with their sources.
Yeah, I'm wanting to say that like one of the last packs
of seeds that I have ran of someone else's
is a company that, oh my gosh, I can't remember.
It's like Sagamartha or something like that.
S-A-G-A-R-M-A-T-R-A, maybe something like that.
But it just goes to show that I think that for me,
again, the rabbit hole that I kind of put myself into
with some of these breeding projects that I work on,
because I put so much time into stuff,
that just finding a way to be able to simplify the process
or to be able to not necessarily cut corners,
but to speed the process up would be just a godsend
just because of the way that I particularly breed.
Everything is so slow.
And just trying to figure out a modest point
or a point where you can kind of integrate both of them.
That's where I almost think that as a breeder,
it's important as you're growing those plants out
to be able to do something with that final plant.
And for me, I think that I'd like to almost see
a vertically integrated cannabis business
that actually had a robust breeding program
kind of built into it.
So that way they had all the tools that you need
to be a successful breeder in today's market
all at your disposal.
Yeah, I think that the big problem there
is that essentially what that company would be providing
is a set of services that is going to facilitate
your development of intellectual property.
And there've been some history there
and some baggage with regard to different companies
and their IP strategies.
There are companies that have developed that in-house.
Ryan Chimera has been up here.
He's talked about NAPRO and the work of Mark Lewis
and the team over there.
They've done a lot of that in-house
and have developed those sorts of technologies internally.
He's under NDA, so he can't really talk about
too much of it publicly
because this is all proprietary information
that they've developed.
But they have published a number of papers
and you can read what they've done
and how they've developed some of their systems
and programs.
But I also just wanna remind and encourage people
that while yes, you can pursue that method,
that's a very large capital outlay
when really all you need is,
you're not gonna be able to get around the fact
that you're gonna have to grow out
a lot of fucking pot plants
and you're gonna have to evaluate them no matter what.
And you can use marker-assisted programs,
you can use different lab analysis
to try and speed up the process.
And all of those tools are going to be informative
and helpful, but you can also just use
very traditional means of looking at your populations,
analyzing your traits, having specific traits
that you're breeding for.
So we talked about powdery mildew
or pest resistance.
There's other traits like,
if you wanted to breed for purple,
you would do the same thing.
You would create the binary score for the population
of the plus purple, the not purple,
and then you would want to score that trait expression
based on intensity or relative degree.
So you'd have like a one to a five scoring
based on the least purple to the most purple.
You'd wanna have environmental data that shows
particularly as it relates to temperature.
So you'd wanna show onset of purpling,
progression of purple expression,
and you'd wanna overlay that information
with diurnal temperatures so that you could demonstrate
that the onset of purple wasn't simply
just an environmental anomaly.
And if you track those generations
and do particularly some experimental test crosses
just to see the genetic architecture of your population,
you're gonna be able to reveal the genetic component
of the trait.
You're gonna be able to reveal the genetic variance,
its heritability, the response to selection
from one generation to a next.
And that's how breeding,
like traditional plant breeding systems
sped up the selection process.
And that's how, like there's a really good graphic
from, it basically shows the genetic gain
that was experienced in maize breeding.
So from like 1866 to like 1930,
there was basically no genetic gain for yield.
And then from 1930, 40, roughly to about 1960,
there was a considerable amount of genetic gain for yield.
Then from 1960 to like the 1980s,
it's just fucking off the charts.
And you can see this curve in the graph
that really demonstrates how selection
and a particular breeding program,
this specifically would be hybrid heterosis breeding,
produced genetic gains that were very clearly measurable.
And that's, you can do that for any trait,
no matter what it is.
It's just a matter of tracking that trait,
scoring that trait for either positive or negative,
its presence or absence in the population
and the particular phenos,
and then doing a relative degree
and just doing that level of data analysis
for whatever trait it is.
And obviously the more traits that you're gonna do,
the more data you're gonna have to analyze,
but the better picture you're gonna have
about the impact that your selection is having
or the heritability of the particular trait
that you're analyzing.
And that's just breeding.
That's, there's no real magic code to it
other than doing that process for multiple generations
over and over again.
And that's how they do it.
Have any of you guys bred anything completely
as a mislabel or a mistake
that ended up being something
that you were either really surprised with the outcome
or just really impressed with it?
I've had a general, like I had a plant labeled,
I had a plant given to me by my buddy Jay
and I just assumed it was gelato
because that was the hype at the moment.
And I'm like, this is whatever, this is probably gelato.
So I grow it out, cross it to Wilson,
people started growing it out
and it's just, it's an outlier
amongst all the other strains that I made.
But yeah, that happens a lot
with not necessarily a random strain,
but like strains that I'll throw on the back burner,
like strains like,
I'll throw on the back burner and I'll be like,
ah, that's probably not gonna be like, cool,
that probably won't perform.
But it's happened too many times already
where I just, I do share, sell,
whatever you wanna call it, tons and tons of seeds.
So I get lots and lots of feedback.
And a lot of the strains that necessarily were something
I just kind of whipped together from like, odd job,
even growing strains from random breeders
or strains that are gifted to me as like,
M3, I'll grow them out or like dudes
that I necessarily don't really like their character,
I'll grow their beans still.
And dude, like the plant does not care who you are.
And it just, a lot of the times, yeah,
random shit does perform a lot of the times
and the plant's funny like that.
So my answer to that is yes, that happens too many times.
Yeah, I mean, I like to remind people
that pretty much everybody's favorite strain
is probably a bag seed or at least comes from a bag seed.
So, be it the chems, the OGs, the cookies,
like every one of them is so prone to throwing herbs
or to having phantom, different variations of them emerge
that it's, at this point,
randomness is, we have a very, very hybridized population
and we've created a lot of variation within this population.
And so a lot of randomness pops out.
And so I just, I feel like it's one of those things
where there's the scientific method for plant breeding
and then there's also just selecting
ideal phenotypes and characteristics
and popping as many seeds and seeing what comes out
and getting clones, like Dan said,
if you have to pull that thing out,
put it under some lights, revege it,
do whatever you have to do,
but grow a lot of varieties out.
And our ability to keep things around
and our ability to keep things around
and do asexual propagation with this plant
makes it so that it's worth it to investigate
and not, you know, don't just scoff at something
or devalue it because it's random
or it's, you know, plenty of volunteers
show up in the garden.
And a lot of times those volunteers are fire
and you may not know what the genetic background is,
but we don't know the genetic background
of the vast majority of varieties
that are being sold on the market today
and they're still fire.
And they were kept and selected
despite being a essentially a genetic black box
in a lot of instances.
Yeah, it's funny you mentioned volunteer
because today I was in the rain harvesting some plants
because I'm a mad man.
And I go in my dog cage,
it's one of the places that I grow in.
And in my front yard, there's plants that sprout
because I'm always using my easy seed,
shucking, you know, the spent material
into the rose bed in the front yard.
And, you know, during spring plants start to pop up
and I'm an addict.
So I let some flower out, I take cuts of all the females
and I kept them around.
I have them still in my library and I flowered them out.
And all these volunteers, like, you know,
I grow a lot of gear, you know, it is what it is.
And safe to say these volunteers,
I mean, they're Wilson hybrids of other people's dope gear
across to that for the most part.
And dude, like I got a side gate is what it was labeled as.
And dude, I'm like smelling this volunteer plant
and I'm just like dope.
And these plants weren't grown in the most ideal condition.
So safe to say they're strong, you know,
that's just my bro science behind that.
And I just grow tons of shit, keep it around, you know,
keep it around, share it and just keep the ball rolling
and let the people choose for the most part.
I kind of have a good vision for good pot.
So as far as my demographic is concerned
and that's just kind of how I get down.
Speaking of volunteers, you know, it's funny you say that.
Today I did go and check out some volunteers
that were shucked in the front yard
that I cloned and flowered out and kept.
Yeah, no, I've had a number of volunteers over the years.
I've never really, I've always been bad
about keeping clones around,
but it's one of those things that I think that
people overvalue the pedigree information
to a certain extent considering how limited
that pedigree information is currently
in terms of overall value.
If we had very robust, very solid pedigree information
that included lineage, that included phenotype data
that was referencing overall populations,
then it would be of value.
But currently the way that cannabis is right now,
it's mostly stories and provenance connected
to different varieties that are of unknown lineage.
And they've been passed around and selected
because they're of known quantity and characteristic
and have valuable attributes.
Be they the chems, the various cookies varieties,
the OGs, the Skittles, the different hype varieties
that have come around, all of them have a niche
in the market and their phenotypic traits
are well understood and well characterized,
but the actual lineage and pedigree data is largely unknown.
So clearly the market and the overall community
has determined that we can focus primarily
on phenotypic expressions,
those phenotypic expressions that produce unique
and otherwise optimal commercial
or agronomic characteristics get put into the system,
particularly in California now
with the way the commercial nurseries are operating.
Once a variety gets into the system,
it gets distributed between all the different nurseries.
And it's almost like you can get fatso
from every different nursery.
You can get watermelon Skittles from,
you know, et cetera, et cetera.
And there's about 30 or maybe 30 cultivars
that are being distributed in the California rec scene
just like ubiquitously at this point.
And so all you need to do to a certain extent
is make good selections.
It's very good to do breeding.
It's great to collect information.
It's great to do tests, you know,
multi-environmental trials where you're actually seeing
how the expression of traits operate in a population
over multiple different places.
But by and large,
that's just not how cannabis is operating these days.
And it's primarily operating off of people
selecting varieties with very little phenotypic
or pedigree data that's initially been compiled.
So that's something, you know, Chase,
I think if you're able to select a variety
or if you have varieties that are of unknown lineage,
I wouldn't shy away from them just for that reason alone.
And that doesn't mean go buy copycat seeds
or anything like that, you know,
kind of still have some intuition
when you're picking up beans, you know,
that's just my two cents.
Great point, very much.
Like if you have something,
I'm more talking about something you've produced
that you may not know the exact lineage of,
or if you've got bag seed that was particularly fire,
don't hesitate to grow that out
because while you may not know the lineage of that,
you were able to experience and try it
and you were like, okay, that was fire.
Let's see what the offspring will be.
It was more of the problem that I have with,
because again, you know,
I always would grow stuff out of the need for seed.
So from that standpoint that I would just, you know,
take a bag and I would write, you know,
with a Sharpie, the year and the cultivar name.
And then, you know, that would go into like a,
a vacuum sealed container with silica.
And then, you know, over time from just either,
I don't know me handling it too many times
or adding stuff to it, but you know,
eventually the Sharpie starts to wear off
and then you are kind of left with that bag of seeds
that you have no earthly idea what it is,
which obviously I know that it's not anything
that would be not worth saving,
but at the same time, you know,
I hate having to grow something out
just for the sake of it being mislabeled or not tagged right.
But I think that's just a problem
that we've all had to endure at one time or another.
I've gotten better at my labeling,
but I know that for me, just tagging of plants,
you know, is something that I had to really grow into.
And then obviously with metric, you know,
it makes it easier to do that process.
But I know for the average home grower
that it's difficult to, you know,
keep those plant tags from not either being rubbed off
because of the elements or just mislabeling as a whole.
Yeah, at this point, if there's something mislabeled,
I'd rather just not put it out to the masses
because of confusion.
And even though you tell them it's a mystery cross,
they still will ask you what it is.
So with the mass amount of crosses that I do
is just save me some time by not releasing it
because, you know, every time anybody grows it,
they will come back and ask like, yo, take a guess still.
So for the most part, it's really hard to interpret
through pictures unless they're growing
like a freak show variety or a, you know,
Australian bastard cannabis variety
where you can just tell off top from the leaf morphology
that that's the one.
But as far as mystery crosses are concerned,
I did harvest, you know, so many plants this season
and one or two didn't make their label
from the hanger to the dry bag or whatever,
from the hanger to being harvested in the turkey bag.
And I like, you know, I'm not gonna lie,
and I like, you know, it was a really great smelling plant,
but it's mislabeled.
It was a great, really good yielding plant,
but it's mislabeled.
And I'm just gonna charge that one to the freaking game
and just leave it as a random seed stock
till the end of time
because I'm gonna save myself all those questions.
Yeah, I'd have to agree with that.
Releasing them commercially is probably not the best idea
just because of all the issues that will arise
in terms of questions around what it is.
I know I just, I grew out the holy banana
open pollination this year,
and it comes from a homie who,
he just, he keeps multiple males
and he open pollinates everything every year.
So his breeding is kind of like whatever the females
X whatever year.
So if it was 15, then it's like,
that's the males that he had in 2015.
And you gotta hit him up and be like,
so, you know, what were you fucking with in 2015?
Cause I got holy banana X 15
and he'll tell you the males
and kind of like describe different things.
And he's had things that have,
that are still floating around the world here
in the commercial rec market.
It's Dos Peros, Brett.
He's a homie.
And he, that's one of those things where it's like,
I'll grow it out, I'll select a pheno.
And if that pheno is, you know,
really, really, really exceptional,
then it's worth keeping in the stable.
And if it develops a name and other people identify it,
then it may be worth bringing into a breeding program.
But in terms of actually like breeding with the,
you know, these unknowns,
I think it's more just,
it's good to go through some of these unknown bags.
Like I've got a lot of old seeds that I collected
from early 2000s up in Mendo.
And, you know, I have no fucking clue
what they are at this point,
but popping some of those,
even though I, you know,
some of those are like 20 years old at this point,
just seeing what's in there is a value.
I haven't wanted to do it until I could do it
in some sort of like systematic way
and actually preserve stuff.
But that's something that like,
we may not know the lineage or provenance of stuff,
but it's still worth keeping these things around
and looking at them as valuable genetic resources,
even though we can't attach, you know,
this name and that name to it.
It's still, you know, at least for me,
if I saved seeds,
there was some reason why I saved these seeds
and have been like trucking them around
for the last 20 years.
So for me, there's like something of value there,
even if I don't know what the cross is.
And so that's just my perspective on it.
But I definitely think that using anything
of unknown lineage that doesn't have the tag
or the pedigree sort of like handle
that's been developed in the existing sort of both rec
and sort of traditional markets
is something that's just brought with problems
because of the questions that arise.
Yeah, I did a 2019 spring, you know,
pollination or whatever,
and that's what the bags were labeled as.
And everybody went out and grew them.
And I get tons of questions back about them.
And I also did a strain called Motor Mouth,
which is face-off OGI95 Stardog Wilson,
open pollination with a Mac Mel
from Capulators initial release of Mac from seed
and peanut butter breath when it first dropped.
And we had both of the males present.
And it's those strains that people grew out
are in some people's commercial grows.
And they're like a hodgepodge of strains
that I kind of put together,
you know, an open pollination of two males present,
you know, not as much as homeboy I'd imagine,
but those strains did end up being,
you know, commercially viable, quote unquote,
because, you know, they're running them against,
not against, but with tons of other strains
going on like two years, three years.
And this is J. Modula and Cotto Captain
off the top of my head.
You know, they're running the Motor Mouth,
which is that, you know,
ongoing sentence that I just said of strains.
Can I jump in with a question?
Yeah.
So like you mentioned earlier that you would,
you would ideally get, you know,
a couple hundred down or,
and then you would call a few of them
before flipping into flower.
Like what kind of traits and methodology
and thought processes do you take
in doing that initial calling process?
Weakest plants.
If something's not able to establish
a good root system early on,
I know people have been mentioning that root systems
is something that they see correlating,
like the weaker root systems being correlated
towards better producers.
For me as an outdoor cultivator,
if you're unable to take roots
and unable to withstand some environmental stressors
in terms of wind and things like that,
you're probably not going to be able to produce
in the environments that the different cultivators
that I work with are growing in.
So we're typically going to be culling things
that just can't withstand any of the winds
in early vegetative growth.
And if they start to do a lot of like bending over
and twisting down at the crown or have issues
in terms of being unable to establish themselves,
that's going to be like the primary thing
that gets you culled early on.
After that, if you've survived the initial,
you lack vigor, can't establish your own root ball and stem
and hold yourself up with some degree of like strength,
then you make it onto the next degree.
And then at that point, it's really just a matter
of evaluating the plants all the way through the process.
And like there, it's like,
I hear of people making selections
and doing it in like the vegetative stage.
And it's like vegetative information only informs you
about vegetative information.
And there's a really good paper that does demonstrate
that if you take a bunch of different variables
and you analyze them, you can get some predictive results
that show you what your yields are going to be
in the vegetative stage and start doing early selection
for yields using that method.
And while that's very cool, that's a scientific method
of doing early stage selection.
Most of us aren't doing that degree of rigorous analysis.
And so for me, I'm just trying to select against anything
that's not going to be able to withstand the elements.
Once we've got a population that can withstand the elements,
then do positive selection that requires going all the way
through flower to whatever end product it's going to be.
And if the end product's going to be extracts,
then how does it wash?
How does it, you know,
whatever the particular methodology of extraction
that it's going into, how does it perform
in that particular extraction method?
Then if it's going to flower, you know, how does it smoke?
How does it produce as a commercial cultivar
for actual like, you know, flower production?
And every one of those requires putting it
through actual testing all the way through to the end
and seeing which ones are the ones
that are worth moving on.
Now in the process, I usually do some crosses
that are just sort of a mass selection of agronomic traits
and varieties that, or phenotypes that I think produce well
for the particular, you know, whatever the crosses.
So we grew out the 300 TK M10s,
ended up with about 60 females that we were actually
like grew through all the way full term.
And out of that, I think we selected,
we also, that's 60 females.
There was also about eight males that ended up being selected
in the end out of a population of about a similar
like 60 or 50 males that ended up making the first cut.
And those males, we whittled it down to eight.
So again, we made a selection intensity that was roughly,
you know, a little 10 to 15%
of the population ended up getting selected.
We then made F2 crosses with about,
I think 12 of the females.
So I suck at math, can't do it off the top of my head,
but we, again, a similar selection intensity.
And those F2s, we'll see what happens with them.
Those are just kind of being banked
for having an inbred population of the TK M10.
But then I hit the TK M10 to a whole bunch of other things.
And those are just, you know, those are out crosses.
And because the TK M10 itself is a hybrid
and all of the things that they hit are hybrids,
you know, it's a roll of the dice.
And granted they're all keeper cuts.
They're all varieties that have been either selected
through my own cultivation.
For instance, I hit a number of the Wilsons,
the different things that stood out.
I hit Wilsons being Masana crosses.
I also hit a number of the Skittles S1s.
And we also, I got some pollen from the ranch
and made some F5s with the Pina F4s
that I had gotten from freeborn selections
from Jackson back in the day.
So I made a number of different crosses.
They were on different population scales
and selection intensities,
depending on just how many seeds I had
and which populations I was trying to capture
and repopulate.
Well, I appreciate the hell out of that answer
because you jumped into your passion of it,
like in how it's about the journey of hunting it on.
I'm super excited because I've been hunting
for my last two years and trying to do,
I have a very small space and I just have my first fem cross
that I've done with collateral silver.
And it's just, it's after stress testing two plants,
after pheno hunting them for a year
and then stress testing them a bunch.
I finally got my first crosses going
and I'm super excited about it.
And it's all about that journey.
And you just almost sound it,
you get excited about the fact that you got
all these other crosses to see all these other potentials
and all the other outcomes.
So thank you so much for sharing that.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, no, likewise.
Thank you for the question.
And that's definitely like, it's one of the TKM 10.
I encourage anybody who has seen the work
of Mr. Bob Hemphill or Hannah Humboldt,
or if you haven't seen it, go seek it out.
They grow incredible herb, they make incredible crosses
and that was something that they made a few years ago.
And it's, I got to grow it out in 2017.
And then again, this year, and I've grown out.
At this point, I've seen over a hundred females
full term in it.
And it's a very special population.
And I know they made a bunch more crosses using the M10.
And it's something that, you know,
it's very, very old school Afghan.
It can be dominant in some of the crosses.
And, you know, it depends on your taste.
You may or may not like it,
but it produces some really, really incredible hybrids.
And they're insanely potent.
I encourage, yeah, everyone to go check out their work
because it's some top-notch stuff.
So four hours and 12 minutes in, should we wrap it up?
Don't be shy.
I've asked all the questions that I had.
Yeah, this is a productive, during that four hours,
I cooked dinner,
pull my three-year-old out of the crib.
She's dropping a deuce right now,
which I get to wipe up imminently.
So I appreciate everyone's time.
Tony, are you still there?
Maybe not.
Yeah, I'm still here.
Sorry about that.
Amazing.
I appreciate for letting me come on here
and work this out a little bit.
It's always interesting to hear how other people
are going about doing some of the selection processes, man.
I really appreciate it.
Word, thank you for suggesting the topic.
And yeah, thank you, Peter,
for hosting these different discussions.
I think it's been three weeks of really good discussions
and really in-depth, in-depth breeding talk.
Thank you guys for allowing me on the breeder round table.
Appreciate you guys, big fan.
And Trevor, I think whatever you and Chad don't cover,
we can finish off on this maybe next Monday.
Cool, yeah, I look forward to this Friday.
I think, thanks for the plug.
I believe I will be on Chad Westport's show
here on the Future Cannabis Project Friday.
I'm not sure the exact time.
I should know that stuff, my bad, but check it out.
It's okay.
I think it's like seven-ish, but I may be totally wrong.
Yeah, wait, I see Chad Westport in the chat.
Chad, what time are you guys going on?
Oh, yeah, seven.
Sweet, cool, well, yeah, I look forward to it.
I've been putting together some different materials
and I hope to have like, yeah, a little, yeah, some stuff.
And ideally the information, like when I cite sources
and provide that, we'll have it all like available
with a little link so people can check it out
if they wanna dig deeper into these different sources
and material.
That's awesome.
All right, well, with that, Chase,
can you close out the Clubhouse room?
Yes, sir.
You guys have a wonderful evening.
It was a pleasure as always.
Everyone, cheers, stay healthy and we'll see you next time.
Thanks, Chase.
Thanks, Chase.
Thanks, Luke.
Take care, guys.
All right, they're still in my, they're in my head.
All right, I got a three-year-old dropping a deuce.
No, let me take that back.
She already dropped the deuce
and her diaper is like sticking way out.
So I gotta go change that.
Thank you, everyone.
Have a good Monday night.
Bye-bye.
