Are our levels okay? Can you hear us?
You are much better than you were before yes
Blew my eardrums out so Josh. That is a big boy pipe
blew that
This was blown by a gentleman named Adam Mowell
about
12 years old
Very cool. I might have to grab I might have to grab some of my glass real quick
I have a little dab egg that I made right here. We should take some dabs. Yeah, we should take some dabs, too
Actually got a piece that was commissioned about two years ago
It was finished about a month ago, but I just picked up all we have time. I'll show it. Hell. Yes. I'd love that
We we got the time
amazing
Okay, so you it was like
Last episode was like the cliffhanger at the end of season one of like 24 and now we're
Episode one of season two
So your plants have grown a little bit oh yes, they have
In question from last time oh shit, oh yeah, do three nodes and we put this into
Organic matter soil I have given it a foliar spray twice a week with
armory and bio supercell
very nice
Who makes armory
Armory is a believe that that's a blacksmith product. It's one of those back Silas mixes. It's a dry mix
bunch of those bacteria's in it
Prevention for powdery mildew and for root stimulation
But it's super concentrated and it doesn't smell like crap when I mix it with water, which is rare for back Silas, so I love that
But
Yeah, and I've been watering it with full power I think twice a week at a
Tablespoon per gallon. Hell yeah, man. Okay, so full power as a drench
Yep, and then what did you do as a foliar from the whole year spray?
I combined armory and bio supercell which is a new
organic silica supplement with fulvic acid in it
Okay
So very simple not a lot very simple, you know, you know just I didn't even really measure it just took a cap and threw
it in a
spray bottle and you know
The smallest spoon on the teaspoon thing for the armory and shake it up spray it and call it good
Right. So now I want to contrast that with Otis. We're gonna put you in the spotlight
How many different things have you hit your plants with since our last conversation nice to us?
Let us have our fun
We're yeah, like like I said before, you know, I'm transitioning from the hydro world
Actually Peter gave me a bunch of sweet bio examples. So let me just pull over some of the ones I've been using
Let's see, I've got the
So many pics today from the spot, um, I
Actually can't find the pics of them, but it was
some of the
Calmino the Borromeo, I believe the
Yeah a couple other I've known that's like the kelp or seaweed ugly with micros
Awesome
I've got a couple other samples as well
But I've been incorporating those in various waterings and then I've been using a bunch of the build the soil products
And some some great white micro. I've been more into the idea of like integrating like a compost like my
Microbe type situation lately after talking to some of my my homies the people that I've met through the channel
but for now, we've been using the root wise micros and or microbes rather and the
Great white microbes. I think I think I might have gotten a microbe product from y'all. Do y'all have a microbe product BAM?
Dude, yeah, definitely my car is a fortified with humic acid. Nice
I'm gonna start using some of that stuff. Mm-hmm. We're also using some of the other dog us stuff, right like the fish
Yeah, we're using the fish brew that you'd given us Peter as well as cool
Gosh, what else lots of cool stuff? I have full power. Of course. I mean is the cow mag right converted leaf
Yeah, I use the rude leaf cow mag. I'm almost out of that one. I was telling Peter earlier and he's like use less of it
Think he's right. I'm used to you know, how much are you using?
Pretty you know, not too much actually because I use it use it as part of my buffer
As well, I was using probably about like two at the most five milliliters per gallon
Two milliliters per gallon at the moment
Yeah, that's cool. I've been using it a lot
I got some of it quite a while ago and then I don't use the cow mag even though like with my living soil and
Not bottle feeding I put one and a quarter to like four mils max like the chem D
super calcium and magnesium hungry
Gotten them up to like four five
I did five mils to correct it and now I actually have them on a like a powdered limestone and
magnesium sulfate solution that I'm using that cow mag but
One and a quarter to two and a half milliliters per gallon
It's like perfect if you're just trying to like buffer the RO water and put a little bit of extra calcium and magnesium in there
That's what I was using it for
Awesome. Go add like a top like an eighth of a teaspoon of TM 7 and I do that like every watering
Sometimes I won't do the TM 7 every watering, but I like to I'm using our water. So I do that
Yeah, there's a great product from remember that company I told you about sensational solutions from last time they make the micronized tea
they make a product called cafe mag, which is a combination of
Calcium and magnesium and it's super concentrated and they micronize it they make it into that super fine flour and
It at a quarter of a teaspoon per gallon is perfect for just adding that little bit of juice to your RO water
My old spot I used to have RO water, you know, it was stinky sulfur water, you know, so I couldn't I couldn't yeah
It was bad. It was like 400 parts a million come out of the tap. Yeah
La is pretty bad where I'm at. Oh, yeah
I can't give it to my dog. Oh god. Yeah
But uh, but that stuff is a really cheap and goes a really long way it's great for that
Awesome, man
Yeah, very minimal I
Think I have kind of just like a lot of fully stuff on foliar rotation
So I have like the silica I think originally I was using the ion 14 liquid but then
I think out no not Alex
One of the guys told me that the the super sills better
And
And then I do
Like the multi amino
I do the lush greens from rooted leaf and then I do my little eggshell calcium
my my one K&F
input
natural farming input and
I forgot to mention I was using a can of input. I've been using hemp for men have FPGA
Oh and then and then I hit stuff
Bringing about 13 plants over to the neighbor's house tomorrow, so I hit them all with
some of the the
fish brew aquatic microorganisms in the soil and
just a splash of the cow mag from
Rooted leaf and then like I'll do you know, I'll take some of like my worm calcium
Do a quick soak and then kind of pour that you know do a drench of that
every once in a while with a little bit of
Like native
The neighbor the neighbor passed away someone bought the house tore it down
they're building a pool and putting a house up so I took like a
Ton of soil from them and I put a little bit of that in there
I
Try to keep things simple. I'm like are the plants happy like could they be happier probably but
Which plants are you giving away
Those are the
Mean gene plants. Oh nice
And then
I
put a little bit of that in the
And then I'm gonna I have a male that male
Thai stud for you guys to
to go Genghis Khan on some females and
And then a whole bunch of
Of a different Thailand race
For you guys to root out
So I actually I
Stoked about that
So I actually I took some clones as well. So I ended up bringing about 50 of my plants
50 of our plants outside
they're actually on the deck right next to me and
They're so fucking happy the outdoor ones in the three gallons are so right there one
Oh in the one gallons are so much out there once they haven't been transplanted yet
Yeah, and they're praying like harder than the indoor ever has it's kind of crazy
We actually attributed that's like that Sun
Yeah, you can have all the lights in the world man. You can't compete with the Sun. Yeah through that
Also, I think our humidity was too high. We weren't supplementing with co2
Just by the nature of how our spots built out
We weren't supplementing with co2. So we oh, thank you
So we're smoking some snow till right now no
This isn't snow too. Oh, no, we're not. We're not we're not smoking snow till we're smoking snow till earlier and we put it out
This is actually some OG Z from the homie, LA dabber
OTB extracts, he's actually a really fire no-till grower himself. This is really dank down here in LA. Mm-hmm
We should make the introduction sometime. He's really cool packs in the future is tight with them, too
Peter's seeds are not tied. They're more like
Well, depending on which ones you got I'd say
It's like Harlequin kind of high CBD mixed with
Some like OG stuff
From it's basically like it was stuff from Tom's backyard a few years ago or two years ago
But what was that?
Jet just
When I give seeds out, I think some some of my label like Peter beans
so people are always like what are P and and I see
so in the chat for those who
I don't know. This is a play on it, but we get a sex bot in here about ten times per conversation and
I think this is making fun of the sex bot
But uh, hello, hey Zeus
And not to be outdone but we also have
A
Zeus is represented well in the chat today
All right, so Josh yes as you're ripping on that manly pipe
So
So you're you're are you about to go into you're basically in flip mode right now? Yes
Yes, the plan is gonna get transplanted when we're done today, unfortunately, I don't have enough space in my
Kitchen to transplant it on camera this time
But yeah, yeah this two gallon is going into a number seven and that's going into flower tonight
You know what I'll end up doing is I'll end up
taking the container the number seven and taking about two tablespoons of
Gaia green bloom and sprinkle that on the very bottom and then putting my soil on top of that and then
in with my two gallon my garage they in the hole and then I top dress with
Zero twelve zero seabird guano
That is a 20% healthier for a resort, yeah, okay. Yeah, they're living Eugene, Oregon. They're the local guys. Yeah
No, I I've always loved the commune so lobsters up in Maine and he has some coast of Maine soil dogs
It has some fauna
soil from
Middle America and then
Otis has some bio 365 which they have a facility out here in California
Yeah, and the soil I use is made here in Eugene it's called a organic matters
Yeah, no, I like I like I like the the
geographic proximity in heavy soil products, but uh
Can you talk about like each? So for example you put my car eyes in at this stage
Do you think that stuff because you I assume you did it at the very beginning to write every time I transplant
I try to my car eyes
You know
I find it particularly important with that last transplant if I'm transplanting near flower
Because that my car eyes is gonna help mobilize a whole lot of phosphorus, you know
and that's what I want to help trigger me into bloom on top of the potassium for my foliar sprays and
watering with the TM 7 and the micronutrients that I'm gonna need when it starts to transition into bloom right first two weeks if you
Can supplement micronutrients and a little bit of potassium and phosphorus you can do a whole lot to the size of flower
You can achieve naturally without affecting your flavor
You know, I like to lean more on micronutrients and less on the potassium and phosphorus at that point
I'd rather see it come into the works, you know a couple weeks down the road. That's where I see it paying the most dividends
but
Yeah, but it just depends on how heavy of feeding that plant is
You know the plant right here is the cherry 8k so it'll take as much as I can, you know
You know, in fact it liked a little bit more
Otherwise, it'll start to yellow a little early on me and I don't want that
You know that really affects its flower size at the end. I I guess my question is
Mike Arisa introduced early on in a plant's life has kind of like it doesn't instantly
Connect and then shoot out its own kind of you know
Further in so the Mike Arisa you put in at this stage when the plant only has X number of weeks to go
Mm-hmm. Does that Mike Arisa haven't have enough time to kind of
Get into that route like I must be like the micro as like hair extensions like helping your hair get further out
Well, it depends on how long your flower cycle is, you know with most flower cycles if you're eight weeks or less
No, no, there's no point in adding my car. I say at that point, you know, especially if the soils already got it in there
you know, I
The type of my car is a I use is a little different but I can't really talk about that right now
That has to be talked about later. No, no more intrigue. Yep
So, all right, so is this a long flowering plant then it's a longer, you know
It's about ten and a half eleven weeks
Whereas, you know that that's a you know in my experience that's usually about as long as most people do around here
You know, I'm one of the rare guys that you know
Has a couple 13 and 14 weekers that I throw into the rotation every once in a while, but I'm kind of rare
Okay, so your final is a seven gallon or you're going from a seven gallon
I'm going from a two gallon into a seven. Okay, so you're putting you're putting
Soil you're leaving a hole and then what are you putting in the hole again?
Before I put anything in the container at all. I take a couple of tablespoons of a well-balanced bloom food
You know, I'm using guy green just because I got a cheap 50-pound bag last year and I've been working on it for a long
time
But I normally use a rose and flower from down to earth or a rainbow mix
I've used that in the past but any good organic bloom mix will work
I just like one that I don't like the super processed ones where I can't see the different amendments
I like to be able to look at it and say oh, that's the alfalfa and that's the kelp and you know
Those are the different, you know from the different shapes
I don't like when they grind it all together and I can't really tell what it is
But you know, that's why I like the the guy green and the down-to-earth products particularly because I can see what it is
but
But I take a you know
A good a handful of that and I put that at the bottom that way that usually gives me that extra two weeks or so
That I need to get away with using a seven in a small space over using like a ten or a fifteen
So you put it in before you put any of the next round of soil in? Yeah
Yeah, I put it right at the bottom of the container on the on the floor of the thing and then I put my soil
Right on top of that, you know, so it holds it there, you know
Sometimes I'll take a spray bottle and get a little wet before I do that, you know, so it sticks, you know
But I find that's not really necessary
Most of that stuff will stay right there once you pour your soil on top of it usually doesn't move very much
So it's not the first thing to run off
Exactly, you know, but when the roots get down there to those chunks of that slow releasing stuff
it really gives you that boost at the end without having to add a PK booster or
Phosphorus and potassium and potentially mess with your mix at the very end which can you know
Give you a lot of size but can really screw up your flavor
Got it
And then okay, so you put that on the bottom you put the soil in then you hit the
mycorrhiza in the hole. Yep
no, and
usually with my mycorrhiza, it's a I mix a
Nitrogen fixing bacteria in with it to a little as us
Okay
And then
And then the the two gallon the you pull it out you stick it in
Yeah
Before I do that depending on how root bound my plant is if I'm really tight and bound
I'll take I got an old butter knife in my garage when I transplant and I just take it and I lightly score
Around the sides of the roots and break up that ball, but not too much, you know
But you don't want to leave those roots wrapped like that if you want them to grow out in a relatively fast manner
You know if you got all the time in the world, you're just vegetative
It doesn't really matter you can just slam it in there and the roots will find their way
But they'll continue to spin until they break out, you know
So every time you score that and then you'll get new root growth from those wounds, you know
But but I usually like to use something dull like a like a butter knife or a dull razor
but you only need that with very root bound plants like if you pull out your
your roots and you can see the name of the
Container on the bottom of the roots you need to do something about that. That is too. Yeah. Oh my gosh
We had some root on plants
For in the four inch to one gallon stage and then also in the one gallon to three gallon stage
which was our second transplant stage because we did these from seed and
So actually I'm starting to realize we had two stages of planting over
Transplanting over like three days to do like all of them. And I believe the first batch that we did was
Like less successful and bouncing back quick after the transplant because I didn't break those roots up at the bottom
When they were really root bound the second batch, which thankfully was the majority of them
I did break up that root ball a little more at the bottom where it was bound and spinning out and those
Instantly kind of seem to be happier
Okay, the teacher is calling on you lobster fan farms
What what sort of moisture content are you looking for when you're up potting
Do you like it to be on the wetter side on the drier side somewhere in between?
I like to have done a really heavy watering the night before so it it it holds itself together
But it's dry enough to where I could work with it. It's not gonna fall apart on
You know, but usually with my organic soil, I keep it a little bit wetter than I do my soilless mix
You know my if I'm running soilless mixer, I'm watering with you know, mostly liquids
I let that get pretty damn dry in between waterings
But with organic soil you're gonna kill off so much of your bacteria and flora in your soil
If you let it dry out like that, you know, it takes so much long for it to come back
There's not enough time, you know in a you know, six or eight week cycle for it to rebound, you know
So I'd rather keep it slightly wetter, you know with multiple little waterings all the time
Then one big watering a couple times a week, you know, usually when I'm watering
I usually don't get much runoff
You know, if I get runoff at all with my organic soil
It's usually about once every week or two, you know, or if I'm trying to flush for salts
But most of the time I'm using quality soil. I don't have to do that
You know in you know, unless I've been in a container for let's say longer than
seven weeks eight weeks I
Have a super quick question about like appropriate dry back periods in like with waterings
You know like a three gallon container with trying to build a big container
With trying to build a living soil, you know from soil mix adding your micro as a etc. Yeah, I was doing in my three gallon containers
About like three to four day dry backs and
At a certain point some of the taller plants seem to be drinking a lot faster. And so I've kind of adapted to
You know watering some of them that seem to need water as you know as they do versus a scheduled watering
I've been trying to keep them all in the same schedule though. Mm-hmm
You always have those heavier feeders that either have to suffer for the group and an automated watering system
Or you got to go a little bit out of your way and give them the extra love that they want. Totally. Yeah
We're hand watering right now. So I think when we set up our bloom
We're probably gonna try to set up some sort of irrigation system. But
Yeah right now just all hand watering. Yeah, I usually prefer to hand water through veg and then
Have not a mid watering system for my bloom cycle. Mm-hmm. That's that's that's what we were hoping to do. I think
where
Yeah, that's
I think it'll be cool man. We were initially considering blue mats, but I figured there's a easier way to do it
There is I'm blue mats are awesome. Don't get me wrong. And if you're setting up a small space, they're pretty cool
But I've seen some big gardens get pretty elaborate with those things and I don't think it's I think it could be done simpler
You know, I'm in the simpler just
You know just some, you know PVC and some, you know, good octopuses and some lines everything
I think both of us are in the same guy for sure, you know, but yeah
There's a there's a million different recipes again in the same place and the top feed system is definitely the most popular system going right now
There's a million different ways of finding success with that system
Totally the beauty of it is you can use any any medium and any fertilizer you want
You're only limited by the type of plants you want to grow
That's awesome
Okay, so you've now transplanted and
What's kind of the foliar change and
Now i'm gonna go from spraying twice a week with bio supercell to spraying
four times a week, you know twice with bio supercell and twice with either a combination of seaweed and
fulvic acid or
Seaweed and uh, uh fulvic acid or uh, cytoplus
Okay, it depends on the plant this one here is going to get cytoplus
Do you see that question no, do you use cover?
Cover crop
Uh, no, not in my containers in raised beds. Absolutely, you know, but in my containers
I don't like having to mow the lawn in my containers. I actually just had a problem with that
So I uh, I wanted to try out cover crop did it in some one gallon nursery pots
Planted the cover crop right when I transplanted and it stole all the food out of the pox they sprouted
And yeah, and I was like, wow, why is everything so hungry so quick and yeah
Yeah in in beds or large containers anything bigger than a 75 I say shit
Yeah, do that cover crop, you know because you got the time to you know
You'll see a difference and usually with a container that size. I want to recycle that soil anyway, you know, uh, regardless
What about 65?
60. Oh, yeah, you know anything that's that big anytime you got that uh much of a uh, uh, uh, uh coverage
What do we think of that someone putting a tennis ball size piece of clay in the bottom of the pot that's sick
Dry enough. Uh, yeah, I used to read about that in those, uh, you know, i'm so old that uh,
Most of the stuff I learned came from books and I got a whole uh, library of books
You know that started off in the 70s and 80s and go all the way up to the late 2000
and uh
You know, uh those old books. That's what they do. They they would uh have old they'd break a clay pot
Uh with these big chunks and they put that in the bottom of other pots to aerate them
I never quite followed the logic there. But hey if it I can't imagine that
It should help, you know, it's better than you know, uh using just straight, uh, you know compost from the nursery
which is all they really had back then or just you know, mixing your own soil from amendments, but
you know, uh
But uh, but that was a something that uh, I have uh seen uh,
Uh people do in the past but what was your question here? Uh, it probably will it keeps stuff from in the soil from drying too fast
Uh, yeah. Yeah. Uh
Yeah, clay holds, uh, especially clay pots hold a lot of moisture. Uh, uh, you know, so they'll uh, yeah
They'll definitely uh help things that retain moisture they just break very easily and they're heavy and hard to move around
Ah, damn it just saying guys
Good lobster. Yes to the man raising his hand. There it is. Sorry. I'm not very computer savvy
I think I may have asked this last time but do you like to do your pruning and shaping as you're a plant? Uh,
Transplanting up to the final container. Yes, I do
You know like i'll take this plant here and i'll cut off any of the uh branches
That are growing at an angle a 45 degree angle
Can you pull it out and show us kind of like with your hands what you do or so like i'll take uh,
One branch at a time like this one here
And i'll eliminate anything like this here
anything on the inside that's growing on the
Inside here that isn't past the canopy level, you know, uh, because that's not going to be much there. So i'll leave
Everything from like this node up
You know, but all this stuff down here it's gonna go away
And like uh branches like this right here
You know, see how this branch is just growing straight out of the side. I don't want that
You know, that's just a waste so i'll probably like that's a pretty nice piece i'll probably turn that into a cutting
But any branches like this, you know, I find that they're just a waste all that they're gonna do is grow out this way
You know, and uh, even if I can get them propped up, you know, the chances are they'll break under the weight of the flower later
on
And i'm in a relatively small space
So I got to fit three more plants that are about that size back
One more plant that's exactly that same size and another one that's about twice that size
So i'm in a five by five tent
What what is your square footage, uh, i'm in a five by five, uh tent
I have a two five by five flower tents and one four by eight tent for grow
Like shooter I like your logo
I believe that's relatively new right the shooter is killer weed
Yep
Yeah, they're just uh
Suckers basically just like a cleaning up a tomato plant
You know, I knew at least some with some plants, you know, like, uh, I used to grow a super silver haze
Uh that was so open and so big that everything all the way down to the bottom, you know would get nice and hard
You know, so everything all the way down to you know, you know about foot off
The bottom was a nice little bong hit that one
I hardly cleaned up at all
But that was kind of the exception of the rule
I I haven't seen too many plants that are that dense and are that open that you can get the light all the way to
the bottom
I'm just throwing comments up, uh related to stuff we uh talked about so this is just cover crops
But yeah in a pot I I usually just cover it with uh
like leaves or
Or like not straw but kind of the equivalent from other
But like for example like my radish plants or my brassicas the stems that dry out i'll just lay them over the top
Yeah, what I like to do is take a combination of a compost and cocoa fiber
You know, that's a fantastic top dress and you can make it really light and fluffy to where water will just flow right through it
You don't really notice it or you can make it nice and heavy so it retains moisture
Like right now, you know, it's uh, it's pretty hot in my garage and I don't have an air conditioner in there
So i'm probably going to be using something hot and heavy so it doesn't dry out while i'm at work
So
Lobster in terms of kind of how he laid out his uh, kind of final transplant. Is there any nuance? Uh,
What you do?
um, well, I would certainly major differences or
One thing I would highly agree with is the uh, the pruning technique
And the time to do it. I like to get all the shock out at the same time
I've actually been kicking a very similar narrative in a bro science terminology
I just kind of talk about what angle branches are smart angles and which ones aren't smart angles that are super lateral
And a lot of the guys that i'm chatting with a lot
They'll recognize that i've kind of been talking about that the last week or so
That just those nice 45s and certain certain branches are just smart or certain genetics are smart
I don't know how else to say it besides that
um
I like to foliar, uh some aminos before i'm transplanting
Not that I would disagree with anything you said just that it's a different technique
There's so many approaches, but I like to really hammer them with aminos
About the week week and a half before i'm doing the transplant
I usually uh, uh incorporate aminos with some of my slower growing plants
But I don't with my uh cherry just because it gets so out of control
Uh, if I start uh foliar spraying it with aminos before a flower
But absolutely I love using amino acids just there before especially on like uh, uh
Plants that don't tend to stretch as much at the beginning of flower
I get a lot better structure out of them and I get them to keep up with all my other plants
When i'm doing that with them, you know, but especially when i'm watering it in and I can spray it
that's really where I see the big difference there, but uh, but i've been able to take uh, uh,
Aminos and a couple other products and basically use that as almost like a grow
You know formula, uh and use that as a foliar spray to speed everything up
You know with either heavy feeding plants or just really slow feeding, uh growing plants, you know, like mac one and uh, ogkb
I grew that for a long time. I think grows slow as hell
Uh, you know bubba kush, you know any of those really slow growing northern lights, you know
But you know northern lights will actually stretch for you and flower the bubba kush won't at all
Now let me ask you this do you think that me spraying the aminos
Is helping them adjust because they go to a very uh more intense environment from their bedroom
Like they're getting a lot more lit and you know co2 is going to be increased xyz
Do you think that maybe just anecdotally because like I just go kind of like with with seeing how the plants react from different things
And it seems like the aminos definitely help them get ready for the new room
Anecdotally at least out of all the other things that i've tried. So do you think it could be that perhaps?
Uh, absolutely. I i've absolutely seen a big difference in incorporating aminos. Uh, uh when I take plants
I'm trying to harden them up to go outside or if i'm going under big hids
I see a big difference when I incorporate aminos
They just don't have that shock and if they do it's not nearly as long or nearly as much
you know, uh same thing if I use a lot of uh, you know, uh, if you layer in other biostimulants like uh,
You know, uh fulvic acid, you know, you got some seaweed in there or alfalfa
Or both, you know along with the aminos each one of those gives you a different layer of abiotic and ambiotic stress relief
You know, it just depends on which one makes the difference with that plant for that environment and which stress it's going on
if it's a co2 and light, yeah, I can see uh, the uh, the amino acids being right up that alley of uh,
Really helping bring all that together, but it's like a uh, it's like a like a lock
You know, you don't have to hit all the tumblers to pick the lock
But if you want to open smooth and right like the way it was designed, you know to get that
You know smooth opening and closing that's what you want
You want to hit all those little things and when you incorporate, uh aminos with that plant that makes all that difference. Absolutely
You know, I I I think that's a great way of getting there, you know, uh,
Amino acids are a fantastic catalyst and they got great available nitrogen
that's very hard to overuse and there's I don't know it's one of those things kind of like a
seaweed or alfalfa or or uh
Or a good fulvic acid when you use it you see a nice happy difference and when you pull it away
Things just aren't as happy without it
Just quickly. Uh
I'm gonna quickly check on my wife and four-year-old so I don't get yelled at for abandoning them
I'll be back in a second. No problem. Check on the family. Good
Sounds good question
It says what and when to top dress I suck at organics I only grow organic outdoors
All right. Uh, I like to top dress, uh, three times for outdoors
I do it once when I transplant in the springtime, you know, and again i'm using a
usually a combination of a good uh,
Compost like ollie fish compost is my favorite for the springtime, you know, because it's cheap
You know, and it's a real stinky and it tends to keep nice and green but it's uh, it's got a lot of bark chips
In it so it's aerated so it's not all this thick funk sitting on the top there all all springtime when it's wet and you know
Here in oregon raining like hell
Uh, you know and then I uh top dress really heavy with uh, again some sort of an organic pre-mix
Uh, my favorite one locally is called bio alive from down to earth
Uh, there's a good one from fox farm called all purpose. It's a 555
Uh, gaia green has got a fantastic one
That's a 444, you know, and I use it pretty thick, you know, like on a on a hundred gallon container
I'll probably use like a liter's worth to cover that whole top. So I got a good chunk, you know, uh over the
Over there, you know when i'm outside, you know, and then i'll water, you know cover that with my mulch, you know, and uh,
You know, uh water that in real good
You know or uh, then uh after that gets established then plant my cover crop
Just depends, you know, and then uh, once I get to july or so, uh, that's when I uh,
Like to top dress it, uh with my bloom
You know anywhere from uh, you know the first of july if it's a plant that's been in the ground for a long time to
About uh halfway through july, you know, uh, it just depends on when they go out in oregon where i'm at
It all depends on when the rain stops, you know this year it didn't stop till about you know, four weeks ago
And now it's 100 degrees
So, uh, you know, everything outside this year is very small and uh, not as happy as last year. That is for sure
uh, but uh again, I use the uh, top dressing like a
Pre-mixed growth that's organic anything that's omri listed. That's uh, you know got a decent rating on you can find them at
Some hardware stores, you know true value, uh has carried some decent pre-mixes
I've used in the past when I couldn't get to the hydra store. It was closed, you know, uh, but uh,
You just want to make sure that it's omri listed and that uh, you know, it lists all the ingredients on it
It's designed to grow, you know organic vegetables, you know, if it's food grade it'll work for cannabis, you know
But again, my favorites down to earth. Uh, guy green's a fantastic one rainbow mix from uh, uh, from
Earth juice is a fantastic one that's been around forever
You know, and they're all really cheap, you know, you get a five pound box for about uh, I don't know, uh anywhere 12 bucks
You know 15 bucks something like that. They're not expensive and a five pound box
You know, that's enough for to top dress a couple of really big plants
You know really big
Oh and then uh right there about uh halfway through bloom
uh, i'll uh finish everything off usually with uh, you know a combination of uh, uh,
Bat guano seabird guano and uh kelp meal
That's usually what I like to top dress with just you know about about six weeks from the end
Should we should we be putting some guano into the mix in our uh in our top dressings?
Uh, we're kind of figuring it out as we go
So I would love or or can you talk about what each of those things adds nutrient wise and then options?
Like if someone doesn't want to use guano, what would you recommend?
Uh, if I didn't want to use guano I would probably go with uh, uh, like uh soft rock phosphate and uh,
Oh, what would be another good choice
Uh, there's a product from sensational solutions. Uh, that's called blissful bloom
Uh, it's actually very different than most other products. It does have guano in it, but it's turkey guano. So it's uh, uh,
It's a very renewable resource
Which is I know a lot of the uh issue with using uh bat guanos is uh, it's not a renewable resource
But uh seabird guano is uh, so is turkeys. Uh, there's a lot of good ones out there
It's just picking out things that are uh low
relatively low in heavy metals
you know, uh, but uh, uh
What else would be a good choice there, uh
Would fish bone meal be good? Uh fish bone meal would be uh, uh, very good. Uh, that's another one. That's a
Relatively slow releasing and uh, there's a bunch of good liquid versions of is out there now, uh, too. I used one. I love it
Yeah, uh, that's a great uh way to uh to get there with that middle number
Just uh, you can get a little stinky in your indoor garden if you choose the wrong one
I've noticed it really affects the the aroma and the terpene profile on some of my cannabis. I have uh,
One plant sour nasty and I actually haven't used that this run. I ran out of it. It's like a liquid
Microbial that lead digested fish bone meal that's you know plant available
And it may it really brings out the sour like if you have a gassy sour kind of you know
Like a sour diesel or an og like that really really helps that terpene profile express
It's quite different this round. Well, I thought it's bomb sour this time
It's really garlicky and more earthy and i've been only using the guano and the bovine bone meal
yeah, I usually uh, uh
in the past, uh, uh what I like to
If I had all you know, all the choices in the world, I would get jamaican bat guano and peruvian seabird guano
Uh, the high phosphorus seabird guano the high phosphorus seabird guano
uh is basically uh, one of the best recycled uh fertilizers because it's uh, uh, you know, what does seabirds eat they eat fish
You know, so that's fish fertilizer that's been recycled through a bird
You know the bird gets the heavy metals and all the bad stuff and you get the clean guano with a whole lot of calcium
uh, and the I found with the uh, the bat guano that again with certain plants particularly skunky plants or plants that had a
uh, almost a minty or piney flavor to them, uh that uh, you could not get a greater flavor enhancer than
Uh than guano, you know
It could be as easy as picking up a gallon of bud swell and using it
You know like 10 or 15 mils per gallon a couple times a week. It'll get you there, you know, uh, you know, but uh,
You know, I prefer to use the uh powdered stuff just because it's much more concentrated and I prefer to top dress than use liquids
You know, you know buds. Well is a great old product, but uh, it comes with a hefty price
You know, and it's not uh, it doesn't seem to be as potent as it used to be in the past
But uh, I think that could be just uh, you know, the popular things. Uh, they tend to go south when it comes to mass production
Have you came across fossilized seabird guano before?
Uh, yes, in fact, uh, that's what uh, uh high phosphorus guano is
High nitrogen guano is fresh guano that they've recently harvested so they can harvest that and get that without
Destroying the mine and without killing the the bats, but when it comes to high phosphorus guano, that's way down at the bottom
You know, that's the stuff that's ancient and fossilized and the argument has been in the scientific world
Is because it's old and fossilized is that really guano still or is it a rock phosphate?
Because when you examine it, it looks more like a rock phosphate than it does a guano
And it actually appears more like a rock phosphate than a guano, you know, and if it's that old and fossilized, you know
Then yeah, that's probably you know what it is
And uh, there's a company called plan b and they used to sell a 090 bat guano and now they sell a 090
mineralized rock phosphate
Uh, that is the same thing. It's just uh, uh that they had to change the name of it because back guano
Uh is it's not technically back guano anymore. It's old so old that the back guano is gone. It is a
fossilized rock phosphate
That's what uh, paonia makes they sent me some fossilized seabird guano and I think he was jokingly referring to it
It's like pterodactyl poo. So I was wondering like how old it has to be to get fossilized like that pretty old man
Uh, there was a pterodactyl poo. No, no, it's
uh, but uh, uh, but uh, uh
but there was something again, there's something special about uh, the the enzymes and uh, the
The flavor thing that happens when I use uh back one
I usually split it 50 50 with my seabird guano
I used to do it for cost because back guano always cost a shitload more than seabird guano
You know and I could get a 50 pound bag of seabird guano for 50 bucks and i'm paying 150
To 200 for the back one, you know, so it was an easy, uh swap
Uh to you know do those 50 and I saw a good benefit, you know, the seabird guano tend to give me size and density
and uh frost where the uh, the uh, uh, the back guano tend to give me more frost and flavor
Well, particularly your favorite the jamaican back guano, uh, yeah the jamaican back guano I really love there was a uh
There was another one that uh a guy recommended to me when I went to europe called guano long back guano
Uh, and it was another fantastic I don't know where they uh, theirs came from
but usually most of the time when it comes to uh, uh,
Bloom guanos, they usually came from jamaica or indonesia
You know, usually the white stuff the really old white stuff that was indonesian. It was usually a 0
7-0 or 0 10-0 depending on the mind that it came from but it's those numbers
They're not accurate because they didn't test every bag. They test it by the batch
If they do, you know, they might have tested it when they open the mine
You know, so, uh, you know, like i've seen uh, I used to when I owned a hydro store
I used to see this, you know, like a package would show up one year 0 10 0 next year 0 7 0 year after that
040
You know, it just slowly goes down until the you know, and then it's gone. Sorry. We don't sell that no more the mine
It's gone, you know, we we done used it up
What up, bud, oh, yeah, what's up, bud?
Oh, yeah, oh yeah right there man, I love that, uh, you know that I could always tell the old school guys
When they came into my store because they always bought the same thing. They got a a big uh,
Bag of some sort of cubed soil like sunshine or pro mix they'd get a big bag of the zero or uh, it was the
The grow guano, which was a six three one
And then they'd get a a five gallon jug of budswell and that's it
You know everything else they bought at the at the feed store
Yes lobster
Uh, I I dig what kilowatt was saying in there too. That's one thing I was gonna ask
Do you think it has something to do with the sulfur?
That's in the guano. That is actually what brings out the flavor
Because when we because when we were stirring some bro science soup, that's what we were always talking about how like
You needed the sulfur from the guano to get the dank pretty much. Yes, and
Organics alive I think has talked about that too for sure
Yeah, they're into the sulfur. They have some sulfur microbes for sure
Yeah, uh using sulfates and using uh different uh types of sulfur and sulfur in general
I think is a fantastic flavor enhancer and a great way to prevent uh mold and mildew in your garden
You know, uh, you just don't want it so much that's affecting you the ph of your medium or your uh, or your water, you know, but uh,
But man, I had a some friends. Uh, uh in salem, oregon and uh, they had uh,
Basically, they were friends and they set up the same garden in two different houses
One was on south side of town. The other one was on the north side of town
But dude on the south side of town he had a well
But it was one of those sulfur wells that smelled like rotten meat and he was like, oh, man
It was nothing you want to drink, but he could water his plants with it and they loved it, you know, that's awesome
You know, and he never had any powdery mildew problems. Uh, he ran hydro he ran soil outside never a problem in the world
You know his buddy on the other side of town same equipment same lights same fertilizer came to my same store
Did everything the same, you know, he had nothing but problems with powdery mildew bud mold
He was a good guy. He was a good guy. He was a good guy. He was a good guy
You know, and as soon as he moved out of that house to another part of town starts getting those problems
Wow
That sulfur plays a big role. I think it plays a very big role, you know
I think it's very very underutilized in uh, uh growing cannabis, but I think it's a a great uh flavor enhancer
Basically what turpinator is?
Awesome. Yeah, I think it's a great flavor enhancer. I think it's a great uh,
flavor enhancer
Basically what turpinator is
awesome
Awesome, man. So what uh, yeah, I think it was like potassium sulfate I think
What would you recommend using as like a like a nice bioavailable sulfur or just bioag have a bioavailable sulfur?
uh sulfur is in uh, uh, I believe three or four of our or uh,
Most all I think all of our micronutrients mixes, but if I was looking for a specific way to get sulfur into my soil
Uh, uh specifically, uh, it'd probably be a gypsum before I plant, you know, make sure you got good slow releasing
Uh, you know, it's a good source of micronutrients and it's cheap as hell
Nice, that's awesome. I'm going to integrate that probably into the mix that we uh,
Oh, yeah, probably transplant. Rock dust is a great one too
Careful with the heavy metals with the glacial rock dust. Okay, read that msds sheet. Make sure you're not adding anything with too much
uh
Lead cadmium nickel or arsenic. That's good to know
But it can be dirty, you know and not everything is made the same
I mean, it's another one too, but it can be touchy, you know, you don't want to go too far with uh,
with the epsom salts
You know, but once you learn to use them, uh, they are a fantastic way of uh, get that uh,
There was an old uh gentleman that used to come into my store and uh, he was a rose gardener
And he just swore up and down by uh, epsom salts. That's what he used to flower his plants
That's all that's all he used and I was like, I've never heard such a thing
Just be careful with the wettable sulfur it's easy to go too far
Gotcha
But you're right I think that uh sulfur uh plays a big part in the guano especially that uh, because that old uh,
Uh buds. Well, man, it would stink like sulfur so bad
You could walk by it on the shelf and you'd be like what's that what smells like sulfur?
You know and that changed some time ago. I think it was just because they sold so much
They couldn't let it sit around and get that funky anymore, you know, but uh, you know, it's the same smell from photosynthesis plus
You know, that's the another uh, great source. I use the crap out of that stinky stuff
Uh, but uh, you know, especially if I don't have time to do a compost ease, you know
Take a little bud swell and some photosynthesis plus that's a great a great replacement for uh brewing a tea for bloom
You know, you get a very similar effect not quite the same not you know, but uh, you know close
you know incorporate that with some of that, uh, that uh, uh available, uh, uh,
Uh, uh fish bone meal liquid and man, you got a you got a potent, uh bloom formula there
I dig that you talk about other brands. That's uh, it's awesome
Oh, yeah, man, uh that little that little bat on the front of the bud swell like I don't know that just means something
man for for years, uh, uh, I would use uh, I would uh be pre-mixing my own soil, you know,
usually from one of the old vic high mixes or
Sub cools or one of those and I just use the green buds well for grow with some humic and fulvic and then uh,
You know use the yellow in bloom, you know, even in hydro for years
You know, we throw it through a filter and we throw that in the hydro system for the last week
You know, and there's nothing that would make it taste that state that get that sour diesel that sticky
And you know, it was terrible to clean up that hydro system. It was awful. I hated it
You know, I it's like cleaning up buckets full of farts
but uh, but man, I
The the product spoke for itself. It was worth the work
What are we looking at over here man got some pretty little plants this is a triangle cush this is
Love that triangle cook me a little while to find the fire
I got a bunch of fire. I got something you might like josh. You ever come across the trinity
A very long time ago. Yes. Yes, uh, I got the trinity right here. No kidding. That is awesome, man
I got a trinity. I got an old g13 cut
I got sr71 purple cush. I have a chem d
uh
I got the chem 91 sour diesel
I got the chem 91 in the east coast sour in there and then I have us a sour diesel
That my family's had for a while
and then um, I got diesel in there, too
But yeah that g13 and the tk and the chems i'm in the trinity. I'm like really excited
Yeah, that's nice man. I'm really glad to see that stuff still alive and going
That trinity was something special i'd be more than happy to share a trinity cut with you, man
There's a stuff
The old good
Throw a couple cups in a five gallon bucket and just water it on good stuff
Yeah, I use a liquid guano and booty juice, yeah
One of the first organic, uh runs I ever did was uh, uh, uh
With my friend and we were doing growing blueberry and three gallon pots
and we just throw in a bunch of guano into the soil and watered with a a bud swell and uh, uh,
A humic acid called fossil fuel and man, that was a great fucking run
That would usually be my number one recommendation when people were growing on a budget especially in the old days
I would be like just try to get your hands on some guano and maybe some sugar at the end and just let everything else
Just happen and like you'll probably be happy with it, you know, like and just yeah, they had trouble, you know
Yeah, yeah
You know if you don't want to go to the trouble of buying a ph pen
And i'm the up and the down and all that other crap for the liquid
some guanos some lime
Call it good. Here's some soil try to over water
How much guano would you top dress in a seven gallon pot?
Uh one to two basically like one heaping tablespoon or two even tablespoons
Okay, you know you kind of got an obi-wan konobi that shit, you know
There's not an exact amount when it comes to top dressing with guano
You know, I just like a nice light dusting but by the time I water the first time I don't want to see nothing
It should incorporate right into the soil
And if I can still see some that means I need to take a little fresh soil and sprinkle that over the top
Because it's washed away too much
You know, but I like keeping that nice little fluffy layer on top. It keeps those roots coming up higher
This is the fossilized seabird. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They sent me a bunch of it, too. I was super like a white. Oh, yeah
This is good shit
Yep, that looks like I can't wait to use it
And then I have some uh
Jamaican high fos guano, it looks way different. Oh, yeah, it looks like wet coffee grounds kind of yes
You know exactly what is this? Oh, yeah
That's fantastic guano so this is good for flavor and then like you're saying mix them. Yeah mix them 50 50
Yeah, and then what about um a compost too so they sent me a compost and their compost is killer
It's basically like a one two three on the end on the npk. So it's got that potassium in there
Which is like perfect. So I was thinking of mixing that with this
Um, when do you want to do it? You want to do it?
Like right when do you do it right when you flip them you add the guano?
Yeah, do you do it again right on the top and you'll do it again like in the middle of flower?
And you'll do it again like in the middle of flower
No, it depends on how long the cycle is and how heavily amended my soil is
If my soil is heavily amended and I got fertilizer on the bottom
You know when I put that couple teaspoons on the bottom, I probably won't top dress again
But if my cycle is longer than 12 weeks, i'm gonna need to push that a bit longer, you know
And that's one of the good ways of doing it
Okay, cool. Do you see that question?
No, I missed that question. All right. It's on the screen if you look at the screen. Oh, uh, who's pink gems?
No, the he's asking if those pink gems were potassium or was it phosphorus?
I think in dogs, uh
What's up the pink gems or the pink stuff
What in my closet
Uh, maybe space coyote, can you clarify yeah dog days
Was there pink stuff in what you showed or no? Oh
maybe
I don't think so. It's got like a sandy
Kind of color to it
Yeah, green sand at all. Josh
I'm, sorry. Do you use green sand?
Uh, I have in the past. I found that it's a very hard source
And uh the issue with green sand is that uh to get most of its benefit it takes about three and a half years
Uh for it to break down
So it's not gonna be very useful. It's a long play very very long play in raised bed
So if you're a soil recycler, yeah
But outside of that, uh, uh, not really no
No, I used it a lot with the mixes when I started off and if a mix calls for it i'll get it
You know, but it's nothing that I add on a regular basis any of my mixes anymore
I'd much rather use like different types of rock dusts
Yeah, I find that they're more available faster
And do you do you have kind of a mix or a balance of like fast release and slow release of different
nutrients
Yes. Yes, uh, uh, absolutely
You know the the organic soil that I use has got uh enough soil to get me by for a minimum of
Six to seven weeks and if I top dress and amend that I can get
Easily up to you know, 14 15 weeks out of a you know, 10 15 gallon container
You know, but if I uh, uh end up pushing it and use a lot of uh compost teas and catalysts, you know or
Beneficial microbes in my bloom cycle. I can get it to eat that food up pretty quickly
It just depends on how long the cycle is and the size of container I choose to use
Can you guys hear me over the fans yeah
It's a cherry pie
That's pretty
Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you. I had to come in here and check on these guys
No worries
You're the one with the plants you got the stage
Okay. Yeah, i'll show uh, I got a room in full bloom. So I will show you this one's the afcu these ones are on
Is day 32 for them and then I got these ones are on day
52
You know, so I think they'd be on day 31 and they forget day 31 and day 32
Day 31 and day. Yeah day 31 and day 52
Hey, I don't interrupt
from marty why
Uh, the 12123 seabird guano is all you need i've done that. That is a fantastic all you all in one. Uh, uh,
Uh mix right there. It's a pelletized seabird guano with a ton of calcium
Fantastic. That is one of the few products that you can use by itself to grow a plant
It'll grow a fantastic one back in the day
You know throw a bunch of that shit in the bottom of the hole bunch of that shit on the top of the hole
Set up the watering system check on it every month. Try not to get followed
That's awesome. It's not too much nitrogen for flour
Uh, it is what it is, man. It's kind of like using triple 16. This is guerrilla, you know, uh, don't get it wrong
It'd be better
But a lot of the time that nitrogen is used up at that point, you know, but yeah
My plant is a lot of nitrogen and flour
More flowers and less leaves but by itself. It'll work fantastic and dude is absolutely correct
You can use that by itself and get up bro. Just a beautiful plant. That's a sour diesel
I've been busting my ass to keep this plant healthy just so I can try to get it to go 12 weeks
Uh, yeah
It's all about keeping it keeping it green and keeping it happy
She's not doing too bad. I'm, uh, turning the lights down on him now
I got him down to 75 percent, but I love the sour diesel. I think here i'll come to the other side
One of my most beautiful plants
There's the chem d it bounced back. I missed my stretch period but
It uh looks pretty good
This primus it has uh, arcata train wreck in it
It's a it's basically a three-way hybrid with uh, arcata train wreck pre 98 bubba kush and chem 91
Nice which it is it's nasty
And I absolutely love this plant, but it's it's a looker man. She's real pretty
I don't know if my camera is doing it. Just yeah, that that looks beautiful
Today's day 52. There's a lot of weight like this one's heavy and it's holding itself up
Like you can see the sours flopping all over the place
I actually took some string and like zigzagged it up to so it doesn't flop too bad on the floor
But this primus holds itself up and it's got the biggest buds in the room
Nice, it's like my favorite one of my favorite plants, though
That's a good one
Josh you see that blackstrap molasses blackstrap molasses and flour. Uh
You can you know, uh, I find uh, i'd much rather use uh, uh, uh, what's it called? Uh, uh,
Uh corn sugar dextrose then uh, then molasses and flour
Uh, I found that uh molasses, uh, it works well, you know, it's cheap. It's rarely available
So I can't say it's bad to use in flour that that would be that would be ignorant, you know, I just prefer
uh, uh corn the the flavor and the frost I get from using uh dextrose over using uh molasses
Molasses I really like uh for the micronutrients, uh in veg, but I don't like uh, how
Much I use and how much it attracts fungus gnats after I use it
You know if I have any sort of a fungus gnat issue and i'm use any sort of molasses it tends to make the issue explode
Uh, and I and I I just don't like using it as much. Uh anymore
Yes
Uh, you're muted, uh, he muted you
Do you think that the molasses has the potential to suffocate the microbiology as well?
Uh, well i've asked uh quite a few uh people about that and uh, uh,
uh, pretty much uh from like uh, uh,
You know, uh people that i've talked to that are much smarter than me and gone to college and you know
How to use microscopes and shit like that
uh, they pretty much uh said that if I got if you got a choice between sugar or
Micronutrients and organic matter like humates and uh, uh meals like uh, kelp meals
Those will feed uh, the microbes better than molasses will
You know, so you're better off using like a combination of uh, humic acid seaweed micronutrients
and alfalfa then uh, uh by itself then adding a molasses to that, you know, that'll it'll it'll feed it more, you know, but
Uh, if you don't have a good source of micronutrients molasses is a very good cheap source of micronutrients and magnesium
You know, it's got a ton of goodies in there. You know, you just don't want to overuse it. It's often overused
I used to hammer it. I haven't used it all the time. I have
Five or six years, but I loved it. I mean I have I abused it, you know
I still I love the results I got but I haven't really put me in in like five or six years or so
Yeah, I I'm about there with you, you know a lot of the molasses stuff I haven't used in in some time, you know
there are some uh old uh, uh bloom recipes that I have that i'll pull out of the
The closet every once in a while that call for it and i'll throw it in there, you know
But but I don't think i've used any of those in a couple years
You know, it's really nostalgic. Would you use the dextrose in like your teas instead of the molasses?
Absolutely. That's what I use instead of the teas. I think uh, I think i'll probably start doing that as well
And you can get it at any uh, you know, it's really you know, you can buy it
At a hydro store under the name carbo blast
Carbo blast or that's a funny name. I love that or you can go to a uh beer store and buy a 50 pound bag for
five bucks
Nice, you know, so go to a brewery store
awesome
And that's so sweet man, I paid so much for like just that like, you know bottle of molasses from dildo soil
But I get a 50 pound bag for five bucks of dextrose
Come on. Well, I want to say it was actually it was actually like I want to say 18 dollars worth it
I mean that's still more worth it
But yeah, you know, I mean I used to just buy I got like a quart or a liter like a small one, you know
Like I used to sell it, uh from a canadian company in my store in a five pound container for a hundred bucks
Sick, you know and I would sell the crap out of those things. That's awesome and a little uh canisters that were half
Or I think they were one pound
Uh, and those were like, uh, uh, like 40 bucks, you know, but but you didn't use a lot of it, you know
But you can use a lot of it, you know, like i'm using it in hydro
I'm only using like a quarter of a teaspoon per gallon and i'm mixing it with hot water first to dissolve it
So it goes into my hydro system
You know, uh, but if i'm using it in organic soil i'm mixing like anywhere from a tablespoon to two tablespoons per gallon
You know i'm using it a lot thicker but man if you want to get that, uh, that sour diesel to make it fuel
You know, that is the uh, you know that chem dog to get it to smell like, you know dead stuff. That's how you get it
Hell yeah
Yeah, I want him to smell I want I want the cops to come to my house
Trying to do a search for a dead body because it reeks so fucking bad of good weed
And so with a lot of things like the sour where people say it's turps that are sort of don't exist anymore
Do you think it is the lack of these inputs?
That that is contributed to at least in the marketplace of not being around anymore
uh
I'm, sorry. What was your question?
So I guess just with with a lot of things like particularly the sour people say it just doesn't exist anymore
Do you think it's partially that people aren't using these inputs commercially and that's why you don't see it around?
I think it's that uh, it was a line that was never uh, it was a bag seed
Uh originally, you know, uh from that line
So, uh it uh, it just wasn't stabilized in a professional garden and a lot of you know
That's why you find a lot of these uh great. Uh,
Plants from the past aren't around anymore because they weren't bred by professionals in a professional environment, you know
They they're not going to stand the test of time
You know when they're inbred and they're multiple crosses of crosses of crosses with no real forethought of you know
What you're gonna get and they just got a luck of the draw and they got a killer plant, you know
and that's awesome, but you know when you breed like that you're breeding plants to grow like uh,
Like a like a flare like a road flare not a candle
You know one's gonna burn for a very long time and stand the test of time a flare is gonna burn bright and hot
And be awesome. And once it's burned out, it's done and it's toast
Oh what you got hanging there, buddy?
This is the purple punch. I wanted to say
That sour though because that sour is absolutely still around like so is the trinity
They're just not commercial strains and I feel like the people in the dispensaries
The shit on the shelves in the dispensary is not going to be a good representation of real sour
Or real piff or you know, they're real good shit. That's like heirloom to us now
And like my family's been growing that sour cup for 11 almost 12 years
And i've i've had real sour since I was 13 and I love it. No, that's awesome
But it's i've never had it in a dispensary ever. Yeah, for sure
Yeah, I grew the sour diesel for years and I can't say as i've ever had real sour diesel come out of the dispensary
You know, I found some other you know in oregon I found some uh, some old school strains here and there
You know, like, you know, like i'll find the cherry aka sometimes, you know, i'll see uh, you know, some
train wreck every once in a while or uh, you know, sometimes you'll come across a really good old super silver haze or a good uh,
Uh used to see uh, some good ogs here and there, you know
But those have kind of given way to the cookies and the gelatos, unfortunately
uh, but uh
You know, none of those aren't good. I just you know, i'm old. I like my old stuff
I like the old stuff too. Shout out to mr
Toad for hooking me up and introducing me to good old stuff because i'm really grateful. That's all I want to smoke
I got a garden full of plants that are mostly older than me
That's awesome, man
Not this one though. This is a purple punch, but I didn't keep a mom of this. This was just a great you just chopped that one
Yeah, I just barely cut this down. Uh
It's day 52 or I think it's day 53 and I triggered the plants like I didn't switch them straight to 12 12
I went down from like 20 and 4 to 12 12 over the course of like a week
So I think this one triggered faster because i've never seen a plant flower so fast like this this has pretty
It's pretty damn done dude, and I wanted to let it fade a little bit more
But it's been getting like over 100 degrees every day here
and uh
I'm running like 2000 watts of led in there and I have an old air conditioner
I just I got a new one that'll be here on wednesday
But it's been hitting 88 in my flower room and i'm just not comfortable with that right now. I want to I don't like
So I shut down one of the lights and I was able to put all the other plants
There's 10 more in there that I was able to fit all them in that
It's a nine by four and a half foot canopy when I get it crammed in there
And those three lights are covering that so i'm doing that with the with about a thousand watts because I got them turned down
This is a big fucking plant man. This is gonna be close to half a pound. I put it in. Uh, I think this is a seven gallon
Oh nice big ass square pot
But i'm pretty happy with this
I've been i've been growing a lot of small plants and I was literally smoking like a plant a day
so
big ones
That's lit bro
I love that real smokers
So josh, let me throw that question up again
Okay, uh, yeah, I did I gotta look at this real quick
Uh, what's your opinion on using ferris silk absolute acid to break the caliphos bond in order to make both available in bloom?
I have never done that personally so I couldn't say specifically
uh
Yes, uh on that I have uh, uh heard of such things but I have not done that myself
so I could not comment on uh, whether that works awesome or not, I would uh from what I've heard what i've read it is a
Very valid technique, but uh, but I can't comment on it because I haven't done it. You know, i'm, sorry
That is a very good answer when you have not had experience with something just to say I don't know
Oh, the wisest thing you can say is I don't know
Yes, so the most polite
participant go
Would that be a similar bond break as using like, uh, unflavored seltzer water
Uh
It could be yeah, you know, I know that
a lot of the time back in the day they would incorporate uh, a lot of
What was it? Uh soft rock phosphate powder whenever they used a lot of feather meal and uh
Uh, I want to say feather meal and bone meal in the same mix
otherwise when they would mix together and it would start to uh compost it would gas off a good chunk of the nitrogen unless you had
the uh, uh soft rock phosphate powder in there to prevent it, uh, I again, I uh
I remember reading that in some of my old books, uh for my old soil recipes, uh back in the day
I'm, pretty sure the rev talks about that in some of his uh, uh in one of his books
uh, but uh
But I think that's that same some sort of relation there where you know
This chemical bond is locked to here and then this either unlocks it or binds it somehow or helps them all bind together and become available
you know, uh, but uh, you know, uh,
Yeah, I I didn't go to college. I just grew pot
I I hear you. I didn't make it far
Yeah, I went uh for uh, uh two semesters to be a mechanic to find out I don't like working on cars
Yeah
If it is some sort of similar chemistry to that with using seltzer water
I could attest to like, you know
Super duper results as far as bro science what I was doing. I was adding a bunch of uh liquid limestone like pulverized
to the mix at the end jacking the
Phup very high
and then using the seltzer water to drop the ph back down to whatever range I want and uh
I think what that was doing from what I remember was like releasing the calcium bond
I'm, not sure if it's calcium phosphorus like the comment was
But a lot of my friends and like people I would talk about it with didn't believe me
I'm, like yo seltzer water at the end
Like i'm telling you people think I was just spreading misinformation or just being a kook but uh, the plants loved it
That's hilarious. Uh, there was a guy way back in the day who I uh
He was gave me some of my first really good cuttings I ever got when I first started growing with my stepbrother
And one of the things he would do was at the end of his cycle. He would pour
uh
He called it bubbly water over his plants, you know about two weeks before harvest and I never understood
But I saw him do it once and his soil raised up and shit and i'm like that's cool as hell
I would do it just because that looks cool as hell
You know, uh, but for the longest time I thought it was peroxide for some reason, but it wasn't it was uh
It was seltzer water, you know
the
Like perrier or some shit, you know, but uh
it is
It is was
Really really greasy sticky funky and he wasn't doing anything special like he was using like
Basically, not all that different than miracle grow
You know, but it was one of those old northern lights afghani, uh strains that you just don't see anymore, you know
It smells like uh, you know, uh, like hash and dead stuff
So, I think this is uh from that last or was it abraham as that last question
Uh, no worries josh i've been trying it recently on southbrook street
Uh
Calfoss in my experience kind of floats on the water. It tends not to be very soluble, you know
So you might give that a good agitation?
Uh a couple times a day just to make sure it's uh mixing in with there and it doesn't turn into a patty on you
you know, but uh
But I have used calfoss before it works good
Since you know a thing or two about humix and fulvix
Fulvix open catamaran eye exchange using cell auctions that last
Cool
Very cool
Was that a raised hand or was that just a peace sign
Yeah
It was just a peace sign
But I will take this time to say that I agree in working with the seltzer water
It's so cool
like if gummy girl comes down like i'll start saying stuff from willow willy wonka when he's in like the fizzy lifting room and
like that's so awesome with all the bubbles and like
It's just fun to have a reservoir full of bubbles. Like I I totally agree
absolutely
Damn I might have to start I might have to start integrating some seltzer water. That's funny
So I ended up taking some clones using the uh tech that we discussed last time and they're pretty happy
Uh in some root riot cubes right now just uh
Yeah, they're doing good
I've just been giving them a little bit of calmag and a little bit of the hygros on in the ro
Uh, just keeping them wet every day making sure they're wet and draining the tray out giving them a little mist got the vents open
Uh, just still looking for some roots on them, but they all look alive and happy
So now make sure that you don't get them too wet every day
Okay, because of being wet and drying out that makes it cut and grow roots and look for water
Awesome. Most of the time you don't want to get them wet again until they've lost half to a third of their weight
But if you pour them in your room and you're using a heat mat that can be in a day
You know how you get the fastest rooted cuttings
That's how that's how I can take rock wool and I can get a rooted ready to transplant cutting in eight days
But I got to be there to check on it and monitor it every day twice a day
Yeah, you know, they will not wait on you and when they dry out at that point they are done done
You know
Yeah
If you're using the hydrazine on a regular that gives you a little bit of insurance where if you catch them a little wilty
You can bring them back. You know if you just catch them, you know
But yeah, that's my my favorite way of doing a warm
Warm cuttings, you know with rock wool or root riots root riots are going to be a little bit faster
Uh and a little bit more forgiving with the over watering than rock cool
I'm using i'm using root rides. Thankfully. I may have I may have kept them a little too wet, but they're looking really happy
So i'll just give them some time to dry. They were drying out the dome though, which was a good sign for me good. Yeah
Have you used vam for cuttings like dip it in your clone gel roll it in some vam plug it?
I never have
I have
you know, but uh
Really? It's kind of like when you're doing that you're kind of like doing the same thing as equivalent of doing a seed, uh seed soak
You know or seed coating, you know where you're not going to see an effect from it until the roots come out
But uh, you will absolutely if you're using a cloning gel, uh, when those roots come out they will explode
Out of the side of that, uh sucker, you know
That's kind of like the same reason why a lot of people like to use that nitrogen fixing bacteria
Uh in their dip, you know same deal, you know
They've got it sitting there waiting to waiting for it and it keeps them nice and green the whole time
Uh, because it'll go through that stem but you know, bam
They just blow up when you got something like that waiting for them in the in the cube
Doesn't matter the cube doesn't matter the the something just as long as you got something in a cube
I like to use some kind of mycorrhizae when i'm cloning
I'll use photo plus too because it has mycorrhizae in there and it's a liquid but I have noticed that like
The photo plus helps but if I use that vam like I have a couple of plants that don't root the best and that
Vam seems to like do something better. I don't know if it's just me seeing that or not, but
Like anecdotally, it's that vam seems to do wonders cloning
Yeah, absolutely
So we uh
Hold on
Oh, we got the
Huh, we have a question from the good lobster
It was more of a clarification so what I exactly was doing with the uh,
The ground up limestone in the seltzer water was trying to raise the ph of the soil
I don't know if I had mentioned that so the same as when you feed too much guano and stuff like josh was saying
I was pretty much just trying to
Compensate for that and keep the soil ph in a somewhat optimal range
Yeah
But uh right here, uh, brian420pm asks does fulvic acid benefit hydro or a waste
It is 150 a benefit. It is not a waste, you know use that shit. I actually used your fulvic
The only uh thing really organic that I use in hydro, you know when i'm doing serious, you know real hydro
You know, it makes a huge difference and you either use it one of two ways either use it at full strength
You know, whatever the recommended dose is on the bottle all the way and you reduce everything else down by at least 30 percent
You know, so if you're at 1400 parsimilion, you're at a grand
You know and you're going to get the same yields
But you're going to get a lot better flavor because you're using less salt and you're building up less salt in the plant over a shorter
period
or
You do the same 1400, uh, uh ppm or you raise it another 200 and you add it in at 10 mils per gallon
And that will increase the uptake give you a larger root mass give you bigger stocks just like at the larger rate
But it's not going to catalyze the fertilizer so much that uh, you're going to see a burning effect by running those high ppms
You know, but it just depends on what you're going for quantity and quality or just extreme quantity, you know, uh these days
Uh, if you got everybody's got quantity, it's the quality that counts, you know
But uh adding fulvic acid having that little bit of organic input and a little bit of carbon can make a huge difference in the
Quality of flavor that you get at the end with your hydro, you know
Adding just those little bit of organic products into a hydro system
Even if it's just for the last couple four weeks can make a huge huge difference and incorporating a fulvic acid the entire time
Really really helps build that root base and big thing build those stocks
You know, I think i'm a huge believer in uh, fulvic acid and silica in hydro, you know
If I got to choose two supplements and nothing else, but my food those that's what i'm using
My uh, sorry, I I spaced out I spaced out right at the second where you said that's what i'm using. What are you using?
Uh, the fulvic uh fulvic and silica in my head. Okay, if i'm using anything but a base food
Those are the first two additives and if they have to be they're my only two additives
I that you know, those are half to halves in any hydro system in my opinion
They make a such a big difference and they're so cheap compared to the cost of not using them. Uh, the difference is monstrous
You know silica enthusiasts in the crowd
What what thoughts on microbes and hydro systems
Well, uh, my opinion there is you're choosing one school of thought either you're going uh, uh,
Scorched earth, which means kill everything i'm using a sanitizer death to all microbes
I want to see through my reservoir. I want to see no funk. I want to see no film
I want to know my roots to be white because they're white not because some funky color is going in there
Making them not white, you know, or I am going to foster bacterial growth
I'm going to use lots of bacteria lots of microbes and i'm going to use uh,
Products like protein skimmers and different types of filters to clean my water to make sure i'm not getting an awesome awful
Bioslime growing in my stuff, which i'm inevitably going to get but uh, I found incorporating
That all that organic matter in with my hydroponics gives me a quality that I could not achieve with hydroponics before that
So like when I originally switched to hydroponics when I was in my 20s from soil a couple of the plants I like to grow
Went from being really good to being okay
You know and i'm like what the hell man, these were fire and soil
They're, you know kind of schwaggy and in hydro, you know, what's the deal there?
You know and until I started incorporating those organic inputs at the end of flowering and throughout the my flowering cycle
I wasn't getting that quality, you know, I wasn't getting that I was getting my frost I was getting my yield
You know, which is fantastic, but I wasn't get that flavor. I wasn't getting that taste
I wasn't get that clean burn, you know, and that's you know, big thing to clean burn, you know
I was able to get some of the flavor, you know, but uh, you know with flavor enhancers and flushing on a regular basis
You know, but uh, you know and drying my plants very slow
but uh, but the big thing was is uh, you know, uh, uh, uh, incorporating
All that different organic stuff for the bulk of my cycle
Especially when I was when I went from a recirculating hydro system to a non-recirculating system
That's where I got the best yields and the highest quality incorporating more organic matter and less chemicals
When are cuttings
Yours, what what are you stopping using silicon? Oh around week between week four and six depending on my flowering cycle
You know somewhere around a little bit less than halfway
Oh
Looking good
Mold from i've been chopping and dropping. I really like it when I see that shit. Oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, so that's the g sole. It's gonna be the new mama
Very nice. So it's interesting. So you went from soil to hydro and then back to soil. Yes, I did
Interesting. What what was the kind of hydro sometimes too? You know, I I uh do consulting in very large gardens and uh,
You know, I gotta help the big guys, uh, just like you gotta help the small guys
You know, they just do stuff differently, you know, you got to do stuff differently when you got 20 000 plants than when you got
A dozen, you know, it's just a different. It's a it's a test in uh, organization and uh,
And uh keeping things straight, you know, that's that's the true test
How organized can you keep everything when you've got 180 000 plants in a facility and you've got more than a thousand lights running?
You know, that's a lot of stuff to keep under control that's you know different people managing, you know
Different groups of people that are managing different groups of people
You know, that's a lot to keep track of, you know, and that's you know
Once you got all that mastered, you know, and everything's as long as your gardens are put together
Well, you know when you don't have environmental issues or you're not creating problems for yourself via bugs or fungus or bad habits
You know running those bigger gardens is pretty easy these days with all the automated stuff
They have that they didn't have back in the day, you know dosers and uh automated watering systems
Or you can literally just buy the fertilizer from the guy drop it in the thing and set it to the thing and away you go
Vulvic and humic acids will break down any nutrients and help them make available the plant humic and volatile acids are brought ph
Absolutely
That is 100 correct, sir
Minerals make for more ion exchange so that's more capable
Yeah, that is absolutely true
But uh
Here's a question from uh early in the conversation
Okay, what's the smallest pot you could comfortably grow in living soil in?
uh
Usually, uh in living soil the smallest I like to do is uh one gallon for every foot of plant height
And every month my plants are alive
So that's one foot for one gallon
uh
For every month, you know, uh, so
You know if you want to keep it alive
You can keep it alive and keep it happy in a small plant or in a very small container
It's just I wouldn't recommend flowering a plant in a living soil in a small container
Is like the limit you think like for like giving yourself a reasonable amount of time for flower like a seven gallon or something
Or like an eight or like a ten
uh, usually I like uh, uh to uh triple uh
To quadruple the size of whatever i'm in. So if i'm in a two
I like a seven would be the smallest I would flower it
You know if i'm in a one I can go into a five, you know, but uh, but again
That's the you know, I might end up having to water that five twice a day at the end
you know, so
I'm gonna go from threes. So do you recommend maybe going to like a 10 or yeah, i'd say a 10
Yeah, I like to uh with something like that. I would go with a 10 or a 15
You know, I like to take a like a 15 and put 10 gallons of soil in it
Cool, you know 12 gallons of soil because then it gives me a lot of room to top dress later on and get me further
Awesome, but I don't if I don't have to have that soil mass there
All that that's going to do is screw up my flavor and it's a waste later on because I didn't get to use it
Gotcha, you know, so i'd so i'd rather have the space to to add to but uh, you know, not necessarily use gotcha
Gotcha, you know, but once you get it figured out, you know, like uh, you know, uh, you know
Once you get a size dialed in, you know, like a seven gallon, you know, like if you can fit 27 gallons in a four by eight
Uh, uh tray and you can fit, you know somewhere around a little less than a thousand watts over the top of that
That's an easy five pounds. Oh, that's awesome. I'm i'm uh
Probably gonna flower in about a four by eight or a five by ten. I got like, uh, 1600 watts over them. So
Should be good. Uh, just you gotta dial the genetics in first gotta do the phenyl height
Then my big flower run
Can you flop can you when you flower a plant in a seven gallon get four ounces
If you can get four ounces out of a seven gallon pot, you know for 20
times four
boom
nice
So by by the way, this is marty from sensational solutions. He's watching right now
So that's that's the guy from sensational solution. Absolutely. That's marty. I love that guy
shout out
And then uh, what up div I haven't seen you in a long time. Uh, did you do you use any um,
Like uh any of the like, uh, what is aeroponic? Uh cloners?
Oh, I used to I used to build and sell them. Yeah. Yeah, I used to uh use them religiously
uh, but uh, uh,
When I stopped using them was because uh, I had a plant that uh had a plant disease
Uh vexillium wilt and I ended up putting it in my uh,
My nice fancy cloner and giving it to all my other goddamn plants and wiping out my entire stock
So that was the last time I used a single aeroponic cloner to clone
but but but if you took cuttings from just one plant and put them all in one and then cuttings from another plant and
Another would be fine. Okay, so it's because you took like from eight different plants. Yep
Disease. Yep, and it ruined the whole punch. But yes, that's what I recommend
Larger gardens, you know have one cloner per strain, you know that way if there's an issue if there's a problem
It's only one strain one thing and in fact, you're better off having to have backups for backups
You know if you really care about it you need to have more than one
You know and uh, but the big thing with uh cloning, uh, I used to like to uh,
Like the some of the first hydroponic systems I used were true aeroponic systems, you know
We used to build them out of four by eight, uh flood tables, you know
we'd go and buy sign board, uh from the local sign shop and it looks like uh,
Like a cardboard but it's made out of plastic and we'd cut six inch holes in them. You could fit about uh,
60 of those give or take on a uh, four by eight sheet, you know about 30 on each side and uh,
You know, you'd build a big h at a pvc and you know put that under it and uh,
then you'd build a little support so it supports the top and tape the top down and fill the baskets full of hydroton and uh,
You know use a simple uh flood and drain reservoir beneath that with just a little crappy submersible pump and away you go
You know, you just gotta run. That's awesome
You know and we'd uh, you know get about uh, you know an ounce or two per plant, you know
But uh, you know, you figure you got back then we had a thousand on a light mover over each four by eight
You know and uh, you know two times uh, uh 60
You know, that's not a bad yield for a four by eight and a thousand on a light mover
Uh
in terms of just staying on the the
prevention of spreading disease, uh
Lobster we talked what was it like dipping in the cloning gel and uh,
And and having like just a little cap like a bunch of different little capfuls so that you're not
Do you remember that conversation?
Absolutely. Um, I would co-sign that for sure and that's uh, certainly my approach these days is to
Have a cup for each. Uh plant that i'm taking gets its own dunk
I'm trying to keep the so here's like, uh, you know situational as well. There's an ideal version and there's reality
So what the the procedures that i'm taking are i'm trying to spread the plants out more in the tray
So that the open wounds on the leaves can't touch each other so they can't pass the fluid that way it's by far perfect
But that's how i'm trying and also to take the plants out
As the roots are just coming out of the cube so that the roots can't touch each other and pass any fluid that way
And uh, these aren't foolproof techniques, but uh, it's always situational trying to do the best
And uh, that's about the best I can do now definitely bleach in all the equipment in between
um
I don't wear I don't wear gloves just because i'm very anti-latex. I don't know. Uh, that's on like a whole nother level
We won't go there. But like I try to
I try to keep my hands. They fucked my hands up
Yeah
But I try to keep my hands and my fingers away from all the open wounds as i'm taking cuttings
I kind of have new muscle memory already where the technique's a little different and like as my fingers go down
It just stays away from the wounds all the way until it's in the cube
And uh
Yeah
Clean procedures always are the way to do it. Hey, judge
What what would you what would you use to clean equipment like your scissors and stuff as you're going from like mom to mom?
Oh, uh, 99 alcohol
Okay, I was using a razor blade for each plant. Yeah
Just like what he said. I got a most of the time
Yeah, uh you get the uh, the uh, what is it the 200 100 pack yeah, I got a hard pack
Home depot. Yeah
But but the alcohol that that does that's not effective against hop latent. Viroid. Is it?
Uh, no, but uh, i'm not really worried about hot latent viroid right now
Yeah, yeah, i'm very sure everyone knows the context of one but uh, but yes that uh for uh,
if you're in california, then uh that uh, you'd have to use more than uh, rubbing alcohol for uh for that, but
Well, yeah, don't buy my strategy for I I don't actually have anybody else's cuts
I've just done everything from seed and supposedly hlvd can actually be passed through seed from what i've heard. But um,
I don't know if that's true or not. But um
I just use a different razor blade for every plant. I feel like that's like, uh,
Along with all the other, you know techniques that lobster was talking about
um, just general clean practices
Good way to avoid but yeah the individual razor blade for every plant is definitely a good way for uh,
You to prevent hlvd spreading. Yeah, but you have to I guess change your gloves too and be really careful and
If you're if you're really dedicated to it, you know
And you really want to be clean you change your gloves if you have any fluids from the plant, you know
You use a different cutting tool every time
Um, but yeah, there's lots of ways to go about it
I'm looking at the chat. Zach. Marty is from
Uh sensational solutions, which josh mentioned, uh early in the show
Yes, he's got fantastic products I sold them for years at my store and used them for years they work fantastic
In in terms of kind of observing
products that have kind of
Come to market. Let's say over the past 10 years. Are there any?
like any stuff that you're like
What you you haven't I mean you haven't run a shop in a long time
But have you been like keeping track of kind of like what jobs are carrying and stuff?
And so can you talk about kind of like some of the stuff that's come in that
Is is like
Like makes you like pay attention being like oh shit. That's some good stuff
um, I really like a a lot what's developing in the organic world, you know, uh,
places like a a blacksmith, uh, you know, they've got all these uh, different, uh, beneficial bacterias and
Uh, you know fantastic, uh fixing microbes, you know, uh, you've got uh companies like uh,
They're called bio works
uh, they do regalia and uh, uh, all these other uh, organic, uh,
Insecticides and fungicides that nothing like that was available back in the day, you know, we had you know systemic stuff
And we had stuff that didn't work that good, you know, uh, I just got something called venerate the other day
That's another that's from those same guys. That's fantastic. Yeah, and you can use uh, uh different products because it's a bacteria to enhance its
efficacy, you know, you can yeah, i'm gonna mix it with two other things a surfactant soap and then also a boveria basania botanigard
That i'm gonna activate in a tea
Yep, you should add a tm7 or cyto plus to that too. Oh, I will thank you so much
I I might already have both of those but i'll make sure to get a sample from peter if not
You can also use full power
It I actually just ran out so i'm gonna go grab some more of that tomorrow first thing
I've been using that in every, you know real grow i've done
you know, so I I used to you know grow when I was 16 back in the day in the yard, but
Uh, you know, ever even in the hydro we use full power
Mm-hmm
Yeah, I uh, actually, uh when I started using fulvic acid, I didn't start with full power. I started with the uh,
The stuff from I think was from canada
uh, you know, and then I used uh some stuff from uh, uh,
I think it was called ruby fu and I used diamond nectar for a little while, you know, and then uh, you know, uh,
One day i've told the story a million times but uh, dr. Faust was in my store
And uh, you know I was complaining because uh
The department of ag just came in and pulled all the fulvic acid off my shelf because it wasn't registered, right?
You know and then it started going bad in my back room before I could get it fixed or send it back to you
Know you can't send it back to canada, you know, uh, you know, but uh, he's like hey man
I sell that in 50 gallon drums to farmers and i'm like we'll throw in some quarts and gallons. Let's start selling it
I was like 2004 2005 or something like that
But amazing and now we're here. Yeah
Yeah, now my store is gone, but i'm still selling it but uh, yeah full power is the best dude everyone
Everyone's always been like oh, yeah full power is the best
You know, it's just one of those things when uh, when I add it it always seems to help and I've
I've never been able to hurt anything with it, you know, uh, and most of the products that we uh sell are like that
That's why I like biostimulants in general. That's why I like seaweed. So I like bug swell
That's why I like photosynthesis plus and armory, you know
Because I see a great benefit and I never see a disadvantage from using any of that stuff
You know, I love phosphorus fixed bacterias and nitrogen fixing bacterias, you know all that stuff instead of a chemical fertilizer works fantastic
you know using amino acids instead of uh, uh,
Mineral fertilizers, you know, uh, any of that stuff works great, you know, uh build the soil has got a fantastic
Bloom booster that I love that's amino acid based
uh, yeah, I think it's like a
211 two or a 272 or something like that, you know, but uh, fantastic organic
uh bloom additive that you know, there was nothing like that back in the day, you know, everything was uh, uh, the uh, uh, was it uh,
zero 50 30 or uh, zero 10 10 or uh, uh, the 10 50 10
You know or the 30 10 10, you know, and uh, you know, if you would they wouldn't ask for uh, uh,
Brand names back in the day. They'd ask for numbers, you know, where's the triple five? Where's the triple 20?
If you were doing a seed run
What would be a slight tweak so instead of
Doing a flower run you want seeds?
Would there be a tweak and kind of the the nutrients as you go into flower? Um,
Uh, would you do more of something less of something else? I I like to incorporate a lot more of the sugars
uh, uh, the dextrose I talked about that before
Uh, I would incorporate a lot of that, uh in uh, both in water and in uh, uh compost tea
uh in veg and in flour
You know that seems to uh make a nice big difference for me
You know, I think I don't know why I don't have any I can't give you any scientific basis for that
But uh, you know seeds look better when I do it with them when I don't you know more candy striped more of them and happier
I I think uh
Tony from I don't know it was today or a couple days ago was
Tony from boneyard seeds, uh was talking about bumping up potassium
Uh
I already uh, uh incorporate uh quite a bit of potassium. Uh at the beginning of flowering
Uh with some of my foliar sprays, but absolutely
uh, I I see an absolute benefit from doing that at the beginning and uh throughout most of the flowering cycle with uh,
Uh when you're you know growing for seeds
So so basically the potassium you add in there's enough available so the plant can take it as it needs it or wants it
uh, well, I actually get it from uh, the uh, not only from my soil, but uh, I supplement that with uh,
a product called cyto plus
And if i'm uh, if i'm not using cyto plus and I still need that effect. There's another product I like called high tide
Uh, uh that is a a cold pressed liquid seaweed that I use for the same effect
But doesn't have the same amount of micronutrients so I can use it later and more often
When do you want to cut out the micronutrients in flower, uh
and a week two
Oh like cut them completely. You don't want to use that's a uh from week
Uh one week before to about uh, the second week of flower your micronutrients needs double and triple during that window
And you want to incorporate much more micronutrients in that time and you will trigger flower much harder and you will prevent yellowing earlier
Uh from happening, uh later on in flowering if you supplement micronutrients at that time, you know
micronutrients can be subbed out for a lot of different uh, uh, uh boosters that are normally used in hydro that they use
potassium and phosphorus for for triggering bloom for enhancing bloom a little bit later on it just depends on where you get those
Micronutrients from whether it's from seaweed whether it's from humic acids or fulvic acids, you know and uh, or sulfates
You know, it just depends on you know, where you're getting those from but I usually at the beginning, you know, I like to uh, use
Uh a supplement more but with micronutrients I keep running it until I cut off all my fertilizer at the very end
You know once I get my uh my flush, you know, and usually I like to have a lot of plain water at the end
You know, I like to have a one and a half to two days of water
Plain water for every week of flowering, you know, so that means if i'm flowering for eight weeks
I'm probably going to be flushing for about 10 days
you know, and I'll usually use something like a
You know a silica drench on my first day
And then for my next watering that next day or the day after depending on my watering cycle whether it's every day or every other day
uh, i'll use something like uh, uh
Uh, I used to use a product called pure. Uh, there's a one I use now called spectrum ds
By a company called tallow and it's a another blend of
microbes that uh, uh strips salt it gets the salt to go away and break down and flush away with the water
Uh, so it no longer becomes available to the plant, you know
So basically i'm trying to stop the uptake of fertilizer from my medium to my plant
And I want to metabolize all the fertilizer that's built up in the leaves
You know, and that's when I get that and when I get that action to happen with using those few products
over that first couple of days
Uh from the rest of the time I just use plain water and quite a bit of it
You know, this is the only time where I get quite a bit of runoff, uh from my containers
Uh, and if I can, uh, if i've been flowering for longer than nine weeks
I'll probably catch my water a couple of times and check the parts per million and make sure that it's going down
significantly with each watering
You know, if it's not i'll have to incorporate something else some more of that spectrum ds
Or another silica flush to loosen up more of the salt to get it to go away
You know and flush for a little longer, you know, but i'm very much of the opinion i'd rather take my plant
Uh, you know three or four days late, you know and flush longer than to not flush enough
Yeah, I agree i'm gonna try to go a couple weeks on
The plants I got in right now, you know
That was a problem I had with a lot of the soil mixes when I started my organic soil thing
Was they were too heavy and they had too much slow releasing nitrogen and too much slow releasing potassium in there
Way too long and I couldn't get the flavor the big thing to burn that I wanted and when I got the flavor
Everything would still burn to a black coal
I could never get the ash that I know I should be getting is because there was too much
Uh fertilizer still available in the plant, you know as soon as I started incorporating, uh silica and uh, uh,
The microbes to help break up that bond just like using a salt leaching solution in a hydro system
You know, you're breaking up that salt and either stopping it from going into the plant or washing it away with the water afterwards
Would fulvic acid, uh be good to add at the end like that to tie stuff up or
No, no, the fulvic acid is more of like a slow
Uh thing for increasing uptake you're what you're trying to do is the exact opposite of that
You're trying to reduce uptake
We're trying to neutralize the ability of your organic soil to uptake the food or
You want to be at the point where you've used up all the food and you chose the right size of container
So there is no extra food in there
You know, you've already you know
You know, you've already you know, you already started to see a light yellow right right there right about week six, you know
And then you know, you're good to go and you don't have to do a much of that silliness
You know a little bit of it. I have a super quick question
So like if let's say I was going to go from threes to sevens or threes to tens
Um, if that's even reasonable with the space that i'll have cool
I'm, i'm thinking if sevens work that might be what I want to do
But you think by uh by the end of you know, an average flower cycle
I should have probably used up all the nutrients in that container on a I feel like that's on the smaller side, right?
Uh, that would be about right, you know, uh, if you've got uh, uh, if you're if you've got them
You know relatively close together in a you know in a space like that and you're running in the numbers of like
Let's say 20 plus for a four by eight, you know, 10 plus for a four by four then uh, then that's absolutely
uh, uh, uh,
The where you want to be, you know anything, you know
The more you get the more soil size you have the more forgiveness you have in your watering
Yeah, the more you'll get but you know that forgiveness comes at a cost
That cost is is that you're going to have more fertilizer that's available at the end and with uh, you know heavier feeding plants
It's not going to matter but with those lighter feeding plants
They're going to be more finicky and you're not going to necessarily get the terpene profile that you want or the flavor profile that you want
I'm really hoping to get some nice flavor expressions on this
No, all good
I'm, really hoping to get some really nice true flavor expressions on these phenos that i'm hunting and then flowering out and I know there's
Going to be some variants because i'm doing a phenon run and it's not like a you know across the board even same genetics type run
um
But yeah, ideally i'd like to strategize it to work it out like that and then do my flush at the end and
Make sure everything's perfect
Lobster find that out. Oh, sorry peter
Lobster
You could go on dog if you had a question to uh this subject still I was going to ask kind of a question from
The last conversation so okay
I was just going to ask how you time that with if you're like in a large pot like a 65 or 100
And you got a couple plants in there. How do you time that to where you're not going to have excess nutrition?
Can you or is that oh, yeah, yeah you can you just uh, you don't fill the container all the way up
You know, that's the trick, you know, like uh, that was one of the things i've done that
I used to do that at uh some commercial gardens, you know where we'd take a 100 gallon container would roll it up
uh, you know, uh three times so it's a
Two thirds down fill it up to the top plant like, you know, 12 plants in there, you know
Grow them like a nice big old spike, you know, and then uh, you know, you know chop them down pull out the root balls
Roll it up once put another layer of soil in there plant it again
And then do that again and then uh, you know by the time you got to the third one, then you're hauling it out
Okay, you know but uh, but as long as you uh, if you fill it up all the way
And you've only got like four or five plants in there, you know
You're gonna have a lot of access uh fertilizer, you know
And you've got a couple different choices on how to neutralize that but it just depends on you want to reuse that soil or not
If you're doing a no-till situation that's where using those microbes in my opinion are uh, uh, absolutely imperative
That's what i'd like to do either
Uh enzymes too, you know, like either doing your own sprouted seed teas or using products like hydrazine and slf 100
You know or those enzyme capsules. Those are kind of cool. You know, I I think I heard about those first from you guys
but uh, uh
But those things are pretty cool
You know
There's a lot of different good enzymes out there that uh, again
If you can instead of just using one product to prevent something use multiple products to prevent it the entire time
You know use a good uh, uh surfactant also helps with this. It also helps prevent salt buildup, you know incorporating
Humic acids and fulvic acids that helps prevent salt buildup by incorporating by uh, increasing uptake, you know using silica on a regular basis
In your root zone, you know from the time you plant them to you know
It's time, you know about the you know halfway through flower that helps uh prevent salt buildup, you know, uh, you know
Stacking all that stuff together is what equals that really good flavor and really good burn at the end when you're using
You know as much fertilizer as you can
But there's as much fertilizer as a plant likes and there's as big as it can get
And then there's how big it can get and still taste good. You can get it much bigger than it can taste good
I guarantee it. There's nothing natural about growing under lights indoors
You can get freaky giant fist things that taste like ass
You know, uh, you know, or you can get giant flowers that taste wonderful, you know
It just depends on how one man's trash is another man's treasure brother. Exactly
Thank you, I appreciate that I am going to be doing no till so like I was really curious about that but
I was curious about how to amend it too
So like like you're saying not fill it up all the way and then if i'm using a large container
Just don't amend much because I know i'm gonna have plenty of food in there and what I I can reamend when I do
The next run because I'll have to take can cycle it, you know
My favorite way of doing no till is I I build a bed
I use it then I set it aside and I build a new bed and I run it
And by the time this one's done my cover crop and my top dressing and all the funkiness that's going on in here is perfect
And I swap them, you know, and then you got the swap and you just keep on going until you get the room fill
You know, but I I I see that I saw this done in a big commercial garden. It was the only
True no till commercial garden. I saw it was successful and they had these big rolling beds with big old wheels
You know and they had one room where they uh, where they kept them with just simple fluorescent lights
Just a little bit just for the cover crop then the other side was the big room and they just cycled them out
You know the you know, they sat here for eight weeks and then they get transplanted and flop back over, you know
Where is that facility?
Uh, that was uh, I believe they went out of business, uh, but uh, uh, what was the name of that garden?
So was it in oregon it was in eugene, yeah, was it motodone is that guy no, no, uh,
My other friend would know they have some really good brother the closest thing to it would probably be uh, my buddy's place
Uh at uh lofty lofty garden
You know, uh, they those guys, uh again do an amazing
uh, uh flower and uh, it's all organic and I think all that they use is a couple different full power products and
You know some cloning gel. That's about it
But uh, my buddy sam, uh runs that with uh, his buddy and uh, man, are they are they in la or where they've been
No, they're at they're here in eugene, oregon, and uh, they're probably you know, i'd probably you know, they just uh,
They've had a relatively small. Uh, uh, uh, uh,
Garden up to recently, but they just expanded
and uh, man, their facility is amazing and uh, uh,
Yeah, their flower is uh, I i'd put it up there against just about anything in the country, you know
Uh, uh, it's as good as anything I grow in my garden. That's for sure
But uh, yeah those guys, uh do really really good work, you know, uh, you know the other guy, uh, I get a uh,
some really good weed from uh from time to time is uh, my friend from uh,
Uh kermudgeon fruit gardens, uh, that's uh, my friend who did the cherry aka that's uh
Dogs dank
You know that was uh, I actually found a uh a friend of mine. Uh, uh here in eugene had that cutting uh for years
Uh, uh, and he got it from his neighbor, but he couldn't share it and then uh, eventually got to the point where uh,
He could and I got it and it was uh, uh wasn't in the best condition
But uh, we were able to whip it back into shape
And I gave him an old pack of seeds that I had gotten in amsterdam in the early 2000s
That was an ak
A pack of ak seeds and uh, he picked a male out of that and uh crossed it with the cherry
And then out of those seeds he picked a male that smelled like a cherry when he rubbed the stem
And that's the seeds that we have going now
And we're going to be running seed runs over the next uh, uh, eight to ten months
Uh until we get enough to release this time next year
Hell yeah, man
I'll be giving out samples. Awesome
I have a um super quick question about uh amending after transplanting or during transplanting rather
for bloom so i'm gonna
If it works out the way i'm kind of think strategizing about it
I think i'm going to go from these threes into sevens and then probably uh
Follow the technique with the mycorrhiza and other stuff you described earlier
um
on the bottom of the pot and then
Uh do some of that bio 365 that I was sent and then do my amendment as well
Um, and do you recommend like integrating like the guano and everything right at that transplant and that first kind of amendment?
So then when you water it in it hits everything. Yep
Just make sure you've got a good layer of soil on the top of your roots
You don't want them instantly hitting your roots they'll get pissed. Okay, big old glob of guano or some organic amendment hitting a raw root
You want to have a buffer there of either organic soil or compost or something?
That's gonna you know, let it sit on there and nice do it slowly. Nice. Okay, cool
And what like so in like a seven would you say that'd be like an inch layer or something like that?
Oh, uh less than that and probably less than an inch quarter to a half. Okay, maybe okay cool
Awesome man
I appreciate it and then um one thing that I was doing is I was integrating some clay pellets at the bottom of my pots
Because i've been using plastic pots so it's easy to slide them out and transplant and I think i'm probably going to use a fabric
for the
flowering
Uh, just so they you know, they air prune and stuff like that. Do you recommend?
Uh using those little clay pellets for aeration at the bottom of that. Yeah
With the uh, uh with the uh cloth pots
uh, if they're sitting on a uh, uh on a on a tray or they're sitting on a
Anything that's a flat surface without ribs underneath it then yes
Put uh, put clay pellets in them. I have like those little like l those little like, you know, they they're like
Light things. Yeah. Yeah
So funny they
They work for they work for me, but I think i'm gonna hopefully get a a nice tray for a flower
Now that thing's a lot easier you've been patiently waiting the floor is yours and you're muted
Um, so I had uh one question that's uh from a couple conversations ago
Did you say it was day seven to day 14?
That was when the plants are super hungry for the micronutrients. I feel like that was a gem of information
Oh, uh, it's uh
It was uh, it's right as the plants are transitioning into bloom
so with an indica plant, it's uh, uh, you know that first, uh, 10 days to 14 days
Your micronutrients needs can double and triple in that time if you have a sativa
It's not going to be as hard but it's going to be longer. It's going to be closer to three and a half four weeks
for a 12 or 14 week cycle
But it just depends on how long the cycle is
But uh what I like to do is start supplementing that micronutrients
A week before bloom before my 12 12 and then for that first two weeks
And that's enough to carry me out. Even if it is a longer cycle
You know or enough to feed a heavy feeding plant to really transition them. Well
That's awesome
But uh, uh that that was one of the big tricks I found, uh, you know getting my organic, uh, uh, uh, uh
systems to yield like my uh
Chemical or hydro systems, you know was getting that good good hard set, you know
I don't want to see pinkies in week three. I want to see thumbnails
Uh, the other thing I was gonna ask
Was uh any difference in the watering procedure when going from you're going from a two to a ten on this one
Uh, usually yeah, that's a uh, there's a little trick there. All right, you're going to do it seven, right? Yeah
Yeah, uh, well what I like to do is uh, uh, you know
You got your uh, your two gallon or your or your one gallon and it's drying out real fast, right?
But all the soil around it it's you know, wet as hell and it's uh heavy as shit
So for that first uh, uh week that you do your transplant
I usually like to go in there once or twice a day
With like about a half a liter of water to like one or two solo cups and just touch the center
You know just enough to make sure that center isn't drying out too much, you know, but i'll touch it
You know just to make sure you know, uh, if it's wet and uh, it feels good then it's good, you know
but uh
but if it's uh
If you get one of those ones where you start to see a slightly browning and you can tell that oh that that center is
Drying out much faster than the sides need to get in there and keep that wet and try to match that moisture content
So the roots will uh stay happy as they grow into the soil during the beginning of flowering or they'll get pissed at you
You know, usually I find if I let my plants get too root bound in the plant before I transplant it into bloom
That's when I have those problems, you know, but if I don't then I don't
You know, but it just depends on how long I had to keep that plant happy in that last uh that last pot
Gotcha man
That's some good knowledge. I experienced the
You know issues that come along with letting your plants get root bound and getting behind your transplant schedule
um, and I definitely saw some of my plants, you know get less happy as the amount they were drinking was varying and
I've been trying to you know supplement it to regulate it
Yeah, uh the way it was explained to me the big difference between hydro roots and organic soil roots
Is that with organic soil roots 60% of the plant is represented in the root zone and only 40% of the plant comes out of the dirt
Whereas with hydro or with chemicals you can have 20% of the plant represented in the root zone and 80% of the plant
Represented outside of the medium because it absorbs a perfect fertilizer that's got an ionic
Charge to it that goes right into the roots right now
So they have no need to get large
You can just consistently dump high parts per million fertilizer on this itty bitty three gallon pot and grow a monster plant in there
That's yeah, that's literally what we used to do
We used to run three gallon pots and just run athena and a bunch of beneficials and shit and the weed was whatever I mean
I I felt like we did a good job
Production thing it works great. There's nothing wrong
You know, but is there better ways of getting there? Absolutely. Is there more uh, uh,
Economical and ecological ways of getting their apps a fucking loser. Yeah, that's why that's why i'm into organics now
It's funny because I used to grow organic vegetables in a raised bed with my like 12 raised beds with my family
And then like it used to just to me it'd be like, oh, it's the garden. It's my chores, you know
Now i'm trying to like draw the parallels and apply that all to you. Oh, yeah my cannabis
Mm-hmm
You know, that's the great thing about raised beds and doing it that way is every if you're doing it, right every year
It gets a little bit better. You get a little bit more dirt. You scrape a little bit more off and then you get another bed
Yeah, I I love raised beds. I I hope to be able to do some raised beds for cannabis soon myself
That'd be pretty sweet. Yeah, they're really one of my favorites for doing uh, doing cia green, uh,
Or multiple smaller plants in an organic environment. Nothing will be to bed, you know
Get those roots to grow together and symbiotic. They hold each other up better, man. I've gotten. Yeah, that's awesome that way
You know, that's so cool. Old school, uh kiddie pool thing, you know, I
That's awesome that you know, i'm sure everyone's seen that picture online with the old kiddie pool thing. I've done that
That's so awesome. Great works
You know, they're all they're all in symbiosis
Yeah, you know, I think back then all we did was it was right when roots organic came out
So it was like, uh, I think three or four of those camo bags
And one five pound box of the rosin flower
And I think like a whole bunch of cups of lime
Mix that up and let it sit for like, uh four weeks and mix it again and then transplant
You know like 15 little cuttings in there and flower them right away
Worked great
That's funny state of the art 1999
1999
we're uh
Two hours in is that a good? Uh,
Good end point. I think that's pretty good
Anyway, yeah, that was awesome people or uh
Yeah, I think yeah
Speaks for everyone
Agreed i've i've actually got a wonderful note to apply all these awesome techniques we discussed in my garden
All right pumpkins in the kiddie pool right there man, hell yeah
I helped the guy do that, uh with one of those pumpkin kits, you know for the state fair one of those giant
You know thousand pound pumpkins
That's so sick
I got one
Yeah
Hey josh, how do you keep your moms? Do you keep mothers or do you just clone from a clone or uh right now i'm taking
Uh cuttings from cuttings, but i've got a lot of seed stock and i'm usually restarting from seed
Multiple times a year but when I keep moms what I like to do is have uh, uh,
either a multi-bank, uh, t5, you know, preferably like a six banker and uh, rotate them out in uh,
Usually I grow them up to uh about a seven gallon pot and about a four foot tall
You know and that usually takes from the time that they're rooted cutting
Up to like a number three when I can start taking cuttings
uh
Oh
Anywhere from the shorter side of about four months, uh three months to the higher side of about six
You know, it just depends on how dense the soil is and that's just going up to a seven
Oh, yeah, you know because because when i'm using a mother, uh soil I use uh, uh
I use a lot more compost in my soil. I use a lot more worm castings
Would bio live be good for like the veg cycle? Oh, absolutely, you know, I do a lot of long-term
Stuff, you know, I incorporate uh, uh, like dude was talking about those. Uh, the pelletized seabird guano
I love that for moms, you know
I don't want to think about a mom a mom's got to sit there and do her own thing and be happy
And just get the sprays I give them and that's how she gets happy all the time
You know, but I don't want to have to mess with that container much. I i'm busy over here
I'm busy with the flower room. I'm busy with the bedroom, you know, so she's kind of got to just chug along
You know, so that's got to be the most simple reliable mix there is, you know, but uh,
A bedroom a mom room and a cutting room is everything in a garden a flower room is just a byproduct of that
If you do not have a healthy garden, if you're not have a healthy bedroom
You don't have healthy cuttings and healthy moms. You do not have a garden
You know, you've only got a flower room. That is not a garden
That's where plants go to die. Not where they live. They live in your garden. That garden is the bedroom
Bloom room dead room. That's where plants go to die not live
dead
Mom room's my favorite room
Yeah, cut them down dry them slow burn them hot
That's how that
true that man
a lot of really great wisdom dropped in this uh stream tonight, I appreciate all of you so much for coming on here and sharing your
time and uh
Everything i'm always glad to help and i'm always glad to learn more stuff. Yeah me too
I'm not learning stuff while i'm sitting here too. I love learning
Yes, I I feel like we were all
Transferring knowledge right back to you. I could see it
Oh, yeah, I was gonna uh before we go here. I was gonna pull this out and show dude. Yeah
I would love to see that glass
I'll take a dab real quick too. And do we want to leave people with a cliffhanger for the next topic?
Oh, uh, yes, do we have thoughts on the next topic?
Uh, yeah, i'm gonna be doing uh
I'm going to be planting about uh, uh, what's it?
Uh
Four to six different varieties i'm gonna be planting seeds and then uh looking for new mothers and uh, uh breeding
sick
So i'll be the next uh topic
Damn, that's heady
That's crazy
Wait, so who made that? Oh damn the uv is crazy, man
That's a lot of uv
Wow
Is that uh the spaceship, you know with uh roger
Oh so awesome. I love it. Uh, this was done by my friend jd
nice
Uh here let me look up his uh
Instagram really quick. I should probably give him a shout out. He was I love I love the glassy
Absolutely love the glass scene in oregon. That's where I started blowing glass man because I lived up there for
About like four and a half years
It was awesome, man
All right, this is uh
His uh page. Oh jd maplesden
Yep. Oh, dude. He's so cool, man. He's uh, he's not only not only is he a legend and a very talented guy
Jd maplesden. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Yeah, not only is he like a legend and a very talented guy
But he has actually helped teach a couple of my friends how to blow glass over the last few years
He was my roommate in portland. Oh shit, man. That's awesome for a little while
In portland and he's one of my good friends here in eugene. He's actually uh got some really awesome things coming down the road
uh, but uh, but yeah, this was a piece that uh,
Me and him designed over a course of a couple uh about a year. That's incredible. It started off with uh, the idea was uh,
the alien ship from uh,
Encounters of the third kind yeah third kind
And then it became this thing
That's probably the headiest jd piece i've ever seen i've been following jd's work for years
Since like, you know the mothership era all the way up to like the wormholes and everything
This is the headiest jd i've ever seen. So that is that is a heady piece, man
That's a heady piece if i've ever seen one
But uh, yes. Yes, that's the guy that is heavy, buddy
He if you need some heady glass
He is the gentleman to talk to and he has always got good glass for sale jd maples and rocks
Oh, yeah, just contact him through his instagram and he can certainly hook you up with glass if you have money for glass
He is a rare one. That's the caveat a very very uh talented glassblower and a very very nice guy
total legend yes
And a good friend of mine
so awesome
So awesome, man, that's probably the craziest jd piece i've ever seen
Cool well that will let the east coasters and this west coaster go to bed
Absolutely. Thank you guys. I'm a little kid bedtime
All right. Have fun with the family
Amazing. Thank you so much
Thanks, everyone you guys enjoyed it and uh, we already know our next topic so stay tuned
Amazing thank you all so much
