Hey there, doing well.
Should be an interesting conversation.
Coming on.
Hello there Ashley, your moderator.
Your first one in so you get to make everybody else moderators.
And be the keener while I set up the YouTube side.
Alright, alright everybody.
I hope you are doing well.
Oh, alright everybody.
I hope you're doing well and ready for an exciting day.
We should have an awesome show coming up right now.
I'm really excited for it.
I spent the afternoon crunching a little bit on epigenetics.
Because it should be an amazing conversation.
I'm looking forward to it.
Everybody is piling into the room already.
I hope you all are having a wonderful day.
And I'm looking forward to today's talk.
It's going to be a fun one.
And then where do I go?
Brand.
Brand.
Alright, we are getting almost set up there.
On the far side.
I'm going to make sure that I don't make a super bad echo.
Can someone say hello for me?
Hello, how are you doing?
That is wonderful.
That came through perfectly.
Thank you for coming through loud and clear.
Everybody on the YouTube side, give me a what's up if you can hear me.
Loud and clear because we have an awesome day.
Evening ahead of us as always.
We have with you our experts in everything.
You know, entertaining when it comes to cannabis.
I'm very excited to get into this conversation.
Talk about epigenetics.
And really dig deep down into it.
Now I do have a couple of papers.
I'm going to post those up on the Daga.academy.
In a little while.
In the next 24 hours.
You guys can have a look too for those links.
I thought it would be really cool to share and get it out there.
We are going to jump into the conversation.
As usual, we do introduce everybody.
But I want to pose a question at the same time.
Through our introduction.
What are you most excited about today?
For your learning of epigenetics?
And what are you looking forward to conversing about?
Just a little quick verb.
Each person.
Ashley, Dr. Anubis, Johnny, Anita, Josh.
Actually, Dr. Anubis, Mr. Toad, Johnny, Anita, Josh.
In that order.
And we'll just see what's going on.
Yeah.
So, hello, everybody.
My name is Ashley Hubbard.
I am the director of cultivation.
For a fully aeroponic facility here in Michigan.
I'm super excited about this topic.
Because I think it's.
Kind of help.
Kind of show everybody.
What epigenetics is.
And where you can kind of think about that.
And just.
Your grow.
Just a really, really cool topic to learn about in general.
So, let's go to Dr. Anna Schwab.
Good evening.
Afternoon, everybody.
I am Dr. Anna Schwab.
I have.
A background in cellular and molecular biology.
And plant population genetics.
And I did my PhD work on looking at variation.
In cannabis.
Strain.
And this was something that, I mean,
I'm super passionate about epigenetics.
And I was really excited about this.
And it was kind of hard to wrap my head around, but once I did,
I was like.
I want to see if there's anything to this.
Unfortunately.
I graduated before I.
Analyzed all my data, but.
I wanted to know if during the cloning process.
There's any kind of epigenetic stress that leads to potentially
cancer.
And I'm really excited about this.
And I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to answer that question.
Because a lot of the answers are going to be, I don't know.
But.
I'm really excited about this.
So yeah.
Johnny.
Hey, everybody.
Johnny.
Commercial cultivator currently working at a place called red crest
organics. It's a one acre.
Dry farming.
Cannabis farm.
And I'm excited to be here today.
To talk about epigenetics because.
I'm sure she has a lot to teach all of us and it is a super
interesting topic and one that she.
Has kind of.
Took the time to research and get into.
So I'm sure she's going to be sharing some really awesome stuff with
us.
Anita.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Anita.
I'm a cannabis.
I'm on the sales.
Side of the.
Cannabis industry in Canada, Ontario specifically more so, but.
What I'm most excited about is.
Also Dr.
Anna Ashley.
Mr.
Toad.
Everybody talking and learning a little bit more about this.
I'm most interested in how I could.
Leverage it.
In, in helping brands.
Set their selves apart from others.
And really tailor.
Experiences to the consumer.
With.
Your genetics.
I'm really interested in this topic.
I'm just going to sit back.
Mostly listen, but yeah.
Josh.
Hey, everyone.
I'm Josh.
I have a background in.
Research and development in cannabis.
Growing up with mine as well.
I am very interested in this.
In this discussion.
Mostly because I as well.
Want to learn more about epigenetics.
I did a little bit of work with.
Mapping the cannabis genome.
So taking this to the next level.
It's always fun.
So thank you.
Yeah.
Super.
We're going to dig deep today.
And it's going to be a lot of fun.
Thank you.
I really.
Appreciate.
Your compliment of my picture.
Both me and appreciate the fact that you appreciate that.
That was the goal.
But I'm super excited to get into this conversation.
And I'm going to start it off right off the bat.
Which I think we should.
We should just cover a little bit of basics.
And just talk about.
If you could.
Actually, maybe.
I'm going to lean on Ashley here.
And just.
Don't talk too much.
Could you talk about the process of.
You know, chromosomes.
Transferring information and then, and then.
Transferring that information into proteins.
And just so we kind of have a basic understanding of the process that
DNA.
Like kind of the process of DNA using our.
Using its structure to develop.
Protein.
But so we can think about you know your genetic code is all within your DNA.
And through a super helpful video I watched today you can think about you know every single cell in
your body has the same copy of those DNAs but every different cell kind of carries out a different
function. So a skin cell or a stock cell in cannabis plants for example or a root cell.
So we they all start with the same genetic information but other you know they all have to
their own job to do. So through the process various processes you have different genes being expressed
by different parts of a plant or different parts of an organ. And you can think about a quick basis
of kind of how epigenetics plays into that. So we have our DNA strand that is all wound up
because the DNA is a very long strand of information so it has to be tightly packed.
So it gets wound up on different proteins called histones and those kind of tightly wind it up so
it can be nice and consolidated into chromosomes. So those different chromosomes all have different
functions but anyways butchering this excuse me Anna. But every different cell needs certain
genes regulated. So through epigenetics there are different things that can be expressed through a
couple different pathways. We have the that DNAs tightly wound up on those histone proteins but
every once in a while we need a certain part of that sequence copied to pass along that information
to the next cell. So epigenetics kind of controls what genes are upregulated or down regulated
based on the needs of what that cell's function will be.
I think you nailed it pretty well there. I always look at it kind of like me and Dr.
Anderson were talking about it earlier. It's like a spool of thread it's tightly wrapped around and
in the middle of your spool of thread you have a mass of proteins called histone. Those are like
kind of slices and you have the DNA wrapped around it. And you can actually see in our photo on
YouTube a little diagram of that but if you can Dr. Anubis so can we talk a little bit about the
the the forms of epigenetics that are used. I think mesyl and demesylate and the RNA
mini RNA and histoma and how that kind of works if you don't mind. I can try.
It's been a while since I revisited this but basically I think there are three different
ways that epigenetic modifications can occur. So there's a methyl group which can be attached
to it's generally to the DNA and that's going to cause the DNA to
close up or be more tightly wound around that histone. So it's going to
down regulate genes that are located in that area that are being basically closed up.
You can also demethylate a portion of the genome which would then open up
the area of DNA and expose those genes allowing them to be expressed.
There's also acetylation which is a fetal group that gets attached or removed. And then the other
one is those small interfering RNAs which can apparently direct methylation and chromatin
remodeling at the target site of the gene to increase the expression. So I don't that's the
one I really don't know very much about. But interfering RNA suggests that it's some kind of
RNA that interferes with the expression of probably I'm guessing protein products. But
anyway my most of my research I was looking at methylation because there are enzymes that
seek out the methylation sites in DNA and cut it's a degrading enzyme. And so it's really easy
to kind of cut up the genome at these location sites to see if there's any kind of change in
the genome. So that's kind of what I focus on. And yeah so there's three different basic types
and those are them. So I thought it'd be a really good start to kind of give that general summary
and really help understanding the base points. You know all DNA throughout the entire plant
through every cell even in humans it's inter species all species all of their DNA is exactly
the same. So the DNA in my lips is the same the DNA in my toes are the same the DNA in my liver
is the same. Epigenetics is the expressions on top of that these demethylates or that you were
saying that control methylate sorry the methylate control and can turn off each one of these DNA to
specify what that cell is specifically for correct? So like your eyeball cell is going to
it's going to have eyeball genes that are all exposed so that they can be read and do eyeball
things in those cells that are supposed to be eyeball cells. So it's like the classification
system but this is where it gets really interesting is because these stressors and problems like we've
all had issues where we've cut multiple different plants of the same genetic material and got in a
different outcome out of the same plant. Now I think this is where you're going into it now where
does it get even deeper is is what type of traits could be passed on because we're not talking about
modification of the DNA here we're actually talking about what's readable and how the plant
is reading the DNA which is a lot easier which might be easier to manipulate than
actually manipulating the DNA during you know reproductive if I may ask.
Sorry Leonard who is that a question for? Anna did I cut off a little bit?
Can you hear me? Yeah can you hear me? Okay my my son he's telling me I have a poor
if you try that little red dot to the top and drop your signal maybe it'll
My router takes like 10 minutes to reboot so I don't really want to
no at the top right of your screen sometimes what will happen is is your audio quality if you're
having a poor signal isn't great so if you tap those three dots on the top right hand side it's
like audio quality you can drop it to low and it might help just the clarity of your signal coming
through try try that out and then if you want I can jump in there while Anna's getting that
straightened out so a couple different instances are going to be observed in what we're speaking
about whether you're breeding versus you know whether you're cloning so and epigenetics happens
in every living organism but there are a little there are differences in regards to certain topics
like clone health or you know people use the term genetic drift you can't use the term genetic
drift unless you're actually breeding in cloning genetic drift is not actually something that
is a correct term used so you can kind of think about using those terms
genetic drift is only going to be speaking about something that is in a breeding a male female
cross awesome now dr anubis are you there are you with me are you back i am i i'm here i just i
don't know what's going on with my stupid wi-fi it's been kind of crappy all day so anyway i'll
try to do my best and whatever will be will be you're coming through loud and clear now anyways
so i i wanted to ask so what are like the so we're looking at this in a plant perspective
and a lot of the information that's out there so sorry guys if this is coming out a little bit
there's a lot of information there's a lot of studies out there for for more like people and
humans and and that type of thing and not so much for plants so where can this get relative like how
can we utilize this information the fact that we have this second on top of genetics i know there
are chemical methylated demethylating agents but what what practical thought or use does
that you can spray on the plant to basically
um as far as i know so it's kind of like a different like i think of it as like a diff way
potentially to do like a pheno hunt like you're going to be manipulating the genome but what you
actually get from that you're not really going to know um what the thing that i'm really interested
in is like what is the difference between like a phenotype and a genotype and what is the difference
what you actually get from that you're not really going to know um what the thing that really got me
interested in this is i was reading a paper on dandelions which are clonal organisms um
and there was two populations that had um
because they were located in different areas um and when they moved the plants in
took a while to get back to reset to where all of the dandelions had the same photo period
which indicated that it was a an epigenetic change not just a like a genetic change um so anyway i
thought that would be really interesting to try and manipulate um flowering time okay kind of a
random thing when you do these methylation experiments and honestly like this is all
i honestly have no idea if it would work um as london said there are relatively few papers
on uh epigenetic implants i really only found a handful and as far as
thinking as far as i know so um
yeah cut out a little bit there um but i think we got a good rabid laugh yesterday and today
i'll tell you what uh we had some connection issues yesterday during both super great for
anybody um so bearing with us we appreciate claude d says buffering we appreciate that
so we did miss mr toad when we came into this space now i wanted to ask mr toad you've also
dropped a google scholar doc on the top there and if i go to the pin link this is specifically
related to patterns of dna and methylation changes in elite eucalyptus clones across
contrasting environments so i think my obvious guess would be eucalyptus
environment so i think my obvious guess would be you've probably uh you've probably read this can
you talk a little bit about it and how you how that now i've just found this in my um
my uh google drive so i'm i'm trying to go back over to see what this is uh actually stating
i do not remember going over this completely but i believe it's going over how environment
is changing uh the phenotypical traits based on um environmental cues that are happening to
these clones and it's being changed through the system methylation action that it happens on the
up regulation of the dna of the plant i'd have to go back all the way over it before i start
diving into it i just wanted to pin it because uh dr anubis had asked about uh possible epigenetic
changes on clonal uh the clonal progeny of plants i suppose probably the wrong term to use but
this is uh showing that some of these actual things can happen through epigenetics
so london let me throw this example out there just to uh
kind of uh show a really good way to think about what is epigenetics right so say
um a breeder has a mother or not even a breeder but a grower has a mother and they want to
challenge okay who's the best grower i'm going to give every single person a cut off of this same
mother and i'm going to give them and they're going to grow it however they need to grow it
whatever their technique is and we know that the dna you know is off of the same mom so the dna
should in theory be all identical you're giving it to other people their environment their
environment's going to have different genes up regulated or down regulated as part of that plant's
survival um it's going to up regulate if there's a drought stress in one of the grows it's going to
kind of down regulate if there's too much light stress so you can think of a an epigenetic example
as you give out a bunch of clones to the same or the different growers and through epigenetics
their phenotype is what is expressed in that similar in that identical dna
awesome and so my daughter just attacked me with this spoon right at the gill and
that and if you wanted to yeah i was just gonna say that's a really great way to look at it um
yeah because the only thing in that equation that's changed phenotype equals genotype plus
environment the only thing in that equation that changes the environment um in order to feed into
that phenotype that is different um and then the thing to take it one step further is does those
epigenetic changes that you know that we or those changes that we see in the phenotypes are they then
and it looks like poor anna has completely dropped out of the room so which is fine so i think that
that it's it's kind of a complex structure but it it's relating to the protein the the way that that
the dna makes proteins which is essentially the building blocks and how it builds out everything
matthew in this coming up and you are an awesome mind because this is a terribly challenging
subject we're quite welcome to have you on stage you have a question or comment i do have a question
for anna when she does get back there was one from the stage but welcome to this thank you yeah i
wanted to uh just kind of add to what uh was said there um an epic what was described was more of a
genotype by environment interaction so it's how genotypes express different phenotypes
in different environments that same clone going to different different growers it's going to
express a different phenotype because of that environment um an epigenetic effect would be if
that then if you put all those into the same environment say you collected clones from those
mother plants that experience those environments back into the same environment would they continue
to characterize as a result of their environment differently or would they go back to that original
phenotype an epigenetic effect is really a result that you see in the progeny as a result of stress
it's not simply the genetic by environment interaction i just wanted to clarify that i think
dr uh anna was gonna head that way before she cut out
and to to clarify i have a phd in plant breeding and genetics um and i work in the cannabis
industry so uh just kind of piggybacking on some of that conversation there we appreciate it
no that was super well but dr annabeth welcome back are you coming through
i have no idea i literally have my oxygen so i don't know i don't know where i cut off um
and i'm sure it must be filled in brilliantly
yeah yes he did it's been quite funny like see mr toad's even dropping off a little bit there
so i wanted to ask so there are a few questions i have and i think these will kind of help get
us all on the same page um so what are some things that can be manipulated you spoke about
flowering time now i know there's a paper that talks about using that rhabdopsis and being able
to manipulate flowering time in a whole bunch of plants uh did you want to talk about the
potentials of that and what and how that can work towards us in the industry because i mean if we
can manipulate flowering time of our plants that's a major uh breakthrough in what we're trying to do
on a larger process i'm purely interested in manipulating flowering times outdoor growers
either pushing back the flowering time or moving it up
minimize the time window that they might encounter hemp from maybe a nearby farm or
something like that or ferrel one of my kind of you know
there's other
there's other
will be doing quite well but um because i don't know like
throughout the genome this methylation demethylation idea isn't really a super precise
way to um manipulate like i don't i don't see it being um useful around in the lab which is
totally fun um but it's definitely not a precise method of manipulating when it's hearing it
you could have some really fun fun covering things that you didn't know
traits that you didn't know were in the plant but had not been expressed before or you know things
like that so matt jump in here and correct me if i'm wrong but i think an example we can think of
in in a grow and you know speaking about if you know some of those up regulator down regulated
genes as part of say that mother's plant you know say she's approaching an older age and she's been
um cut on you know she's had her her stressors you know she might up regulate or down regulate
various genes that can be passed on to the clones um that they're cut off of so if you you know
if you've got a mom that doesn't seem to be producing viable moms anymore she could have
part of her genome up regulated to help her combat whatever stress she has and that clone that you
and that clone that you cut could have those same genes kind of up regulated thus leading to less
vigorous clones so that would be kind of an example of what i think people are referring to
when they're thinking it's called genetic drift because we're not breeding those that you know
there is no drift there it is the mom has up regulated certain genes to help herself
throughout her life live and try to reproduce we cut that clone that clone has those same
genes up regulated and thus you can pass off certain epigenetic traits through clonal procedures
so if i may ask can we can't uh jeter bob asked earlier you know can viruses cause epigenetic
changes or would this kit or would a virus cause a genetic a change on the genetic level and i
thought that was an interesting point of interesting question maybe matthew if you don't mind
fill it in since you managed to come up on stage so it's great yeah um so i would not expect that
they would cause epigenetic changes directly but the stress that they cause could potentially do
that um and uh yeah i mean i guess that the way that you described it as a mom plant that gets
cut on repeatedly my first suspect would be just an accumulation of a virus load or something like
that causing your clones to degrade over time you know in a commercial operation um there's value in
tracking like what generation those clones are from the original mom to see you know how those
perform over time um it's hard to say whether an epigenetic effect happened or not uh it's really
hard to kind of tease those effects out in a commercial operation um you know so some of
these trials or studies would have to be done in a more controlled setting to really understand
what's an epigenetic change what is a response to the environment and what's an accumulation of
pathogens over time i think identifying you know specific phenotypes desired environment would also
kind of play into that because when you're in a commercial environment and you have a mom room with
you know you know 30 100 500 different plants in there um you know your your
environmental parameters are set for the average which for the most time is fine but if
you know there's a plant that is having a genetic response to uh the environment for some reason
um you know that plant you know even if it's taken care of otherwise and seems to be in a good
environment i don't know i feel like is that a possibility where it could you know build up you
know some of those changes over time where it's you know maintained and it appears to be fine but
then over you know several generations a couple years you know a plant that used to be producing
you know a specific yield with specific numbers is you know no longer putting out you know that
same yield in those numbers yeah i would suspect that uh hop latent viroid um that's kind of a big
ticket item um is a cause there um any opportunity you have to test uh for that pathogen would
probably serve you well to give an indication of whether this is a pathogen or or something else
but i have a question maybe that dr anna could give more information on than myself
um how are we able to test for epigenetic changes what genetic tools exist to where we could
identify an epigenetic change as opposed to like any other kind of genetic mutation
so i you know my pc works with donna shoestring
just uh where of most of the cheat maps and uh with genomic methods these days you can actually
scan the genome for old marks for for the for these epigenetics um you know those those genomic or
or uh scans are fairly expensive the stuff that i was doing like just chopped the genome
at these methyl sites you know pretty i wouldn't say it's easy just because these are kind of
rudimentary genetic tools but you're looking for change um
it's fairly neat
gene has been changed you know what you could you could take you know the mom and get a baseline
you know here what does the epigenome look like and then when you think there's something going
on you could take that progeny get do the same thing cut it up at the methyl site see if there's
in some sort of change if you've got more or less fragments basically you've got some sort
of epigenetic change that you could potentially point to as a cause of phenotypic change in your
plants um i don't know if it's an incredibly useful that you could use in a large-scale operation
these things like you
you're really not going to know if the changes in your plants are due to a virus or a viroid
unless you are testing specifically for that you don't know if a change in your phenotype is due to
environment and the plant is just adapt or whatever it's just doing its regular up and
down regulation of normal genes or if it really is doing some sort of you know hail mary epigenetic
manipulation and trying to adapt to some sort of adverse conditions which to me i would include
the cloning process in that but unless you test i that's why you know a lot of these things i just
say we don't know we don't know all of this is just theoretical and just really weird
as kind of follow-up so we it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a it's a
follow-up so we it's it's really hard for us to figure out kind of when these shapes happen
that you've talked about the mess so you talked we spoke a little bit about being able to change
like potential for changing flowering time now would there be like is this like oh look i can
decrease flowering time and still get the same terpene profile is there is there a balancing
act that is potential here because it seems like oh i could polish off this part of like you know
and get some better outcome and it just doesn't usually seem to ring true like is that the
possibility are we gonna are we gonna lose something in these processes um
i mean i i i think i must have done that before
and it's different basically
like plant and see what happens because you don't have any
it could be um so you have to be focused but you might have some sort of way different
i mean yeah i don't know i mean i i feel like i i feel like it would be just a different method
um you know how it happened
you're so choppy there uh dr anna it's it's getting really really tough
you you come in and then it's like you get a lot am i the only one that that's getting
really choppy in here are we having a little bit of a no it's choppy yeah it's choppy too
right like that i don't want to hear so bad i know i'm tearing up here dr annabelle's because
you're you're dropping a lot of information we're just not able to get it through
yeah i'm just trying to think if i could just bring you on through uh the youtube side but i
can't i can't play the audio back which is the other problem um and it's bugging everybody's
the i5d is it sounds horrible ish which is coming on from the other side so i don't want to like
cut us short on this awesome conversation but i think it might be best uh with
okay well i turned my headphones off is that any better
no not really no you're glitching in and out pretty
you want to give me a sound check
and she drops out which is fine hello cory how are you we'll take a moment and just say hello
and how's it going at your at your facility there you are now on week two in very very
large corporate cannabis how is the conversion going for you
if uh yeah it's interesting to hear the conversation for sure i'm in
yeah interesting situation to kind of regarding these topics so
yeah it's been good i'm happy to be back at a facility this large again and uh yeah trying to
clean up a nursery and kind of go through that sort of thing is exactly related to this stuff and
you know i really appreciated i think it was matthew that mentioned matthew good to see you
brother uh really glad that you mentioned about tracking kind of generational uh cloning history
if you can i think that's a that's a super important thing and just you know we need to
start somewhere as all of these you know research papers infamously say there's more research to be
done and uh you know a lot of this is also going to help if us as growers kind of gather this data
so i think yeah really you know making sure that you kind of have that history uh is a huge point
so yeah kudos to matthew for pointing that out as well good to see everybody as well hello dank hour
peoples and hello future cannabis project and my lovely wonderful people at resonate radio i see
you all i'm complete so and dr annabelle's commenting so we are solo without dr annabis
i was wondering so did we want to try and hold this conversation up and move it to another day
to just kind of see how things go in there guys i apologize for that this people shit happens uh
we're usually pretty good but i think it might be i would like to revisit if i could vote i would
vote for that i'd be or like do over again because like i missed a lot of information i really want
to know so exactly we might have to uh come come back and revisit it dr annabis peter has suggested
i'd have you put your head your your phone on airplane mode and use your wi-fi or move around
her house to find a better spot where the main suggestions there how are you coming through
well i don't know i just turned my phone off and turned it back on that's way better that's way
better way better we can hear you okay so um all right well i guess uh so if you want to just start
from the very beginning and just explain epigenetics i'm just kidding so i would think i
was saying so i see doing epigenetic manipulation like you can spray you know a method or demethyl
agent or whatever on a plant and it will make changes but those changes are not necessarily
controllable you have no idea what the i mean the plant will take up the methylation or
methyl groups will be stripped off but you don't know what the outcome of that is going to be so i
kind of see it as kind of like another way of doing maybe a pheno hunt where you can manipulate
the epigenome and you can change the phenotype but it's not really a targeted manipulation so
not like genetic engineering where you actually know what genes you're targeting and playing with
but you could uncover genes that are in the plant that just haven't been expressed before
um you could potentially you know increase i don't know by whom i mean you could do
lots of things could happen but i think you were asking like could you change flowering time and
if you did would it mess up the terpene profile my guess is yep um yeah probably it's because
epigenetic changes are just as far as i understand it they're they're not
they're not purposeful like if you're talking about up regulation or down regulation of certain
genes in response to hormones or some kind of environment uh where the plant is getting
information and is then reacting like that's one thing but epigenetics is more like
um it can be like a phenotypic change in response to a stressful environment so like if there's a
drought or if um it gets really really hot there can be epigenetic changes that then allow or help
that plant um make it to the next generation to pass on something to the to the offspring but
it's really hard to remember that this is not a purposeful change like the plant is not saying
you know um down regulate these genes that are using water so i can consider it's really just
oh shit i'm gonna die and it throws everything at the wall and sees what sticks and those plants
that do survive those epigenetic marks are there and it will get passed to the to the next set of
offspring but it's not um it's not the plant like responding in a purposeful way to the environment
responding in a purposeful way to the environment i don't know if that makes any sense um
but yeah so i was just reading a paper actually it came out um like several days ago it seems
actually uh mutation bias reflects natural selection and arabidopsis and i was kind of
talking about what you were just saying there about the randomness of mutations and stuff like
that and it was i've only kind of read through it quickly but it was kind of suggesting basically
that um the mutations that do happen are not as random as we think basically and that um you know
in coding regions uh the mutations that are deleterious are significantly less than in non-coding
regions and then was talking about the you know the epigenetic or the epigenome mediated
mutation bias and that um i don't know if either of you guys have had a chance to or like you or
matt have had a chance to take a look at that paper i just looked at the date on it and it came out on
the 12th of this month so yeah maybe not actually actually damon just sent me that paper like
a couple hours ago and was like hey if you can read this paper it's like i'm not going to get
to it today but okay so here's the thing with that is that epigenetics is not well
mutations are thought of as like a evolutionary driver like they are changes that lead to change
if we didn't have mutations we wouldn't really have any evolution because everything would just
stay the same so epigenetics because it is semi-heritable it can lead to like higher success
in those individuals that are able to survive stressful conditions and be able to have offspring
that then survive so it really is it can be also a driver of evolution and it can lead to permanent
changes in the genome so i'm not really surprised that these researchers found that because if the
epigenetic changes were deleterious they wouldn't make it through to the next generation they
wouldn't have survived and have offspring that were successful so i'm not sure that what they
found is saying that epigenetic changes are not random i think what they're finding is that the
randomness doesn't come through because you don't see both deleterious and adventitious
changes you only see the adventitious ones which would suggest bias but i don't think that's what
it is but that's just my opinion and i haven't read the paper that's a very great description
of it so then so assuming that they're you know in a situation where there wasn't any
viroid problems if you know i gave a clone to two different people and then you know 10 years they
took great care of those plants and they were in fact healthy completely no viruses but grown in
completely different environments if they were then both brought back to me and grown in my
environment presumably there would be some variation in their expression which would then
you know if i were to take them and breed them into you know using you know some male
presumably the offspring would also have those changes in them as well from you know the the
collection of changes that happened in those 10 years in those different locations yes so that's
part of the set of rules that would that you would use to like decide if it's an epigenetic
change or not if it's if you bring them back to your greenhouse and they both go back to normal
that would just say that they were just um you know like just up regulating and down regulating
as a normal plant would to um work with its environment if you brought plants back and they
didn't bounce back to base let's call it baseline if if those changes remain and those changes were
passed on to their offspring you would then assume that that would be some sort of epigenetic change
um and again you can test for it you can find out if there really was some sort of epigenetic
change or not but like a lot of this stuff like i my my advisor and i like went back and forth
about is it phenotypic plasticity or is it an epigenetic change and i think those two things go
hand in hand i think phenotypic plasticity can lead to epigenetic changes that then can be passed
onto the offspring but i don't think all phenotypic plasticity is necessarily an epigenetic
modification that is heritable that makes sense i know that's a lot of words but hopefully that
makes perfect sense so i don't know if if i i was the only one to miss i'm pretty sure a lot of
other people missed it too because you're getting pretty jumped up there matthew when matthew asked
kind of how do you track epigenetic changes do you think you could you could re-explain that a little
bit yeah um okay so there are different tests you can do of course um you know when i did my phd i
was on a shoestring budget um had zero funding so i am aware of very cheap methods that you could test
um for you know epigenetic changes there are also much more expensive methods to look at the epigenome
and you would look for methylation marks or isolation or whatever but basically what you
want to do is you'd want to take a baseline so take your mother before you've taken any clones
happy healthy wonderful and you can um it doesn't have to be like like you can take a tissue sample
and it can stay in your freezer for a long time you don't have to do it right then and there and
make sure it's fresh and everything but you want to get a baseline of the mother and then if you're
worried that you've had some sort of epigenetic change you could take your offspring and you
could do a methylation study on both and see if you've got changes you don't even necessarily need
to know what the genes that have been hit are you you've got this idea that you have a serious change
in your grow you want to know is it some sort of just a response to the environment or has it led
to some sort of epigenetic change yeah you can search for those marks in in the genome and
compare like are they are is the mother and the offspring the same if they're not then
yeah i would say that you've got something going on there um but yeah it's really difficult to
tease all this apart and figure out is the plant just doing plant things and you know
responding to nutrients and you know doing hormone things is it just doing its thing or is it actually
going through going through a serious existential crisis where it's doing this epigenetic thing
yeah and in my experience with plant breeding um from from numerous crops and everything as i
started to learn more about epigenetic variation um i kind of tend to just assume it doesn't happen
um because it's very hard to guide something very hard to control and quantify
and there's so many opportunities to advance a population through strategic breeding or just
optimization of your environment and your cultivation practices um but for me it's a
very hard thing to try to manipulate strategically to an advantage um in some ways i would expect
that there'd be just as many deleterious effects uh with a random methylation than there would be
a positive one and uh so from my perspective it's just uh something i kind of don't put a
whole lot of thought behind so this is a um you know a very academic conversation
you know and thinking about this for me at least yeah 100 for sure like i don't see how this would
be a terribly useful tool for somebody in a large grow facility other than to know is it
or isn't it and even then like does it even matter like if your plants are not performing
the way they are expected to perform like i think most people would just be like okay we're done
with that one on to the next thing because why would you you know want to spend all this time
and resources trying to figure it out but this is definitely a fuck around and find out like
let's have fun in the lab like just to add to our body of knowledge like epigenetics in general is
new in in the grand scheme of things it's a pretty new concept and what we're finding out
you know the fact that it can be heritable they there was like some roundworm or something where
they tracked epigenetic changes through like 12 generations of offspring or something like
just you know like i just think it's so cool and it would be nice to know um does it like
does just does the process of just cloning does that stress out the plant the mother and or the
clones to the point where they actually you know that you're getting changes that aren't
going to change back should you you know put them in a nicer environment
yeah i agree with you there you know um understanding whether it is a major impact
or if we're seeing some other uh factor contributing to to change um would be probably
the most value that i could see out of it in the short term um so i mean it's definitely
an interesting topic and i'd like to see more data come out of it um and you know kind of kind
of map that out and see what contribution it plays um and from the heritability side i think
it does bring up a new concept in how populations could change over time as opposed to like
genetic mutation um you know like an actual point change in the dna code as opposed to the
regulation so definitely an exciting topic and i'm looking forward to seeing more of it
so definitely an exciting topic and i think of like if you do have you know a set of you know
like a strain that you're growing that has changed and if it is an epigenetic response you
potentially if you you know do enough um i don't know going backwards potentially you could reverse
that those changes and get it back to what it was before
shit hit the fan so maybe you won't have lost that strain maybe you just need to um you know
go through the steps of getting those epigenetic marks erased back to its former glory and i don't
know how that would all work but it would be nice to know that you know you may not have necessarily
completely lost something that was of value if it was through some sort of epigenetic change
yeah there's uh so that kind of is an exciting idea um we talked about things that could induce
methylation or acetylation um would there you know do you know of anything that could like
completely remove any of those like is like could we just completely clear out any kind of
you know previous epigenetic changes and just see what the code itself you know and that may just
completely disrupt the entire system there's no regulation but it'd be interesting yeah so in um
in i was gonna say in animals and i think in plants i'm not sure but there are when a sperm
and an egg unite it erases all the epigenetic marks supposedly from the genome because you
don't want things like you know mom smoking to to impact that child's life so supposedly when a egg
and a sperm fuse all those epigenetic marks are supposed to be removed and you go back to blank
slate um plants have less of of the ability to erase all of the epigenetic marks because they
don't have the ability to get up and move so if a plant does make it to reproductive success
in a stressful environment they would want to keep those epigenetic marks in order for the
offspring to have a better chance to survive and and then when we talk about clonal organisms there
is no sperm and egg uniting so there is no there is no erasing those epigenetic marks you're getting
exactly what mom gave you um as in terms of all those marks and yes there are um various uh
compounds that you can apply and i'm not sure if it's a foliar um application or if you know you
put it in the the feeding i don't know how you apply it but yeah there are both methylating and
demethylating agents that i'm aware of are there many i and when i was looking stuff up for this i
noticed that heavy metals can have a an impact on epigenetics and how those mutations happen can like
matt you were saying that like this isn't i could take a long time to research is that something
that you know given time and money somebody could you know screen different heavy metals or different
methylation uh you know things that they used to to methylate would they be able to like you know
track those and then identify the various changes that happen uh throughout time and then like in
the future be able to say okay if we use you know heavy metal x we have this response and if we use
this one we have this one and you know be able to actually track them and potentially push you
know the dial back or forward on different uh traits if we you know had that research um maybe i
well we're definitely not there yet but maybe um and i i'm looking here for the name of the
methylating and demethylating agents that i'm aware of and i don't see them on uh
anything right in front of me but yeah i mean i have that information i'm happy to share it with
you uh on the back side awesome thank you yeah i'm not sure uh how targeted it would be and uh
you know again i i don't have a lot of experience on the epigenetic side more the applied uh breeding
breeding you know from like conventional crossing phenotypic selection population advancement um
some of these more you know anna's definitely way more versed in some of the genomics tools and like
the molecular side um but uh i think what she had said earlier was that it's kind of a random
um effect that it's it's not necessarily like drought stress targeting um genes that regulate
water use efficiency as much as it is kind of a blast of of altering the genome in some way to
survive that stress is am i understanding that correctly yeah that's how i understand it it like
like i i don't know if i was maybe out on a glitch but basically yeah the plants throwing
shit at a wall and seeing what sticks and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't
and for the plants that it worked they'll make it through uh pass their genes on including those
you know including those epigenetic marks whatever that is and presumably presumably if the if the
conditions haven't changed those offspring will then have a better chance of surviving because
they got some information from their parents in terms of what that environment is like so that
they will better be able to survive through whatever yeah no that part was definitely you
did a great job explaining that part i was more curious on the you know the the manipulation side
more than the uh environmental like yeah but yeah thank you i think the manipulation part is um
in term yeah i think it's gonna be a random thing like um
yeah fuck around and find out and see what you get kind of thing
so so we've chatted a lot about methylation i just we we spoke about and i don't think it came
through clearly earlier so i'm gonna ask you again if it if you can is it is histone and
the modification and and how that protein in the middle of these uh strands of dna kind of
effect changes the expression of what is visible and what's done would you be able to touch on that
a little bit dr annavis yeah so it's the same so if you think of you know dna is this long like
string kind of like a thread histones are like a spool that the thread would be wrapped around
so you can either put um something onto that thread to make it you know like if you threaded
some beads on there for example um it wouldn't wrap around that spool as well as if there was
nothing on it so that's kind of like if you were to methylate the actual genome of the dna
but you can also methylate that spool so that histone it has little tails that stick out
and if you put if you put a bead on there there's a physical you know
being sticking out from that that in in i want to say interfere with the dna's ability to wrap
um wrap around that spool and in an organized fashion and so both of these things basically are
it are changing how tight or how loose that dna is wrapped around that spool and if you can imagine
what that spool looks like if it's all neatly wrapped around um genes that are are are around
the spool you can't see them they're hidden but you can unwrap it really easy and and then you
would have those genes would be exposed but if you've got all kinds of beads and crap in the way
um it then be begins either to be you know some of those genes are going to be exposed some of
them are going to be hidden um it kind of becomes a mess and you kind of don't really know what's
going on so that's kind of the way in my brain i look at it um and then as yeah so you can you can
put physical stuff these tags these the these molecular tags on either the histone or the dna
or take them away and it's going to change the way that dna wraps around those histones
buddy brilliant so so i do want to do a little bit of a reset we are an hour into it there was a
little bit of bump in the road um but we've touched on a pretty pretty awesome subject here
and i wanted to invite both anybody in the chat on future cannabis uh youtube or anybody in the
room that would come up ask a question or a comment relating to epigenetics or experts don't be afraid
there's no question no big or small the idea is the the main goal of tonight is is is to it
explore get this area explored and let people learn about it if you've never even heard about it
it's a great opportunity to come up and ask the question so that we can all learn a little bit
together because i'm sure there's other people in the room that are feeling the same way so don't
be afraid to do that and like i said in the in the chat over there as well
to do that yes my dear sorry my little one is just saying hello um
i really
do you you don't want spices okay dr anubis i appreciate the hell out of you
do you have anything you wanted to touch on i gotta deal with this
hmm anything i want to touch i do just want to like reiterate that
um epigenetic changes really are like random it's not a you know thing that the plant is doing
uh to drive some sort of change like it's not up regulating it doesn't need a hormone being
produced it's not a targeted purposeful thing it's a oh shit i gotta do something to survive
it's really like a hail mary um and it's a last-ditch effort to try and survive something
really i don't want to say catastrophic that's a little bit a little bit too dramatic but
some sort of really uh stressful or adverse environment um and it is the the whole idea
behind epigenetics is that it's partially heritable so the offspring from this the you
the parents are going to inherit some sort of genetic marks that then are somehow either
beneficial probably more more often than not beneficial to the offspring to kind of give them
some sort of information about how the past was for the parent um so in clonal organisms this
idea is a little bit different because there's no there's no sexual reproduction and there's no
fusion of gametes and so you're getting the full force of any kind of epigenetic changes
uh because during the fusion of a sperm and egg or a pollen um grain and whatever uh the
epigenetic marks are for the most part removed so we don't have that that process happening in
clonal organisms so i think it's really interesting um thing to look at but yeah
may i ask a question yeah so um anecdotally i worked at a grow it was commercial grow and we
had a lot of plants eight rooms 320 plants per room we had hemp russet mites it got into all
of our rooms and i noticed cookies and cream mac one and a couple other um cultivars
cultivars actually did better with trichome production and the flower seemed denser so
in our recognition we thought it maybe was a defense mechanism so i thought maybe it would be
a good idea to try to breed with that but those are cuts that i could never get a hold of because
they're clone only cuts that was never sold to the public um i was just wondering if people are
trying to breed with heavy pest pressure to see if there's a positive result or maybe i was just
seeing things but uh i was just wondering if if that's something people are considering because
um hemp russet mites are a pain in the ass um but some cultivars just seem to uh kick the
shit out of them and the the flower just looked better so but it did you understand my question at
all so um so i yeah sympathize with uh russet mite i and mites in general but russet might
specifically um it sounded like you had a strain or cultivar that was uh resistant or
um not showing the same level of um impact from russet mites yeah so you know we hit it with
trifecta inventory and green cleaner and we stopped using the green cleaner because it made
the flower taste weird and the person running the facility didn't listen to me and i was just
suggesting sulfur and veg would help knock it out but he was using oil-based things like trifecta
so we couldn't use sulfur later so on and so forth but it just seemed like certain cultivars
hung on and actually at the end in around week seven to nine the trichome density was just better
and some of them were just like yeah i had bugs and my families look like shit but look at my
flower so it just seemed like the defense mechanism was great um and i just wondered
after being hit like that so many times if you bred with that particular cultivar would that
be passed on or is there anybody actually testing this theory where they're hitting their cultivars
with pest pressure and then breeding with them to create a better um seed um so i think toad would
definitely be a great person to respond to this but like i know even in my limited experience um
we definitely did stress testing but we didn't breed with the the plants that we did the stress
testing on and we would take cuttings of uh stuff that we were phenol hunting well at that point
kind of trade tracking once we'd had you know selections already um and then we would you know
put them in a room and then introduced uh like powdery mildew for example um and we would look
for the plants that you know on a scale of you know one to ten for example the ones that you
know if one was no powdery mildew and ten was you know cover top bottom you're looking for obviously
a one um you know and if you go through that then you'll be able to find you know that that plant
and identify okay you know this one out of our group of keepers is the one that's pm resistant
so then you could take you know the mom of that and take cuttings from that again and then
you know work with those but um i wouldn't you know take clones off the plant that you'd already
stressed out um that said the resistant one likely obviously wasn't all that stressed so
anyway hopefully that helps a little bit
yes it does i just i guess i put my plants to the wind tunnel of shame at home and whatever
lives i breed with that so hemp russet mites to spot it um spider mites aphids i let them kind
of persist and um what dies dies and then yeah pm as well what dies dies i cut clones with pm on the
actual substrate and uh go from there so i was just wondering if the epigenetics would pass on to
its um seed stock but yeah no if it if it is an epigenetic change that uh created resilience or
or more trichrome production in your specific plants that seem to do well um you would have to
breed them and see if that trait gets passed on if you don't do that you really unless you
actually look at the genome and look for the you know changes in the epigenome you really don't
know it could just be you know phenotypic plasticity it's responding to stress but
potentially not an epigenetic change just it's changed gene expression because it's stressed
expression because it's stressed it's responding to a pest and you know plants respond to stress
that's one of the things that they do because they can't get up and move so they have to be able to
you know change things um kind of at the turn that you know the turn of a dime i think that's
the wrong way to say that but close enough uh but yeah you wouldn't really know if it was an
epigenetic change unless you actually like bred it and then looked for that trait in
subsequent generations or looked at the epigenome and said yeah you know what something has changed
thank you very much i really appreciate your time i'm glad i actually got to ask you a question
today so thank you thanks that was a great question all right cool yeah i appreciate
kind of pushing me off the ledge like no question is dumb so i was like fucking
yeah to add to that um what you describe is uh what i would you know call a uh like breeding for
host plant resistance um where you're you're allowing these pressures to exist looking for
the ones that are most resistant and then um generating crosses with those resistant cultivars
um you know and and for whatever reason so it may be you know not a epigenetic effect but you're
just working with the variation in the population to see is this one resistant is this one susceptible
and only breeding with the ones that are resistant um you know i've done some of this work in other
crops like sweet potatoes where we had a specific nursery uh set up with pressure to the sweet
potato weevil is a big problem in the industry um and we would specifically target you know the
ones that did not have that pressure and then start to build out like you know is this a heritable
trait um or is this and then from there can we map it uh to see is this a gene that we can select for
using genetic mapping and marker assisted selection um but it's definitely the first step
in determining you know like powdery mildew resistance you know you want to breed the ones
that don't show powdery mildew under pressure of you know the conditions of the environment and the
spore load um so defining those uh post plant resistance you know populations is the first step
um in a breeding process and it doesn't necessarily have to be an epigenetic
factor that is heritable for you to see effects and benefit of doing a breeding program that way
yeah i use um tobacco sweet potatoes farmer lettuce or opium lettuce i can't remember the
actual term the the name of the plant but yeah i i was also wondering about like root crosstalk
is that something that could be a heritable trait where um over time if you have a lot of
different plants in the soil are they used to talking to other plants and the endophytic
response i think that's just something that plants do that's part of their communication
that you know i don't um so i would say that's part of what they do oh sorry it's like teaching
your kids to speak properly just because it's in your um family to always say excuse me before you
start talking like i didn't sorry but um you have to teach it over and over again it's not
a heritable trait to be polite i mean i don't know maybe somebody else can answer this better
than i can but i mean plants respond to chemical signals and uh you know part of what they do the
way that they talk to each other is through chemical signals i don't know that it's necessarily
like you think of it as a heritable it's just some you know like it's just something that plants do
they respond to they respond to their environment they have to they have to do something different
when there is less water or there is more heat or there's a an insect um and you know like some
kind of predator that's munching on them they'll release a chemical that will tell the other plants
in the area hey you should up regulate something because we've got an issue here like that's just
what they do i don't know if it's about teaching um it's just in their in their toolbox to be able
to do that because they have to it's part of their evolution i guess well thank you so much
tonight for your time i i really appreciate all of you on the panel you guys have a great night
thanks for coming up gravy we appreciate you i like you i like it when you come you always have
some really great questions so you don't have to ever worry about coming up and and jumping in
there um i think that's an excellent point and i wanted to to step back sorry my daughter is
super distracting tonight i i really appreciate you guys stepping in and keeping everything
moving forward so um there was a question that was put out by operation here and i like i said
there's no question too big or sorry carly conrad asked when spider mites bite they give a toxin to
block the plant's natural defense response and epide and defense response would could this be
could this adaption of recognizing this top toxin beacons could be an epigenetic change
or would this be you know or would we even be able to figure that out i would say no because since
they all seem to be i mean if i'm understanding the question right if it's just something that
happens in plants i would say no because epigenetics is like i said it's a random
hail mary throw shit at the wall and see what sticks and if you make it through then you pass
on some of that information to your next generation so if this is a thing that plants do they release
some sort of toxin then i would say no that's not an epigenetic thing that's just a evolution thing
awesome i think we've dug into this project this subject pretty well uh mr toad i just wanted to
ask do you know of anyone else i i think we missed one part of of um of gravy's question
is do you know of any breeders yourself that are doing this this type of selective breeding where
they're really allowing a lot of pest pressure to happen um and then selecting plants that are
most resistant or or at least least um receiving the least pressure anyways do you know of people
doing off the top of my head i cannot um speak on any particular breeder doing that exact type of
breeding back in the day growers would do this specifically i know but not many of them would
talking about whether or not they were breeding when they were doing this they would always
introduce pest pressure to their plants when they were younger they would take extra clones
a lot of the people that would come to our collective and they would put them in areas
with plants they knew there was a lot of pests or powdery mildew or such to try to find out if
any of the cultivators that they wanted to grow that year would actually do better for them
just something that some of the old cats used to do around my area
thank you very much well i before i get the echo don't do it um so i didn't i just want to ask the
panel if there's any closing statements like what did you learn today apart from the little hiccup
in the earlier half what did you learn today what you're interested in and we're going to give it
kind of last call if you want to come up and ask some questions or comments but i think we we've
touched on everything that we can and we're getting close to the hour and a half mark where
we usually try and finish out to respect our experts time but we'll go through ptr order
and that goes ashley dr annabelle mr toad johnny anita josh cory and matthew interesting point of
context for today's conversation thank you ashley you want to get us started
yeah not a problem um i found it just really interesting it's just a fascinating topic um
but i was actually happy to first meet matt and kind of have his his intel on um kind of what my
thought process was with um how that process works and how to kind of think about that but yeah great
great discussion um i think we could uh dive even deeper if we wanted to one day
yeah i am so incredibly sorry about the huge technical issues i had at the beginning i
guess i just need to make sure that i reboot my phone before i come on the show um but yeah
super interesting conversation i anybody who's ever talked to me or heard heard me yammer on and
on knows about how excited i get about epigenetics and just that we really don't know a lot about it
um just that it happens and i would really like to know just to build on the you know body of
knowledge that we have basically i really just want to know does the process of cloning introduce
enough stress to change uh permanently change um the way that that that so does it have the
the impact to change permanently change or semi-permanently change a phenotype is this where
we see you know cloning effects coming from that's what i want to know and would love to look into it
more in depth but i don't know if any of the money or resources or anybody really wants to
look at that but we'll be super cool to know um yeah johnny actually we just had jay pop up so
we'll just take a little pause and say jay welcome to this stage appreciate you uh do you have any
questions or comments for experts today yeah aloha coming from hawaii appreciate for uh
letting me speak here um i'm growing cannabis and hemp out here on the garden island of kauai
and i've noticed that you know we have a bit more intense
pressures out here um all the above climate the intensity of the weather the the pests
so with this like bringing cultivars from the mainland growing them out here and then over
time over a few years you notice they start becoming more resilient they begin to um i
haven't really seen anything be able to adjust to the light difference um because we're usually 12
and 12 here like year round but i have noticed that we you know a lot of cultivars when you first
bring them here are really struggling and then they begin to gain more strength over the years
and become more resilient so would this be considered uh um the epidemic or how do you say
it epigenetic change yeah you got it yeah so it's again it's really hard to know unless you actually
do a test um so over time plants have the ability to adapt we really don't know a lot of what is
behind that adaptation mechanism but in order to have some sort of change you have to have
like you either need to already have those tools in the form of genes in your toolbox because you
can only work with what you have so either those plants need time to figure out what genes they
have and what they need to work with but i would say i it's my personal opinion that i think a lot
of um phenotypic changes and add like rapid adaptation and and like what you're talking
about just over the course of a few generations these plants that were not able to function very
well in a new environment sort of do a turnaround and then are able to adapt that sort of rapid
adaptation only takes place over a few generations i would say there's a really good chance that
there is some sort of epigenetic change going on there that's allowing those plants to pull through
um either randomly or uh whatever and and make that at that needed adaptation in that short
period of time for them to grow and do better in that new environment but again you'd have to do
some sort of test in order to definitively answer that question yeah thank you yeah we we have
pretty much four seasons here with you know four growing seasons so unlike the mainland where you
pretty much get one maybe two depending if you're doing for our outdoor um you know depending on
whether you're using your auto flowers or something like that so i think we have a good chance to you
know to kind of expedite those changes with the environment being in a place where you can do four
rounds and one every you know every year so that's a that's probably why it seems like it's happening
a little faster here and the intensity of the environment hawaii is a hot spot of biodiversity
and um you know rapid radiation because it's you know one of those places so yeah that's super cool
thanks for sharing yeah thank you aloha i just like to make note that i am snowed in
for two days um and would love to go to hawaii just saying
yeah kawaii is definitely not snowed in i recommend coming out here for sure any anybody
that wants to just be in one of the most secluded places in the world one of the most beautiful
places in the world with some of the best cannabis in the world definitely make the journey
we're all coming to your house jay yeah no that's an interesting question though i've also seen
a similar response when switching you know getting cuttings from friends and i've only like in the
last two years gone living soil organic but getting cuttings from friends that were growing in a
synthetic environment and bringing them into my organic environment and having that kind of initial
freak out but then adapting and doing even better than they had previously um just kind of a neat
kind of correlation to your story there jay i was wondering if uh you grow regeneratively or like
what kind of farming practices you follow was that for me oh yeah no i just kind of curious as to what
you guys are doing up there oh yeah definitely um so we are doing all korean natural style farming
techniques so that could be part of it as well we're introducing the indigenous microorganisms
from the surrounding areas and nearby locations that are that have you know different diversity
bringing that in making the teas and and feeding the plants pretty much with everything in the area
everything is right into the earth so it's we're growing in you know right in the soil
in the area and yeah definitely you know i would say definitely um a lot of those techniques
have really helped when when growing in this area because there's so much going on with you know
just funguses and microbes and just it's just teeming with life everywhere so if you can get
all those things on your team working with you you're going to be in a lot better condition out here
i'm even more jealous now i'm doing inside but i'm trying to replicate inside what you're doing
naturally outside which is a beautiful sounding thing
we can actually hear the birds in the background jay i i think it's coming through on the youtube
as well but you can like you can straight up hear quite on the odds it's pretty awesome i do
i'm standing over a waterfall too i don't know if you can hear the water
yes yes a little bit you just leave that mic open well for for a minute there mr toad i appreciate
you how are you doing so what did you learn what was the next exciting part of the conversation
today man uh the last couple of shows have been mind-blowing man so much stuff for me to dive into
i'm most excited about the stuff i'm going to learn once i start diving into the all these
papers that i've been popping up here so i appreciate everybody's information that came
on dr annabeth ashley uh matthew anita johnny everybody josh and jay i appreciate it thank you
very much much respect to all of you bless respect thank you there's that beautiful sound in the
background appreciate you johnny are you weren't really there before um are you available now
brother hey yeah sorry i was kind of away from my phone um so kind of like mr toad said i'm just
really excited to to dive further and having this uh having this as kind of a platform to do that it
was really uh really nice to everybody talk about epigenetics and and kind of give their their view
on it and break things down so i'm just i could just you could just leave that mic open for
the rest of the day i'm enjoying anita josh matthew i appreciate so why don't you three go
tell us a little bit about what you what you were interested to find out about today and how we got
into uh well i'm fascinated by all this like i mean i just i'm i'm growing as an amateur but you
know i'm in in the other parts of the industry right so um all of this is fascinating to me and
so i'm like thinking about things like all the way into the future like what if we could do this
or whatnot so it's just got my my imagination going a little bit but like the fact that these
plants are so incredible um that their dna adapts to their environment in order to like survive and
and can change and turn off and turn on genes and in in a very short amount of time it's just like
it just shows how hardy they are and um also shows too that like there's a lot of fear when it comes
to uh growing especially for beginners um it shows that it's very they're very hardy and so like you
know you you can make mistakes but it will change but then you learn right and so like um i would
say you know write it down like what we talked about last show you know um write it down what
you learn so you know what what to do next time um especially if you're just doing summer grows
occasionally like you know with like as an amateur would um possibly but um i just think that
there's so many different things that um like just talking about it it kind of demystifies a lot of
things for people um it is very academic what we were talking about and stuff but like for like new
growers and stuff it really does like open the door so like people can like um experience and
like play with the seeds and grow it and not be afraid that they're gonna like somehow like uh
waste a lot of time money effort like energy yeah that could happen but like the learning process is
well worth it regardless right so um really great topic um i appreciate everybody's time as well and
their expertise um really great um really great thanks i'm gonna say it's always positive to to
to see how many people are engaged in these conversations um you know it's uh usually all
um you know it's all like putting out fires uh in a work environment so um it's good to have a
little bit more casual and higher level conversations here as opposed to let's make
sure we get these plants watered today um let's harvest all these plants today you know so um
it's it's a bit different pace and i enjoy interacting with you guys we appreciate having
you here as well josh go ahead take it away brother hey thanks yeah i uh i know learned uh
quite a bit today i think uh this is one of those perfect examples where um you know future uh
research is still needed and i it's it's very exciting when we come across things that have
so little uh knowledge already and that you know we can take a look at that information and know
what's available but you know as everyone said like this is a very new kind of you know topic and
we're just starting to learn about it so it'll be very interesting to see what the
you know future experiments can hold so if i do say this it is this is definitely a part one of
many i think we're gonna have to revisit this conversation again and come back to it because
like we said like there's still so much more to explore and i haven't heard dr annabelle say i
don't fucking know so many times in my life which is awesome and i really appreciate that so without
any further ado i i like to kind of end on a fun jazzy note and we have the opportunity dr christ
is in our our new zealand correspondent is is here in in the space so why don't you let us
know how it's going there and we will close out of the room on that and don't forget to like follow
subscribe do all the things you know the the stuff that makes the stuff yeah you know i'm done
thank you for that london i see that dr annabelle wants to respond to that last question so go here
dr annabelle much pleasure is listening to your wonderful knowledge i was just saying hi i was so
excited oh well kia ora from new zealand aotearoa new zealand um my name is dr christ because i'm
not a doctor i'm a dactor um and my name is christ because that's short form for christopher
and only my mother calls me christopher when i'm in trouble so yes i certainly learned a lot it is
hot real hot damn hot down here in new zealand it's uh 3 33 in your tomorrow so i hope everybody's
looking forward to uh having a wonderful wednesday i tell you wednesday went off for me and i'm sure
it'll go off for you as well being in the cannabis industry we can only but achieve greatness
learning and sharing these wonderful insights from actual people who have phds in cannabis
i don't have a phd like i said i'm not a doctor i'm a doctor i have been researching cannabis
medicines for over two decades and human clinical trials yes i am a human guinea pig for cannabis
medicines um the things i learned was you can't go wrong um put your seeds in the ground take notes
take notes of what they're doing i would speak testament to the transfer of uh uh the growing
environment by having some second generation hemp seeds pop up in my bed a volunteer girl
popped up and she looks just like her parents really skinny uh they were spaced at uh
three inches apart so three inch spacings in my hemp bed and whereas all of our other cannabises
were growing uh to their extreme and growing them like monster flowers and they have big branches
now this one volunteer cannabis seed that sprouted all by herself that's why she's called a
volunteer self-seeded um she looks like her sisters and sisters that were in my flower bed
because she's six foot tall and doesn't have any branches whatsoever even though she doesn't have
anybody in competitive light she is the only volunteer sitting alone in the middle of my garden
and she yeah she's just she's accustomed to what her parents went through which i'm believing they
were all tall as skinny with no branches stressed out next to their sisters in tight compact form
and then she thought that that's how they roll so she popped up with that genetics and she's now just
extraordinarily tall and got no branches on her which seems really weird considering all the other
plants are bombster gangsters so yeah um thank you very much for sharing and learning and i'm a
wonderful hemp grower down here working with compote and pheromone united nations eu seeds
and that's all we've got currently the genetics are unstable and we're just mutating them and
crossing them and letting them do what nature does so i'm not a pollen chucker but i am a selective
cannabis breeder um so my job here on the hemp farm for east coast cannabis company in new zealand
is basically wandering around our monosuchus cannabis flowers and sadly eradicating the
hermaphrodites to save the gorilla growers in the neighbors and the neighborhood so it's our honest
bit that we can do for the genetics that already live out in the bushes being high skunk streams
and the likes for sale in the uh illicit legacy market so yeah all the best everybody and jay from
hawaii um i've been to uh maui hawaii i can't chat with you because i've chatted with too many people
on uh this network but i have back chatted you on the instagram there mr j so if you like uh follow
up on that um yeah it'll be it'll be fire and if anybody else wants to test their genetics
and they are licensed hemp farmers in their own country um yeah feel free to open source send some
seeds down me and down here to aotearoa new zealand where we have the highest uvb sun penetration i
tell you we have melanoma skin cancer out the wazoo because our uvb is fire so we make some dank
dank skank and on that note thank you very much uh the dank hour thank you very much uh everybody in
the uh top shelf everybody in the lower shelf and all the people that are going to listen later on
much love jawbliss and peace to all of us and keep growing
appreciate you brother and with that don't forget to follow people jay's gonna play us out with some
nice beautiful background music for a minute or two and then uh yeah we'll end it end it out i'm
gonna go and the future candidate i'm gonna be in the youtube side thank you everybody we
appreciate each and every one of you and i look forward to having you on the stage again
there
hello hello everyone and can you hear me can you hear me yes you can okay awesome show a little
bit hectic there a little bit interrupted and started thank you so much for being patient
being with us i think it was an awesome time um and i look forward to more awesome times
thanks again uh for having a great day and we appreciate each and every one of you
get growing um and i believe there is ask a wiener tomorrow
and all sorts of other stuff we appreciate you i'm yelling into my mic now and we are ending
this
