Hello everybody, hope everyone is doing well.
Let's make sure you can actually hear me at this point in time because I'm doing all sorts
of different microphone arrays so you can hear me by the look of it.
I'm excited because we have our second episode of Cannabis Nerd 101, Ask the Cannabis Nerd
and an amazing crew of people.
I'm excited to dig deep and answer your questions.
So if you have any questions, don't forget to submit them.
Check the comments below for that, but without any further ado, we will get started.
I'll have my nice little intro started.
Where is it? This one? Yes.
Can you introduce yourself, Annabis, for everybody?
Just start. Annabis, our chair, Anthony, and then while everybody's rolling in the room.
And I can just check audio and make sure it's all good.
Hi, everybody.
My name is Anna Schwalbe, and I've been into cannabis.
I've been working on cannabis since about 2015.
I've always been interested in it.
I have a PhD in Cannabis Genetics from the University of Northern Colorado.
I teach modern cannabis science at the University of Colorado in Boulder, Colorado.
And I am currently residing in New Jersey, working with a company that does organic hemp
farming using aquaponics.
Anthony?
Did you want to introduce yourself there, brother?
Maybe on mute.
Go ahead and introduce yourself, Tether.
We're coming through loud and clear on future cannabis side.
I'm sure we'll have lots of questions coming up, and I'll get the show started after you introduce yourself.
And then I'm sure we'll have the rest of everybody else join us when they get here, as we'll see.
All right. Hey, I'm Cheddar Bob 13.
I don't have any PhDs or any other degrees except for working in a basement as a homegrower for 20 years.
So I'm up here with a homegrower's perspective and just to kind of shoot you through the mistakes that I've made through the years.
So you can find me at Cheddar Bob 13 on Instagram, Cannabuzz, and where else am I?
YouTube. There we go.
Come on up, Matt Ryan.
You're quite the smart cookie.
So we'll have you up as one of our supporters as well today.
So we, as those who were Johnny, Johnny and Gillian, we'll get started in a moment.
I'm sure everybody wants to know what's going on.
Those over at Future Cannabis Project and here.
Welcome to the show.
This is Future Cannabis, trying to ask a cannabis nerd where you get to ask all your questions and learn whatever it is you can and learn maybe a few different methods and thought process.
I tried to have a nice diverse panel and have an open invite to quite a few people.
So we'll have some people pop in and out here and there as well as various in and out.
I'm excited.
It's going to be a very fun day.
I have a few questions on the back here that we can get going to get us rolling.
But Johnny has hopped up from the crowd.
And those that are in the audience or in Future Cannabis Project, feel free to put any questions you might have whatsoever.
Cannabis related ideally.
I mean, if it's not cannabis related.
You know, we'll try.
I'm not making any promises, but we'll try.
I'm excited because this is a great way for all the people that you see on Future Cannabis Project on the various other shows for you to get in a room, ask them some questions and get in the chat and get what you need from everybody.
So I'm excited to be part of this.
Anthony is joining us.
Are you here, Mr. Toad?
Boneyard Genetics, you available to say hello to everybody?
Yes, I am.
I'm just trying to get a microphone hooked up.
So if I'm a little low on volume right now, that's what I'm doing right now.
Sorry about that.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Johnny.
I was just gonna say hope everyone's having a good day.
I think we all will have a lot of fun today.
So, Johnny, welcome to the stage.
Jeff, any questions for us today?
Anything you want to get us rolling with before I start pulling from a mailbag?
Well, I guess I'm wondering if anybody here will be going to the Emerald Cup happening this weekend.
That's an exciting.
Anthony, I imagine you're going to be there, right?
Actually, I'm not able to make it down there.
My actual, my health does not let me travel too far.
So I'm not able to make it.
I really want to get to these events and see all my friends again.
So it's something I wish I could get back to.
I'm probably not going to be able to.
I'll smoke a couple in your honor, Anthony.
I appreciate that, man.
Well, I think everybody will be there in spirit.
Oh, go ahead, Jedder.
I was just saying, I'm up in the northeast corner of the country and I don't fly.
So that's a no go for me.
Anyone going to the Regenerative Conference in Maine, I will certainly see you there.
Not Maine.
But I would say that's the only thing I'm doing this whole year is the Regenerative Conference.
I'm going to try and hit it in Humboldt and Michigan.
We'll see what happens.
Nice, Matt.
Well, we'll be chopping it up at the Humboldt Conference for sure then.
Yeah, I'm so excited.
I just added Green Source Gardens on there.
I'm like, this is just turning out to be a fantastic panel.
Like gold.
Absolute gold.
So it's going to be a lot of fun.
We should have a lot of other awesome people stop by.
Welcome, Johnny.
I'm going to throw a little marketing thing on you.
So those that aren't aware, Future Cannabis Project is going to be at the Emerald Cup.
We're going to be doing a ton of live coverage while we're there.
Welcome to the stage.
Hello.
We're going to be doing a ton of live coverage at the Emerald Cup.
So don't miss out this weekend.
I think that's going to be like I'm fucking so excited to be able to help do the digital.
I'm not able to like go down there and be there, but I'll be there in spirit.
So I'm very excited because I'll be helping with the digital production site.
Evian, how are you today?
How is the garden?
And welcome.
How are you doing?
Oh, I'm good.
Sorry.
I'm a little bit late.
I'm still actually wrapping up some work stuff for the day.
So yeah, all good.
Just lots going on as usual.
You know, I think it's going to slow down, but apparently not.
And I'm super sad because I actually had to cancel my trip down to the Emerald Cup ball this weekend.
So I'm really glad that you're going to do some digital footage.
It will help my FOMO immensely, I think.
So I'm happy to be here with you all.
Yeah.
I was going to say that's unfortunate to miss out, but I'm glad we can help out with that.
So again, I'll say it one last time before we get rolling into the questions.
Don't be afraid to type your questions into the chat.
Ideally, I'm going to answer the cannabis ones first.
If you don't want to submit something on chat and want to submit it by email,
we do have an email that you can see in the description that you can submit through there.
If you're in the audience or out anywhere in the digital world where we are broadcasting to,
don't be afraid to come up, ask a question, and get your question answered.
So without any further ado, let's jump into it.
And I'm going to scroll up here and see if I can find the first question that we had of the day.
I had it, and then you know what I did?
I just totally damn lost it.
Awesome.
And here is Donkey Kongington.
Donkey Kongington?
Donkey Kongington.
Donkey Kongington asks, have you ever used rice water for making teas, ferments, et cetera?
I would love to know a little bit about that process as well.
Maybe, Johnny, do you want to open that up?
I saw your mic flashing.
Yeah, so the rice water, it's a really, like, simple way to incorporate lactic acid bacteria into your system.
You will have some benefits from just a rice wash.
However, you will have added benefits and increased biology if you further that step
and take the rice wash and incorporate it with one part rice wash to ten parts milk,
and then after a few days, you'll see a separation, and that will be a lactoacid bacteria serum,
which is great for fighting pathogens, for breaking down organic amendments,
and yeah, it's a really solid thing to incorporate in your garden.
So the rice wash by itself will have some benefit,
but it will be leveled way up if you do that next step that I just kind of outlined.
Anybody else?
Yeah, what he's talking about works pretty good for picking up indigenous microorganisms.
I like to use that rice wash itself to collect those microorganisms if I'm not going to extend it into a lab.
Sometimes labs can be a little too much if you start going real heavy on it,
and you can stick to just that rice wash to kind of keep everything in check.
Some people will go a little too heavy using the labs in the soil.
It's great for the foliar application,
so it will out-compete any type of bad pathogens that could be on your plants.
It can help with that.
It's just something I did.
I love the use of nature to protect nature,
and this is one area that I'm starting to just touch into in a space,
so I'm really excited to start experimenting on this myself,
and luckily I have an awesome panel with lots of knowledge in these things and great questions coming at them,
so I'll learn a lot in this segment, that's for sure.
Next up, Donkey Kong is coming at us hard with another great question here,
and this one I'm not too sure if we're going to have an answer for,
but it's relative, and I think it's important to touch on if we can get it out there for sure.
Donkey Kong asks,
How did it work for you?
So this is an interesting one.
Not interesting, I guess, in the sense that I guess it's kind of older science.
The reason why pydozen started being used was because of the mass availability of industrial CHT,
and if you're really trying to get a plant, I guess what I'm going to get, just to cut this short,
if you want a acquired resistance, honestly, you're better going after,
oh my God, I'm drawing a blank right now.
I've used jasmonica.
I'll just say harpen-like proteins.
Really, that's the best one to go after because that's what essentially you're trying to target,
and they're a lot cheaper and a lot easier to use if you really are looking for that fucking SAR response.
The ag industry shifted from pydozen because pydozen is really like an older tech to the harpen protein in the late 90s
because it's the exact protein that gets the plant to kick up those defense mechanisms.
Aloe vera and salicylic acid for getting that response.
Did you have a comment there?
The acquired system response, you can build that up with multiple different types of things from jasmonic acid,
aloe vera, harpen proteins, insect frass.
A lot of those things will help work and do the same thing.
They just do it on a different level.
Harpen protein is that protein that you would want to use to target that actual systemic resistance the best.
You can use that in a foliar application.
You can put that directly in the soil, stagger it with your waterings.
I believe Bigfoot, he went over this on the show that he was on
and how he was utilizing that to help increase the terpene levels in the cannabis that he's growing,
and he's getting massive increases in terpene from the increase in the trichome density that the harpen protein elicits in the plant.
You can also use a lot of salicylic acid, things like white willow bark.
Pretty much any of the plants that are in the salicin family,
those can also be used to help elicit the systemic acquired resistance in the plant.
You want to use these separately though.
You mentioned harpen proteins and insect frass.
That would be completely pointless to use both of them
because essentially that's where they started targeting the harpen from.
I would use one or the other.
Exactly, that's where I was going.
If you're trying to target an SAR, don't try and do it with a bunch of different things.
Find one or two things, really investigate what you're doing, and then do them.
Especially in living soil, you're already trying to balance chaos.
There's no reason to add more chaos within that chaos.
Keep it as simple as possible, especially when you're working with hormones
because hormones are exactly what cause the mutations, the duddings, things like that that we don't really want.
I can attest to a lot of this.
I've been fucking with hormones for a couple of years now, and they're really, really touchy.
Hey, Matt.
Yeah, hormones have a lot of...
Donkey, and sorry, Johnny, you can say what you're going to say.
The only thing, Donkey, I think his name was.
There's two papers that are really good.
If you really want to know specifically about chitosan, I think off the top of my head,
the first one is chitosan, the good, the bad, and the ugly.
Then the one I do know that I've saved is chitosan effects on plant systems.
That one really talks about where it started, and it was really from an oversupply of the fucking industrial level.
It kind of solves how it happened.
We're like, oh, hey, let's just put this on plants now.
Hey, Matt, I don't want to dive too hard into this specific subject, but I really like where we're going with it.
No, no, no, no, that's not what I mean.
Can you do me a favor?
You have moderator.
Are either of those papers publicly available?
I was going to post them right now on the Facebook channel.
I just was about to post the links to one of them.
If you could also post them in the top bar here so that we can have access to them for everybody that's in the audience on the Clubhouse side as well, that'd be fucking super great.
I love the knowledge shared there, brother.
I didn't mean to cut it short, but I do want to make sure we get to some other questions as well.
No problem.
I just got to pull it up on both of my phones here so I can put it on the top bar, so just take me a second.
Thanks, brother.
No rush, no rush.
Yeah, I was just looking to see if the other paper that I mentioned, or the first one that I mentioned, is The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly of Kydozins, not Kydozins, The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly.
I guess you would have found it either way if you Googled it, but there's probably not many papers named similar to that.
Awesome.
Well, Jason, Joda, Herb, welcome to the stage.
It is always fun to see you.
We haven't had a chance to jump in and say hello yet, so go ahead and say hi.
And again, anybody in the audience, if you have a question, don't forget to raise your hand and come on up and ask your question, as well as the Future Canibus Project out there.
I am trying to keep a tally on that as much as possible, but are you, Jason, are you going to Emerald Cup this year?
Are you going to be able to make it?
Hi, everybody.
So, no, actually I'm not.
I'm on the East Coast, and so I won't be heading to the West Coast anytime soon.
And I'm actually not looking to be doing any flying anytime soon.
So if it's not driving distance, I'm not going to go there.
So, no, unfortunately I won't make it out this year.
Maybe in the future.
Definitely Emerald Cup is something I want to experience.
I've heard fantastic things about it.
In the past, it actually tended to overlap with other events, like the Harvest Cup out here.
It was the same weekend one year, so I couldn't go then either.
But, yeah, no, definitely looking forward to doing it.
Great to be here, as always.
Evening to you, Mr. Toad, Matt, Johnny, Dr. Anubis, Chet Abab, and, of course, London.
Thanks for hosting this space, this new fun space that all of us are participating in.
Thanks, brother.
I mean, I think it's a great space for us to be.
We all want to give back and give it central and help out the community.
So you're all just community awesomeness.
And I just provided this time slot that Future Canvas Project provided.
So thanks again.
The next question right now, to make sure, not double autoing over.
Give me two seconds.
I've got to learn how to get faster at this managing the audio thing.
But there is a question from Little Mac.
Little Mac asks, for FCP, I stole some soil from pots or plants.
I'm guessing potted plants that he had about his house or yard.
It had manure and fertilizer in it.
It's a garage goat.
Will it be safe?
So I'm guessing you've taken yard soil, planted pots, and using it in your garden.
Does anybody want to hop on this one?
Maybe Chet or Bob, do you have some thoughts?
I would say, without knowing what kind of potting soil it was, chances are it probably has some time fertilizers in it,
which, in the living soil community, isn't what we're shooting for.
Not saying that it won't grow, but not in the way we're really sustainably shooting for.
Other than that, it'll work.
But I wouldn't say it's ideal.
I think you need to be careful with random soils.
You need to be focused on soils that are primarily meant for growing food,
because they're going to be more focused on producing a food product,
as opposed to general growing for houseplants and things.
There's a lot of times where they put all sorts of interesting things in those mixes when it's not meant for food.
If you're going to grab random soil, you want to try to stick with the types of soil that are meant for food growing.
If you're buying a bagged soil, if you're thinking about combining different pots that you have already,
then most likely that soil will need to be re-nutrified,
probably taken some time to cook together after you re-mineralize it with some additional inputs.
It's difficult.
The other piece of warning is, if you're taking pots and random soil from outside and bringing them inside,
then you have to also be prepared to handle any pests or any other things that you may bring along with you.
I think that's a pretty great answer there.
We will continue for it.
I would say that there's two things.
I think you touched on two major points there.
A, you don't know what is coming along with the soil when you move it.
B, you don't know what the nutrient level is in that soil or what's going on there.
You do run a couple risks.
That being said, sometimes we're a little bit over-nervous.
If you have it going now and everything seems to be okay, keep it going.
You can check back with us next week if you have a further issue.
You can even pop up and shoot us a photo if there's any problem with the plant nutrient.
I can post it up here as well.
We're going to move on to our next question.
Hopefully, your question was answered.
Robin Record at FPC.
I have a male and female in veg under 18 on 6 off light cycle.
Both are showing pre-flowers around day 40 to 45.
I'm guessing this is from seed.
They're around day 40, 45 from seed.
These are vegetative pre-flowers.
Question.
Will that male throw pollen and will it force the female into flower still under 18, 6?
Will it keep dropping flowers?
I think I'm actually going to point this one at Tony as his breeding experience.
I think it will be an amazing addition to this comment.
Let's see here.
He's got these plants under 18 hours of light, 6 hours of dark.
It comes down to the genetics involved in the plant on whether or not they're going to continue to go into flower.
It depends on how ethylene sensitive they are also.
Once it hits a crucial peak, it's going to start to continue to show pre-flowers on there and then actually go into flower on some plants.
Some Afghanis can do this from root restriction.
There's a possibility that there's a ratio imbalance of the hormones that is being passed from the root tip to the floam and xylem fluid to the rest of the plant,
which is transferring an imbalance of auxins and terpoyic acid in the tissue of that plant, which could be causing what's happening.
Whether or not the male is going to force that female to keep doing that, the male is not going to do it.
It's going to be the hormone imbalance within that female that actually is doing that to you.
It's building up florigen, and it's also converting photochrome red and photochrome far red from the inactive and active state.
That's what's causing that plant to start to flower under those lighting schedules.
It can also happen from an increase in too much far red.
If the far red ratio is too high on there, if you're closer to that 7-15, 7-30, and you're putting too much of that into the environment,
some plants are going to start to think that it's time to actually...
Sorry about that.
It was only for a second, so we only lost the last four words.
There's multiple reasons it could be happening, from photochrome red to hormone imbalance to basically root restriction.
There's many things that could be causing that.
I have a question then.
Do male plants, once they hit a certain age, they're going to form pre-flowers regardless, right?
Do those pre-flowers keep forming on and on and on?
Do you have to worry about that pre-flower pollen pollinating maybe your flower tent, which might be in a different room?
Is that something that is of concern?
Yeah.
As soon as a male is dropping a stamina flower and it starts to open, any sepals that show contain pollen, if it's a regular male.
He's going to drop some form of pollen.
You can pollinate any calyx on a female in veg or in flower.
It does not matter the life cycle it's going to pollinate.
People have made seeds under 24-hour lights on plants that are showing pre-veg.
You dropped out there.
That's really interesting.
Where are you going to respond with male?
No, I was just agreeing with it 100%.
As soon as that male is essentially presented himself as a male, that is the best time to start separating him from the herd if you do not want any sort of risk.
Like Tony was saying, it literally takes just one gentle little crack and one gentle little piece of pollen to fly out and it's done.
Most of us have fans and everything, so it doesn't take anything whatsoever for the pollen to make way.
Do we think that airflow protocol would be the most intelligent move here?
If you're going to store males long-term in a space, even if it's in a home environment, just because you want to practice some breeding at home, it would be best to have them as the last point of venting.
If your airflow is going one way, it would exit out of where you hold your males.
Would that be the most intelligent route about it?
1000%.
What I recommend people do, because honestly, like we kind of noted, you don't really need a large male like you would a female, because pollen is normally pretty good at what it's supposed to do.
So you can leave it in a smaller pot, and if you have the room, especially if you're in a legal state, put it outside, put it out front, and it's not going to be as loud and boisterous as a female plant.
You can have this little plant and every morning come out, collect pollen, and go about your day.
You don't have to have some elaborate setup for males, because you don't need that big of a plant.
It only takes one stamina flower to ruin a female's sense of male room.
There's up to 300,000 pollen grains in there.
I tell people just lollipop it all the way up to an inch, and then really, like Tony just said, you only need one sack.
It's crazy.
Hey Tony, I have a question.
So say if you were to take a male, you pollinated a female that's just got a few pre-flowers, it's just barely viable.
Will that mess with the plant's hormones and kind of development if you try to put that in the flower from there?
It can.
It's going to depend on really how far that plant's went.
Is that plant already producing high levels of ethylene and starting to flower?
Has that plant been in bed and it's got a lower ethylene level?
She has different endogenous hormone levels in different stages of her life based on all those other factors I was talking about earlier.
They all add up to cause that plant to produce specific ratios of ethylene.
Man, I don't know what is happening with your poor connection there.
I keep losing you guys.
I'm sorry about that.
But yeah, it can.
Sorry.
That's awesome.
Well, that gives us an excellent opportunity to jump on to our next question.
We're at about 30 minutes in, so if you have any more questions.
I am on the chat on future cannabis projects, but I don't want to lose track of the question and make sure that they're in order.
And I haven't quite figured out every little detail on how to do this 100% perfectly yet.
So if you're saying something at the bottom there, I'll get to you.
It's coming.
I just I don't want to lose track quite yet.
So Bud and Lather asked us right now, I've got autumn leaves and grass clippings breaking down on our plots for the next year.
Any other suggestions for overwintering amendments in my plots or should I just go for a cover crop?
I'm thinking I'm going to jump this one over to anybody.
Anybody want to volunteer for this one?
Would usually give this to Evian or Dutch.
So is the question about about composting the material and do usable matter for soil building or is it already a mulch layer in a field?
I didn't fully understand the question.
I apologize.
No worries.
My assumption would be by the sound of the process that he is doing is that he is trying to do no till.
So he's allowing cover fall like, you know, using hay or wood chips and then following that with leaves in the fall to like just try not to mend the soil.
So he's wondering if there's a cover crop to do.
Now, I would typically lean if I was going to overwinter a cover crop.
Depending on where you are, it's a highly debatable because you want to fix nitrogen and add that into the soil.
But depending on your climate can matter a lot.
So for me in Canada, I would plant fava bean.
There's specifically certain varieties that aren't bred for necessarily eating, but they're amazing nitrogen fixers and they put a lot into your soil.
So you actually just till them in at about like just before they seed out or when they're seeding out.
And you can add a lot of really awesome stuff into the soil.
Chase, welcome to this stage.
So we're just talking about like what type of cover crop would you use for a nitrogen fixer for overwinter?
Matt, did you want to go into that?
Yeah, I was just going to say that there's kind of a misconception with nitrogen fixing plants too.
I think that it should kind of be hit that a lot of people think that they're just going to plant, you know, like a pea.
Especially, you know, the big one is the Austrian winter pea.
And it's going to just somehow be feeding the soil full of nitrogen.
It's not necessarily how it works.
The plant itself fixes nitrogen and moves it to the pea.
And you want to catch the pea at like a perfect time and compost the entire plant for the whole green manure itself.
And that's like, so you want to bring it to fruit, but not all the way, I guess is the point.
There's like some good like papers about this.
And there's even one that like talks about the misconception, you know, like everybody thinks when you plant peas with corn, it's great.
It's somewhat, like somewhat, but it's mainly because of the prior year before that it's like so beneficial.
But anyways, just when you're using peas, make sure it comes all the way or almost all the way to fruit and then take it down.
Yeah, I think that's something that a lot of people miss on with these cover crops is they think that they could just like that it's somehow adding a lot of nitrogen to the soil while the plant is like growing.
You got to like, yeah, cut them or prevent them, like trim them and like cut them at the base at the root system and let the plant fall to die to create green compost for the rest of it.
There hasn't been enough that I've been able to find.
I'd love you to shoot me some of that information.
I'll drop it into some of our other links as well, Matt, if there's some paperwork.
Because I've been trying to dig into a cover crop for the last little while.
Tony, you look like you wanted to throw in there.
Do you have something you want to throw in with that?
I was going to kind of agree with the way people are using their cover crops the incorrect way.
A lot of times they're expecting that nitrogen fixation to help the plant during the cycle of the cannabis plant.
When in reality, that pea, that dandelion, whatever plants are using as a way to either store that nutrient into the soil or to bring it back up from the depths of the soil.
Those should be used prior to you growing your cannabis crop because you're not utilizing that stuff until the plants already went through its own growth cycle and stored it.
Because plants are sink and source.
Those nodules we're after are actually these nitrogen sinks and calcium sinks.
Those plants have evolved to store those nutrients in the root systems and then are supposed to die and become fodder to the area around them.
That way the rest of the plants can use them.
That's why you'll see dandelions growing in a wild field.
That field's telling you it has low calcium levels higher up in the soil.
It's using a dandelion to drive down farther into the soil and use its root structure to bring that back up and store it.
Then that dandelion dies and then for another two or three years you won't see dandelions on the same amount growing in that field because they've done their purpose.
We try to mimic nature, but we're not doing it the correct way.
We're trying to use those cover crops as a mulch layer, but also to benefit our garden during the actual growing.
It doesn't work that way.
I've always used the concept of cover crop, especially when you're looking at container gardening in an indoor environment.
It's more of an IPM procedure, something that you can use.
If there is some that do flower early, there's pests that will eat the pollen when they don't have enough other things to eat and stuff like that.
Jason, go ahead.
I was just going to add that it's also important that if you're going to overwinter pots or any area that you mulch, mulch, mulch, mulch, you want to create a nice layer of barrier from the exposure to the elements, so to speak.
You're not just protecting your soil, you're also protecting the biology that's in the soil.
If you're really trying to get full advantage of that rest period, that overwintering, that breaking down of things within that soil so that you can take advantage of it,
you really want to put some good layers of mulch on top and around those areas, hay or other things, even a blanket, to protect that set of soil.
Don't leave it just completely exposed to the elements because then it's going to freeze and oxidize and won't necessarily be as good as it could have been if it was more protected.
That's the piece I wanted to add on to that.
Awesome. Well, thank you, Jason.
As usual, we've got to invite and say hello to our panel members when they come on.
Chase, welcome. It's great to see you.
Will you be at Emerald Cup this year to say hello?
I will not be at the Emerald Cup.
Fortunately, I have too many plants that I can't leave for that many days.
I don't have anyone that I trust with these particular plants because these are things I've been lugging around the country for decades now.
It's one of those things that they're like children to me.
Fortunately, I'm not going to get to go this year.
I was just going to say what I use is anhydrous ammonia as my cover crop.
That was a joke, guys.
Anyways, I guess that wasn't very funny.
It's so brutal when you crack a joke and no one laughs because you're on a panel.
It was funny.
Anyways, I don't use that. I was just trying to throw out a stupid joke.
How long has this started? I apologize for being late to this.
I have been talking with other people about a couple of other states that are getting ready to come online.
Wyoming, New Jersey are two that we're potentially looking at just because I'm definitely starting to see what happens when you have a wide open market or very low barriers to entry in a state.
Oklahoma is getting to a point where instead of people improving on the quality, it's a race to the bottom and very much the dollar store mentality when it comes to product, which is sad because everyone's blindly scaling and not focusing on getting better at their craft, which is an atrocity to me.
Unfortunately, it just hurts the patients and the people that really need the medicine, not just the people that are just trying to get high.
I'm cool with that, but I know that for me, I like more of the aspect of there being products that are in the market that show more diversity and are good for different ailments.
I wish that stuff was marketed more towards that way.
That was just the rant that I've had with some of my consulting customers and helping people with the licensing processes in other states and trying to set themselves apart because it's amazing how many people that are getting into cannabis are only concentrating on production only.
They don't even necessarily think about any of the other things that comes with cannabis like brand building and doing things that separate you from your neighbor so that way you're not just another jar on a shelf of an operation.
Anyways, I'm glad to be here. I apologize again for being late. I will let you guys back to doing your thing. Thanks for having me on.
Chase, I feel like whenever these types of things happen, there's a chase to the bottom, but the people that are chasing to identify themselves as unique or provide quality to the market are always going to be the ones that have long-term succession.
When it comes to the people that are putting where their goal is to get the market to the bottom and get to the bottom, those are big businesses that there's no point in competing with.
Really, they're not going to have that much thing. In Canada, the top cannabis businesses are all working at a deficit right now and losing money year on year.
Without any further ado, we'll get back to answering some awesome questions. As usual, there's no question too big or too small, and I have an interesting one for you here. I'm going to direct this to Dr. Anubis.
BeastMod asks, would an auto flower pollinated with a photo period plant still need 12 hours of light or is 18 fine already bubbled up?
I would need more information. I think you would get a variety of flowering times.
I think he's more concerned about the process of seeding action. Will the auto flower plant that's taken on the pollen from a photo period plant, does that pollen now make those seeds need to be under 12 light? I think is what he's asking.
I think you're going to get a range of flowering times. I don't think they're going to be photo period.
Right now, this is the big thing to do because you can cut down flowering time. What happens is the plant is a photo period plant. It grows much faster.
Normally, they're incredibly, at least the ones that I've been testing, are incredibly hungry, almost to a point where it almost doesn't seem commercially viable for what you're getting at this point. I'm not going to lie.
The whole thing is to cut down the flowering time. Noting them growing side by side with normal photo periodic strains, they've vegged faster and they are notably more hungry than any other photo period that I have by a large amount, which is interesting.
I guess there's only supposed to be 5% when you cross that will revert to auto flower. I actually had one round of the ones I've had and it was pretty interesting. You can tell pretty quick which one's an auto flower because it'll sex and it'll keep going. It definitely is different in your photo periods, but it's a very small population.
From my understanding, you got to do another back cross to get more of those auto flowering genetics. The F1s aren't really going to show much of it.
When you cross that auto flower to a photo period, your F1 generation gives you a majority of all photo period because auto flowers are recessive to the photo period.
You take your F1s and make F2s. In the F2 generation, you're going to start seeing 25% roughly of the auto flower. You'll dig into those autos if you're looking for autos to make F3s where now your population jumps up to 50% or higher.
Try to go to an F4. Once you're in an F4, you can take your favorite plant out of that group and then reverse it so that now you have a feminized version of an auto flower that you went through and created.
I'm thinking that what he's asking is once that plant's been pollinated, does he have to keep it on 12 and 12 for the seeds to finish along with the flowers? The answer is no, if that's what he's asking.
He can take that auto flower and kick it back up to 18 if he'd like or leave it at 12. If he leaves it at 12, the seeds are going to take longer. If he kicks it up to 18, they're going to finish faster, be they an auto flower or a photo period. You could do that either way.
Awesome. I think we dug right into that one. The next question coming up from Neverwinter Farm. Question, what watering method would you use for an indoor 25-gallon living soil pots? SIP, blue mat, or top water?
I can answer this one. This is one I know something about. Personally, I use the blue mat self-watering system. Did they say it was a 20, 25-gallon?
Yeah.
I run four by four beds, which are significantly larger. I have seen really good results with the blue mat with just a few of the drippers and a single five-inch carrot or a nine-inch carrot in the middle.
I also really like the blue soak tape. It really helps spread out the moisture around the bed. That's what I use. That's what I've found works the best for my situation.
With the reservoir, it's just so much easier. It takes one of those things on your list and puts it on the back burner a little bit.
I'll play devil's advocate. I don't like blue mats. I would recommend in 25s to SIP, and then randomly once a week, if that, be like once out of every three times, water up top.
This process I found in 15s to 25s to be fantastic, just because really the amount of water that you have to exchange in the top, like in a 15, comparatively to what's being at the bottom.
This is where everybody's getting fungus gnats. They're essentially watering too much. Then the blue mats, I ran them before, or I guess I used to run them. I think they're fantastic for yield, but I prefer the product.
The blue mats, I don't think, allow a deep enough dry back that I prefer, and I think that cannabis needs. I think we already overwater as it is. The blue mats can lead to a gentle amount of overwatering, which isn't bad. It's safe.
Like Cheddar said, if you're trying to cut something off, they're great, but if you're really, I think, trying to get really sticky, kind of dry farming style, like flour, the blue mats don't necessarily work for that, just because you can't get the pot to dry back enough, and then wet it enough to not fuck up the entire cycle
with the blue mat. It's not necessarily the blue mat itself. It's just the process that you have to do to dry back in a pot. It doesn't necessarily work, I guess, is my point. Sorry, that was a lot.
You can just shut the blue mat off for a day. You can cut it back.
Yeah, but resetting it is a pain, though.
Well, all you have to do, yeah, it is. You're right. Resetting it and getting it dialed in is kind of annoying.
Doing that a couple times a cycle would get, it does get old. Trust me, I tried it.
No, for sure, for sure. But you could even just unplug if you have a pump, or just shut the water off, have a valve for a day.
Yeah, I definitely have found that you're kind of right. It will, like if you have it set up and it's not quite dialed in, where you'll be subtly over watering.
And getting it dialed in is kind of a hassle. That's the biggest drawback, I would say, is actually the time to get it where you want it.
And I think that they should really come out with a digital reading, or a digital, instead of an analog, way to control the moisture content.
Totally, that'd be great.
You know, because it really is, the little thing is so sensitive that you rotate that knob a little bit and you're going to be over or under watering.
But I love my blue mat. And I mean, SIPS is a great, a great approach. And I think the blue mat is another good way, another good way to go.
It's really a matter of preference, I would say.
So yeah, that's my two cents on the blue mats anyways.
I really love this kind of, sorry, go ahead, Matt.
Sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off. But, you know, the SIPS are just great because, like I said, like the bottom sometimes stays, you know, keeps it, you know, retains a good amount of moisture, like if you built your soil right, I feel like.
And the top dries out a lot quicker. So as we keep, you know, watering, or, you know, as people keep watering up top, you know, the pot doesn't actually necessarily need more water.
Everybody starts seeing, you know, fungus gnats because they love this environment.
But by doing the SIPS watering, you can actually see when the pot is done, you know, it's like, okay, it doesn't want any more water and you can pull it down, you know, like a container or you can have or know how much it, you know, like essentially like takes every couple
of days and then drain, there's pots with a little bit of drain and you can drain it out. But there's different ways. Soma has his like setup, you know, the SIPS like setup, but in pots, I definitely think it's great.
You know, like the SIPS, but again, Johnny had great points. Cheddar, fantastic points. I'm sure Jason and everyone else has great points too.
I know this is kind of off topic, but it brought up something that I actually saw in one of my consulting customers gross today that actually surprised me. So, you know, no matter how old you are, what you've been doing, you can always learn something new.
But anyways, they were using one gallon pots and it was just pretty much a standard commercial operation where they got two weeks of propagation, two weeks of edge and then they induce flowering just, you know, it's high volume stuff.
But they were buying this, not necessarily a pantyhose, but something very similar to a pantyhose and they were encompassing their whole plant and then taking it and then putting a rubber band around it.
And it was keeping out fungus gnats, any type of bugs from being able to attack the root zone, which I was actually pretty impressed with just because a lot of times in commercial operations, if I see people using cocoa with a drip system, or if I see people that are even doing say an ebb and flow with a pot,
that you usually see a little bit of fungus gnat pressure just in those areas that have high saturation, just because fungus gnats tend to live within the first two inches of any medium.
So I thought that that was a pretty neat little trick to do. And then they literally just throw them away at the same time. And since they were buying pantyhose, they were obviously getting at least two of them. And it was extremely cost effective to the point where it was only adding like 50 cents or something like that to the overall cost of a plant. So just figured I'd throw that out there.
Interesting. I love to talk to both points, right? So pantyhose, that's an awesome solution, right? Those are great also for things like air pots, or some of the larger, more, I guess, holey, you know, some of the pots that are made, some of the fabric pots and cloth pots that are mesh. Sometimes the holes are large.
And so the fungus gnats just have a field day because instead of just dealing with the top of the pot, or those small, tiny little holes at the bottom of the pot, they've got a whole set of sides to go after too. And so they just come in and out of the sides and the tops. So yeah, pantyhose are an awesome solution for that type, for that mesh.
And netting is great for caterpillars and other things as well. So if you're trying to protect your veggies and plants, you can put those big, you can put big mesh bags kind of over the plants and keep the caterpillars and things off because the moths can't get to them. They can't lay the eggs. The eggs won't hatch into the caterpillars that are eating your stuff. So lots of great approaches with that.
The second thing I wanted to mention was that blue mats are great. I also really liked the blue mats with a 25 gallon pot. Yeah. As Cheddar Bob was saying, a four by four is about a hundred gallons of soil, about 96 gallons of soil, somewhere in that range.
But a 25 gallon pot is perfect for a blue mat. I do like the blue soak because you can build a nice range of water dripping down as opposed to a couple just drip spots.
I would recommend if you're going to go with blue mat that you talk to the people at Sustainable Village actually, because they'll help you put together the right size system, the right set of drippers, all those things for the pot.
And they'll even send you a layout on how you're supposed to put the carrot, where you put the carrots, the deep carrots or the regular carrots and how you would lay out the drippers and some of that. So they're really great people to work with if you're going to do the blue mat setup.
And I also like the blue mat because you can use it with a pump, but in many cases, most people just use a gravity fed approach. So you don't need power.
And the blue mat, it tries to keep the soil at a consistent level of moisture. And again, once you dial it in, it does take some time to dial it in and you do have to check your carrots and make sure things are working.
But it allows the plant to drink what it wants, when it wants it. And each plant can then drink what they need, as opposed to kind of that bulk methodology where I just kind of dump a couple, you know, the same amount of water on all the plants, regardless of how much they're drinking.
So that's another nice part about the blue mats is it allows the plants that need the extra water to get it, the ones that don't need to uptake as much water to not drink so much. So that's my couple pieces of inputs there. So thanks. I'm done speaking.
I like that. Nice couple pieces of inputs there. There are so many cannabis puns. It's ridiculous. I love these type of questions because they're a really diverse answer. And I think when you jumped in there, Matt, at the start, and you kind of talked about what works for you, or Cheddar Bob, when you jumped in right at the start and talked about what works for you, we're doing really well because depending on your garden, your methods, and so on and so forth, certain, you know, products might work better for you.
Or it might work better for someone else. And I love how we can really show the diversity and thought process on these things here, which is great. And also talk about work them out. So I have a directed question coming in from, oh, dude, I am so sorry. I'm not gonna.
I'm sorry if I butchered your name, brother. Mr. Toad, would using a light cycle that goes incrementally from 18-6 to 12-12 be a viable way of selecting indoors for long day flowers as a way to exploit breeding for outdoor, or am I impatient?
You're impatient. So if you want to breed for outdoor light cycles, you need to put the plant outside. You're not mimicking the sun on the inside of any house unless you put glass on the roof. And even then, you're gonna be cutting down a UV light that should be hitting that plant.
So long flowering isn't just because you switched the hours of light. Everyone thinks cannabis is flowering because we went from a vegetative light cycle to a flowering light cycle of 12-12. That's not what's happening. The plant is using the amount of photochrome far-red and photochrome red to count, basically, the amount of light hours it's seen.
It's not counting them based on a timer. It's based on how much photochrome red and photochrome far-red is converted from the active to inactive form. Every plant's gonna do this differently, and every genetic line's gonna do this differently.
So if you put my redwood cush in a room with my haze for days in a room, the redwood cush literally will finish flowering before the haze starts to begin to flower. So after 56 days, you're done growing the redwood cush. The haze is still trying to finish because the spectrum in that room isn't conductive to what it's after.
That's why a lot of people take haze and put it outside under 12-12 in the natural light, don't even run a bed cycle. So it's not coming down to the amount of light that plant had over it while it was growing. It's coming down to the genetics that are actually inside that plant, dictating how it responds to nature's cues, telling it when to flower.
So it builds up what's called florigen while it's converting photochrome red and photochrome far-red. Those are things you could sway indoors. So by changing your spectrum of light, increasing the amount of 730 nanometers when the light's about to turn off, you can make that plant go to sleep quicker.
That's why outside your plants at dusk appear to start to go to sleep. But inside, that doesn't happen until the light's out and it's seen dark for a minute. It's because it hasn't converted the photochrome red and photochrome far-red. It can do that outside because of the amount of red that's in the atmosphere that they see once the sun starts to go down.
The ratio increases, the plant recognizes that, and it starts processes that we can't see with our eyes. So it's just like bees seeing ultraviolet colors off of plants and such. The plant's counting spectrums of hours of light that we can't see.
I know that there is some startup lighting companies. I know of a Korean lighting company in particular that is trying to start collecting that data.
I think that personally, they're extremely far off, but their ultimate goal is, and again, I completely disagree with it. This is just something that I ran into, that they're trying to actually make a system that is going to give a certain spectrum of light conducive to this cultivar and that cultivar.
Essentially, for OG Kush, you would have a certain light spectrum. If you're growing Granddaddy Perp, they would have another one. Again, I think they're very far off, but they are starting to collect some of these data points that are able to be captured with the different amount of light and the spectrum that you're getting at different parts of the year.
Light science right now is really honestly fueling up its rockets and about to shoot off. It's almost by force in all reality. If you look at the largest food production facility in the US right now, it's in downtown New York. Why? Because it costs a shit ton of money to import food into New York.
With climate change and obviously things like pandemics and such, we can't. We've honestly realized that the way that we've done ag is crazy, throwing everything 1,000 miles away and trying to ship it. The amount of loss in transportation and shit is ridiculous.
With climate change, honestly, it's like the seasons are so erratic and changing that we don't know what the future holds. A lot of places like Central Canada are really relying off of a lot of their market gardeners that are greenhouse pros to keep their food going right now just because of the change in season.
That's coming down. The top of Washington and Idaho and Montana, it's really turning into a niche farmer's market. It's all greenhouse ran because cultivating outside is becoming really, really hard.
That being said, there's so much lighting science happening right now. Valoia, they're a huge lighting company, really the world dominating one in Europe. They are ahead on all of the food light science. That's one of the big things that they're realizing.
There's going to be a light for everything, for microgreens, for lettuces, for cucumbers. Try and grow a squash right now under an LED. It's not going to happen. The fruit's going to come up and then it's going to abort halfway through because we don't have the proper rays in LEDs yet for a zucchini to go full term.
It's pretty interesting, actually, to even think about that at some point. We'll probably have a facility that is just producing this. Or, like you're noting, Chase, maybe it'll be in a light spectrum that you're just choosing a program and saying, this whole cycle is broccoli.
Then the lights change to a program that grows for just broccoli or whatever. The future of growing with lights is really cool, I think, because it's such a massive field. It's going to tell us so much about just plants in general, which is pretty cool. Sorry, my little rant there.
They'll be able to start steering specific cannabinoid and terpene profiles using different lights. There's actual studies out there that show this actually happening, where you can increase the amount of CBG or CBN or reduce it based on the light spectrum or the type of light that's being used above it.
I've shared some of those reports on how HPS can affect the cannabinoids being produced on there. It can be cultivar specific. If you're running, say, ACDC, that plant's going to want a different light spectrum than if you were growing something that was a high THC V line.
It is something that we can tailor. We just don't have the science on which spectrums and what amount to use it with at the moment because cannabis hasn't been researched on that level.
Sure. Whenever I talk to them, I was completely blown away. We think that we have trouble doing any type of R&D here. The process in South Korea that they had to go through, they had to notify the government since it's illegal there.
They had to tell the government what they were doing. Then they had to show them what exactly they were doing. They had to literally give them all of their data. They had to assess it and basically do an audit upon it.
Then they contacted. They wouldn't do it with the US. They did it through a European seed bank. I don't know if it was Spain or somewhere. They went through a European operation. They ordered only three to six seeds at a time.
Once those seeds came in, they had to have them sent to the government, I guess the equivalent to the FDA, the South Korean equivalent to that.
Then after they popped those seeds, if they had a seed that was non-viable that didn't pop, they had to literally return that seed back to them to be able to check off where it's at.
They had to weigh the plant every single day within its pot to be able to give them exact numbers because if there was any type of discrepancy, they had to be able to address for it.
Literally, if a leaf was turning yellow and they picked it off, they would have to weigh it. They would have to go through the whole process, just multiple data points.
Then once it was all said and done, it was literally an extra probably three months of just scrutinizing compliance that they had to go through.
That was just to be able to grow essentially a medical amount of plants or just a standard ground that any of us would have in a medical state.
Then they had to destroy the product where they didn't even get to test it or even smoke it. They had to test it for the analytical properties and then the government destroyed the product afterwards.
The whole government platforming and how they do these things is so fucked up. It's actually really cool that we got into this section because Dr. Anubis on stage here wrote a whole paper about how the cannabis that has been provided for study to universities over the last little while is so far distant.
Can you step in and tell us a little bit about that there while I dig up the next question there, Dr. Anubis?
Sure. When I was at the university doing my PhD, we had a chemistry lab that was working on protocols for making a better extraction protocol for THC and other cannabinoids.
Their research was funded by the NIH. That meant that they were required to get their plant material for testing from the NIH. Under the NIH National Institute of Health is the National Institute on Drug Abuse, which is the sole provider of material for any scheduled substance for research purposes.
For cannabis, the entity that grows cannabis for research purposes is the University of Mississippi.
Because we had that chemistry lab, they had a DEA permit, of course, and the DEA could come in at any time. They had to have the plant material locked in a safe inside a fridge that was bolted.
Both the safe and the fridge had to be locked and bolted to both the floor and the wall, which were made of cement. There were only two keys to the fridge.
Every single piece of plant material had to be weighed and accounted for. Anytime they took anything out for testing, it had to be weighed, and that material had to be tagged. It was super tracked.
That was the plant material, but we kind of got around it because I only wanted the DNA. Richard, who was on the paper, went over the whole contract. He said, no plant material can leave the lab. It all has to be accounted for.
Can you extract the DNA in the lab and then just leave with that? I was like, yeah, no problem. That's what I did. I went upstairs and pre-extracted the DNA and left the plant material. Everything was present and accounted for. He didn't violate any terms of the contract.
I was able to test it against other cultivars that are available on the market and some wild-collected hemp varieties. I had wild-collected hemp varieties, cultivated hemp varieties, some type 2 cultivars, so balanced CBD types.
Then the gamut of, quote-unquote, Sativa's hybrid Indica from dispensaries. We found that the material that's being provided for research in the United States from NIDA and the University of Mississippi is nothing like anything that anybody has access to in any market in the United States.
It's more closely related to the hemp types that we had, but it wasn't even that closely related to hemp either. The most closely genetic individual that we had in the data set was a wild-collected sample from 1969.
When we don't know why their research material is so far removed from what is available today, we can only assume that maybe they haven't kept up on updating what they're growing. Maybe that's the same stuff they've been growing since the program started.
They did start out with 50 cultivars that they were growing for research, but they have since scaled that back, and now they have a total of 12. They don't have names. You can order in bulk or pre-rolled cigarettes. You can order very high THC, high THC, medium THC, and low THC.
Then you can get a mixture of high THC, high CBD, etc., etc. You don't even know what you're getting, really, and it's just really terrible.
Sounds like the black market.
It's worse. I have pictures and stuff, and my paper has now been published.
At least they're not saying, like, it's fire, bro. It's fire. Just take it.
When you order it and they say very high THC, you get something that's around 8% to 10% THC. That's their very high THC. Even that is not comparable to anything that you can find on the market. It's pretty difficult right now to go to a dispensary and find something that's 10% THC.
The lowest I've found that's marked on the label, I think, is around 16%, maybe 12%. Maybe 12%, but I think it was around 16%. You would be struggling to find something that low unless you cut it with a CBD variety.
When I went and got the plant material, it was a mixture of leaves and sticks and stuff. When they were asked about that, their response was that because it's for research purposes, they have to be able to stabilize, or what's the word I want to say, every sample has to have the same THC.
It doesn't happen in the plant. You can have an apical bud or one from the middle or one from the bottom. They're going to have different levels of THC. Every flower has a different THC. They need to be consistent.
What they do is they grind it all up, get it to the THC level that they need by cutting it with things like leaves and sticks, and they put it into big batches. When you order something that's very high THC, they give you a giant box full of shake that is supposed to be at 10% THC.
I understand that they need consistency, but I feel like that's a really bad way to do it.
The DEA has approved a new facility, I want to say in Arizona, a big one that can grow now marijuana for research purposes. That's going to be a giant step forward. I know some of the people that are involved in that project. It's going to be much better.
More people need to put in their DEA 2525 applications because the federal government actually has little to none at all. People keep asking, why don't we have more research? Really, because nobody's applying.
It doesn't matter because the universities can't use that. They have to go through, because of the funding. If you have a grant to do research on marijuana, generally those grants are going to come from the NIH, which means that you have to use the material that they provide you because they are funding you.
If you get your funding from somewhere else, like if, I don't know, Cure Leaf came to me and said, hey, we need some research done and we'll fund it. Totally different story.
That's where you would essentially apply for the DEA 2525.
Oklahoma does offer a research license here and there is no cap on plant count or size. If you wanted to essentially do research and you could fund it and you can afford to buy the whole panhandle of the state, you can operate at any scale that you want to here, which is pretty exciting.
Dr. Anubis actually said something that really kind of made me chuckle. It's the first time I've heard someone use cutting of cannabis. Normally, when I hear someone say the cutting of something, it has nothing to do with cannabis.
I don't know what another word would be like.
You're breaking out the baby aspirin, Chase. Is that what it is? You got your baby aspirin ready?
Like diluting it, maybe? I guess it's maybe a better word. I don't know.
Cutting is a perfect word to describe, but I think everybody gets the gist of it. It's kind of crazy to see that happen and transition to the cannabis world.
Yeah, because usually it goes the other way, right? You want to hire TCC, spray something on it to boost it.
But yeah, so this is all purely to do with academic research as far as industrial or R&D for companies. Totally different story. They get their funding elsewhere. It doesn't pertain to that.
Another problem is that universities, although they want to do the research, they can't or their university won't let them because it is still federally illegal.
And so taking money and doing research on cannabis could potentially jeopardize their funding as a university.
They could lose all their funding because they're researching federally illegal drugs on their campus.
And so universities have very much shied away from anything to do with cannabis research, not because they don't want to, but really because of the red tape and legalities and they just don't want to risk it.
I don't know if people are able to get this through the Freedom of Information Act, but to actually see what the federal government actually has in regards to genetics and what they're actually holding and what they're doing at the research level, is that something that's able to be published or is that something that is classified?
How does that work?
I'm not sure what you mean by the federal government. I mean, the University of Mississippi is the...
Yeah, that's what I'm talking about.
Okay. So, all right. So I feel like, and I do not know this for sure, so don't tell everybody that I said this, this is just my feeling from all of the research that I've done and all the information that I've gathered, is that the plants that they're growing for
quote-unquote research-grade marijuana that they give out to institutions for research purposes is completely different to the plants that they grow and the research that they are doing within their institution under the program that's run by El Soli.
Because they have tissue culture, they have all kinds of plants, they have like a huge setup inside, they have like, you know, state-of-the-art this and that, and those are definitely not the plants that they're providing for other people to do research on.
And I've seen how they store their research-grade marijuana and it is nothing like any of us would ever store anything ever, even the newest noob wouldn't do that.
And the last time they harvested their research-grade marijuana was in 2014. So that means if I need to order bulk material for research purposes today, or let's say it was my last project and I ordered it in 2019, that stuff would have been at least five years old.
Which, and possibly older, I don't know. Like, I don't know if they, you know, at that time if they'd started dipping into their new stuff. But research on the cannabinoids show that their research-grade material is a lot higher in CBN than anything you can find on the market, which, you know, indicates that it's been sitting around for a while and probably not stored in great condition.
Like a significant amount of CBN.
So, I think that they run those two programs completely separate and I don't know what cultivars they grow for their own research, but they do pump out quite a few papers.
I suppose you could look up some of the research that El Soli and his lab have been churning out and potentially look at the cultivars that they have in those, you know, published research articles.
But if they've got anything super secret going on, I don't think they would include that in the research articles. And he will not release his data.
Daniel Avregar, who I work pretty closely with on all kinds of things, has asked him repeatedly, can you share your data? And he won't do it. So.
I'm dying.
I got to be a little bit careful here, Matt, because we don't want to go over too much over time.
So, I think I really wanted to let this go a little bit because I think it was really important to note the use of, like, it feels like stifling publicly funded research to me.
And I don't know if anybody else gets that vibe, too. We do have, like, roughly about five minutes left of the room. So I want to, like, let this conversation carry a little bit. So go ahead, Matt.
But let's be mindful because we've got another show to get to right after this in about seven minutes.
Yeah, no, totally. So there was, like, you know, question forever, like, you know, why would the government, you know, just delete all of the plants and not take seed stock? And that is seemingly to be
a well thought out idea. I always kill the name, the
Svalbard or Svalbard
Global Seed Vault has over 20,000 different genetics of cannabis seeds stored from almost every country
that has been hand collected over time. And the belief is because nobody actually can, you know, we can see the cannabis seeds on the list, but because we're not actually in the vault, we can't actually see the, you know, the
seed actual data, I guess, or they just don't post it, which you can all go to their, go to the DSV's
website and search the portal. The only thing is, we can't actually see, like, which seed is from where, but I'm sure inside of the vault, like I said, we would actually know, like, hey, this is from latitude, longitude, here and here, because that's exactly what you do when you collect seed.
And maybe when the world legalizes or there's a massive catastrophe and we have to open that bitch up, we might know.
So I will say, so I used to work for the Denver Botanic Gardens and we used to work with the seed bank that's in Fort Collins, which is another very large seed bank. It's not as large as that one you're talking about.
And they are very selective about who they let into the seed vault for various reasons. I mean, there is a lot of sensitive material in there. It's a very, you know, controlled environment, et cetera, et cetera. A lot of, yeah, it's just, it's tight security for a reason.
And you probably, it's the data that comes with all of those seeds, like where did you get it from? Where is it located? They're not going to release that because it's still federally illegal or, you know, like universally illegal, pretty much.
So like if you go onto any database where like plants, let's say, if there's a rare or endangered species, you won't be able to pull up information on where to find that because they don't want people going there to find those things.
So that's maybe one of the reasons why they don't have that information. But sometimes if you email, you might get an answer back. If you know exactly what you're looking for, they might send you a picture or if you're affiliated with, you know, somebody who, I don't know, who they feel like helping.
No, totally. And like, I, you know, recommend everybody scroll through there. It's pretty neat. Like I said, there's like over 20,000 genetics. I think it's over 66 something pages of seeds and, you know, stuff from, you know, like Latvia, North Korea, like crazy places that like we don't even think about, you know, like really.
And, you know, like it shows who, you know, collected it, which is kind of interesting. Like if you look at like Latvia, like it'll be like the Latvian State Forest Research, which is like their kind of like forest, you know, like service essentially.
And if you look at the U.S., it'll say like U.S. Forest Service, which shows when we were nixing this, you know, stuff down, we were in some way collecting some of it. And, you know, this goes with the belief of the whole like auto flower pool that's in allegedly in Michigan that the government is like, you know, that they didn't, you know, kill. But I'm going to cut my thing off because I realize we're getting here.
Yeah, we're at time, guys. I hope you liked it. Now, the fun thing about this is it's a little bit quicker. It's a little bit shorter. It's an hour and a half hard stop because there is so much going on in Future Cannabis Project that I really want you guys to see everything, but also to be able to maintain program. So don't miss out on the room that is opening right now. Molly R, ping me in for the Cannabook Club, which we are going to be showing on Future Cannabis Project right now.
So don't go anywhere. Go somewhere. But to that room and go there and be there for that, because that's awesome. So I'm going to shut down the room. I appreciate each and every one of you. Make sure to follow the club and the moderators and all that fun stuff. And we will see you again next week. Same time, same place.
