And we are back in your life's FCP02 Future Cannabis Project.
We've got another special Daga.Garden Breeder Profile tonight for you.
And on the other end of the conversation, we've got Yellow Hammer Genetics.
Thanks for joining us tonight.
Thanks for having us.
Yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
My pleasure.
You know, it's exciting to get to meet a lot of these people.
Daga.Garden is a great breeding ground.
Gosh, that's a bad pun.
But it's a great ground to discover some new people, find some new genetics.
And that's kind of what we're here to talk about tonight is a lot of the offerings that
you have up there.
But before I always get into those things, I personally like to learn about the person
and just kind of hear a little bit of their story.
We all have, you know, unique but similar stories to kind of how we came to cannabis.
And you know, it'd be great to kind of get a little bit of background for you.
You know, we don't have to go all the way back to the first time you smoked.
But if you like to, you definitely can.
Sometimes they're funny stories.
But yeah, you know, when did you start kind of paying attention to cannabis?
Or what was it about that that drew your attention or kind of lured you into it?
I guess in my late teens, probably like a lot of folks, but maybe a little bit earlier,
my mom was kind of a heavy stoner.
So I was around cannabis a good bit with my mom.
I raced motocross when I was a teenager and when I was 17, 16, 17, I had a really bad
crash, broke my back collarbone, some ribs and stuff.
And actually, you know, they put me on a lot of pain meds and whatnot and didn't work out
so well.
And cannabis really offered me a lot of pain relief that opioids just didn't.
So that's kind of my personal first experience.
But I'd always kind of been around cannabis just because my mom always had a couple of
plants going in the backyard, you know.
And so it's just something I can always kind of remember being around.
Well, that's kind of cool.
You know, there's a lot of talk of, you know, sometimes if you look back at like the high
times, like the best weed of the 70s, you're like, what the heck?
What was it kind of like back then?
Was the plant, you know, like the big meadow dope plants that we see these days or was
it growing more thin leafed and tall?
So I grew up in Northeast Alabama to kind of put a little perspective on having a few
plants in the backyard.
It literally was a few plants in the backyard.
So, you know, growing up in Alabama during the drug war was it was and being passionate
about cannabis was it was tough.
You know, a lot of friends in jail, a lot of a lot of family, you know, runs with the
law, myself having a bit of trouble from time to time.
But no, you definitely kept things kind of small and hidden out of the way and nothing
so big that you couldn't couldn't get rid of it pretty quick.
If a helicopter, a couple of blacked out SUVs rolled up on you, you know.
Right. Yeah. I don't imagine that, you know, the South at that time was was very lenient
when it came to cannabis or, you know, just outdoor grows.
I still have a few friends in that area.
And, you know, it's like we've known each other for a long time.
They've never been on camera.
So, yeah. You know, it it was not very lenient.
And I have friends that I mean, even as, you know, early as last year, I still hear about
people getting popped for a gram or even even a roach in the ashtray or seeds.
You know, things have gotten a little better back home, but definitely, you know, and I
was really shocked to see that, you know, Alabama passed a medical law, which is
fantastic. But hopefully hopefully things will change, you know, and they'll start
letting out some folks from jail and we'll never erase that part of history.
But maybe we can maybe we can do a little better moving forward.
Yeah, try to try to, you know, try to correct the past there with that.
And it is that, you know, you mentioned getting busted with like one gram of weed and
that I mean, anybody getting arrested these days for a person who's lived in a legal
state for over 10 years is just frickin ridiculous.
But going back to my youth.
Yeah, man, I've I had a buddy get busted with a gram and a half.
And I'm not going to say it ruined his life, but that closed a whole lot of doors for
that guy.
But it definitely didn't make things easier for anybody.
Yeah. So so that's that's something that we still need to continue to fight.
You know, it's crazy again, being in a state that's been legal so long.
I take it for granted sometimes.
And, you know, you hear about other states.
Utah was one state. I think they have medical now, but that was one state I always
avoided because they had zero tolerance.
It was a seed, a roach, like a resonated rolling paper.
Don't give a F.
You're going to jail.
Yeah. So I stayed out.
Making I'd moved from Alabama out to Reno, Nevada.
It was kind of a first first stop out west before I moved on to California,
southern Oregon. And.
Everybody was like, stay away from Idaho, stay away from Utah, try to avoid those two
states, if at all possible.
And, you know, I got lucky, had a couple of close calls over the years.
But just, you know.
One of the things that I learned really early on was security, right?
Like when you're when you're growing in the south and you see other people go in to
jail and you see what's happening.
And you understand the severity of it, right?
Like it didn't matter if you only had two plants.
I mean, they didn't they didn't care to you.
Right. For you, have a one, five, ten, twelve plants like to them.
You were, you know, a kingpin.
You were just a small time, you know, medical grower at home.
Just like they.
They threw the book at you every time.
And so. You know, I learned to keep my mouth shut and keep my circle really tight.
And so that that served me well, for sure, because, you know, I did just looking back
on on that time period from the late 90s when I really started growing outdoors up until
around 2010, 11 or so before I moved away towards the end there, like I was I was
starting to do some kind of hairy shit.
Riskier, riskier business.
Yes, things definitely were getting a little bit larger.
And that's you know, that's kind of one of the things that really, you know, I was
like, OK, look, if I want to do this, you know, let's let's go somewhere that I don't
have to worry about spending the rest of my life in prison.
And so I found a found a job in the industry and consulting had a, you know, pretty strong
background in some areas that were, you know, beneficial to a career in this space.
And so, yeah, that's that's kind of funny that you mentioned.
Well, it's not funny, but, you know, whether you had one or 100, it was basically
the same. You're getting the same sentence.
And that really kind of motivated a lot of people like, well, if I'm going to do this,
man, I'm going all in.
Yeah. So we used to have a saying and I don't know where it came from, I'm sure.
But anyways, we would say, you know, 99 is fine, but 101 is better.
And the reason was if you had 99 plants, that was the state charge.
OK. And that was 20 to life.
Right. And if you had over 101 plants and that usually got kicked up to a federal
charge and you were out, you know, you're out 10 with parole, you know.
Yeah. Yeah.
Either way, it wasn't good either way.
Right. Right.
10 is better than life for sure.
It is. Oh, my God.
I can't even imagine now.
That just blows my mind.
But I'm glad we've moved forward and we're continuing to move forward there.
You know, it's crazy where we're at now.
Really. I've been working in several different positions within the current and I
hate the word industry, but kind of in the current cannabis space.
And I remember 2006 when I first graduated college, just kind of thinking and hoping
that one day we'd see outside of California and Oregon at the time, hoping that we
would see some form of decriminalization or legalization, you know, and to think then
just hoping that we would see something.
And then here we are now with the majority of the country having at least medical or,
you know, some some form of rights for patients.
It's truly remarkable.
You know, it is.
And when I think back to, you know, like my younger self, I don't know if I was so
convinced more than just I wanted to see it happen.
But I'm like, I know in my lifetime cannabis is going to be legal.
And, you know, I just kind of like waited for the day, but I never really had a picture
in my mind of what it would look like.
So other than just it's legal, you can think farther than that.
So it's interesting to see how it is playing out state to state because there is a lot
of variances. And then, you know, hopefully, fingers crossed if we get a federal, you
know, head nod.
It'll be interesting to see if everything becomes uniform or if it's still a patchwork
of laws.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, I've worked in a significant number of the legalized states.
And I can tell you from Oregon to California to Nevada, all the way out to New York,
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Illinois, Maryland and several other states that I've
worked in Colorado.
Things are things have a similarity everywhere.
Right. I mean, there's a lot of compliance issues and conflicting rules and regulations
regarding cultivation.
And but I think, you know, look, I did a lot of hemp stuff for a while.
OK. And in the early years of the hemp industry and you mentioned, you know, potential
federal legalization and everybody's kind of rooting for federal legalization.
And I'm not I'm not certain the industry is quite ready for it yet because I don't think
that I think right now where we're at with the states having kind of the ability to
control what's happening with especially with states that are looking at how licenses
are issued and who holds those licenses.
Like that's a big issue that we have in the space right now.
And it's like, you know, we see MSOs getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and
taking up more market share, more market share, more market share, able to merge and
acquire other, you know, smaller operations and to kind of amass these large empires.
And I'm not saying that's a horrible thing.
It's just kind of a natural process of capitalism.
Right. Yeah. But, you know, that's not to me this industry or it was all about community.
Right. Like this was all about we didn't all put our lives on the line to go to jail for
Chad and Thad to come in and take over.
And no, no, no offense.
I blame my parents.
I blame my parents.
I saw that one coming, though.
I almost said it for you.
I almost said it for you.
But now, you know, you know what I mean.
And so it's it's I just I worry a little bit about federal legalization yet because of
what happened in the Hemp side.
Right. So 2014, 15, 16 and 17.
Bumper years in for the CBD space.
I mean, everybody that was in, you know, help.
Twenty thousand dollars or more an acre for your crop.
Everybody's pulling down CBD oil.
Yes, definitely. There were issues with, you know, some regulations and things like that.
But, you know, we were we were doing well, you know, making feminized hemp seed and
selling feminized hemp seed and federal legalization came down the bottom drops out.
You know, I mean, and it'll rebound and it'll regulate.
And I always thought that the hemp industry was a little heavily weighted on the, you
know, cannabinoid farming side.
Right. For CBD.
When there's so many other uses for for help.
Right. I mean, if you look at like Massachusetts regulations, when they they wrote their
hemp regulations, you can tell by the kind of spirit of the law that it was definitely
not written for CBD and cannabinoid farming.
It was very much geared toward textiles and, you know, that side of what hemp was all
about, because they did not provide a pathway for anyone in the hemp industry to be able
to utilize CBD, sell CBD.
You could import CBD products from out of state.
You can export CBD out of state.
It was illegal to sell, you know, CBD flour.
And so the first couple of years of hemp in Massachusetts was really was really
restrictive and it put a lot of folks out of business.
And then federal legalization made the comp because the regulations in Massachusetts were
so strict. And this happened in other states as well.
Other other areas where things were much looser, they were able to outcompete.
And so I think you'd see a very similar thing take place in the in the medical
recreational adult use markets where some states are going to have a an advantage
because things are more a more mature markets, places like Colorado, Oregon, California.
Right. I mean, imagine if tomorrow things go legal and California can start 50, say,
you know, a national distribution of cannabis, you know, like that that would that
would be a pretty significant drop, right?
You know, in prices across the board.
It costs all article where I think average outdoor prices right now in California is
like five seventy five or around that, you know, average wholesale prices on the East
Coast are more like thirty five.
And so, you know, that's a significant difference.
And so I think we I think we still have a little bit we should be very thoughtful and
mindful about how we approach a federal legalization program and really think about the
ramifications of doing that.
I think we should look more on a decriminalization side.
Like let's let's let's reschedule, deschedule and then look at interstate commerce,
banking and things like that.
That's a good idea.
You know, being in Washington, like you said, it's it's interesting how licenses get
allotted like that other than like, I think, 30 social equity licenses that they created
the other year.
They haven't made new licenses since like 2016 in the state, pretty much.
It's ridiculous.
I'd love to have a tier one tier two.
Can't buy it for under one hundred grand.
So it's it's kind of stupid.
But one thing that Washington does or did do is they're not allowing out of state
investors. Now, we've been around long enough that these out of state investors have
found their way to get a P.O.
box and, you know, yada yada power bill here.
And now they can invest in it.
But it's not as, you know, multi-state operators like you were seeing.
But there has been a consolidation.
Absolutely. I've seen the big players drive, you know, like the mom and pops out of
business because, again, you can't compete on it.
There's a lot of people going with like the Amazon model of I can afford to lose money
for three years. You can only afford to lose money for two.
So I'm going to lose money for two years and then make all, you know, get all your
market share, which is unfortunate.
But I kind of hope one of the things that federal legalization might bring is.
I mean, it's absolutely going to bring what you're talking about.
You know, the big industry, the big players are going to suck everything up.
But one thing that I hope it brings or at least creates a space for is the craft
grower, because right now the craft grower has been squeezed out again by the Amazon
model. You just can't compete.
But if we were to go to a much larger model of, you know, the Anheuser-Busch of the
worlds, not everybody likes the Budweiser.
So they're always going to be a market for, you know, like the craft beer or craft
cannabis. I'm in the Pacific Northwest, so craft beer has always been a big thing
around here. That's an industry I absolutely pay attention to for kind of a roadmap
for what cannabis might be.
But but, you know, my fingers crossed, my one hope with the federal legalization is
that the people who squeezed out all the smaller people right now, they're no longer
going to be the big boys.
They're going to be the medium size and they're probably going to get squeezed out,
too. So, you know, that's definitely you make a really good case for for that.
Right. I mean, I think quality is always going to have a place in the market.
No doubt. And there are companies out there who are definitely losing money to squeeze
out, you know, competitors and things like that.
Folks that have a lot of access to capital and cash flow and things.
But I hope you're right. I hope that the craft brewer finds its place because it's
what the craft growing and organic cultivation and and what we did for all these
years. And I say we and I mean, this is a collective community of us who, you know,
we're growing in our closets or who are hiking up the mountains with the water back.
You know, I mean, those are those are mostly the craft growers now who are able to, you
know, scrape up enough money to get a license and do this.
Like we we paved the way for all of this.
Right. And so I hope we can all find a find a spot.
I mean, the industry is surely big enough for everybody, you know.
Yeah. And, you know, again, like you said, it's the craft will always have a market if
you can do it good. And I think that's one of the things, you know, that really
interests me about genetics and the exploration that we can do with it is, you know,
everybody's going to have an OG Kush.
I like OG Kush. No problem with it.
But everybody's going to have it.
So doing some of like these breeding projects, you know, like you've done and you're
working on, you start with great material, you just start selecting.
And then pretty soon, you know, you have that kind of that like rarity and it may just
be like a geographical, it may stay within the region, but it's something that you can
almost hang your hat on.
And that is going to drive people to it.
You know, I'd love to have the farm stand.
I'd love to have like a farmer's market, just something as simple as that where you can
go down. And, you know, I don't mind playing by, you know, some rules as far as like, you
know, getting testing done, getting, you know, the pesticide and whatnot, all that done.
Cool. You know, it's almost it's not quite pay to play, but I'm game.
You know, I'll pay my taxes.
Just let me do business.
Yeah, that's funny.
You bring up the farm stand aspect.
I was listening to a podcast a while back with Breeder Steve and he had kind of a
similar, you know, thought about that is that, you know, one day we'll one day we will be
there where we we can we can have our farm stands or you can pick up a couple of clones
at the local, you know, just mostly or maybe even in your grocery store, you know.
Coming to Whole Foods.
Yes.
Coming to Whole Foods.
Well, you know, Amazon has expressed some interest in Canada.
Yeah, they did.
They did. Now that you mention it, it's funny because I honestly think they're setting the
stage for a nationwide distribution network because.
Who would be in a better place to do that right now?
You know, I mean, it's crazy that I can go online and order a package and it show up on
my doorstep in less than 24 hours.
Seriously, it's insane.
It is. And if you know, if you live in a big enough city, it'll be there in an hour.
Yeah. Less than an hour.
More to your groceries. Never go grocery shopping again.
Right. So things, you know, things are definitely becoming more convenient.
And so let's let's hope the same for cannabis.
Right. Yes, absolutely.
And hopefully we get more, you know, more people on board.
You were talking about hemp earlier and, you know, there was a period right around like
the farm bill that came out to that kind of said, OK, go for it.
And everybody was they were focused on cannabinoids.
They're basically, you know, cannabinoid farming and the price, you know, for CBD, for,
you know, tonnage at that point was great.
Couple of seasons later, dramatically fell off.
And then you start seeing, you know, like, oh, well, it's a CBD or this and that.
They're still kind of chasing cannabinoids, which I don't know if the plant ultimately is
the most efficient way of doing that.
But we'll find out.
But I just bring that up because one of the issues that bit a lot of farmers in Oregon was
there was no like processing infrastructure.
They said, yes, you can go ahead.
You can have your test plots this year.
You could go into production next year.
People did that.
And then there was nobody to like harvest and process.
So a lot of fields just molded in the snow.
Is that kind of the same on the East Coast or is there better setup?
Yeah, no. So I got into industrial hemp the first year and in Colorado in 2014, got
involved with a phytoremediation project and then moved out to the West Coast and kind
of was in I was in Southern Oregon in 2018 doing industrial hemp and definitely was a
lack of infrastructure even four years kind of into it.
I think Oregon got into allowed the first year of the pilot program was was 2015, 2016
kind of saw a ramp up.
But then, you know, by 2018, we had several thousand acres and the Department of Ag had,
you know, decent infrastructure.
And then 2019, it was just crazy.
It was like, I think, a triple of acreage from 2018 to 2019.
And but no, it's very much the same on the on the East Coast with, you know, even
Kentucky. And you had a large a lot of large companies who were trying to come on board
and to figure out a way of, OK, how do we process all these, you know, millions of
pounds of biomass that are being produced?
But even once you got that produced and you had, you know, let's say you had crude oil
or even distillate or isolate.
OK, then what? You know, because the FDA had issued this, you know, this memo, it's not
even a law, but this memo saying that, well, you can't put CBD in food and you can't put
it in drinks. You can't put it in dog treats.
You can't put it in gummies.
You can't put it in. You know, it's like, well, man, I got a warehouse full of crude
oil sitting here waiting to go and nowhere to go with it.
CVS was a big help for a lot of companies.
I said a lot, several companies because they started carrying some CBD products.
And but now I hear that they're going to be closing down a significant number of their
stores. That's going away.
There's just not there. I think there's a gap between the amount of cannabinoids being
produced, maybe a little over
over promise on the industry side and what CBD can do for people and how to use it.
And then the price, right.
The price point. I mean, I remember first getting out to the East Coast and going into
a convenience store and they had a little display next to the register and I saw a
thousand milligram bottle.
So a gram of CBD tincture sat next to the register that was peppermint flavor.
And for a while, that was it was everything peppermint.
And it was seventy four ninety nine for a gram of CBD crude oil that was dissolved in
some MCT oil with a dash of peppermint flavor.
And so and then sometimes, you know, you've probably seen a lot of those reports where.
You know, independent folks will grab a handful of bottles of CBD from store shelves and
have them test and turn to find out, well, that thousand seventy five dollar bottle of
CBD oil you bought has got about as much CBD in it as the as the water you grabbed at
the store. And so people lost faith in the some of the CBD products pretty quick.
And that that hurt the industry.
The industry kind of hurt itself.
We had some unsavory players doing some kind of unsavory things in the early days.
And it didn't you know, it didn't work out.
But definitely the infrastructure, it still doesn't quite exist.
I'm seeing a lot of promising signs, though.
People are one going back to old patents from the victory help program during World War
two. They're going back in there.
They're pulling up these old patents and trying to rebuild some of these, you know,
fiber processing machines.
Some of these. Yeah.
And and people are learning how to help and how to, you know, process the the stall.
And so that's that's exciting to see that open, because I think from a building and
material standpoint, some of the biggest promise that industrial help offers is is on
the the the insulation, you know, fire retardant material, things like that.
I mean, we've got a lot to learn about what it what all it can do for us from a building
material standpoint. But I think that the possibilities are kind of endless there.
It is. It's pretty fascinating.
And I see Smiley's Garden chat.
He's saying that there's a place in Michigan that's using a hemp based biodegradable
plastics like cups and straws.
Awesome use. I know up in Seattle, there's a company that's making hempcrete and they did
a few like demo houses out of the hempcrete.
So that was that was a pretty cool use as well.
So there are there's a lot of a lot of areas that you could go.
Hemp is more than just rope, folks.
But, you know, you mentioned the the, you know, the pulling the CBDs off the shelf and
getting them tested and like this.
Dude, see coming from like using this plant as a medicine that I have, I get I almost
take it personally, like the snake oil salesman BS, like really freaking gets to me because
it turns people off and it turns people away.
And your example is an excellent example of why I don't mind regulation.
I want people to fucking check those bottles that are sitting in the store so they can't,
you know, just MCT oil and drip your CBD and then sell it for 75.
That price alone, that price alone is BS, man.
It's like you can get the good stuff for way less.
Right. And that's what's killed me about the CBD industry right now is prices haven't
really dropped all that much.
But if you're going out to buy a kilo of crude oil right now, I get the lowest price I've
ever seen. I mean, I remember when crude oil prices hit 250 a kilo for for crude.
And I was just like, wait, what's happening?
But the prices for tinctures and other like they didn't drop.
And so that that was a little bit startling to me.
I was like, man, we should have, you know, people selling twenty five hundred milligram
tinctures for nineteen ninety nine, you know, and try to undo some of the some of the
damage that we did with the snake oil salesman because that kind of stuff spreads.
Right. I mean, like just like word of mouth can be used in a very positive way to to
express and inform others about a positive experience we've had.
It goes the same way for negative experiences and maybe even more so.
Right. Because there may be people out there who really wanted to try CBD, who were
put winked into buying, you know, this this bogus hemp infused pillow at Walmart, you
know, like a miracle dreams that, you know, I love it.
I love it. What happened?
Hemp pillow dot com, I'm sure, is is is getting bought up right now.
It's it's so, yeah, the regulations are if we can if we if we don't regulate ourselves out
of business, you know, there's that bottom line between the two.
And I think we can do it.
What what's everybody was hoping that the FDA, I remember I was working with a with a
hemp company here in Massachusetts.
And and, you know, it was like, can the FDA please issue some rules that we were begging
for rules from the FDA so that we would at least know what we could and couldn't do.
Right. Because it was like we didn't know what was going to be OK.
We knew that certain hemp companies were getting issued, you know, cease and desist
letters from the FDA and the USDA saying, oh, you guys can't do this.
But then you would see on Amazon, come back to Amazon, you would see those exact same
products advertised and sold by other companies.
And so some people got their hands slapped and others didn't.
And and, you know, depending on your company structure and your willingness to take
certain risks, you may or may not have been able to take advantage of.
And to this day, the FDA still hasn't.
Came out and plainly said what what they're going to allow, what they're not.
I know they I think they issued a statement here recently kind of reinforcing their stance
right now on basically all they're saying is, hey, we can't issue these rules or
regulations because we don't know enough about what.
And it's like, come on, man, that's that's really best, because anybody who does, you
know, I'm a scientist. And so doing any time I'm interested in something, one of the
first things I do is start digging into the literature to see what has been published
regarding a certain topic.
And there is if you really dive into some literature regarding cannabis and
cannabinoid studies that were done in the United States back in the eighteen hundreds
in early nineteen hundreds before prohibition.
Wow. There is an enormous that was a that was another lifetime of of research done by,
you know, Harvard Medical School, Yale, John Hopkins, you know, University of
Birmingham. There's there's all these great schools that had done a significant amount of
research on cannabis and cannabinoids.
And after digging up and going through a couple thousand white papers that were
published in the eighteen hundreds on cannabis and cannabinoids and the efficacy of
said cannabinoids and the combination of those cannabinoids with other compounds like
chloroform and morphine.
And right. And you could just walk into your local neighborhood pharmacy and purchase a
bottle of morphine and chloroform and cannabis extract, along with a few other things
over the counter. What that you know, I found interesting of all that they still had the
same problem back then that we do now.
And that's calculating and figuring out dosage.
How do we how do we get the big problem we have back then was dosage.
And they and they noticed that different strains produce different effects for different
people. And from a pharmaceutical standpoint, if you're as a doctor, as a scientist and
you're trying to have a replicable effect and to, you know, let's say we're trying to cure
cough or get rid of skin cancer or whatever, you want repeatable results.
Yeah. Right. And so to get repeatable results, you have to have, you know, a certain set
of criteria. And you know, one of the things over the years I've learned about cannabis
is it affects everybody individually in different ways.
I mean, the exact same strain, you know, they may make me very sleepy while it makes my
friend very excitable.
And, you know, and so they had that problem back then.
And I think if we can kind of figure figure that dosage problem out.
But there was a lot to be learned from from the old days.
There's there was a lot of research done.
There was I mean, I heard so many times over the years.
Well, there's no published research.
Oh, there's no research on this or that.
No, there is an enormous amount of research that was conducted.
And just because it was done in the 1900s doesn't mean that it's not valuable or valid.
Right. Right.
That's you know, I'm definitely going to go search out some of that stuff because that has
my interest. You know, I O'Shaughnessy's Pharmacopedia was like probably one of the older
references that I'm aware of.
But yeah, I haven't looked or found much of that.
So that sounds interesting because, again, we were talking before the show just kind of
like about farming and some, you know, old practices and a lot of things that we can
learn. We've forgotten and we relearn a lot of things.
So it would be interesting to go back and just see the perspective and the language and
how the approach is.
I kind of chuckled when you mentioned dosages.
We got to get that right. So the other night, this killed me.
I was doing a show and sometimes I love cheap the cheap edibles they were on sale.
It was like a Thanksgiving sale because it's almost it's almost like a crapshoot.
What bite of the edible is going to have it?
Because again, they haven't gotten the consistent dosages.
And so, you know, I started with like 20, 20 milligrams the night before.
Didn't feel anything. Usually like 50s where I feel it.
A hundred is like, OK.
I was doing a show, I think last night and I had another 20, 30 milligrams of
it and man, I got the hot shot.
So I'm seriously like watching myself on camera.
I'm like, am I getting whiter?
Am I getting whiter?
It was one of those like white knuckle things.
It's funny, but you're absolutely right.
Everybody's endocannabinoid system is different.
That's why. And I've seen it affect people exactly like you said.
I have a buddy that, you know, for lack of better terms in this conversation, Indica hits
him like sativa and sativa hits him like Indica, whereas I get the normal anticipated
result from it. But I kind of think that's the thing ultimately that is holding up
federal legalization is the single dose serving.
When you take like a beer, for an example, you know what that one beer is going to do
to you. And that's kind of universal to everybody.
That's your single dose serving.
We haven't figured that out with cannabis yet.
But once we get that single dose serving off to the races.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
And it's weird, I mean, because I see people who, you know, it seems like we're kind of
around this 10 milligram thing with 100 milligram, you know, packaging limit.
But I see some people not have a positive response to a 10 milligram serving and other
you know, for some reason, edibles can kind of go either way with me.
I can I can have an enormous amount and not have any serious effects.
We're going to have a very small amount.
And I think that has to do with consistency.
Right. It's like it's not necessarily how much of the bar you're eating, but it's how
much are you getting in the bite that you're taking?
Right. Like you're talking about.
And I've had some some bars and cookies before.
And yeah, you get the wrong bite and you're in for a treat.
And something else I had a friend a while back who was working on kind of an antidote
for, you know, this overdosing of THC because it can be quite uncomfortable.
Right. If you're even if you're experienced and you have way too much, it can it can
definitely be uncomfortable.
And so they were experimenting with CBD and some other chemicals to to develop kind of
an antidote, if you will, for for too much THC.
And I'm not sure how far along they got.
And I've seen a couple of products on the shelf using CBD for kind of that purpose.
It works OK.
Just CBD by itself to kind of help take the edge off a little bit.
But there's there's a few other things I think that would help.
But yeah, once we get that dosing figured out and everybody can be confident that they're
not going to have that crazy bad experience, I think I think that would definitely help
things out for sure.
Absolutely.
Not everybody, even though flour is still, you know, the most popular cannabis product,
not everybody, you know, enjoy smoking or whatever.
It's not for everybody.
Right. And I can I can I'm OK with that.
So some people like edibles, you know, some people prefer to eat whatever.
So, you know, to each their own, but the dosing can be a little bit tricky.
Yeah. And that is, you know, for me, like I like flour.
That's kind of what I've always been on.
Much easier to titrate there.
It's it's you can hit it, you can put it down.
But you're absolutely right.
Smoking doesn't appeal to everybody.
And a lot of people in particular kind of coming in for maybe like the CBD aspect.
Yeah. Smoking.
They're like, nope, don't want to smoke it.
And I worked at a rec shop for a while.
And so I definitely saw that.
And it was right around the time when the FDA came out with their announcement about
hemp and certain products.
So even though we were a licensed store, any CBD we sold had to have at least a little
bit of THC in it.
And you're right.
We couldn't market, you know, the the companion.
Tincture wasn't for dogs, but it was bacon flavored and it had a dog on the cover.
So you can figure that one out.
Right. Oh, shoot.
So you started, you know, you kind of had an introduction to plants at an early age
with with them kind of growing outdoors is outdoors.
Has that been your kind of the main avenue for you growing?
Have you gone indoors or what?
What is that experience been?
OK, so I kind of give you a little bit of rundown.
So my early experience to cannabis was outdoors for sure.
That was kind of the method of cultivation I was comfortable with.
I grew up on a on a large organic farm, like I said, Northeast Alabama.
And I was very passionate about being outside and working with my hands and working in the
soil. My granddad was he was an organic farmer, you know, back before the
term was coined.
And, you know, it was just the way he was taught to farm.
You know, he utilized biochar.
He utilized, you know, a lot of techniques and methods that are very popular and common
today. But back then weren't so much.
And so I learned an enormous amount from him.
And I had I was very fortunate to have had such a great relationship with my grandparents
because, you know, I could kind of piggyback on their their lifetime of knowledge, which
was, you know, a little bit of a shortcut for me to learn and get a little bit ahead of
the curve on some of these things.
But when it came to indoor farming, I was kind of on my own.
And so I started my first indoor cultivation experience was was rather pathetic.
My dear friend Chris Vine ever watches this.
I think you would probably remember it.
We were in college.
I bought. So this was back in Alabama.
It wasn't like you could just go on Amazon and order a grow tent and grow light and pop
up. So I remember going down to the electric supply store and buying a capacitor and a
magnetic ballast.
And then I drove to a store named called Worms Way up in Tennessee and I bought a bulb.
And to get up to Worms Way, I borrowed a friend's car to go up there because I wasn't
dare take them home because I'd heard of people that were getting pops because they
were taking down license numbers and then showing up at home.
So, you know, so I went and got myself a 400 watt metal halide setup.
And at this time, hadn't really read much about indoor cultivation was just, you know,
like, OK, I know I need a decent light.
I talked to my buddy is like, hey, what kind of light do I need?
And he's like, oh, you need this.
I'm like, all right, I'm going to get it.
So I got it.
Throw the light in. Didn't know anything about light leaks and no anything.
And just man, I remember kicking the plant on the 1212 and I grew out the most spindly
looking plant. I'm like, you know, I've been growing outdoors for a while.
So I know like, you know, I'm like looking at this.
I'm like, man, I'm a really pathetic indoor.
It didn't go. It didn't go to.
But no, I kind of tighten things up.
And I've been growing indoors and outdoors pretty much ever since then.
I have, you know.
Probably grown about every kind of method, done NFT, deep water culture, grown living
soil, grown in rockwool, used every kind of nutrient you can think of, made my own
nutrients for a long time.
Yeah. So my indoor experience, though, started out pretty rough.
And I always, always found growing outdoors for me was just it just felt really natural.
It was kind of how I learned to grow.
And so I really, I really enjoyed that.
And and due to this day, I'm still, you know, I've been head of cultivation for a couple
of the larger MSOs in the country.
And so I've definitely overseen and done a lot of indoor cultivation.
But at the same time, I really enjoy growing outdoors under the sun.
That's my, you know, I think that's where cannabis has the opportunity to express its
full potential.
A hundred percent.
The nature in nature, you know, we're not we're not duplicating it.
Like I've always been an indoor grower.
The companies I worked for have been indoor as well.
My first outdoor experience will probably be like your first indoor experience if I get
it to harvest when and if that day comes, I need to move into a better climate first.
But yeah, a lot of things don't translate.
And to me, it's really cool to hear.
I'm you know, I've got probably a million questions now to, you know, you've been doing
organic farming for a long time.
And it'd be cool to maybe hear about some of the things or some of the practices that
you maybe learned early or that you still incorporate today, because, you know, there's
a lot of organic growers that listen to this channel.
And, you know, one of the things that consistently comes up is the TERT profile, man.
TERT profiles, you get a better expression.
These are common arguments for going like organic growing.
So so what what kind of like methods to the madness did you did you learn early and
which ones do you still kind of carry on today with that?
So one of the things that my granddad taught me early early on was it kind of you hear
it a lot now is more, you know, grow in the soil, right?
Like kind of a regenerative approach to how we think about our substrate and not having
a one run and done substrate mixture where we can kind of recycle our soil and keep this
substrate healthy and balanced over multiple runs.
And so my approach to substrate management, if you will, was was pretty straightforward
and pretty simple in that if you could keep your moisture content balanced, not fully
letting your plant ever dry out so you didn't either kill off all of the microbials that
were you'd work so hard to cultivate and establish in your substrate.
So it was a balance of water and nutrient input and things like that.
But probably one of the biggest things that I really started out early doing that helped
me the most was utilizing biochar.
I've been using biochar pretty much my entire cultivation career and in cannabis.
And so I have had it in the early days.
It was very difficult to source any kind of biochar.
It wasn't just readily available.
There wasn't really hard.
There were hardly any information available on biochar.
And at least as far as cannabis goes, you know, not maybe just maybe you would run across
one or two people on the forums back in the day that were playing around, experimenting
with biochar.
And just because of where I was at and what I was doing at the time, I, you know, I just
never felt comfortable reaching out to people.
And that's a shame.
I look back and like, man, I really wish I could have made some of those connections
back in the day because I'd learned a lot about what to do with biochar and what not
to do with biochar.
Biochar can be a hugely beneficial component of the substrate, but it can also be very
negative if not used properly.
And so you can, you know, it's kind of like everything else, right?
Moderation.
So I see people running, you know, these 25 percent biochar mixes.
I'm like, you know, it's not it may go OK, but, you know, I've tried growing plants.
I have grown plants directly in biochar and just straight biochar.
Wow. And it is possible.
It is. Is it easy?
Is it is it easy and is it worth it?
No, no, no, no, it's not.
But it is possible to do it.
You know, you run into a lot of pH issues, right?
Because pH of biochar is just kind of naturally in the teens.
Right. You see 10, 11, 12 pH range.
Not in the good zone.
No, no, no, no.
Definitely not in the good zone.
So it takes quite a bit of work to to wrangle a pure biochar grow down.
But what I've found is kind of the five to 10 percent range of substrate.
And so it's like five to 10 percent of what?
Five to 10 percent of volume, 5 percent weight.
you know, biochar is very white.
And so, I usually use the volume, 5% by volume,
seems to work really well.
Just because there's a lot of inconsistency in biochar
and weights and things like that.
So, volume is pretty standard, pretty consistent.
So, I would make microbial teas using earthworm castings,
sheep manure, we raised sheep on my family farm.
And so, I had tons and tons of sheep manure.
It was a phenomenal, phenomenal product for cannabis.
Some of the best herb I've ever grown in my life
was in near straight sheep manure.
Now, is that cold or is that hot?
Do you have to compost that to get rid of pathogens?
No, that's a great thing about it.
I mean, you could go out and grab a bucket full of fresh
wet sheep poop and you're not gonna burn your plants.
Nice, nice.
Yeah, and you can grow with water.
We free ranged our sheep.
We didn't really, we didn't give them antibiotics
or anything.
These, we were organic farm.
And so, yeah, I grew plants straight in sheep manure.
I'd run across a couple articles by this guy,
an Australian, who was, basically he was like,
I don't understand why everybody uses horse manure,
sheep manure, or not sheep manure, but cow manure
and chicken manure for gardenings.
It's terrible.
Super high nitrogen.
There's all these other nasty chemicals and stuff
they're getting from the sheep manure and the cow manure.
And it's like, I guess there's a lot of sheep farms
in Australia as opposed to the US.
It's kind of getting hard to find people who farm sheep
in the US, but anyways, if any of you organic growers
out there want to give it a shot and you know somebody
that raises sheep, I highly recommend sheep manure.
I did a couple of tests, 50-50 mix with just some
like Pro-Mix, you know, like kind of a sterile,
soilless blend and mix that 50-50 with sheep manure.
Was able to pretty much finish off an entire run
just with a little bit of molasses and some silica.
Doing it straight in the sheep manure was easily able
to finish off a whole run with just straight water.
Never saw any significant deficiencies in the plant
and some of the cleanest, finest smoking flower
I've ever grown, for sure.
Wow, you've got me scratching my head and everybody lives
near a sheep pasture scratching their head too.
They're like, I should.
I didn't know what was gonna happen when I did it.
I thought, well, going straight, I mean, this guy
in Australia, he swore, he was like, look, you can put
any plant that you grow that's not a hypersensitive plant
straight into sheep manure and he's like,
you're not gonna burn it.
And I'm just like, all right, well, let's give it a shot.
What's it gonna hurt?
I'll toss a cone in there and see what happened.
And sure enough, I mean, these plants just got vibrant.
They had just leathery, thick leaves, just, I mean,
massive stem, super, super healthy plants.
And, I mean, because really, I do a lot of green
natural farming, fermented plant juices and fruit juices
and other aspects of green natural farming.
You really think about how these animals digest their food.
And I mean, really it is, it's a ferment, right?
I mean, mixed with an enormous amount of biology.
There's tons of biology taking place in this manure.
There's tons of microbes, beneficial microbes
with the sole purpose of breaking down cellulose
into glucose, which is simple sugars, right?
And glucose and given this.
And so the plant has access to these sugars.
Your microbial population has access to these sugars.
And everything the plant needs is there.
There's decent levels of nitrogen,
calcium, potassium, phosphorus.
Most of your microbes are there as well in the manure.
So it works really well.
That's awesome.
I'm, you know, I kinda, I obviously don't have the same scale
but I have the big A and B mind.
You know, I love that testing.
I love almost like having the torture tent of like, okay
I'm gonna try this crazy ass thing.
I don't expect it to work.
I recently did something with a clone.
It grew too big for my tent.
I didn't really have space for it.
I was just gonna check it, but I'm like
why don't I cut off the top 80% and see if I could clone it?
And it actually turned out to have cloned
and I grew, you know, two healthy plants
out of that one plant.
And so, yeah, it was one of those fun, you know
you got nothing to lose.
Why not try something?
Right.
And well, and you know, so one thing
talking about the torture tent, you know
like being a breeder and, you know, stress testing genetics
and things like that, you have to have a torture tent, right?
You know, like you gotta put, you gotta put genetics
through the ringer to, to make sure that, that, you know
certain characteristics like hermaphroditism
and things don't pop up.
And there's other undesirable traits that I look forward to.
But so having a torture tent is, is definitely something
I've been doing for a very long time.
And, and then just being a scientist
and an analytical thinkers always have me, you know
wanting to compare and contrast and like, oh
what happens if I do this?
And, you know, you know, so I've, you know
I've tried all kinds of crazy things, but the one that
that just was kind of out of left field that worked really
well was, you know, and then you combine sheep manure
with, with biochar and inoculate your biochar
with the sheep manure.
And then you, you start to really get a good blend going
where you take advantage of that microbial
ecology that's taken place in the, in the manure
and you supplement that with bits and pieces
of other organic and living soil and biodynamic concepts.
You can, you can really grow some, some phenomenal cannabis
with a very small amount of financial input, right?
Like, cause ultimately at the end of the day
for me, especially like, you know, being responsible
for, you know, half million square foot
of cultivation canopy space, right?
It's like, how do we produce the best cannabis
at this kind of scale and do it as cheaply as possible?
Yeah. There's no, there's little margin in cannabis.
No, yeah. And well, you know, for indoor growers
you've got, you know, a huge electricity bill
and you got all these other things, but it's like
if you're looking at living soil and you're trying
to compare it to rock wool and salts, like you can almost
get a living soil grow down to costing nothing.
You know, you can, you can almost have a closed loop system
there with, with cannabis because you can take all
of your, all of your defoliation, turn that back
into an input.
You can find other waste streams around the facility
to put as an input.
You don't have as much water usage and things like that.
So for me, you know, growing organically was
when I first started, it wasn't about, oh, okay.
How do I cheaply, you know, how do I
how can I grow cannabis as cheap as possible?
It was about growing the best cannabis as possible.
And then, you know, as I started looking at scalability
of certain things, it's like, oh, wait a minute.
Not only do I grow the best cannabis in this, you know
amazing substrate that's practically free.
It, it, it costs, you know, like it costs something
and compared to the other, you know
conventional methods of agriculture, it's a slow comparison.
So anyways.
It's, it's a big jump for a lot of people.
It's, it's easier kind of on the smaller scale
when I was doing the sustainable thing, I saw, you know
it working at larger scale, how, and you've been
around this country and worked with a lot of big groups
and big companies, how receptive have they been to this?
Has anybody ever said, you know what, by golly
yellow hammer, we're going to go with this living soil stuff.
No, no, it is definitely, it's definitely been very
difficult to try and convince some of the larger companies
that grow in organically or in living soil is, is sustainable
at scale.
And there's this misconception that growing organically
and growing sustainably costs, you know, 10 times more.
And that probably comes from like, you know
when you go to the grocery store
and you want to buy organic produce
it costs more than right.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
But when you get right down to the nuts and bolts of it
and you really start putting pin to pad and you, you look
at the cost of inputs and the cost of operation
the cost of labor and things like that.
There's a, there's a real case to be made for growing
in living soil and growing organically versus the, you know
traditional method.
And look, I'm not knocking salt grows
or I'm not knocking synganic growers who are using a
combination of synthetic and organic growing.
Every, everybody has their own methods and preferences
but I definitely think there is room
for the organic cultivator and, and that we can do this
at scale as efficiently and maybe even more successfully
than, than traditional conventional agriculture.
That's what I'm really excited about.
The company I'm working with now out of
Southbridge, Massachusetts, a company called
Green Meadows Farm.
Like we're growing all organically
and we're growing at scale.
We're using KNF, you know, KNF principles
and it's a quality is, is really the key for, you know
what we're after.
Unique genetics, unique, unique cannabinoid profiles.
You know, those guys are, that company was started
by the Patton family, by General George Patton's family.
And so, so their mission is to, to help folks with PTSD
and other ailments in the military.
And so it's like, you know
having a nice clean solid product is, is part
of the business model there.
And you know, we're, we're going to be able to do that
at scale and, and, you know, be able to compete
with some of the larger companies who are, you know
pushing the booth, you know.
Yep. I love to hear that because it, you know, I
I kind of think it is going to take a few
of these pilot farms to, to get online, to
to demonstrate it, you know
everybody wants something new, but proven
which is an oxymoron in itself, but that's very, very
common. And it's, it's kind of the mindset too
especially when it comes to outdoor, it's more, you know
stewardship of what you're doing
which is really the long play because you, I mean
we've seen in, you know, the middle of this country
what synthetics eventually do, you get like salt pans.
You have to, you have to keep chasing it.
And every year kind of almost a little bit more
and that's, it's, you know, in most cases, but
when doing it this way, the organics, it's almost backwards.
It seems like you're kind of putting in a lot
of it up first and then it's the long play.
You're like, I'm going to be here in five, 10 years.
So this is just going to keep getting better.
And then everybody with their GPS tractor dropping
you know, little micronutrients is, is getting jealous
of you because you don't have to
you don't have to have the big fancy GPS satellite
mineralized tractors anymore.
No, no.
And, and, you know, that's one of the things I've
going back to the industrial hemp side is
there was a pretty, there's a pretty big divide
between kind of the conventional ag and the
and those who had a more holistic approach to work
toward cultivation.
And I see a lot more of those holistic approach folks
still stay around where the guys who spent a million dollars
on a tractor, you know, they had to sell the tractor
and the farm, right?
And the guy who had the, the more holistic approach is
still around, you know, still selling their mom and pop.
They got the farm stand.
It seems to me to be a very sustainable approach.
We'll see.
Yeah.
Only time will tell.
This is true.
I mean, we will see there's, there's, you know, issues of
you know, people running into there
there's the common saying, and, and I don't know
if it applies to the large scale as well
which is like medium to small scale.
It's like that third year, you know, it's that third year
in the living soil, it can kind of go south or
or stay on course, but it's all in your soil testing
and your amending, I would imagine.
Right.
So there's that.
Now you've been around again to a lot of different places
and I kind of find like
TERT profiles or, you know, what's on the menu
very interesting because it's going to be different
on the West coast than it is on the East coast.
What, what are some of the interesting things
that you found kind of in your travels
or working with different places?
Is there anything that absolutely stuck out to you
or like, I've got to try to recapture this one somehow?
So yeah, I mean, it's, it's funny, right?
Like the, the different pockets of the U S and
different areas of legalization definitely have different
flavor, flavor kind of seems to be the differentiation
amongst areas like maybe tangy and tangerine orange,
citrusy TERT profiles are seem to be kind of popular
in the, in the Great Lakes and region
and over like Pennsylvania, but, you know, gas and, and
you know, kind of sour DOG, Kim dog,
TERTs are really popular in the East coast, you know,
which there's kind of, so I'm starting to see
a kind of a melting pot of everything coming together,
like where there used to be a lot more difference between
like everybody's trying to get a lot of variety now.
And so, and then there's also the, you know,
kind of like everybody's trying to chase what's hot
and what's new and the, it definitely,
the West coast is still leading the charge when it goes,
comes to genetics.
You see hot new genetics popping out on the West coast.
And then everybody on the East coast is kind of in a rush
to get to the West coast to see if you can score a cut
and get back home to be the first to market with it.
So that's definitely still a thing, right?
I mean, that's been around for a while, but no,
I've definitely seen, you know,
there's a lot of great breeders out here on the East coast,
specifically here in New England.
Like I had no idea what kind of scene was out here.
You know, if you're ever,
if any of you guys are out on the East coast,
you get a chance to check out like the gene traders events,
highly recommend doing so, great networking event.
Been to several of those and really phenomenal talent
out here.
Some people really that are already making some waves
in the industry with new cuts and new strains.
But I think there's a lot more of that to come
as people start to kind of come out of the woodwork
and get their acts together.
And I mean, you can kind of have a business now, right?
Like you can legitimately have a business
and be a functioning seed company, genetics company.
And that, to me, that's just really cool way
to be able to, I can pay my taxes.
I can, you know, I can grow, I can make new strains
and I can, and so that's really phenomenal.
And we're starting to see that as people are able to do that
they're able to live off of, you know,
their income that they've made from their business.
And they have time to devote to the passion, you know,
for all of us for a very long time,
this was just a hobby, right?
I mean, for the most part,
we were breeding in the afternoons,
we got out of work, we came home, we did our gardening,
we did our chores, then we went to bed
and we did it all again the next day.
And now it's like, I can wake up
and I can do my gardening all day
and I can really dive in and see what's going on
with these plants and those and create something new.
As far as the most, I don't know,
maybe the most unique thing I've seen,
man, I don't know, I'm kind of getting,
I'm kind of getting tired of cookie dough turps.
Those seem to be chasing me around everywhere.
Really, most every state just seems to be plagued
with gelato and a lot of the old school stuff's just,
it's hard to find in the dispensaries.
I mean, you'll find smaller mom and pops
who might have some, you know, old school, rare,
unique stuff, but for the most part,
it's a lot of ice cream cake, a lot of wedding cake,
a lot of gelato, do-si-do, you know.
It's totally the catch 22 because the growers will grow
what the consumers demand, but the consumers almost
are hand in hand with what they're being given
with a lot of those new strains.
So it's a catch 22 a little bit.
Yeah, it definitely is,
because I mean, what's happening
is you have these big companies with marketing teams
and they go out and do their research
and they try to find what the consumer wants.
And you know, like, so look, from the day you say,
hey, look, let's grow this strain
to the day that hits the shelf is, you know,
can be 13, 18, 24 weeks depending on, right?
So it doesn't happen overnight where just the plants
are there and the product's ready to go on the shelf.
And so by the time you do all this research
and figure out what people are buying,
and then to the time you get that to the shelf,
everybody's done moved on, you know, to something new.
And now you've got a bunch of ice cream cakes
sitting on the shelf that's not going anywhere, you know?
And it seems to be, you know, a big chase right now for THC.
I'm starting to see that coming around again
for a little while, it kind of went away,
but I'm definitely seeing people not touching
or companies maybe, maybe it's not even the consumers.
I feel like as an industry, we really need to do
a better job in educating consumers
that, you know, it's not all about the THC percentage,
right, terpenes, the terpenes are where it's at, you know,
like having a 15, 16% flower grown outdoors
with four and a half, five, 6% terpenes,
that's a thumbs up, right?
I mean, I'll take it.
Cause I guarantee you, I'm gonna have a much more
positive effect from that, that I have a 30% strain
with about 0.5% terpenes, you know?
Yeah.
And so hopefully we can educate consumers more and more
and let them know that terpenes where it's at.
And that's kind of like, you know, what I've been focusing
on from a breeding standpoint is getting away from like,
there's enough people breeding 30% THC strains
for everybody, like we've got that covered, you know?
Like, everybody is shooting for that, you know,
I think everybody's chasing 40% now.
And someday we're gonna see it, right?
We're gonna see some legitimate 40% THC markers.
I think that 40, I think 40% will then start to push
kind of the anatomy and physiological
and just the morphological boundaries of that,
because I don't know how many more trichomes
you can literally pack into a given amount of space,
because there's only a certain amount of surface area
on the plant.
So if there's enough, I think 40% is gonna be getting close
because that's gonna be near half the weight
of what you cultivated as cannabinoids.
That's so, you know, it's just great.
You know, it's crazy that half of your nug, right?
That is going to be cannabinoids.
Just, it seems almost impossible.
It is, and that doesn't register.
Oh, I'm sorry, go ahead.
Well, I was just gonna say it does, you know,
I remember when 20% was the strongest strain on earth,
you know, and so if we hit 40, it's, you know.
That's true, I do remember when it was like
the Bruce Banner was 23%, guys,
and it was like, oh, those tests are fake,
but we're really there.
But to your point, 40% THC, like that's insane,
and not a lot of people kind of connect
the math in their head.
By saying 40% THC, we're saying 40% of that weight is THC,
which when you pick up a bud,
you're just kind of like half of this is.
Half of this nug is THC pretty much, or almost.
You know, you're 10% from half of it being THC.
It's crazy.
Yeah, that is an interesting one
to wrap your head around there.
Now, what kind of got you started in the breeding path?
What brought you down that road?
Was it necessity of like, hey, I wanna make seeds,
or I've got this killer cut,
or what brought you down the road to start breeding?
So, it was solely out of necessity, right?
So, growing in the late 90s, there wasn't C-2 now.
There wasn't Dagadot Love.
There was, I don't even, yeah, I guess there was Mark Emery,
and there was a couple of seed banks in Amsterdam.
And so, placing an order for seeds from overseas
was extremely risky.
And it posed a, for me at the time,
just a security risk that I wasn't willing to,
I just wasn't willing to place that order, really.
I had access to some pretty interesting land-raised stuff
that had been collected by various family members.
I had access to friends who had some pretty unique cuts.
I mean, I grew up in Northeast Alabama,
had a lot of friends that were from down,
and family that were down in Florida.
Had a lot of aunts and uncles and cousins
that were, just happened to be
in the Jacksonville, Florida area.
And so, got some interesting cuts from down there.
And so, it just came out of necessity,
wanting to grow something new,
and being tired of running through
a bunch of shitty bag seed,
or Mexican brickweed that had came up,
and growing out a bunch of that.
And it just, some of that, it's funny,
it's like back in the day, in the late 90s,
some of the Mexican brickweed, or Colombian brick,
or whatever that was coming up,
there was some decent genetics in there.
If you were lucky, you could actually,
you could do okay with that.
But, it wasn't great, and it definitely wasn't
keeping up with what a lot of the breeders
on the West Coast were doing.
And so, anyways, just out of pure necessity,
I started breeding, one, so that I would have seeds
for the next year, and then two,
just because I wanted to see what I could do.
I was reading in magazines about new strains,
and new smells, and turf profiles,
and potencies, and growth characteristics, and things.
So, having learned how to make seeds on our farm
for the next year, we grew our own seeds.
So, yeah, that's really how I got started.
And then, after starting breeding in the late 90s,
things really got crazy.
That kind of, seeing a lot of unique things,
I had access to some old industrial hemp seeds,
and I bred those with some Skunk Number One,
and saw some crazy traits popping out
that I didn't understand what was going on.
I couldn't figure it out.
So, I ended up taking some science courses
at the college, and ended up kind of getting myself
all the way through a master's degree in genetics,
solely to learn more about cannabis genetics.
And so, after doing that, it was really all over from there.
I've just been breeding nonstop ever since.
That's awesome, and that was a super humble way
of sliding that in there.
But you have dedicated a good portion of your life
to the education side of this as well.
You went and did the master's in genetics,
and that is, you know, head above a lot,
because you're gonna kind of, well, obviously,
you understand the process and how it's gonna work out.
You're using more data than hope,
for lack of a better term.
You know, intuition will always play into it,
but when you know what the numbers are doing,
it's a lot easier to get to the desired result,
and you'll get there faster.
What do you think's been one of the larger benefits
of that experience and that education,
and how did that relate to the cannabis breeding?
So, one is just going to school
and becoming a scientist was the ability to learn
and to think analytically,
and to properly conduct an experiment
and to set up experimental design
where your experiment is unbiased.
I see a lot of experiments going on in the cannabis space
that are highly biased experiments,
and it's unfortunate because then it makes your data
basically useless, right?
I mean, and so the ability to think analytically
and set up proper experimentation
is probably one of the single most important things,
but outside of that, learning the, you know,
fundamental as well as advanced concepts
of the molecular going zones of the genetic process
and how genes express themselves,
how they pass themselves on,
what the interactions between recessive
and dominant traits can be.
One thing I've learned about cannabis
as compared to some other organisms,
like say Arabidopsis, which is one of the model plants,
right, that we hear a lot about in plant genetics
is cannabis is insanely complex, right?
Like I've had many conversations with some of the, you know,
really brilliant, brilliant breeders that are out there.
And one of the things that we can all definitely agree on
is cannabis is by far one of the most complex,
from a genetic standpoint,
complex plants that you can work with.
They approach with a simple Punnett square rarely works.
It's difficult to characterize
and define specific traits, right?
There's not a lot of true breeding stock to work with.
And so it's difficult.
And there's a lot of work that has to go into it
and a lot of thought.
And so having the understanding of the genetic processes
and how all of that kind of plays out
has been very helpful for sure.
Especially because I've been focused on breeding.
I've not really been focused on,
from a chemotype standpoint,
linear breeding for just one specific cannabinoid.
Over the years we've branched out
and we're breeding for some of these minor cannabinoids,
right, I mean, we've got 170 plus known cannabinoids.
We've been focused on one, two or three
over the past couple of years.
It's like, hey, let's branch out
and see what happens when we do this and that and the other.
And we've been stumbling across
some really interesting results,
like combining CBG and THC genetics, right?
Looking for THCV and looking for CBDV
and CBC is one that I've had a lot of interest in.
And CBC has been a very difficult one to breed for.
It usually only expresses itself in very minor amounts.
Maybe you see a strain that has one, 1.2% CBC
and that's very high usually.
It's been very difficult for us to break
the 10% mark with CBC.
We've been able to do so,
but it's taken about four years to do that.
You mentioned earlier the Punnett Square
and it's a good thing to know,
but yeah, it doesn't always necessarily,
well, it doesn't apply to cannabis
because it's too complex, it would be too big.
You can't account for everything there.
But there's a lot of people that,
they're jumping into this.
They're just kind of making some seeds.
What do you think would be a good,
I don't know if like overview
or just like kind of just one thing
to get you started on the right road.
We hear like Mendelian,
we hear Hardy Weinberg equilibrium,
but is there any particular theory or something
that you could point to say,
hey, if you guys wanna up your game,
go look into this.
Any one particular thing.
I think just understanding inheritance of traits
and how dominant and recessive traits
and co-dominance works together,
it would be very, very beneficial to,
it's been very beneficial to me for sure
in understanding cannabis.
Surely Hardy Weinberg is important
but you have to understand so much about genetics
to truly be able to apply that.
It's like, okay, I got this equation,
cool, what do I do with it?
And I can only grow 10 plants.
I can only grow 10 plants.
And it takes the thousand plants
to just begin to tap into some of the genes
in the gene pool.
Are you really gonna have a statistically relevant model
at 10 plants?
Like, I don't know.
Model at 10 plants.
No, you're not.
So Hardy Weinberg kind of gets thrown out the window.
And that's where I think having a fundamental understanding
of inheritance of traits,
which traits are most dominant,
which traits are more recessive,
what trait are you looking for?
Are you looking for a trait that happens to be recessive?
If you are, then understanding how those traits
express themselves will allow you to do breeding
in such a way as to breed specifically
for those recessive traits.
And so you know that I'm probably not gonna find
a lot of these recessive traits in my F1 generation.
So I'm gonna need to breed on down the line a little bit,
looking at my F1 generation specifically for the trait
that I'm trying to identify.
And if you don't find it, that's fine.
You're gonna probably be able to find that
in your F2 generation.
I call the F2 generation the phenom hunters generation
because that's where most of the genetic diversity pops up
is in that F2 generation, right?
You get a wide variety of both dominant
and recessive traits that pop up.
You get to see a little bit of the mom, the dad,
the ancestors, the grandparents on both sides,
and a combination of everything there in between.
And then once you, so if you know this moving forward,
if you know that you're looking for a recessive trait
as you're breeding, you know that in that F2 generation,
you're going to find what you're looking for somewhere.
So, you know, maybe you pop the first 10 seeds.
If you can only grow 10 plants,
you pop those first 10 seeds of your F2s.
Well, it's not in there.
Okay, I'm gonna chop those down.
I'm gonna grow 10 more.
I'm gonna grow 10 more.
I'm gonna grow 10 more.
And you will find at some point
this recessive trait you're looking for.
If you know for certain that it's in the gene pool, right?
I mean, you're, and there are some statistical models
that you can use to see what the probability is
to find that recessive gene,
so that maybe you need to grow 100 plants
instead of 10 to find it.
And so, but once you get down the path of learning
what you need to do to get where you want to go,
you will have learned enough that you'll be able
to easily use those statistical models
to build yourself a roadmap to where you want to go.
So I would say learning about inheritance
and recessive and dominant traits
is what I would kind of point everyone in the direction to
if they want to learn more about genetics
and cannabis specifically.
So, because I will say that I don't necessarily fully agree
that Mendelian genetics fully apply to cannabis.
I've seen too many things fall outside the basic laws
and principles of Mendelian genetics and the cannabis.
Now, I've had a lot of arguments about this.
I don't intend to get in one here,
but it's a very complex plant when it comes to genes.
Absolutely.
And one of the things that I always encourage people to do,
and I'm assuming you're gonna be the same way,
is if you're considering putting two plants together,
I personally want to have run that numerous times.
I wanna be almost intimately familiar with the plant
and how it grows, how environment can kind of bring out
different expressions in it.
Because when I know that plant like the back of my hand,
and I go to an F1, you start to see some of the dominants
and recessives kind of being passed on.
I think great point.
I probably should have mentioned that in that discussion
is if you wanna be able to find a certain trait,
you need to know the parents.
Go into the dispensary and grabbing a clone of ruts
and having a male at home of your favorite strain
and just combining those two and then seeing
what the offspring is.
You're just making seeds and making new plants
and maybe you find some.
But if you grow that plant over and over and over
and you express, you put that in the stress tent,
the torture tent, and you run it through
and you see everything that pops out.
Because what I found the most unique about cannabis
is like, so I was living in Oregon for a while
and I have a CBD strain that was bred by Green Bodhi.
And God bless Green Bodhi for making these seeds.
It's basically a remake of Ringo's Gift, ACVC.
It's a hollow food cross.
And I grew out, I think it was 20 of these seeds
and I wasn't sure, I knew they were CBD dominant,
but I wasn't sure if they were gonna be able to pass
the 0.3% threshold for industrial hemp.
But I just got, I got lucky and I found this cultivar
that this one plant that smells as much strawberry
as a strawberry does.
It's insane.
And it smelled like cracking open a jar
of fresh strawberry jam.
I mean, it truly is a remarkable, remarkable plant.
None of the siblings had anything even close.
Like most of the other siblings were very spicy,
very earthy, even had some with a bit of gas
and diesel to them.
Not a hint of sweetness or berry or anything
that would have popped up with those.
But I found this one plant that had this,
this unbelievable strawberry characteristic.
And I just started calling it strawberry pie.
And I started breeding with this thinking,
oh man, I'm gonna make everything strawberry, right?
I'm gonna take and I'm gonna make everything.
I love strawberry and we're going ham on strawberry.
And I quickly learned that I can't turn a damn thing
strawberry.
It's a recessive trait that does not pass along very easily.
And it's why you probably don't see it pop up often
in the ACDC Harley Sue line,
because I've ran through quite a few of those seeds since
and haven't found it again.
And luckily I'll still hold the cut of that strawberry pie,
but a phenomenal, phenomenal plant,
but none of the offspring,
I've S1ed it.
I've bred it with other strawberry smelling males
with more dominant strawberry profile.
The only thing I've gotten close is I had a somewhat
strawberry leaning cherry wine.
That was an old, old, old, early 2015 cherry wine variety
that had quite a bit of strawberry to it.
And I bred those two together.
And got a kind of a strawberry chocolate,
almost like the chocolate from the chocolate tie.
Right?
Like it's not like, it's chocolate, but it's not,
you know, it's like kind of hard to put your finger on,
but you smell the hint of chocolate there,
like a real dark, heavy cacao, you know?
And then it's got this nice back tone of strawberry
that really goes with it.
And so getting into the genetics and the inheritance,
I've been exploring inheritance of cannabinoids.
Like there's nine different genes that control THC
inheritance and THC expression, right?
In cannabis.
There's some, you know, it's a little bit disputed
on how many genes are expressing for CBD
and other cannabinoids,
but there's quite a few genes that are devoted
to expression of cannabis.
What I'm really getting interested in right now
is like, is terpene synthesis of flavonoid profile.
How are those inherited?
What causes them?
Because I'll tell you what's really interesting.
I had a couple of cuts that I grew in Oregon
that had a very, very, very specific terpene profile.
But I brought those plants out to the East coast with me
and they've completely changed their terpene profile.
Wow.
That's awesome to see firsthand
because we hear about it all the time,
but to firsthand experience that,
you're like, what the heck just happened?
I was very nervous.
So the first year I moved out,
I really didn't grow the strawberry pie out outdoors
and see what it could do.
So I was very concerned.
I was like, shit, I'm gonna have to move back to Oregon
because I'm not losing this strawberry, right?
Like this is not gonna happen.
But luckily it stayed the same,
which then had me wondering, it's like, okay,
so some of these more dominant terpene profiles,
like the gas and skunk and even the blueberry stuff,
they seem to change dramatically,
but this recessive strawberry trait hasn't changed a bit.
It's exactly the same as it was.
So why?
Like what is causing that change?
What's happening at the genetic level?
What is causing the expression
of certain flavonoid and terpene genes
and what's turning them on and off, right?
So we've really been diving into that and looking into it.
As a geneticist, one of the things I really would say
to folks is it's not hard in today's
kind of technologically advanced society
to be able to extract DNA in your kitchen
and send it out to a lab and sequence it, right?
Medicinal genomics here in Mass.
You can send them a sample and they will sequence
your cannabis plant's genome for you for a fee
and it's gotten much, much cheaper
as the technology has advanced.
So you can, even as a home breeder,
even if you're not like trying to create a business
and breeding and making seeds at a commercial scale,
you can still learn a significant amount about your plants
just by sending in a sample to a genetics company
and get the data, sit down, learn what genes are what
and figure out what you got.
Do that for the offspring.
You gotta sit down, you look at the data,
you do some comparing, some contrast
and just kind of learn as you go.
You know, it'd be interesting to me
if some of those plants that you brought from Oregon
back to the East Coast lost the profile.
If you took a cut of that and went back to Oregon,
if it regained it, that would be interesting for me.
That would, that's a great idea
because I think it would solidify a hypothesis
that I have about what's taken place.
I think there's a lot to,
so my friend, my best friend,
and I won't mention him by name
just because of specific security reasons.
Back in the day when we were growing in the early 2000s,
he was a huge fan of bat guano.
Okay.
A specific brand of bat guano.
And I could, whether we were at a concert
or at a party or at a wherever,
I could always tell when somebody lit his stuff up
because it had this very specific characteristic
associated with that bat guano.
Like it didn't smell like bat guano, right?
It was just that bat guano.
It gave it a specific kind of tint
to the terpene profile.
You could tell, right?
Like I could tell, we could grow the exact same strain.
For instance, there was a strain
by a company called Female Seeds.
There was, they had released a version of Jack Hare.
I guess they had found a recessive terpene trait in there
that was called, they called it cinnamon.
And they released cinnamon.
It was a Jack Hare F1.
And we grew them out.
And I found a cut that smelled very cinnamony.
And so I passed it on to him and he grew it.
And you could definitely tell, even with the same cut,
what the plants were grown with.
But I guess what I'm getting at is
I think the microbial communities in the substrate
have a significant impact on flavor and terpene expression.
That's one thing I've noticed.
And that's why I think I've seen moving
from one side of the coast to the other,
it's not the distance, right?
I think it's a difference
in substrate microbial populations.
I think the soil ecology is the number one factor
influencing, and so one of the things
I'm trying to figure out right now
is how the rhizospheric bacteria exudates
influence expression of specific gene sets.
That would be interesting to get to the bottom of,
because I mean, immediately in my head,
that brings up the argument or the specialty of terroir.
It's in this specific region,
it's putting out these specific profiles.
So there is some.
I really like about some of the KNF farming, right?
Is if you're growing indoors
and you want to try to reproduce the terpene profiles
that you get from a specific plant outside,
do the IMO method and go out and collect yourself
some local mycorrhizal fungus
and bring that right back into your garden.
Go through, make yourself some IMO,
and you can bring your local terroir's mycorrhizal
community right indoors.
With a living soil, you can keep that going.
Because I've done some side-by-side trials doing this
and using commercial mycorrhizae versus going out,
and there is a significant impact on terpene profile.
There's a company out of North Carolina,
I think they're out of North Carolina,
called Soil Balance Pro.
It's a blend of like 27 some microbes,
and their product, it actually works really well.
I did some trials with their product
and saw significant increases in terpene production.
Industrial hemp cultivars, some of the earlier ones,
didn't really have high terpene content.
You were doing good if you broke 1, 2% terpenes,
or 1.2% even.
I did a study with that on a couple of cuts I had,
and we saw 3, 4% increase in terpene production.
We went from 1% terpenes to 3%, 4% terpene production
in a hemp plant.
Big, big stacking too.
300% increase.
So it's a massive, you're tripling your terpene output.
And I've seen the same thing take place.
The only thing that's in Soil Balance Pro
is microbes.
It's just the microbes.
So for terpenes, the one thing is you have to really
pay attention to what type of microbes,
what species of microbe you're growing,
how healthy can you keep that population in your soil.
And as we learn more and more about the interaction
between the plants and the microbes,
I think we will have, just like you have PK boosts
for flour, I think we will start to see that we
change certain characteristics of our substrate
at certain stages of growth to influence terpene production
as we learn more and more about the impacts
of microbial function and terpene production.
That would definitely make sense going back to,
you know, you're able to get your plant sequenced
and you're able to look at the genome.
And do they kind of give you, you know, the key with that,
or do you really have to self-learn to interpret that?
Because I know, and I can't remember,
I don't know if it's Purple Kush,
went for the mute button, didn't hit it, but that's okay.
Hopefully you're still listening and you're out there.
You come back, just use the same link.
We'll join you back in.
Oh, already so quick on top of it.
All right, here we go.
Hey, no worries.
I noticed the thing was spinning there for a second.
I was like, oh man, it's going to drop.
Sorry about that folks.
Yeah, no worries.
And you've been coming in good this whole time.
So no interruptions on that end.
But yeah, I kind of forgot where we were going there.
Cause I was like, oh crap, got to think of something.
But I did have something written down here as well.
You know, I was curious going back to that strawberry terpene
that you were pulling from that plant.
Now it was recessive.
You said, you know, you've put it into many other things.
It's not passing over.
You can't find it.
You S1'd it, you couldn't even find it.
And that was kind of going to be one of my questions.
Like if you're trying, you find that thing that's recessive,
what kind of is your best way or your best hope
to try to lock that in?
Is it selfing it?
Is it putting it back to one of the parents
and then kind of continually back crossing or what?
Does it just depend?
Yeah, well, it does depend on some certain circumstances,
but I would say if I found a trait
that I thought was a recessive trait after,
and to find out if it's a recessive trait or not,
you've got to breed with the, you know,
you've got to do some breeding with the plant
and see what comes out in offspring.
I would definitely say back crossing
with similar offspring, maybe that exhibit,
maybe they don't have the exact trait,
but they have something that's headed, you know,
kind of leaning in that direction.
So maybe let's say I take the strawberry plant
and I breed it with, you know,
I want to try to look for another partner
that's going to have similar characteristics.
So I try to find another plant
that has a similar terpene profile overall.
So, you know, I'm going to send this plant out for testing.
I'm going to get a terpene analysis back.
I'm going to look at, you know, how much limonene,
how much pining, how many, you know,
but take it carefully and whatever, line of law.
And so then I'm going to go and do some research
and see what other strains out there
might have a very similar profile.
Hunt that down, snag it whatever way we got to find it,
recreate it if we have to.
Then I'm going to breed with those,
see if we can start to lock in that trait
and reproduce that trait.
Like I said, in the F1, you may not see it again.
So it's going to take a couple of generations
and some work to find it.
And this is where things like, yeah,
Hardy and Weinberg equilibrium and stuff like that
come into play, right?
So back-crossing works really well
because now you're just recombining this gene set
in and of itself, right?
And so hopefully you get a recombination event
and you're able to kind of lock in this recessive trait
as a fixed and dominant trait moving forward.
Selfing works well for some strains.
I've noticed, you know, with this CBD strawberry cultivar
in the S1 generation, it may be there.
I just haven't been able to grow out, you know,
10,000 seeds to find the one in 10,000 that's there.
I can just say that having grown a couple hundred of them,
I didn't even see anything leaning in that direction.
So I would probably to try and recreate that
or try to make that strawberry pop up again,
I would take an S1 that is very similar in structure
and profile and other characteristics,
and then maybe self that back into the mother.
So do a feminized reversal and see what happens.
Or take the mom and reverse the mom into the offspring
and move that forward.
See if I can continue to add that recessive trait
into the gene pool over and over and over.
At some point, you're gonna lose vigor,
but just because of so much successive inbreeding,
you're really gonna, so then you might have to find a plant
to bring in as for some fresh genes.
But hopefully by then you've kind of locked in
this specific trait you're looking for.
But again, man, I mean, that's what I'm kind of
was saying earlier about cannabis doesn't wanna play well
with a lot of the genetic rules that we have.
And we've established all these various, you know,
kind of strict rules about how genes
are supposed to operate.
And I've found so many different instances
in which cannabis falls outside of the rules.
Like things happen in the cannabis genome that shouldn't,
or at least I say that shouldn't,
they at least aren't as we thought they should be anyways.
Let's say that.
Yeah, no easy explanation for that.
And it's cool for me to hear that, you know,
coming from a person who has studied this
and kind of, you know, understands how it should be.
And that's kind of science.
This is how it is.
And I mean, we could agree the eridopsis was the plant
that pretty much a lot of the cannabis people
are basing all of their, you know,
those are the studies we read and it relates back to that.
It's cool that we're getting more and more
cannabis specific studies done,
because, you know, I don't doubt we haven't even like
scratched the surface, but at the same time,
I also wouldn't be surprised exactly like you're saying
that this plant is kind of an exception to many rules,
rules that we don't even know exist yet.
So.
Yeah, there was an interesting,
I don't remember if I read it in a paper
or if it was an article,
but it was more about the evolution of cannabis
and the evolution of humans.
And, you know, what role does cannabis play
in the evolution of humans?
You know, we have an endocannabinoid system
and that's a huge evolutionary concept, right?
To have a system of the body devoted to a specific chemical.
It's like, have we co-evolved to this plant
and our relationship is much more intertwined
than we know, you know?
Yeah, it's almost to get to that,
the cliche saying it's like, do we grow the plant
or does the plant grow us?
Oh yeah, the plant.
Yeah, I've definitely grown a lot in my life
from growing the plant for sure.
I've learned, you know, patience
and many, many life lessons cultivating.
Patience is the key word right there, man.
Holy crud, this, you know, it's not a fast growing plant.
You only get so many chances per year.
So, you know, pay attention and, you know,
keep good notes and.
You know, losing, yeah, you devote so much time
and effort to growing and, you know, growing in Alabama,
we got a lot of tornadoes and hurricanes
coming up from the Gulf Coast
and it's like one hurricane can ruin a whole run,
you know, be it outdoors or indoors.
You get a week of no power, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
What do you do with your indoor garden?
You've just put, you know, 10 weeks in to grow in a crop
and right there close to the end and, boof, you know?
Yeah.
But do we quit?
We don't quit.
We start right over again and we do it again, you know?
So, it's, I've definitely learned a lot from the plant.
I couldn't be more grateful for it.
So, I can't imagine any other thing in my life
that could take the place of the plant, so.
I agree, man, I feel that.
I know there's so many people watching
that feel the same way.
Everybody that's here has a special relationship
with the plant and it's unique to each of us
and how we've came to be introduced to the plant,
our experiences with it and, you know,
some are new and just learning things.
And that's one thing, you know,
getting to work with a lot of different people
in this community, in different areas, you know,
we hire a lot of people that don't necessarily
have cannabis experience.
And it's a true treat for me to be able to pass on
my knowledge and skills to others
and then watch them fall in love with this organism.
It's truly special because I run into people
that maybe they came in as a, you know,
a cult tech or something and they had no experience
with the plant whatsoever.
And I meet them five or six years later at, you know,
an event or a concert or something and run into them
on the road or they hit me up on Instagram
and it's like, man, they are hitting me up
with some really serious questions
because they've been breeding for the past four years.
And now, you know, they're like about the same level I am.
And I'm like, holy shit, like, what happened?
You know, and they're like, man, we just, you know,
we dove in and so that's really exciting to see.
I love that a lot.
That really kind of pulls my bucket to be able
to share this, the passion and stuff.
And so it's a lot of fun.
And that's the whole point of, you know,
offering some of these genetics out.
Like, man, I can't tell you how many different thousands
of crosses I've made over the years.
And, you know, like I don't like to release stuff that,
well, first off for a long time,
wasn't really releasing anything.
We were just holding everything for research
and try to better understand stuff.
But then we had some stuff that was, you know,
really interesting and we're, you know,
providing some benefits to people medicinally
and wanted to get some of that stuff out.
And so it's really great of Peter
and to be able to provide that platform
to get some of this stuff out there
and to get some of these rare and unique genetics out.
But I wish I could just dump everything out,
but, you know, like I really like to test stuff
and make sure stuff's stable.
And I don't want people to invest their hard-earned time
and money into growing something
and have shit herm out on them or, you know,
like, oh man, this flower is really crappy.
There's no tokens and, you know,
so I definitely would say if anybody that, you know,
that purchases genetics from us,
if they're unhappy with the genetics
or have any questions about how to grow the genetics
or what tricks or things that I do with them,
please don't hesitate to hit me up.
We're on Instagram, yellowhammergenetics.
So you can always shoot me a message there
and I can usually get back within a day or two
depending on how busy I am.
That's cool to see people around you blossoming
as healthy as the plant is,
because it's, you know, it's a domino effect.
You're able, you got a lot of like farming
and growing knowledge from your grandparents.
You ran with it.
You've taken it to a next level.
You're doing that now.
Then you kind of, you know,
you're passing this on to the next person
and the next person.
And that's really kind of why I love, you know,
the just platforms like this.
It wasn't around in the nineties.
So definitely not.
You are able to learn a lot of information these days
and get it from good sources, you know, like yourself,
experienced, tried and true.
That's very important.
Because there's a lot of people with ideas on things.
And again, even papers, there's people who are very,
you know, they've read a lot of the right reports,
but they don't necessarily have the real world application
to understand sometimes that it doesn't always go this way.
So it's cool to see you passing that on to other people
and that just builds a bigger and healthier community.
So thank you for that.
And I appreciate the support from everyone who's out there
and like I said, you know,
we're always viewed this as a community.
And so it's great to see people.
And look, I have learned as much from folks in the community
as I've been able to pass on.
And I love how passionate people are about this plant
and sharing what they've learned
and the knowledge and stuff.
And it's, we're truly lucky to be living in a time
where we can openly and freely share
all of this information, right?
We don't have to hide it anymore.
Mask our IP network.
Only get on ICMAC when we go to the library
at the university, you know?
With somebody else's borrowed library card.
Right, exactly.
Yeah, not catching me logging in with mine, no sir.
That's hilarious.
Oh, so true though, so true.
Well, hey, let's actually,
let's get to some of the genetics that you have right now
up on the dagga.garden website.
There's a lot of things here
that are completely interesting to me.
And I wanna start with this one that we have up there.
Let me add this to the screen.
But it is the black lime reserve times Kanasu,
which I see the one-to-one there.
And I love finding good CBD genetics.
So one-to-one is my preferred ratio.
I'll just say that.
One-to-one is my preferred ratio.
But black lime reserve,
that's something that has kind of won the hearts and minds
of a lot of people, especially with this channel.
Can you tell us a little bit about this
and maybe how it came about for you?
Sure.
So back in 2016,
went out to Laytonville in Mendocino County
where I got to help start up a farm
called Woodman Peak Farms.
And while I was there,
was able to get a cut of black lime reserve.
I think I picked that up with a cut
of the Chemdog Special Reserve at Area 101.
In September, they had this little farmer market event.
And anyways, the cut came from Kevin Jodry at Wonderland.
And so I held onto that cut.
And when I'd moved up to Oregon and was doing,
I started a CBD breeding and research
and development operation in Southern Oregon.
Really kind of like the early hemp strains that came out
were, yes, they were okay for, but we had box,
we had auto, cherry wine.
And that was really about it
for the first couple of years, right?
I mean, people were trying to cross,
make box of cherries with cherry wine,
cross the box and all this stuff.
And there wasn't any unique
and interesting terpene profiles for some reason,
during the early days of CBD,
CBD seemed to be married to this cherry terp profile.
I was saying this exactly the other day.
I'm like, CBD just tends to be cherry.
Yeah, and I've noticed that.
And we've actually done,
and I haven't released them really to the public yet,
but we're going to be very soon.
We've been able to move much away from that cherry profile
with some really, 20% plus CBD content numbers.
And it matter of fact, there you can actually,
there's some folks doing a phenomenal job
growing out some of that strain we created
called Oompa Loompa.
We took a CBD dominant hash plant,
crossed that to a CBD cultivar that we had made.
And these folks at Cornell Urban Agriculture
have done a phenomenal job growing that Oompa Loompa out
and they're doing a great job with it.
So if you want to try it,
sample some very citrusy orange terpene
that's that CBD, very, kind of very similar
to like mimosa terpene profile,
that's just a straight hemp,
but farm bill compliant CBD strain.
That's a great place to go,
but we'll be releasing those feminized seeds out pretty soon.
We just, we had to remake some of them
and enough quantity for folks to have.
Anyway, so the Black Lime Reserve Can of Sucrose
came about.
I was able to get in a seed auction somewhere,
an original release pack of can of soup from Sohum Seeds.
And so being able to get those seeds
and getting into the CBD breeding was huge, right?
Cause the work that was done at Sohum
really laid the foundation for a lot of the CBD work
that's being done now with those strains,
the Harlequin, the Can of Sue
and Sour Tsunami and all of those strains.
And so I'd found a very resonance,
I created, I made a bunch of F2s of the Can of Sue
and I was looking for a very specific trait
because I'd noticed in the Can of Sue
and going back to the Can of Tonic Lime,
most of the Can of Tonic Lime was a very sweet,
almost pineapple-y kind of terpene profile.
But then there was this kind of rare and unique
terpene profile that was very gassy,
very kind of diesely that popped up every once in a while.
And so when I F2 these, I kind of,
I created two distinct lines.
The Can of Sue F2A line and the Can of Sue F2B line.
The A line was more geared toward that pineapple-y,
sweet, sugary terpene profile.
And the B line was geared toward the gassy,
funky, stinky, you know, everything from dog poop to-
Total opposite ends of the spectrum there.
Yeah, yeah.
And so I found in the F2 generation,
I popped, I was looking for something that I could use
as a farm bill compliant mill that I would be able to use
to combine with some other farm bill compliant stuff
to try and bring some fresh new terps
to the CBD side of things, right?
I was so tired of cherry, really wanted something unique.
And I had that Black Lime Reserve cut,
which was very special and unique
and had a very similar stem rub profile
to what this Can of Sue mill that I used.
And so I used that Can of Sue mill,
combined that with the Black Lime Reserve.
We tested those out for a while
and had some really phenomenal results.
Most of that generation comes out as one-to-one.
Every once in a while,
you will find a THC dominant variety in there
and you'll find some CBD dominant varieties in there.
Okay.
Which are kind of special.
But for the most part,
and those are very few and far between, right?
And you would think in an F1 generation,
you would have a very even and distinct,
but for some reason, the combination of those gene pools,
you'll see a few two-to-ones pop up every once in a while,
but most are gonna be solid one-to-ones.
You're looking at around anywhere,
depending on how you grow, right?
You grow better, you get better results type thing.
We have seen as high as 30% total cannabinoids
with around 12, 13% THC, 14 to 15% CBD.
Oh, that's a dream.
And really phenomenal strain for RSO,
for medicine, for folks, really great for nausea,
really great for inducing sleep, reducing muscle spasms.
So it was really bred as a way to introduce
kind of gassy one-to-one CBD terms out there,
using a really, truly phenomenal cultivar
in that black lime reserve.
And both of those coming from the Emerald Triangle,
it was just a really, just kind of a match made in heaven.
Yeah, that sounds awesome.
In the medical days here, again,
we were able to go to a dispensary and pick up cuts,
seeds, not as much,
but I was able to pick up a Harlequin cut, 2011-ish.
So that was good because I already had my interest in CBD.
CBD was already, you know, I'm listening to my body.
My body's like, yeah, this stuff is good.
Unfortunately though, there was also the,
I believe it was the Sour Tsunami at that time.
And it was like a 20 to one ratio.
So I was like, well, no, I'm not sold.
But hindsight, I wish I would have grabbed that
because I might've been able to get more CBD profiles
in the future from some things.
And it's hard for me, again,
not being able to have a license in the Washington state.
It's like, I have my medical, but that's not a facility.
So I'm not able to actually take these,
grow them out and then get them tested.
So, you know, I'll give them to some people and be like,
you know, you might get some CBD in here.
And it's just kind of like close friends,
but I have that hesitancy because I honestly,
I don't know what it's passed on as far as it's CBD content.
So it's cool that you're kind of in the position as well
to verify these types of things and find those outliers,
the ones that are a little more THC dominant,
a little bit more CBD dominant
and how their frequency essentially too.
Yeah, I'll tell you from my experience
in creating a lot of, you know,
type two plants, if you will, you know,
type one being THC dominant,
type two being ratioed strains, type three CBD and so on.
Combining true type one plants with true type three plants
usually will give you a solid type one plant.
So if you know you're breeding with a solid THC plant
and you're breeding with a true CBD dominant cultivar,
which are becoming more readily available, right?
So if you're looking for and sourcing CBD dominant genetics,
you know, used to it was a little bit difficult
because the hemp seed companies
had minimum order quantities that you had to make.
So you had to buy a half a million seeds to get a seed,
right?
I mean, which is ridiculous.
Nobody, they couldn't be bothered to sell a 10 pack,
you know, but over the years,
a couple of folks have started selling 10 packs
of CBD dominant cultivars.
And if you know, or you can reach out to the breeder
and talk to the breeder and say,
hey, is this a true breeding CBD cultivar?
And they say, yes.
And you have a true breeding THC cultivar.
And when I say true breeding,
I'm only speaking in terms of chemotype, right?
I'm not talking about any other trait.
If you combine those two, in my experience,
99% of the time, you're gonna come out with
either two to ones or one to one or combination thereof.
Okay.
I rarely see, and I have seen it,
but it is very, very rare.
I see a combination of a type one and a type three,
where it goes to a type three or a type one.
That is very rare.
So if you know, you've got dominant cultivars of either,
you can genuinely be pretty confident
that you're gonna create a type two.
That's an awesome nugget of information right there.
Again, type one and type three,
you're often landing in the middle.
And for somebody who, you know, benefits from that,
that might be a great way to, again,
I started making seeds back when, because it was necessity.
I knew that this med program was gonna end as well.
I'm like, I need to have seeds for the future.
And I think a lot of people are gonna do that too,
especially when it comes to CBD and just the,
A, the availability, which isn't what it should be.
And then B, the fricking price, like you mentioned,
74.99 for a gram of tincture.
It's crazy.
Yeah.
That's ridiculous.
Yeah, and then those prices will come down,
but you know, I really found a lot of, you know,
having raced motocross in my teens and broken my back
and my collarbone and some ribs and the nose
and legs and things.
But, you know, I've got a lot of joint pain
and a lot of muscular pain.
And so trying to medicate during the day
and be able to still get shit done,
the one-to-ones are really beneficial that way.
And what I found unique in studying population genetics
of cannabis and wild land race populations specifically,
if you go out and you look at wild land race populations
of cannabis and you read some of the research
where they went out and studied cannabinoid content,
you see a mixture of all of the different chemotype
in these populations, right?
The Hindu Kush region, for example,
a lot of those Kushes and Afghanis and whatnot
have CBD dominant cultivars in their population.
They have THC cultivars in their population,
but a majority of them are one-to-ones.
And so back in the day when all this hashing stuff
was being made, it was CBD.
There was a lot of CBD in, you know,
it wasn't a 30% THC cultivar that was grown in mass.
The population likes to exist in a kind of a state
of equilibrium of varieties of chemotypes,
which I found kind of interesting
that the populations kind of ebb and flow, if you will,
with cannabinoid content.
And it likes to kind of exist out in nature
as a mix of the different chemotypes.
And that is interesting because it shows how far
maybe our intervention has pushed these plants
because that's not the common association
when you're talking about those types of plants.
Yeah, I'm really worried, speaking about our intervention,
you know, from a genetic standpoint,
maybe not right now, but we really need to be cognizant
and think about what we're doing.
One, we're eliminating a lot of land races
by our anthropological impacts and influences on cannabis.
So a lot of these true breeding land race varieties
are starting to go extinct or disappear
or become almost impossible to find.
And I really appreciate the work of the folks out there
who are collecting these land races, saving them,
and then making them available to the community
to create this, you know, wide repository of genetics
so that those aren't lost forever.
Too many times we've seen some great cultivars just vanish.
However, what we're doing right now as a group
and breeding, I'm worried we are starting to start,
we're starting to go down the road
of a bottlenecking event, right?
I mean, look at Hoplite and Viroid.
You know, it's starting to sweep the industry.
It's starting to impact every aspect of cultivation
in every state where there are large operators.
And that's because everybody wants to, you know,
grab clones from a certain area
and they just spread across the country
and they're bringing this virus with them.
Well, and so that's a problem in and of itself.
But the breeding itself, if you like, you know,
look, Cookies was a great strain and had its time,
but it's hard to find cultivars out there now
that aren't a Cookies hybrid, right?
I mean, and so like, we need to think about
what we're doing to the gene pool
and do we really want to, in 20 years,
only have Cookie dominant hybrids to breed with?
I don't.
No, no, it's funny because that is one
that I rail against constantly.
One, just because it's so public, but two,
and probably the important reason is,
yeah, everything's a fricking Cookies cross.
Everything.
And that's what the consumers want.
Yeah.
So we're gonna make more.
Yeah, and that's what we've gotten stuck
in this kind of vicious cycle
where we're just perpetuating this Cookie, you know,
and so it's up to us breeders to get away from that, right?
Like we have to put other unique terpene profiles
in front of the patients, in front of the consumers,
and say, hey, enough is enough.
We're done with this.
It was great for a minute, but we're moving on.
I'm laughing so hard because I actually have
like Twin Peaks cannabis.
I would have put my banner up tonight,
but I seriously lost a six foot by three foot banner
in my moving stuff around.
But I actually have, one of the t-shirts I made
says proud grower of plants with 0% Cookies genetics.
Oh, nice.
Like I made a t-shirt out of that shit.
That's how I feel.
They don't buy them those shirts.
If you make those available,
I will buy one of those shirts.
Oh, that is awesome.
I mean, not to say that I haven't done
some breeding with Cookies,
but I definitely have not made it a staple of my work,
you know?
Right.
And really, the only Cookies cut that I really found
interesting, at least from my perspective,
was the Key Lime Pie cut.
I thought the Key Lime Pie cut was pretty interesting.
And it was one of the more obscure cuts.
Like it was really hard to get ahold of.
It was hard to hunt down.
There's very few people with it.
I know it was HPK Genetics,
Eric over at HPK created the, you know,
Le Man Verde with it, or the Chili Verde.
That was it, the Chili Verde.
And that's a phenomenal plant.
If you ever get a chance to try the Chili Verde
that he grew, man, oh man, that's some fire smoke.
And you know what was weird about the Key Lime Pie
was I crossed that to my Blueberry AK,
the 95 AK crossed to the Blueberry OG.
And I got a bunch of plants that came out
smelling like fucking jalapeno peppers.
I-
Where does that even come from?
Like I took a lemon cookie dough terpene profile,
combined it with a very coffee,
blueberry coffee cake terpene profile,
and came out with jalapeno peppers.
So, yeah.
Well, yeah, I don't have an answer.
No, no, no, and so it's these crazy weird things
that keep popping up in cannabis
that make it so, you know, so interesting.
But yeah, Eric crossed the Key Lime Pie
with Sour D and came out with a very similar
kind of terp profile, this very funky, spicy,
peppery, you know, terp profile that's just so unique
and so different than everything.
And it's just, it's phenomenal.
It's a phenomenal plant to grow.
It yields well, it's resistant to PM and molds.
And so it's a great plant.
I think there's, I don't know if he's making those anymore,
but he might be.
But if you can score a pack of the seeds,
they're definitely worth getting your hands on, for sure.
Awesome.
Let's see here.
Let's just bring it up another one.
You had just kind of mentioned some of the parents
in this one that you have up there.
Oh, I'm trying to scroll on this screen.
I gotta go to the other screen to scroll.
Okay, the Blueberry AK, it's AK-47
and then times Blueberry OG,
or how am I reading that right?
Sometimes I get confused.
It's just Blueberry AK.
So this is really a truly special plant.
And I wanted to be able to get this out to folks
because one, very rarely would many people
have the opportunity to cultivate
this particular cut of AK-47.
So this particular cut of AK-47 is extremely rare.
There's only maybe three or four people
who actually hold the cut that I know of.
Sherbrooke's at Sunday Goods.
I think he's branched out doing his own thing,
but I think he's still involved with Sunday Goods.
He goes by Gene Finder at OG on Instagram.
He's got the cut of the 95 AK-47.
And there's a couple other folks that kind of hold it
just to keep it safe.
And so I was lucky enough to get this cut
because I originally got the cut from Florida,
from the Panhandle of Florida out of Tallahassee.
And then when I was out in Nevada,
I was working with this consulting company
and was able to get a cut of the 95.
And I grew them side by side and they were identical.
Terpene profiles, identical.
Like everything was identical about them.
Now, when I'd originally gotten the cut in Florida,
it was labeled as 91 AK-47.
However, I think that was just a handwriting error
somewhere along the way.
You know, somebody's five kind of looked like a one
and over the years.
And so I took that, the 95 AK-47 cut is to me,
I'm one AK-47 being a staple of cannabis genetics
for the better part of the last two decades, right?
If not three.
It is a phenomenal plant.
One, you know, the genetics,
this was a strain that was bred by geneticists.
Someone who put the time and effort
and understood what was taking place
at the molecular level and the inheritance level
and knew what was going on,
knew how to stabilize specific genes.
And that's why you can buy a pack of AK-47,
grow them out and they're consistently homogenous
and heterozygous, right?
Like they are kind of, in my opinion,
the kind of the pinnacle of the mid nineties
cannabis breeding scene.
A lot of the European stuff, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, but AK-47 above all was, in my opinion,
one of the best things to come out of the European scene.
You know, for sure.
I mean, Sirius did a phenomenal job with that.
And so anyways, this 95 cut is really unique.
It's got a very spicy, earthy,
just kind of backbone of it.
It's terpene profile with a lot of coffee,
like ground coffee bean and spice,
like a spicy cinnamon, earthy.
It's really hard to, it's very complex,
but it's very earthy, very spicy
with a very heavy coffee bean kind of profile,
at least to me and most folks that have smelled it.
So in 2016 was growing our first crop up
in the prop 215 days in Laytonville.
So we had our 25 plants on each parcel.
And this is, we'd gotten some OG moms
from a lady down in Willets.
And we had, you know,
some Alabama boys had moved out to California.
We were trying to fill our garden up with plants.
So we were, you know, reaching out to folks say,
hey, you know where we can find any plants, you know,
cause it was June, you know,
it's like we're getting into late June.
We just getting the garden set up.
We're like getting late in the year.
I'm like, shit, we can't, you know,
we can't start seeds right now.
We got to find some plants.
And so we found some OG moms
and we put them in the garden.
And there was a guy up in, man,
up in Redway or around Garberville or somewhere
that was selling some live plants.
And at the time I didn't really know much about them.
At first when he advertised them,
I saw that and thought it was Humboldt seed organization,
seedlings, but it wasn't, it was Humboldt seed company.
Oh, that gets me, yep.
And so at the time I was kind of like, I was like, shit,
well, I don't know any of these plants.
I was like, we got to put something in the garden.
I can buy these plants today and get them back, you know.
And so we did and I bought some of their amethyst,
some of their Royal Kush, some of their train wreck.
And it's all been worked a little bit differently,
but then they had this plant called blueberry muffin
and their blueberry muffin was true to its name.
I get truly smelled a lot like blueberry muffin.
And so we have these seedlings
and we ended up having like two blueberry muffin males.
And we decided to make a few seeds
and we didn't make many seeds,
but we were gonna make a cross with this blueberry muffin
and this OG,
because I remember the stem rub on that blueberry OG male
and or the blueberry muffin male.
And it was the most blueberry thing
I'd ever smelled in cannabis.
I thought it was, you know,
I'd grown DJ shorts blueberry so many times
and didn't really find anything I could say,
oh shit, that's blueberry, blueberry, right?
You know, I mean, it had a kind of a blueberry ish smell,
but nothing like, I was like,
fuck that's blueberry muffin right there.
So we took that and we crossed it with OG
and I got in it with two seeds.
Yeah, the OG mom just did not wanna take seed.
And we had a little bit of timing issue
with when we pollinated.
So I ended up getting two seeds
out of the whole little project, which, you know,
no big deal.
I took those seeds home and I popped those seeds
when I moved to Southern Oregon
and they both come out male.
Which is a little disappointing
because I wanted to take one of them
and just make more of that OG cross with the blueberry.
Cause the lady that we got the OG from,
she was an older lady, probably in her sixties.
And she said that she had had that specific cut of OG
since the mid nineties, which is,
and kind of who we got her name from
and how we got in touch with her,
I have pretty strong confidence in it
and definitely in its growth characteristics.
It was probably the 92, you know,
the Topanga Canyon cut.
So they're kind of the original OG
that made its way up to Humboldt area
during the mid nineties.
So, or late nineties anyway.
So the two males that came out of that cross,
the OG and the blueberry muffin
were in all ways, very blueberry dominant.
And speaking about dominant recessive traits,
this blueberry muffin terpene profile
just kind of overpowers everything it touches.
And so I took, the males were very long
and lanky and kind of floppy like the OG moms, right?
You know, the OGs just kind of have a heavy
internodal spacing and they need support and branching.
So I was like, man, this AK 47 is just super stout
and stocky and, you know, just phenomenal plans.
Like, well, let's see what happens if we cross these two.
You know, I'm kind of curious,
this blueberry profile has come out so much stronger
over the typical, you know,
kind of limiting gas terps of the OG.
I wonder if it happens again.
And just out of curiosity, I made that cross.
And then when I grew that one generation out,
I was just absolutely blown away.
The offspring came out, some of them were hitting 34, 36%,
THC, where they were finishing in 54, 55 days.
They were pulling down 75, 80 grams a square foot.
And, you know, I was just like, wow,
this kind of was a happy accident, you know?
So I F2 the generation and found, to my surprise,
not a lot of variation in the F2s.
They were very, very stable and very similar.
So then I F3 and F4 the generation,
and not just, it seems to be very stable.
Most of the plants take on the AK 47 structure
with a little bit more of the OG bud shape.
So the calyx, there's a high calyx to leaf ratio.
Absolutely, these plants, there's some pictures
on my Instagram of this cut.
If you scroll through, you'll find them.
But week three, this thing just coats itself in resin.
I mean, fan leaves coated, stem coated,
like capitate trichomes popping up just everywhere,
starting week two, week three.
Very early, gets very, very frosty, very quick.
And it's a pleasure to grow.
For novice growers, if you're a new grower,
or you don't wanna grow a very fickle strain
like this Blueberry AK, it yields incredibly well.
It is insanely easy to grow.
It's very bug resistant, mold resistant.
It's very drought tolerant.
It is also pretty resistant to hermaphroditism.
I've not had any reports from anybody
that where herms have popped out.
I've put the thing through an enormous amount of torture
as far as light stress goes,
and making sure that it's stable.
I won't throw nanners or herm out on you.
I'm not gonna say that you can't do it.
I'll just say you're gonna have to really go out of your way
to make it herm, right?
Like, giving it a little bit extra nitrogen on week five
is not gonna cause it to toss nanners.
So if you're looking for a really solid,
easy to grow strain that's gonna just throw it out,
it washes insanely well.
It's a phenomenal hash plant.
It makes incredible resin, or rosin rather,
that is, we did some live rosin that,
you almost, it smells so much like a blueberry coffee cake
with that coffee terpene profile from the AK-47
that you almost wanna just scoop it out
with a spoon and eat it.
It's smell, and the flower too.
Like, you just wanna take a bite out of it.
It's a beautiful plant.
I really love it.
I really enjoy that plant.
I've got as much enjoyment out of growing the Blueberry AK
as I have pretty much anything I've ever made, for sure.
And that's awesome that it came across
with such a strong blueberry flavor.
I have, and I still remember my buddy
that I used to do nightclub nights with,
he showed up once and,
I almost swore he rolled it in Fun Dip or something.
It was that blueberry.
And I'm like, dude, I have to get a cut of this.
And it never happened, but yeah,
that just stood out above all.
And the blueberry muffin,
I've only had that in an oil form.
And holy crap, that, yeah, there's no denying
or no mistaking what you're getting on that palette there.
And that's cool that that is kind of coming across for you
more reliably as well.
Yeah, it's a trait that is definitely a dominant trait
that seems to pass on very easily
and expresses itself readily in any cross made with it.
I've found a few strains that kind of overpower
the Blueberry, but they're few and far between.
Okay, let's see here.
I'm just on the Daga site.
You have another strain, slightly different,
but you worked with the Blueberry well is there.
And I love, let's see, let me select it here.
I love the name on it too.
It's the Blueberry Skank.
Yeah.
So it looks like it's crossed the,
so it's a skunk number one times the AK-47
times the Blueberry OG.
Yeah.
So I gotten a bunch of packs of skunk number one
way back in 2004 off of seed bay
and had grown, you know, grown the skunk number one out.
And I'd kept a cut of that around for a while.
And growing out these Blueberry AKs,
I'd found a really phenomenal male
that just threw out tons of resin.
I mean, the families were coated with resin,
like finding resinous males are pretty rare.
They're few and far between.
I've only found them in a couple of different varieties.
I found a Kanasu F2 that was incredibly resinous male.
Cigarmitha had a strain called Slider,
which was a hash plant dominant of Purindica.
Found a male in that that was very resinous.
And I ended up finding this Blueberry AK male that was,
it kind of had me tricked for a little while
because I'd culled most of my males, not all of them.
But this thing was showing resin so hard.
But, you know, it was, and it had me nervous for a bit
because I was seeing anatomical features
that were indicating that it was a male, right?
And I'm like, what is going on here?
Like, have I got, and this is, you know,
early in the days of creating the strain
and testing it and growing it out.
And I'm like, really starting to get upset
because I'm like, shit, I've got some,
I've got some harm characteristics going on in here.
And this really is starting to be, you know,
this is kind of, but it turns out just be,
it was a true male, kept that male around,
used it for several different projects.
And it combined really well with the skunk.
The skunk being a, I won't say the skunk, number one,
is a true breeding cannabis plant,
but it's probably very close, right?
Like it's up there with like, you know,
deep chunk and a few other, like the AK-47.
White Widows.
Yeah.
So having that stability in the gene pool
from the skunk and the AK-47, a little bit.
And one thing, in talking with the guys
at the Covert Humboldt seed company,
I found out that the blueberry muffins
actually had AK-47 in its lineage.
And so I thought that that was interesting
that one of its, you know, grandparents,
great grandparents was an AK-47.
And so this recombination of all these ancestral genes
with the stabilized gene pool of skunk number one
created some very homogenous,
yet really unique F1 progeny.
And the combination of kind of the citrus turp profile
of the skunk number one,
that blueberry kind of coffee profile
that came from the blueberry AK,
and the early resin production of the blueberry AK
really enhanced the overall characteristics
of the skunk number one.
I'll say that these seeds, the blueberry skunk,
leans a little bit more towards the indica broadleaf,
if you will, characteristics and traits.
They're pretty fast flowering.
They finish up around 55, 56, 57 days, depending on.
You can, if you utilize some crop steering techniques
and really time your drybacks
and temperature differentials properly,
you can probably finish the strain up in 50 days.
And so it works well in, you know,
commercial production environments.
It, you know, pulling from the skunk number one,
the AK-47, both heavy yielding strains,
you know, this thing does, it yields really well.
I really liked the bud structure
that calyx to leaf ratio.
The overall terpene profile's pretty solid.
I'd say you could grow 10 females
and put all females into one bag,
and you'd never, you know,
other than some minor differences in terpene profile,
you would know that you had 10 different females
in a bag, right?
So one of the things that I liked is,
is the AK-47 responds pretty well to top end.
The skunk number one responds pretty well to top end,
but neither one of them have like
the most vigorous lateral growth development, right?
Lateral branching is somewhat diminished
in both of those plants,
but the OG in this lineage really lends itself
to plant training and topping
and helps with the lateral growth development
and really helps provide some lateral vigor
that you don't see in the skunk in the AK.
And so it was a good combination.
We tested these out outdoors and indoors,
got phenomenal results from them.
The THC content isn't outrageously high with this one.
It kind of tops out around 27, 28%,
which isn't shabby, but it's just not-
That's huge though, come on.
35% or anything crazy.
And, you know, I'd say on average, you know,
you probably with a population pulling down 25% THC,
there's some other unique minor cannabinoids
that pop up in this cross.
We've seen small amounts of CBVV and some THCV pop up,
had a bit of CBG pop up in there.
We have one cultivar that-
So one thing I've done, and if you have the means,
I highly recommend this.
There's a company called SRI in California
that make small gas chromatographs, right?
They're flame and FIDGCs, right?
So they're flame ionization detectors.
And what this allows you to do
is it allows you to test your potencies.
You can also do turbines and things like that.
And you can pick these SRI.
They've got a 420C unit
that's geared specifically towards cannabis.
And it's very easy to do.
Like you just need a desktop computer.
You run their software.
You hook up by USB cable.
You've got a mixture that you make.
You dry your flour.
You dissolve it in ethanol or acetone.
And you shake it up.
You let it sit.
You heat it.
You extract that with your injector,
which is a small syringe.
You put it in the front.
You push it through.
You let the thing run and you get your, you know,
there's some calibration involved,
but I will say if you can,
if you can make a decent souffle,
you can probably run the SRI.
You see, and they're made to be used.
And this has been an incredible tool for me
throughout the years,
to be able to at home test my potency, right?
Cause it was difficult.
I couldn't send my, I couldn't send my samples out.
I could, I needed, I was breeding for these one to ones,
two to ones and stuff.
And I needed to see what the ratios were.
And sometimes I needed to see very early on.
And those, those ratios rarely change, right?
So when, even when the plant's small and immature,
yes, you may not have a lot of concentration,
but the ratio to CBD and THC are not going to change
throughout the plant's life.
Like that ratio, if it's a one to one,
you're going to see a one to one representation
at a young age, you may only have, you know,
0.5% THC and 0.5% CBD,
but you can still tell early.
And so when you're breeding and you want to pop a thousand
seeds and you need to test a thousand plants to determine,
you know, trying to grow these out, you know,
in a state where maybe it's not legal to grow
a thousand plants, it's,
it's easier to quickly pop a thousand plants,
let them get this tall, you know, four or five inches,
take a leaf sample, test them,
see if what you're expecting, you know.
And so that's been a very useful tool in breeding for me
is the GCFID.
And there's other, there's other companies like,
oh, I forget the name of the, the Orange Box.
They make HPLC.
It's like a small portable HPLC that you can carry around.
Orange Photonics, I think is the name of the company.
There are some that are using photo spectrometry,
spectrography now that you can get that you just dry them,
flower, you grind it up and you put the little desk on top
of the light and it shines and it reads.
And there's variable degrees of accuracy with each of those.
But so there's,
there's more tools becoming available to us breeders that we
can use at home or in our make shelf labs, if you will,
to, to accomplish certain goals.
And I've used those kind of extensively over the past,
you know, 10 years to,
I'll tell you one way to find scientific equipment.
If any of you guys out there listening,
go online and look for university auctions.
Universities will get an enormous amount of,
of grant money to do, you know, study on whatever.
And then a lot of times when they're done with that study,
they'll auction off that equipment that they purchased with
a grant.
Sometimes you can find a hundred thousand dollar pieces
equipment for 25, 30 bucks.
I've thought and sold some equipment from university
auctions, you know, paid for a vacation.
Yeah. Awesome.
I mean, why not?
That's a, that's an awesome gold nugget there because yeah,
you're right.
They do.
And it's cool that a lot more universities are getting into
studying cannabis.
So we might find some good gear out there.
Yeah. I'm actually looking at,
I've talked to their two different universities right now
about pursuing a PhD and specifically looking at,
at cannabis genetics.
And to, I'm going to tell you, you know,
while I was in grad school,
like I would have given anything to have been able to study
cannabis back then.
And now that I have that opportunity, I'm like, man,
I just can't, you know,
I can't pass that up.
Right. Well, it's the personality.
It's the inquisitive mind.
It's awesome.
That's what, that brings you where you are and where you're
going to be going to.
It's not just a passive interest.
Yeah. No, I, I'm, you know, I guess one of the, those,
you know, lifelong learner people, you know,
I just always have to always have to be learning something
new.
Then wrong with that, man.
Absolutely nothing wrong with that.
It's encouraged, please rub that off onto more people.
Well, here's another one that we had for you too,
is the, is the Canisue F3.
Now you talked briefly about the Canisue,
crossed with the Black Lion Reserve,
but that wasn't quite the F3 generation.
Okay. So this one is a little bit different.
What, what, what's popping out in that?
So first Canisue was kind of, you know,
it was kind of readily available and popular for a while,
especially, you know, in California and along the West coast
for a bit, but it was a strain that I had always wanted
to grow. So when I was able to get ahold of the,
of the Canisue seeds, I was very excited,
not because of the work I was going to be able to do just
with the Canisue,
because I knew I would be able to recreate this variety
and be able to get it back out to people who wanted to,
to grow Canisue.
And it's, I've made enough F2s that I think I'll probably
end up releasing some of the F2s just because I'll never be
able to grow them all out.
I wanted to make sure that, you know,
I didn't have a huge population to breed with,
to make the F2s.
I did have a large population to make the F3s.
And like I said earlier, I kind of made the Canisue
F2A line, the Canisue F2B line.
And so what the, what the Canisue F3 population is,
is that it's an open population of both of those lines.
So in that, in, in this F3 population,
you're going to find probably about 50% of the population
will be very fruity terpene profile,
a lot of like pineapple upside down cake terps,
very, very heavy pineapple terps in the Canisue F3s.
And then there's also those kind of funky outliers that
you're going to have some dog poop.
You're going to have some diesel and gasoline.
You're going to have some anise.
You're going to have some, some weird,
almost true sativa.
Like I saw a lot of the canna tonic popping up in the,
this gene pool where you had some, I mean,
really insanely dense flowers.
Like I grew these outdoors in Southern Oregon,
just outside of Medford.
And I, I mean, this plant is a solid one-to-one.
Most of the population is a one-to-one and man,
that thing, it threw down, right?
I mean, it, she had some massive, massive,
just rock hard baseball bats, like really great
internodal spacing and stacking between the two.
The terpene profiles are phenomenal.
On most of the plants, they stay stocky and bushy,
but then there's this like recessive canna tonic trait
that pops out where you have a near,
um, like haze almost structure plant.
A very thin leaf, you have a very thin leaf population
or structure, morphological feature that pops up.
So, Chad, give me two seconds.
I need to grab my charger.
And we'll get back to that.
No problem, I'll pop you out there.
I'll pop that out there.
And you guys got me on the full screen, yeah!
I don't know, that's my dance.
I'm enjoying this.
And guys, we've got probably about three or more,
four of his cultivars we're gonna cover here.
Just kind of go through some of the lineages.
Got some good names coming up too.
But if you have any questions for Yellowhammer,
please start putting them into chat.
I will get some of those questions queued up
and ready for our man here.
Because if you already couldn't tell,
we've got an excellent resource here.
So please go ahead and get your questions into chat
if you have them, but we're gonna continue to go through.
We've got a couple more of the cultivars to cover here.
But yes, you're all good now?
Yeah. Awesome.
Yeah, thanks, very good.
So, yeah, on the Canis threes though,
if you ever had any interest in growing
some of the old school early Sohum seed CBD work,
there's been no outside genetic interference with this line.
I tried to keep it as true to the original population
that I got in the F1s as I could with an open population
of both the A and the B line.
And just let them make, you know,
just let them open pollinate.
I did leave in that highly resinous F2 male
that popped up in that generation.
It was in there as well as some
that weren't so highly resinous.
So there is a strong chance that you can find
a highly, highly resinous one-to-one male in the F3 line.
And that would be great.
Again, like you said, it washes pretty good,
but also if a person is making RSO,
that's gonna be of a big benefit to them.
It's a phenomenal medicinal strain.
And the pineapple terp profiles,
just you don't see that really true
pineapple terpene profile much anymore.
And so it's pretty special to get, you know,
if you haven't ever got to experience pineapple terpenes,
it's a nice daytime smoke.
It's something you can enjoy during the day
and it'll allow you to function.
It's really great for anxiety.
If I'm in a situation where I'm really anxious,
I usually try to keep some hash around
from some dry stuff that I made around
from the Kanasu line.
It's an anxiety killer for sure.
Yeah, I like it for many reasons.
Yep, yep.
And let's see here.
I was gonna say I got some of the Pinafore crosses
from the ranch who's also on the daiga.garden website.
And he put those up and talking with Cam,
he's a gentleman who was on the seed collector show
with me Wednesday.
He had run some of those and he said that, you know,
typically comes through in a lot of the crosses.
So I'm pretty eager to put a few of those in the dirt
and get myself a good pineapple experience there.
Because that would be a new one to me, you know?
Oh yeah, I love it.
It's something I really enjoy that pineapple profile.
It's just fun walking in the garden and just smell it.
You know, you smell that fresh pineapple
and it's really amazing.
Yeah, it doesn't make you wonder why terpenes
are used in aromatherapy.
They enhance and change your mood.
And yeah, I have, I just pulled down a Jax Cleaner 2,
which I grew back when, stopped for a while,
brought it back, but it's just because I was missing
the lemon terpenes of it.
And I do, I love in the morning,
I can just take a big whiff of the jar
and it just, it like brightens my day already.
I don't even necessarily need to smoke it.
I can just open the jar, take a big inhale and I'm in love.
So that happens there.
Yeah, you know, terpenes, terpenes are really unique
because what I've noticed with terpenes
and in studying the effect of terpenes
and cannabinoid modulation, if you will,
and how terpenes impact how cannabinoids
affect the body in certain systems
is you can really think of like cannabinoids
are kind of the boat and the terpenes
and flavonoids are the rudder, right?
The terpenes are responsible for steering,
for steering the cannabinoids to specific areas
of the body and specific muscle groups
or specific nerve functions.
So it's really interesting to me how terpenes
can enhance the effects of cannabinoids.
Yeah, and Dr. Ethan Russo, go ahead.
Yeah, no, no, no, yeah, Dr. Russo, that's, yeah,
doing a lot of work with this.
Yeah, that's a guy who I love to follow
and have seen him and he actually, he lives on an island
or he did live on an island not too far from me.
So he was in the, yeah,
kind of doing like the local talk circuit round.
So it was cool to kind of actually be able to interact
with the guy and, you know, ask a question
I thought was smart, but he probably was just like,
either way though, awesome, awesome resource.
And that's where I go to for, you know,
a lot of that interactions, the terpenes.
But let me bring a new one up here.
We got dreaming of OG, the Blue Dream times Blueberry OG.
I personally, and I probably say this every episode,
I like Blue Dream, I love it, no problem with it.
So tell me a little bit about this one.
So, you know, a lot of people have a lot of opinions
about Blue Dream, right?
And that's okay, they can have their opinions.
I like Blue Dream, Blue Dream's always done well by me.
So here's the problem with Blue Dream.
Blue Dream was, you know, heavily cultivated.
It was a high production strain,
Durham kind of prohibition, it yielded well.
It was a great smoke.
What ended up happening though,
was there's so, so many fake cuts of Blue Dream
floating around.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't, so I was, while I was doing consulting work,
I would go into a lot of grows that were
on the verge of complete failure, right?
Like people who had bad designs or who had gotten with a,
you know, maybe the people had some money to invest in
and grow and wanted to start a canvas company
and they didn't really know anybody who knew anything
about designing a facility or building a grow.
And they got some really bad advice from somebody
down the line or didn't have a competent grower or whatever.
And so I would go in and everywhere I'd go,
I'd see a Blue Dream cut.
And when I would see the Blue Dream cut,
and I'd look at it and it had, you know,
giant fat hash plant leaves.
Okay, well, this is obviously not Blue Dream.
And so that's part of the problem was where there was
so many fake cuts of Blue Dream floating around.
People heard of all this hype and they went to go get
some Blue Dream and it was a Blue Dream, you know,
they were smoking either a S1 of it, which, you know,
Humboldt Seed Organization didn't do us any favor
by putting out the S1s.
But, you know, at the same time,
there were some decent plants in the S1s.
I grew a couple of packs out, but
the true Santa Cruz Blue Dream cut is really special.
It's a true connoisseur flower.
If you enjoy hazes, if you enjoy blueberry terpenes,
if you enjoy uplifting, you know, cannabis,
Blue Dream is a phenomenal strain.
I really enjoy it.
The goal with this cross was to,
so it's first off like finding the legitimate
Santa Cruz Blue Dream cut wasn't an easy task, right?
First off, just want to say that.
I ran through several different cuts that I'd gotten
from different folks that legitimately just could not
have been the Blue Dream.
They were either Sativa Lenin DJ Short Blueberry,
or they were a hybrid of Blueberry and something else,
or maybe DJ Shorts Azure Haze,
but they definitely weren't the Santa Cruz Blue Dream.
And so not, once I had a solid line on the source
for the cut, look, I want to say this,
as a breeder, being able to ensure that you're breeding
with the right genetics is insanely important.
And I want to definitely make sure and ensure everybody
that anything that I breed with, I check, recheck,
quadruple check the provenance on and make sure
that I can get straight from the horse's mouth,
usually the breeder of the cut or creator of the strain
that I've got the legitimate.
And so, you know, there's all these ruts cuts floating
around and, you know, I've done some studies over the past
12 months where I've picked up the white ruts cut
from like six different sources and I've grown them out
and I've gotten six different plants.
Yeah.
They're all different cuts, right?
And so I'm going to be actually putting up some stuff
on Instagram a little bit about this here in a few months
once I finish the test that,
and I'm not going to name names, right?
I'm not going to name names, but I am just,
I just don't want to show people how important it is
to understand where you get your genetics from
and to be able to source verified, legitimate genetics.
So anyways, I found the legitimate Santa Cruz blue dream.
I'd been working with the Blueberry OG and just fell in love
with those Blueberry terpenes,
the Blueberry muffin terpenes.
And I wanted to see if I could make the Blueberry OG terps
marry with the Blue dream structure and profile
and was able to do so.
Like I was really surprised at the outcome.
The Blueberry OG lend itself,
the structure of the Santa Cruz blue dream
is very dominant in this cross.
When you grow out these plants,
you are going to see a structure that is practically
identical to the structure of the original blue dream cut.
It is, it roots insanely easy.
I've had some of these clones root
in as little as five days.
Yeah, the original blue dream cut roots incredibly easy.
You can throw that thing in a cup of water on the counter
and have roots in a couple of days.
Like it roots real well without any rooting hormone, right?
Like it was pretty unique.
And that's one of the ways that you can actually tell
whether you have the real Santa Cruz cut or not
is by if it takes you 20 days to root the cut,
you don't have the right.
Yeah, and so the Santa Cruz cut roots really easy,
it's a super vigorous plant.
Has a little bit of a longer flowering time,
and so one of the things that this combination
with the Blueberry OG did was it brought its flowering time
down by a couple of days for sure.
It tightened up the buds a little bit.
So the original Blueberry or Blue Dream
definitely throws down some monster nugs,
like no doubt about that, right?
And super resinous, very beautiful,
but the combination with that Blueberry OG
really tightened things up a little bit
and gave it a little bit better calyx to leaf ratio.
The Blue Dream can be a little loose, not larfy,
but just the final bud structure can be just a little loose
and a little airy, kind of typical of some of the hazes.
So this combination with the Blueberry OG
is if you wanna grow Blue Dream,
but can't find the cut and you want to put something
in your garden that is very, very similar to Blue Dream,
this is a great choice.
Like every 10 pack of these seeds,
I guarantee you, you'll find a cut
that if you sat it next to the original Blue Dream cut,
you would have a difficult time telling them apart.
And that's great because I know a lot of people,
a lot of producers love growing it
because like you said, it was easy to grow
and it's actually one of the strains
that I recommend to new growers sometimes,
but it produced.
Like there's a reason why a lot of people had this.
It produced, like it checked all the boxes
and I've actually heard a lot of people say,
it was one of their favorites,
but everybody was growing it.
And I almost feel like that's one of the cuts
that we almost kind of lost because everybody was like,
well, I'll do something else at this time
because you've got this covered,
but everybody didn't get the memo,
everybody was switching over.
Yeah, yeah.
It's for a cut that was so popular and grown so much,
it was really difficult to source
a legitimate cut of the Blue Dream.
There's very few large scale cultivators
who actually have the real cut.
I've noticed then, like I said,
I'm working with a lot of different big companies.
I'll go in and see their Blue Dream
and it's not the one.
And you can tell when you look at their yield numbers
and you see 40 grams of square foot,
they're like, well, I don't understand.
Blue Dream's supposed to yield really well.
It does.
And it's like, well, no, it doesn't.
You guys don't have Blue Dream, right?
You guys have Blueberry.
And it happens, unfortunately, mislabeling of clones
or people passing things off of things that they aren't.
But yeah, if you're looking for a very, very similar plant
to Blue Dream and you can't source the Blue Dream cut,
those are great seeds to grow.
That's awesome, man.
I will keep that one in mind.
And I'm really glad and appreciate that you brought up
the point of provenance on a lot of these
because there are a lot of,
and this applies to many different strains out there.
Let's just go Girl Scout cookies.
There's a whole bunch of seeds out there that you could buy.
There's a whole bunch of cuts you could buy.
They're not really, they're not the one.
But if you, as a good hearted person, get that
and you genuinely believe that's what it is,
well, that's what you're gonna tell the next person it is.
And then that just kind of keeps snowballing.
But if you don't actually do the homework
or the research yourself,
you're never gonna know these things.
And I got, I have some friends over in the EU
and some things landed on my doorstep.
And now it wasn't from them.
It's a giant company over there.
Not the one, not Sensi Seeds, I worked for them.
It was a different company.
So I'm actually about to say this.
I absolutely know that it wasn't what it was labeled,
but, and I knew that going into it.
I knew that ahead of time.
I'm just like, eh,
there's some of these practices going on over there.
And I know you couldn't have got this
from this country to that country,
put it into this form and done that that quick.
So I knew it wasn't what it was gonna be,
but that didn't mean it was gonna be bad.
So there are a lot of like happy surprises sometimes in that.
But if you don't, you know,
so you might have something killer
and something that you're really proud of.
And you're like, oh, you know, this is the XYZ.
But if you don't do that search
and to try to find the prominence, like you mentioned,
you're never really gonna know.
So that's a big thing as we move forward.
And as a lot more people, you know, start making seeds,
not breeding, just making seeds.
Yeah, we're gonna see more of that.
So that's kind of, I'm glad you brought that up.
But thank you, long way of saying it.
Yeah, I think we're getting to a point
where we need to look at having a,
almost like a governing,
an independent governing body for cannabis genetics.
So that we can ensure that, you know,
that people are getting,
there's a lot of scammers out there.
There's a lot of people who are, you know,
claiming to have work lines that they don't,
or they're claiming to have certain cuts
and they don't, and all this stuff's happening.
It would be nice for the consumer to know
that what they're getting is legitimate.
And yeah, I don't know what the proper way
to do that's gonna be, but we're getting to a point
where we've got to look at doing something
to try to protect.
And there's a couple of people that have some ideas on this
that I've spoken with in the community
that are thinking about this as well.
Other geneticists, other breeders,
other purveyors of fine genetics, if you will.
Yeah, there's, oh, I'm sorry.
The audio cut out there on you for a second.
I'm like, dang it.
Oh, my bad.
There's a lot of arguments that I have avoided
by just saying, dude, until we can map them,
we're not gonna know.
So this argument's almost kind of pointless.
Until we can map the genome on,
I'm gonna say the P word, but like phylos.
Good idea went horribly fricking wrong,
but the idea was solid.
Now you can manipulate that galaxy if,
again, if I think I truly have a Gorilla Glue,
but I don't, and I send it in as Gorilla Glue,
well, it's getting mapped as Gorilla Glue.
So it's not infallible, but until we come up
with that type of system, yeah,
there's some arguments I've avoided,
but it's just like, dude,
we're never gonna know until this happens.
That's the only way we're gonna answer this question,
so let's not argue.
Right.
Yeah, you're absolutely right.
And yeah, I don't wanna get into the whole phylos thing
too much today, but that horse has been pretty dead beat,
but you're exactly right, yeah.
Great idea in theory, horrible execution.
Yes, let's bring this up on the screen.
We had this conversation, that battle still continues,
but it's all about the SNPs,
the single nucleotide polymorphism.
Yeah, that's it, yeah.
And so I always had, look, I always had a,
so I don't know if you guys are like,
so one of the first like kind of big breeders I met
when I was getting into the kind of legal side
of all of this was Adam Dunn.
I met him in Colorado and got to spend some time with him.
I remember on one of his shows,
they were doing this O-Genome Project.
Yes, I do remember that.
So the O-Genome Project, and they were trying to determine
were all these cuts of OG the same cut, right?
It was Tahoe and SFE and the Ghost and all this,
were these all the same cut?
And so I can't remember the guy's name,
who they had on there,
was talking about doing the genetics work,
but he was going to use single nucleotide polymorphisms
to try to determine it.
And I'm like, that's the, no.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No, that from a genetic, like there's so many,
there's so many, no, no, no.
No, all right.
Using single, like using SNPs for what Phylos was doing
wasn't really the best option.
It wasn't the best tool for the job.
You know?
It was like taking a nine pound hammer
to try to drive in a finishing nail.
You know, like it just,
there was a better, easier way for Phylos
to have done what they were trying to do.
And from a geneticist standpoint,
I always questioned why they chose that SOP.
Yeah, well, we'll always and forever question what the fuck.
So we'll move on from that one.
Let's put up another one of your cultivars here.
Let's see, which one do we have here?
Oh, I got to hit the button, don't I?
Yep.
Let's see here.
And this was, oh, I hit the wrong button there.
Sorry, I was trying to get this one queued up.
It's the Doctor Who times the B-A-O-X,
or how do I pronounce that one?
That's pronounced box.
So B-A-O-X was a hemp strain
that was created by a guy named Ben Holmes,
a Centennial Seed Company in Colorado.
It was one of the first federally compliant hemp cultivars
that was out there.
Ben Holmes created Otto II.
He created Otto II by crossing a plant called FS13,
which came from Full Spectrum Labs,
which was at the time one of the only known
CBD dominant and federally compliant CBD dominant cultivars.
And Ben took the FS13 and he crossed it,
interestingly enough, with Bodie's Watermelon Hash Plant,
Nepalese Watermelon Hash Plant.
He found, and like I was saying earlier
in population genetics,
land race strains like to exist in a mixed chemotype form.
And so Ben grew out some Nepalese Watermelon Hash Plants
and he found a CBD dominant cultivar
in this land race variety.
And in a population that typically exhibits,
like we think a lot about these equatorial hash plants
as being highly potent, right, and THC dominant,
but he grew out a pack of seeds
and found a CBD dominant hash plant,
Nepalese extremely long flowering sativa.
I grew out some of those Nepalese Watermelon Hash Plants
and I'm talking like 16, 18 weeks long flowering sativa.
You have to have some real patience for these things.
And they were very finicky, very difficult to grow,
but some of the most amazing smoke, man.
I mean, just truly, just truly hypnotic, psychedelic,
just really, really phenomenal smoke.
So anyways, Ben crossed the FS13
and the Nepalese Watermelon Hash Plant to create Otto.
Then he made Otto 2.
And Otto, he crossed the Otto 2
with an Afghani dominant CBD cultivar
to create BAOX.
And he back crossed that.
So what BAOX stands for is a back cross of Otto.
So he took this extremely sativa dominant CBD plant,
crossed that with a pure indica plant,
and then back crossed that to Otto to get the BAOX.
And what you got was a very stabilized
CBD dominant cultivar.
That was, it was a real treat to grow.
It was the only CBD cultivar that I found
that wasn't married to the cherry terpenes.
And they were extremely frosty.
You would get some phenomenal yields.
Not the best bud density in the world,
that Nepalese Hash Plant had really,
you'd see a lot of foxtail.
We had some plant pop out in a 10 acre field of it
that kind of reminded me of the old Dr. Grinspoon
where it was very-
Wow, pearls, string of pearls almost.
Yeah, and so you would see those pop up
every once in a while in some of the phenotypes.
Like a very unique trait.
But anyway, so we kind of worked the BAOX line
into an F4 version,
focusing on the quicker flowering,
shorter kind of squatty or hybrid phenotype
that leaned a little bit more towards that Indica dominance.
We had a unique Dr. Who from Homegrown Natural Wonders,
from Raymond there,
and phenomenal breeder with some phenomenal work.
I love Dr. Who, it's a great strain.
And we thought they would make an interesting pair
due to their terpene profiles and their overall structure.
And the offspring have been nothing short
of just truly amazing.
Really unique terpene profiles, very spicy,
very kind of OG reminiscent terpene profile,
but just reminds you kind of like an old school herb.
You know, like it's just kind of like an old school
herb terp profile, like skunky, funky herb.
And it's got a one-to-one terp profile or chemotype
that also will include some very unique minor cannabinoids.
We've seen some Delta-8 THC pop up in these,
interestingly enough.
Is that coming in from the hemp side then?
I think so, yeah, I think so.
We've seen some high levels of THCV,
which I think comes from the Dr. Who side.
We've also seen some high levels of THCV,
or CBDV and CBGV pop up in those.
When I say high levels, I'm talking like one and a half
to maybe 3%, because they still are remaining
minor cannabinoids, but overall,
it's a pretty fast finishing plant.
And it is a great hash plant.
It washes incredibly well.
It makes phenomenal rosin and yeah,
just a great plant to have around.
Very hardy, very frost intolerant,
very frost tolerant plant.
Spider mites just seem to despise the plant.
They don't want anything to do with it.
Neither does powdery mildew.
Okay, that sounded like a good one for probably running.
Of course, I'm a little bit north of Southern Oregon,
but that sounds kind of like a good cultivar
for outdoor Oregon.
Well, it's a great cultivar for,
so we've ran that outdoors here in New England,
which is pretty tough.
And it's phenomenally mold resistant.
You can leave that plant out until Thanksgiving
and you're not gonna see any Botrytis or gray mold
or anything popping up.
Really, one of the things that I admired about the work
that Ben Holmes did at Centennial Seeds,
and he's truly a phenomenal scientist
and phenomenal breeder.
I have the utmost respect for him.
He, with the creation of the auto in the box varieties,
they were insanely mold resistant.
In Southern Oregon, we had some auto twos
that were leaning toward that hash plant
and they were very long flowering plants.
In the fall of 2018, it started raining
around the 1st of October and it didn't stop raining.
It just rained and rained and rained and rained.
And we had some plants that we couldn't get to
to get harvested from that CBD crop.
And it happened to be those auto twos.
And we didn't get to those plants
until around the 1st of November.
And we didn't have a single speck of mold
on any bud in the field.
And I thought it was gonna be a total loss on those
because I was like, there's no way with this much rain.
I'll go down there and check on them every once in a while,
not just the rain, but the frost.
You go up there in the morning
and the plant's just solid block of ice, basically.
And then you go out there at lunch
and the plants are praying and they're happy.
And you're like, wow.
So just a really, really resistant plant.
Does very well outdoors.
And it's done really well outdoors here
in New England as well.
Yeah, and it's, you know, I didn't really think about it,
but yeah, that's definitely its own harsh climate as well
with the fall time coming.
Yeah, I've grown all over the country
and New England is by far probably
the most difficult place I've grown.
Yeah, just because the history of agriculture here,
there's so many pests.
Okay.
Like, you know, the Pioneer Valley in Massachusetts,
the Connecticut River Valley as a whole,
some of the best soil in the country,
but you know, it's been cultivated since the 15, 1600s.
You know, so the aphids are here, the mites are here,
the russets abroad, like everything's here.
Shit you don't even know exists, you know, I've found out.
Pest pressures.
Yeah, it's a great place to study hemp disease.
I know Cornell's been doing quite a bit of work
and Purdue's been doing a lot of work on hemp disease
and hemp pests and things like that.
So they're in a good spot to be sure, for sure.
And you mentioned sometimes there's,
you can see a little bit of fox tailing on it,
which I kind of hear, and a lot of people, you know,
especially with the resin presses and washing them,
they want that.
They're looking for that type of characteristic
because again, you're getting more surface area.
So you have more trichomes on there and that's, you know,
that's advantageous to a lot of them.
So I've seen, you know, not numerous,
but I've seen more than you would think,
people putting out stuff and they're just like,
dude, you know, check this out.
It's perfect for washing.
That's what you want.
So, you know, sometimes people will say that.
And, you know, again, because we're such a visual society,
there's a lot of good produce
that will never make it to your grocery store
because it's ugly.
But, you know, at the same time,
we go into the dispensary and we buy with our eyes first,
because that's really the only tool we have to assess it.
So yeah, when you get-
I've grown some plants that would have just had
no bag of pill whatsoever, right?
Just, you would never, you'd never go and buy this,
but from whoever and phenomenal smoke, you know,
just really, it's a shame that it doesn't look better
than it does because some of the plants
are really, really unique.
You can find some really unique characteristics
in the little ugly ducklings, you know?
A hundred percent.
I'll never forget, it was in my early teens
and, you know, I was going to buy a couple ounces
from a person and that was big at that time.
You know, I was all feeling like a G and stuff, you know,
we're sitting at the table and they just kind of like
scooted over and I looked at it and, you know,
I pulled the big balls out of the pants.
I was like, what are you doing?
What, you know, this is shit.
Smoke it, man.
I smoked it and shut the F up.
Right.
So yeah, I'll never forget that lesson.
Yeah.
I really think that's a lesson we've all had to learn
from time to time, or at least I hope everybody's
figured that out by now.
But I still don't think, you know,
from a retail standpoint, I don't think those,
you know, I don't think those are ever gonna do well
in a retail setting, unfortunately.
You know, maybe one day the consumers become educated
enough, you know, that they understand that looks
aren't everything when it comes to,
and just like THC percentage, you know.
All you have to do is convince people that that's exotic
and then you can't keep it on the shelves.
Like, look at that, you know, you're growing one,
but I've got a few coming up.
You're onto something, I think, with that.
Good marketing.
Nice.
Well, speaking of good marketing,
let's bring this one home with Wrinkle Balls.
All right.
GDP times the 95 AK47.
I had to save that one for last,
just because my inner child wanted to say Wrinkle Balls.
Yeah.
So we, you know, we were trying to come up with a name
for this train and, you know, just with the granddaddy perps
and kind of the granddaddy.
And then, so one of the cool things I like about this plant
is the bud structure is very kind of spherical.
And so they're like, it's like,
even the cola is kind of spherical.
And so you got like this, like,
almost like Christmas ornament buds
popping up on this plant.
They're insanely dense.
And we just, you know, it was like, oh my God, okay,
we got this physical characteristic.
We got, you know, the granddaddy and it's like,
oh, Wrinkle Balls, you know?
And so one of the things,
I love GDP as a plant, right?
It's a solid cultivar.
It's horribly slow growing in veg though.
It just, I don't know why I've talked to several people
who have gotten the cut directly like from Ken or whoever
and have a legitimate cut.
And we all, it's just so slow growing
but it's phenomenal breeding stock.
Everything I've made with the GDP comes out really special.
And so having that really frosty,
really special blueberry AK male,
I just had to cross it with the GDP.
And what was really interesting about this cross
is the GDP, this plant carries over every characteristic
of the GDP except for a little bit of the bud structure.
But the terpene profile is all GDP.
The vigor comes back.
You get very fast, vigorous growing vegetative plants
that have extreme lateral branching once topped.
Usually you can top this plant two times
and you've got a really nice structure bush
that's gonna be seven or eight nice tops on it.
And very, very dense, big, big flowers.
Like this thing really, I don't know if it's the combination
of the AK and the GDP, but it's like an OG nug on steroids.
Like it's really, and there's a couple that it's interesting
there's a couple that will pop out with this unique
structure and have a very heavy limiting terpene profile.
They're kind of few and far between,
but every once in a while you'll find one that are very,
but there's a lot of like great sickle, great popsicle
type terpene profiles in this line.
We've ran this cultivar in commercial production
and it does really well.
Makes a phenomenal vape pen as a,
so the way we make vape pens with this
is to extract the terpenes directly from the plant.
Then extract the oil and then recombine the terpenes
in the oil.
And we've also done some live rosin terpene,
live rosin pens with it as well.
Man, I just, it's one of those flavors
that you just can't quite get enough of.
Even with the flowers, like you kind of get yourself
in trouble as far as how high you get
because it's like, you just love the taste of it.
And you just can't, like it's got this nice
mouth coating feel to it and you just over and over.
Like it is, of all of my strains outside of the blueberry,
AK, it's one of my favorite creations for sure.
Just a really unique, really unique plant.
I enjoy it.
It's easy to grow.
It's not super finicky.
It loves a good dry back between waterings during flower.
Really packs on the way and it finishes up pretty early.
It's a good combination of all the perennials.
Right, I mean, you've got some pretty heavy hitter
parents in the gene pool there.
You've got a, yeah, you've got a lineup of classics there.
I almost said the three amigos there
just because that was a rad movie,
but I'm like, okay, there's three there.
Yes, you know me.
And you mentioned the mouth coating too,
that brings me back to the blueberry muffin oil
I was mentioning earlier.
That was just a taste that,
you know, it got me in trouble
because I was where I needed to be,
but that taste was so good.
I'm like, well, I could do another more, another more.
Got me in trouble.
Yeah, that's happened to me a couple of times.
Happened to me a couple of times.
So with this cross, it's good.
It's really good for me.
I've noticed for nerve pain also
from a medicinal standpoint,
like I've got an impingement in my shoulder
from years of abuse to my shoulder from baseball.
And I'll get a lot of nerve pain in that shoulder.
And this cultivar, it's hard to find varieties,
at least in my experience,
that really worked well on nerve pain.
Some do better than others,
and everybody has their own experience, right?
But this plant really helps a lot with nerve pain.
If you have a lot of nerve pain, neuropathy,
or maybe like fibromyalgia or something like that,
this would be a good cultivar to give a shot.
And that's good.
And that's an important distinction to draw to.
Again, going back to my days of working at the store,
people would come in, give me the highest THC percentage,
something that'll knock me out,
and something that'll take care of the pain.
Well, what kind of pain?
Is it muscular?
Is it, as you were saying?
So that's good to know,
because there's a lot of people
looking for all sorts of good medicine.
Having that firsthand experience,
and again, we both agreed earlier,
everybody's experience can be different,
but to have something to try, to go to next,
if what they found hasn't been working,
that's awesome to know.
And it's that firsthand experience.
And I've taken, it's been awesome listening to you
talk about all of the cultivars that you have available
on the Dagadak Garden site,
because you know your plants,
and that's very refreshing
to be able to hear a breeder talk about
what they liked about it, why they chose to use it.
Those things are important more so than,
well, I just got XYZ and ABC again,
and I figured it had to be great.
You can get some good stuff out of it,
but that is a whole nother polyhybrid subject
that we won't get into.
And it's kind of playing off of that.
Another thing that's good about a lot of what I see
in your genetics, you do have those solid, stable,
older lines, so.
I appreciate that.
We've got a lot of work that we haven't released yet
that we'll be releasing at least two different drops
that we're gonna put together for 2022
that'll be available exclusively through DAGA.
So keep your eyes peeled for that.
There'll be some new one-to-one varieties coming up.
I've taken the strawberry pie CBD plant
that I was talking about earlier,
combined that with the blueberry OG.
We're seeing some really phenomenal, phenomenal results
from that crossing with one-to-one.
And we've also got some unique CBG THC
one-to-one stuff coming out.
And yeah, we've got THC V line that we're gonna be dropping.
So we've got quite a lot of stuff that's coming out.
I think just for novelty's sake,
I'll probably drop the jalapeno poppers,
which is what I call them.
I like that.
The blueberry OG cross,
just so people can grow them out
and have that kind of novelty.
Like, hey, check this out.
You ever smelled a jalapeno bud before?
So we'll probably throw a bunch of those in
as freebies with PAX.
So if anybody has any interest to grow those out,
hit me up on Instagram
and I'll send you some for free just to grow.
Phenomenal plants.
I mean, the structure is amazing.
It's just this weird kind of unique terpene profile.
I'm not sure how people will take to it.
Right.
I think it sounds great,
but sometimes there are those things in life
where it's a love it or hate it.
There's no middle ground.
Yeah, yeah.
When I smelled it, I was very intrigued.
It wasn't off-putting or anything.
It was just so surprising and unique to smell that.
And what did that mean?
You really think about cannabis and how diverse it is.
I mean, anything you can smell just about on the planet,
you can find that smell in cannabis.
It's so amazing.
I mean, everything.
Yeah, I mean, think about like oranges.
We got orange terpene profiles.
And really anything, leather.
I've smelled like fresh leather plants.
Tennis balls.
Tennis balls, right?
Tennis balls, that's not a natural smell.
It's identical.
You would say tennis balls.
Yeah, yeah.
I've smelled that in several plants.
And so it's truly amazing to me
what this plant is really capable of.
And we're just at the forefront of really diving into it
from a scientific standpoint on what's capable.
I'm really looking forward to the science
catching up to the culture.
Yeah.
So in the future,
you have some cannabis breeding projects going.
Talked about them.
We're gonna see those in the future.
How about on the academic tip?
What's the next move for you there?
How are you gonna further your breeding capabilities?
So academically, definitely, like I said,
I'm in discussion with a couple of universities
on a PhD project that'll specifically be looking
at terpene expressions and inheritance of those genes
and how they relate to cannabinoids
as well as microbial populations
and how those microbial populations
influence terpene synthesis and terpene production.
And so I'm hoping to,
and then I've also been doing some further research
with cannabis as a phyto-remediator.
And what I mean by that is using cannabis
as a way to reclaim or rehabilitate land
that has been contaminated by heavy metals.
So as we all know, cannabis is a bioaccumulator, right?
It sucks up dirty, heavy metals from the soil
like no other plant.
And so I want to look at ways that we can go
into some of these heavy industrial areas
where the land is not usable, it's not arable,
nobody can live there, nobody can go play there.
I grew up in a town that was contaminated by Monsanto.
And I didn't live directly in the town,
I lived out in the country a ways from the town,
but Anniston, Alabama was contaminated
with PCBs, polychlorinated biphenyls,
which was an oil used in transformers.
It was manufactured by Monsanto in Anniston.
And when they had a bad batch, or if they had an overrun,
they would just go dump the stuff in the creek.
And it's a very heavy oil, so it sinks to the bottom.
So you don't see an oil machine
or you don't see a big oil field floating on the creek.
The stuff just sinks to the bottom
and attaches itself to the soil.
And then the fish become messed.
Actually, that's what triggered this investigation,
I think in 1997, there was a guy fishing
on Chakalaka Creek, a major waterway there
that flows into the Mobile River.
And he caught this fish that had like three caudal fins
and like six eyeballs.
So he got this like, what we call rock bass back home.
It's Micropterus kusei, it's a scientific name.
And so it's got three caudal fins, got six eyeballs,
and it's like, okay, this isn't normal, right?
So what the hell is going on here?
They start doing some investigations.
They find all this PCB stuff there.
It was so bad that pretty much the entire county,
Calhoun County in Alabama was declared a Superfund site.
And since then, we've learned a lot
about how dangerous these chemicals like PCBs,
TCE, PCE, perchlorethylene, trichlorethylene,
tetrachlorethylene, and these are really dangerous
and harmful chemicals.
But cannabis can help bioremediate that.
It can actually absorb polychlorinated biphenyls
out of the soil.
And it's the same with lead and mercury and heavy metal.
And so what we can do is we can go in,
we can plant industrial hemp.
We can soak all these harmful contaminants
up out of the soil.
And then we take those and we don't,
the original concept was to incinerate the stalk
because all of it's gonna be in the stalk
and the flower of the plant.
You incinerate that and then now the problem's gone,
but is it really, right?
Like you just-
Did it gas off or?
So Paul Stamets, the mushroom guy out in Oregon,
he's, or maybe he's in Washington, I think actually.
He's been doing a lot of work over the past couple of years
and found some mushrooms that will actually break down
PCBs into their constituent components.
So you can take the hemp stalk and the flower and all that,
put it in a compost pile, essentially,
inoculate that compost pile with these mushrooms.
And now you have really, truly remediated these PCBs.
You've taken this carcinogenic chemical
that's very toxic to the nervous system.
And once you get PCBs into your body, they never leave.
You can never get the PCBs out of your body.
What they do is they will,
they're very, very heavy, heavy chemical
with a massive molecular weight.
And it will, basically,
they'll settle in the digestive system
and then they eventually work their way
into your bloodstream and they will attach themselves
to your nervous tissue, your Schwann cells
and your myelin shell.
And so what ends up happening is it starts
to strip the coating away from your nerves
and it causes nerve damage.
And developing fetuses and things like this,
this can be really dangerous.
And so you can get abnormalities.
And we've seen in certain areas
where high PCB concentrations are,
there's increased rates of cancer, obviously,
but increased rates of autism
and mental disorders and things.
And so it's like, well, we've got the tools to fix this.
We've got the tools to come in and,
like these guys didn't take responsibility for it.
Monsanto packed up their shit.
They went to Canada and they took,
and they created a subsidiary called Solution.
And everybody in that town was like,
oh, how ironic, right?
Like their solution to the problem was just one.
And they, you know, so anyways,
so I'm gonna be looking at some of that stuff as well.
Doing some research with Biochar
and microbial communities and stuff.
So got a lot of research going on.
Hoping to have some papers published
that's coming up here in the years following for sure.
That'll be cool.
I know we'll be watching that, definitely.
It's got my interest
and a lot of people on this channel too.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, yeah, no worries, man.
Much luck to you in the future adventures.
And I just wanna say for everybody watching too,
we do have your contact information, Instagram,
and breeder profile on the Daga.com website
down in the show notes.
But please, I wanna give you this opportunity
to kind of, you know, shout yourself out,
shout out anybody that you want
or tell people where they can find you.
I wanna make sure that they know.
Sure.
Well, we have a website we're working on now,
obviously yellowhammergenetics.com.
We'll have a platform up there with all of our research.
We're building that out now.
I mean, if you go to the site, there's some stuff there,
but it's not what it's going to be.
We're on Instagram, yellowhammergenetics.
Also on a couple other sites, we're on strainly.io.
You can find us there under yellowhammergenetics.
You can also reach me through email
at josh at yellowhammergenetics.com
or yellowhammergenetics at gmail.com.
Yeah, just a huge shout out to yourself for having me on.
I appreciate it.
Huge shout out to everybody in the community,
everyone that's at home growing
and growing their own medicine
and learning more about the plant
and learning more about the community
and just pushing forward and keeping up the good fight
and the good work.
And look, there's a lot of things to learn
and a lot of great work to do.
And I'm just really happy to be able
to be a part of all of it
and to be able to contribute to the knowledge base
in any way that I can.
So thanks to you for having us on.
It's been a pleasure.
Awesome, awesome.
Thank you so much for your time.
I appreciate it.
Absolutely.
And everybody in chat, yep.
And everybody watching on the replay,
thanks for joining us as well.
Please go ahead and leave us a comment
and a like if you dig it.
So with that, I will hit the end button
and everybody have a good night.
See ya.
