follow as well as I can.
Yeah, I'm a little, I feel like a diesel engine right now
because we smoked a lot of cannabis last night,
but good morning, boys and girls.
It is Wednesday morning and I'm joined by a man
from my hometown of Boston.
So Bob, welcome.
Thank you.
So tell me, have you, did you grow up in Boston
or where'd you grow up?
I did, well, down the Cape, but I'm born and bred Mass.
All right, as am I.
And where were you?
Dover.
So like Needham, Natick, Wellesley, Dedham,
kind of west of Boston.
We talked about, we were born at the same hospital.
Oh yeah, Leonard Morris, Natick Mass.
So why don't, just cause the doorbell just rang,
I'm gonna just ask you the open-ended question
and kind of maybe talk about your background
and I'll be right back.
Okay.
So I think my start with cannabis,
actually I don't think I know,
was 1970 in New England, not in Massachusetts.
And the weed that was coming around
and we were smoking was the Mexican brick.
And then for $15 a lid,
they didn't call it ounces back then, it was lids.
And it was either a four or five finger bag,
was about 15 bucks.
And then for 20 bucks,
you could get either Panama Red or Acapulco Gold.
So that's what we were smoking on back then.
I stayed pretty active for probably a dozen years.
Did a few closet grows, never knew what the seeds were,
all came from the brick weed.
It was always stems and seeds and all the weed.
Grew a little bit at home.
And then frankly was casually involved at best
for the next 25 years, 30 years, quite a while.
And then I was in Colorado in either 2000,
I think it was 2015 and smoked some Cindy White
from a dispensary that's green something,
but I forget the name.
And it really brought me back in.
And I realized that you could make, design, put together
the genetics to give you the different effects
much more so than it had been when I started as a kid.
So at that point, I really tried to make a point
of trying to find the best genetics I could,
the best weed that I could.
One for myself and then actually to try to put together
the different effects that I could.
One for myself and then actually to try to put together
things that I thought my friends would like
and honestly stuff that I would like.
So that was really the new start was probably around 2016.
And you've, I mean, we were, before we went on,
we were briefly talking Snow High and Cogus.
So how'd you kind of cross,
like who are some of the people you've crossed paths
with recently and how'd you come across them
and kind of what are the sharing and collaborative efforts?
Okay, so a lot of it started with Instagram.
And unfortunately Instagram has changed.
It used to be that the hashtags were used by everybody.
So if you had a particular interest in a strain or flavor,
or you found somebody that you really liked
what they were doing, you could see who they liked
and then who they followed and then kind of build this,
you know, what I thought Instagram was intended to do
was to build this community of like-minded people.
They've made it much harder now,
but so I was fortunate in the beginning.
As it's turned out over the years,
I've met quite a few people in person,
spent time with and are pretty good friends
with a bunch of the people that I've met on Instagram.
But I think for like John over at Snow High,
I was trying to check, I think it was 2017,
I was at the Emerald Cup.
We spent quite a bit of time together.
He's just a, he's a terrific guy, committed, very committed.
And I picked up some stuff,
but one of the things that he gave me was a bud,
a seeded bud of Panama Red.
Probably had 30 seeds in it, maybe 40 seeds.
And that started me on this line with the Panama Red.
But, you know, John's been very, very helpful to me.
I love the work that he does.
His gear is fabulous.
And when you asked about, you know, the different people,
the way I kind of look at the weed business
or the cannabis business is I didn't invent the plant,
nobody invented the plant.
So everything that everybody's working
comes from somebody else's work.
And that's kind of the way I feel.
The one thing that I think exists in the community
that I absolutely tend to agree with,
I think if you've got somebody's work,
you can do outcrosses.
If you've got somebody's work,
you don't make F2s with somebody else's work.
So that's the way I've always been.
And I think almost, you know,
all the people that I associate with,
it's really the same kind of thing.
I mean, you really have to ask.
I know me and Gene and a couple other people
are comfortable with people making F2s
and that type of stuff.
But I like the way that the community is sharing.
You know, right now I've got some really, really nice cuts
from people in the last couple of years.
I'm using them for a specific project
or something I wanna add to a line.
And then I typically let them go.
So I'm not tempted to work them further
and I get to work them into kind of the projects
that I'm working on.
Ask me another question, Peter.
Well, can you talk about some of the cuts
that you've kind of come across your collection
and some of the stuff you're still hunting for
or looking for?
Sure.
I mean, you mentioned the Panama Red from Snow High, but-
Yeah, we'll go back to the Panama in a minute
because that's been a pretty important one.
And just quickly, this is a big project.
This is the male of it, right?
Yeah, so that's PR1.
Let me tell a quick story on this
and then we'll go to some of the other cuts.
But so this came from a seeded bud.
I did a run and I thought it was okay.
Then I did a second run with probably 20 or 30 seeds.
And we did this run at a friend's house.
This is a buddy of mine's basement.
That plant's a little over seven feet tall.
And if you look at it,
probably the top three feet are just flowers.
But what happened was I was looking for a male.
So we narrowed it down.
I had kind of two that I liked.
We had all the girls set up in a different room
and we weren't necessarily gonna run the males
at that time, but we had all the girls in a separate room
or what we thought were all the girls.
And a couple of weeks went by
after we put them into flower
and all of a sudden we noticed that this plant was a boy
and it literally didn't show.
All the other males showed and this hadn't shown at all.
So we just assumed like some of the other ones,
it was a girl, didn't really pay a lot of attention.
And all of a sudden when we realized it was a male,
it was an absolutely beautiful plant.
So we took it, separated it, threw away the other males.
And this thing, I made jokes about this.
This was probably 2017.
I collected pollen with a shovel.
I mean, this plant was absolutely unbelievable.
We literally used a full length mirror
to collect the pollen on this plant.
But we let it go full and it's just,
it's actually one of the things that stuck with me
with this plant is that most of the nice males
that I've encountered, they tend to be the last ones to show
or at least in a group of the last ones to show.
So if I'm looking at different males
and I've got 20 males that I'm looking at,
honestly, unless there's something really stand out
about the plant or the root growth
or the structure that I really, really like,
I'm probably killing the first 10
that show right off the bat.
And the ones that show last have,
at least with me, have proven out to be pretty good plants.
But so this plant was an absolute beast.
I kept him around for about three years.
I think I've, projects that I've done with him
in different breedings, I think there's been 19 altogether.
And my feeling is, is that when you're doing the crosses
and you're going through some type of breeding effort,
there's a lot of people who use the same male
just over and over and over.
And I think there's nothing wrong with that,
but I personally didn't wanna do that.
I wanna have a male that I wanna hunt the progeny.
I wanna find some girls that I think could benefit
from a really strong male from a specific line.
So I'll hunt that line,
like I'm doing that right now with one.
And I'll hunt that line just for a male.
And then I'll find what I believe
to be a really, really good male,
use it in that project, maybe one or two others,
and then I let the male go.
Yeah, but this plant was an absolute beast.
In terms of other plants I've had access to,
I worked in MAC-1 for probably a year and a half.
I have a friend in Michigan, Four Wise Eyes.
He's a seed seller.
His stuff is at different banks.
We've done some stuff back and forth, great guy.
He got me a nice cut of monkey paw.
So I did a little bit of work with the monkey paw,
which I was very happy about that.
And I'm trying to think now you're putting me on the spot.
I can't remember what else cuts have been given to me.
That's funny.
Well, what did you, I mean, with the MAC-1,
what interested you about that?
Because I mean, I know it's resinous,
but what other kind of attributes intrigue you?
So one is that a lot of people
had not had breeding success with it.
It's a plant that, you know,
if you're gonna run a three or four foot plant,
you probably get, you know,
from 300 to seven or 800 seeds on a three or four footer,
depending on how you work it and veg and how you set it up.
And with the MAC, you're lucky to get 50 seeds.
So especially for somebody who's in the business
or trying to make money,
the MAC is a tough plant to deal with.
And so I think that's one of the reasons
why I'm interested in it.
And if you're somebody who's in the business
or trying to make money,
the MAC is a tough plant to generate a lot of seeds from.
And it's probably one of the,
and it's just a really nice plant.
I like the leathery leaves.
I like the format.
And when you breed it, I mean,
I jokingly have said that it's gems and junk.
You'll get a third that will not be something you want.
In some cases, it could almost be 50-50,
but I'm thinking about a third of junk,
a third are in the middle and a third of them are gems.
I've got some absolutely beautiful plants
breeding with the MAC.
So it steps up the terp profile.
I'd say the one that I have, but it is MAC one
and it came from CAP is the Columbian comes through.
So you don't really get that cookies piece.
So you get in the Columbian, you get in the flavor.
It depends what you breed it to.
That the kind of limening on the Columbia
actually comes through on the cross.
And frankly, I like the South American plants.
I like the Columbians.
I like the sativas.
So you get in a plant that grows kind of squatty, right?
Tighter nodes, makes it easier for an inside grow.
So most of the work that I did with the MAC
was bringing it with sativa based, sativa hybrid,
sativa oriented plants.
So I'm getting a nice combination,
makes it easier to get that kind of South American
really nice up happy sativa high
in a little bit of a shorter plant.
So I like MAC one a lot.
I gave it out a few times and the same thing.
I worked it with the stuff I wanted to work it
to the point where now I've, in the last year or so,
I maybe last couple of years, I'm searching the progeny.
I like the idea of finding those gems
and then working those gems.
And that's kind of what I've done.
And I'm still doing with the MAC one.
I've had some, what I think has some really nice plants.
So do you like the uppity high?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Like last, so last night we had our kind of smoke session
LA and my friend Chenzo who's in his,
somewhere in his sixties.
Basically he met a guy who had some old tie that he gave him
and when Chenzo smoked it, he was like,
this is the stuff I remember.
And we rolled a joint of it last night
and it was like super racy and I loved it.
The people who like to kind of knock you out high
and get all paranoid, didn't like it, but it was great.
I'm a big fan.
I mean, I started with Panama Red, Aqua Go Gold,
pretty much everything.
I'm working some lavender now that I've worked
for the probably the last couple of years
and I'm only doing it because friends want sleep meds
and stuff to get them down.
But almost everything I'm doing, for me, I like clear,
I like very cerebral and I like very strong.
The kind of old sativas where when you first smoke it,
you're not sure if you're high
because you don't have that foggy head, right?
And it clearly delineates the difference
between stoned and high.
And to me, that's high, that really clear
and you get introspective, cerebral, really gets you going.
And all of a sudden you look around the room
and you're thinking, holy crap, I'm really high, right?
Versus sitting in the couch, not talking.
So I'm a big fan of, call it whatever you want,
the narrow leaf drug, NLD, sativa, sativa hybrids,
anything that falls in that camp,
that's the direction that I generally go.
And I think you can, like I didn't grow up on Afghani.
I mean, Afghani probably started out on the West Coast,
right, when they were bringing it in.
But everything that was coming to the East Coast
when I was a kid was all sativa oriented.
That's interesting.
But I assume that stuff was coming up from Mexico, right?
It was, but I mean, a lot of the Mexican is sativa, right?
I mean, it was definitely sativa oriented, right?
It wasn't in the couch stuff.
It wasn't the Afghani that started getting grown
because it was shorter and easier to hide
and all that stuff.
And there was no huge growing season
up in New England anyways.
And I'm making a guess, right?
Like I don't know for sure, but my guess would be
that the Afghani really came in through the West Coast.
And maybe it didn't.
I know a bunch of old heads who've got a whole bunch
of Afghan up in Maine and some nice Afghani plants.
But I've always leaned towards the sativa side.
Don't even mind kind of getting jacked up
and a little paranoid every once in a while.
So with, and actually just to back up
and give everyone context, the title of this show
is Panama Red Death Number 17 F2,
Punta Roja, Cross with Killer Malawi, that's the mom.
Panama Red PR1 is the dad.
So this is the mom, right?
No, that's the dad.
This one?
Yeah, that's the dad.
PR1, that's the PR1 plant.
Kept him for two years.
But this is a female, right?
Nope, that's a male.
Are you serious?
Oh yeah.
I mean, it could have been one of the best
non-CVD Panama Red males in the country.
Sometimes I think I should have kept it,
but I worked it for three years.
That's a male.
That thing is an absolute beast.
Like if you look closely, the whole top of the plant
is just male flowers.
Wow.
And not only did I do a bunch of crosses,
but I gave out a bunch of the pollen.
And a few of the people have actually used the pollen,
created some lines and are selling seeds,
which is 100% fine by me.
But yeah, he was an absolute beast.
It's just a beautiful plant.
I like looking at that picture every once in a while.
It makes me sad I didn't keep it,
but I'll live and we'll work the progeny.
So that's the one, and that's the one I got.
So that's one from, that I did when I grew,
actually, that's this year.
That one, the one you're about to click,
I don't know where that is,
but I know it's Panama Red Death.
Sorry, this one?
Yeah, they're all Panama.
The only one that's not Panama Red Death was the male,
the one that you just showed.
Why should this one?
Yeah, that's the male.
And then this is the same one?
No, that's a female.
Oh, okay, so my screen must have been frozen
because this is what I was trying to show.
No, I'm sorry.
Okay, so this one actually, this is the one.
I'm not going crazy.
So yeah, I've had this issue where my,
what I see and what everyone else sees,
like I think you guys were all seeing the last picture.
Okay, so this is a female, correct?
It is, actually, that's the one.
So I'm not going crazy.
Yeah, I was like, that's the-
You're not going crazy.
That is Panama Red Death number 17.
That's the mom.
Well, so then is this the Punta Roja Killer Malawi?
Times Panama Red.
Oh, okay, so this is the cross, basically.
This is the mom for the F2s.
Yep, so this is the F1 mom.
Right, this is an F1 mom.
So I kept this one, and that's a buddy on the West Coast.
He grew it outside.
So this is the F2 that your friend grew.
Yeah, I grew some Snow High Nangarhar Afghani,
the Chocolate Perfume Fino Cross with Panama Red,
and it got like, I don't know, 13, 15 feet tall.
Right, I mean, these outside,
these are easily 10 to 12 feet.
We did some back crosses with some of the Panama,
and they can get over 15 feet.
This is a girl up in Canada.
This is actually the Panama Red Death 17 F2.
So this is the seeds that I sent you.
And honestly, go back to that picture for a minute.
That's one plant.
Are you serious?
Oh yeah, actually, it's a single plant,
and you're not even seeing the whole thing.
So that's why I sent you the picture
of the jars of the buds.
He filled seven one-gallon jars from one plant.
But I think he let that plant go a little over 100 days.
I mean, the funny thing about most of the Panama progeny
is if you really wanna go home,
you give them more light and you keep feeding them,
they'll just keep putting on, they'll just keep growing.
I mean, it's not like the plant's gonna die early.
It will grow and grow and grow.
There's a ton of vigor in the plant.
Yeah, I felt bad
because one of the dads from my daughter's bus stop
was excited for me to grow some plants in his backyard,
and that's what I grew.
And I didn't harvest them until January,
and they were massive.
And I think I traumatized.
I certainly traumatized his wife.
Well, so the problem with me is I'm sitting in New England.
So we get PM, bud rot.
And last year I had some four-mack reds finish outside
and they actually finished.
So those are the seven jars that that guy got
in its eerie Wally fishing on Instagram.
He posted a whole lot of pictures during the grow,
and that's what he got from one plant,
which I'm growing stuff that's three or four feet high
on average.
So it was kind of hysterical seeing that picture.
And go back to the one of the other pictures,
the kind of yellowish one.
That one?
I don't see it yet.
Oh, sorry, I didn't, there we go.
So that's the same plant.
That's just a closeup of the buds.
That's from him.
That's the same as you just saw spreading all over the room
and from the seven jars.
That's just a closeup inside his room.
So those three pictures are all from eerie Wally fishing
on Instagram.
But he took some nice pictures, did a nice grow.
He might've even used living soil,
had like one big bed and the plant was just,
the plant just grew over everything.
So the one thing that's nice about the Red Death 17F2,
is let me talk about the plant itself a little bit.
So when I first grew Panama Red Death,
I took Red Death, which if I could talk about that
for a second, it's kind of neat.
So I had the, you saw the beast, right?
The male.
So I had the male and I'm trying to figure out,
okay, who do I want to cross it to?
What do I want to get done?
Always lean towards sativas.
And I saw this plant on Instagram called Red Death
and it was the Punta Roya Malawi.
So guy's handle on Instagram is Dubchase.
And I saw the picture and I looked at the leaf morphology.
I looked at the nodes, looked the way it grew.
And I just, just seeing that picture of the plant,
I said, this is, you know, I said to myself, obviously,
I said, this thing, this is going to be it.
This is going to be a really, really good plant.
So I get ahold of him.
He's in Seattle.
I'm out here in Boston.
We go back and forth and he gives me the history
of the plant.
And the history is him and his girlfriend went to Columbia
for close to two months.
And all they were doing was hunting Punta Roya
to try to find the best seeds he could get.
As it turns out, this summer, he's leaving the US,
he's bought a place and he's actually moving to Columbia.
So he'll only be in the US for another few months.
But he went down and did this search.
And he said, he finally smoked some Punta Roya.
He said that after he smoked it,
he felt like it was literally gravitating him
and he was moving up into the air off of the chair.
And he said it made such an impression on him
that he tracked down where he got it,
tracked down the grower, took him a while to do it,
found the guy who actually grew it and then got some seeds.
So those are the seeds that he grew.
And then he crossed it with killer Malawi from Ace Seeds.
And that's actually the origin of the red death.
So I see the plant.
I have conversations just on messaging.
So we never physically spoke, didn't know each other.
And I said, I really want a cut of the plant.
So I said, I'm gonna come to Seattle.
And he's like, okay, you can have a cut.
So say it was a month between the time
that we messaged back and forth and I was going to Seattle.
I'm getting ready to go.
And all of a sudden about a week before I'm flying out,
he said, oh, I got some work.
I'm getting called out of town.
So you never really know on Instagram kind of who's who
and what's gonna follow through.
So I'm like, oh, this is really probably not gonna work out.
I'm getting the bums rush at the last minute.
And then he messaged me again and says, you know what?
I really am getting called out of town.
So I'm gonna have my landlord meet you at the house.
He's got the keys, let you in
and just go ahead and take the cuts.
So somebody I met on Instagram.
First of all, that's an amazing landlord
because I never hear landlord stories like that.
Well, you know, it's two physical single families
on a piece of property.
And the landlord had the kind of the front house
and he had the house in the back.
And the landlord, you know, I'm pretty sure
they did a little session between the two of them.
So I didn't know who he was, never met him.
He's never met me.
And he's like, I'll have my landlord go there
so you can go in the house.
So I go in, all the stuff was on the back porch,
probably had a dozen plants.
And I literally walked out between a dozen plants
and I looked and I said, that's the one.
I go over and I checked the tags in the pots
and it's number six.
So he literally left Fiskars,
he left me a bottle of water,
left me all the stuff to take it.
I think I took three cuts of the plant,
stuffed them in with a salad back then
and put it on the, put it in my briefcase
or my little bag and flew back to Boston with the plant.
So just really interesting how you can meet somebody
and have this kind of like-mindedness on Instagram.
And then the relationship that it turns into,
as it turned out, less than a year later,
he was flying out here for a wedding up in Maine
and had him and his girlfriend over the house.
They were just coming over for a little while.
We had dinner, I think they left
around two o'clock in the morning.
Nice relationship, really, really positive.
And he's a wonderful young man,
like a really, really nice guy.
So that's actually how I got the red death.
So then I breed the red death.
I grow that out from the cuttings.
I know I'm gonna hit it with PR1,
that beast of a Panama red now.
So what I do, and I do this all the time.
When I'm generating seeds, I hit it with pollen
and then I look at the seed development.
So I'm always plucking them off.
And in the beginning, they're gonna be white green.
Then they're gonna be green.
Then they're gonna be purple.
Then they're gonna be brown.
Then they're gonna be red.
And pretty much after they're light green,
even though they can germinate, they're not gonna last.
So in my opinion, you generally go about 50 days.
And that 50 days is gonna give me,
you're gonna see some tigering on it
and it's gonna be a well-developed seed shell.
So it's gonna last a while, but even much younger,
before they're in a place where they have some longevity,
there's still fully formed embryos inside that seed.
It's just that the shell's not that hard.
So as I take them out, sometimes I'm squishing them.
I wanna see what the embryo looks like.
I'm opening them up, but I always stick a few in the pot.
And so I'm pulling them off the plant
long before I'm actually harvesting the seeds.
And I literally just poke a hole with my finger
and put them in the soil.
I don't do anything else.
And what happened is you get them to pop up
and it's not exactly a test to run,
but you just kind of stick them in the same pot
that you haven't even harvested the plant yet.
So at that point, I'm still having harvested seeds.
I have seedlings growing out of the pot.
One of them was growing better than maybe one or two others.
There weren't a lot.
So I just killed them and left that in the pot.
I harvested all the seeds.
So now I'm using a five or seven gallon pot.
I think in that case, that was a big one.
So I think it was a seven gallon pot.
And you cut the bottom of the stalk off.
So you have this thing sticking out
of the middle of the pot.
And then I have my first Panama red death F1
growing out of the pot.
And it's basically used soil.
So I said, okay, I'll just keep it.
And I do this, I'll just keep it going.
And sometimes I'll feed it, sometimes I won't.
And I'll see how it does.
And I bent it around a little bit
because I know with all the genetics in it,
the thing's gonna grow through the roof.
So I bend it and bend it and bend it.
I probably bent it halfway around the pot.
And then I let the side branches come up.
And the side branches, I barely,
I think the side branches were equally as big
as the apical cola, the top of the plant
by the time I finally bent it.
And the side branches gave me, without exaggerating,
they were good size colas.
But they were colas.
It started budding and budding and stacking and stacking.
And it was just like one of the pictures of the mom
that you showed.
They just stack.
So they're all colas.
So then I harvest that plant and we smoke the weed.
Cure go through the whole thing.
And it's probably the only time I can ever remember
that I actually couldn't talk after smoking the weed.
So a bunch of us are sitting around and my mind is clear.
My thoughts are clear.
I know what I wanna say.
So the engine's working,
but the transmission wasn't working.
Every time I started to talk,
I forgot what I was gonna say.
And then I'd remember and I'd start to talk
and I'd forget what I was gonna say.
And it turned into a little bit ridiculous
and everybody's just hysterically laughing the whole time.
But it got me so high.
That's when I said, this is the line I'm gonna do.
But unfortunately, I never kept a cut of that seedling
that grew out of the original plant.
So the next step was, how do I get that same plant back?
So we took the F1s and did a big run.
Big run for me is probably 40 plants.
And then we're separating and I'm looking for the female.
And I find a female that grew
just like the one that I liked.
So a little stretchier, cola oriented.
I have some of the Panama's,
like number 18 actually finished a week or two earlier.
Honestly, the buds were a little bit bigger on the 18,
but I just really, really liked the high on the 17.
So that's what I was focusing on.
So I think we kept four females, 15, 17 and one other one.
The other one was, we've never used.
Kept those four females.
And then for the F2s,
what I did is I went through all the males
and I narrowed the males down
and I got really kind of lucky on this.
The number four male from the F2s
had the same structure as PR1, the original dad,
that huge beast of a plant.
It grew the same way.
It had better root growth
than the other three males I was looking at.
And then fortunately, or made me happier,
the plant was, what was I gonna say?
The structure, yeah.
The structure was just like that.
Oh, I know what it was.
And it showed last, which made me very happy.
Like it was as close to the Panama Red 1.
And instead of going and doing the back cross,
I wanted to do the F2.
So we used a plant that's very similar to this plant,
which was the number four.
And then I hit that to my favorite, which is 17.
And what we really did is we took that four
and hit all four plants at the same time.
So we've got, like I said, some number I forget,
15, 17, and 18.
I gave a friend of mine, and I still have a bunch,
but I gave him the 18s to work.
Like I said, wider, little thicker bud,
little better finishing time,
but that's really not what I was looking for.
I want that real sativa kick.
So that's actually the origin
and kind of the story on these seeds, right?
It's number 17 F2.
I'm still working the mom.
I've actually given the mom out to a couple people.
There's a nice gentleman, White Rabbit Farms.
He grows, he sells seeds.
Not sure if he goes through a seed bank
or he sells them himself,
but he's actually got the 17
sold out of a bunch of stuff last year.
He's still using it to breed with
and he's selling seeds out of that.
And I think a few other people
are actually integrating the 17 into their lines also.
It's gone out to a few people.
Maybe, probably only about a half a dozen people
actually have the 17 mom.
So that's how I got the F2s.
And I think I asked you to add it to the statement.
On an F2, right,
you theoretically could get six or eight phenotypes.
Whereas the F1, you're gonna have
like three phenotypes, right?
You're gonna have mom leaning,
you're gonna have dad leaning,
and you're gonna have the combination.
When you go to the F2, you could almost double that, right?
There should be more variability in the F2.
But because the F2 male that I picked
was really, really close to that beast, the PR1,
and the 17, there's not been a lot of variability
in terms of pheno differences in these F2s.
Like I think F2s are really fun to go through
because you get more variability,
you see more different phenos,
and then you can kind of, if you get lucky,
you could find a nice plant.
So with these, and a whole bunch of these
have been grown out.
They're not easy to find on Instagram
because nobody tags stuff anymore.
But they're pretty good for being pretty consistent
in how they're gonna produce.
And you can train it inside.
I like training them for, you know,
eight to 12 colas inside.
So I use, you know, everybody talks about
taking these sativas and putting them
into flour right away.
I'm kind of the opposite.
I'd rather work it.
I'd rather train it in veg, keep it in veg for,
I mean, and this is just me, probably two months,
sometimes even a little bit longer,
and really give it a nice structure
so that I don't have to do anything.
And when it starts to stretch and finishes out,
I'd get eight to 12 colas and that's it.
I don't have any lowers, you know,
and it fits in the tent and it won't blow up my tent.
That other picture is a guy just kept feeding it
and giving it tons of light
and it just took over his whole room.
Like I said, it'll grow and it'll keep growing.
So that's pretty much the story on those beans.
I appreciate the backstory.
So, and to give people context,
we are going to put up something different each month
and a limited drop of that.
And so this is month one,
and that's what we're putting up.
And the proceeds,
and this is the part that I am deeply appreciative of
and was at a loss for words when we first spoke,
are going towards FCP.
And I'm excited to apply those towards
kind of more educational content and stuff like that.
So I greatly appreciate your support.
And do you want to talk about kind of the concept?
Because you have a lot of seeds.
No problem.
You have a lot of different stuff, right?
Yeah.
I mean, when I started, I built a library.
So I've got mid 30,000 seeds and 400 strains probably
in terms of seed stock.
And OCD helps you build a seed collection,
which is an issue that a lot of people have.
So I built the collection.
I designed stuff based on how I want to see stuff bred.
Like in the old days, I used to,
I bred greyhounds actually for quite a while.
And so I liked the breeding.
I studied horse breeding, then I went into dogs
because dogs were a lot cheaper
than 15 to 20 grand a year feeding a horse.
So I did that.
And then this breeding is a blast.
So I built up the library.
And then I realized I'd have to live
to be three or 400 years old to grow the seeds that I have.
I'm really doing it because my OCD makes me do it.
I just absolutely love trying to find combinations.
And that's the way I look at it.
I think everything's already there.
It's just a matter of what you can find.
So I'm always searching.
I'm always trying different things.
My projects usually take two or three years
by the time I do it.
If I start something, like another one is the fish piss.
It has done very, very well.
I really have almost no seeds left.
I'm gonna have to bring that line back in again.
But when I'm looking at crosses,
I'm looking at bringing a cross out
and bringing a cross back and then doing that combination.
And for me, even with friends and local little mini farms
that I have around here,
yeah, it still takes two years to get it done.
So the idea is I just enjoy doing it.
I've given out a bunch of beans on Instagram.
I have a bunch of people that test for me.
So I'm just giving them away.
I don't take stamp money.
I don't take any money.
I really, I currently have no interest in selling the seeds
but the seeds are there.
And eventually after six, eight, 10 years,
they lose germ rates.
So I'd like to get them out there and people to enjoy it.
And then when I saw all the work that you did,
all the different videos,
all the stuff that you're trying to do,
it made sense to me to kind of have these go through you
and have you get the money.
I mean, you're looking for donations,
you're looking for stuff to happen.
So it's kind of a way that I get to help you
get the FCP project done and continuing.
And at the same time, people wanna help you.
They're buying the seeds
and like these seeds won't be available anymore.
I still may work the line a different way,
but these 17 F2s, this is pretty much it.
I don't have any more to go out.
I have a few, but really not a lot.
And then they get to help your project also.
And they get some really nice weed by helping.
So a lot of appeal to me.
I think, yeah, I'm very happy to do it.
I share the sentiment of people on the chat
if you can see those comments.
Can't see any of it, but that's okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They are saying positive things.
Oh, thank you.
Were there any questions that came up that I didn't see?
Cause I'm not ignoring, I just don't see them.
Yeah, so Shooter, the assumption is
do you do all your breeding indoors?
No, indoors and out.
Oh, cool, okay.
I did a big one with, and like I said,
I'm normally doing the sativas,
but I had a really, really nice cut of LA Cush Cake.
So I did a little breeding with that outside last year.
The Panama's and the sativas,
they're just never gonna finish here in New England.
So all that breeding is inside.
But if I've got something that, I mean,
I think this year, I think I went to middle of November.
I went into November in New England
and normally we could have snow
and the plants are just gonna die.
But I wanted to run the plants.
So I can't count on generating seeds if it's all outdoors.
But if I think it's gonna finish in October,
then I'll stay outside.
So with this, you had, I guess, 90 to 100 day?
Because people are asking,
are we suitable for outdoor short season growing?
New England, probably not.
So if, they're really about 12 weeks
and you could push it to 100 if you want,
but it's really probably right around 85 days.
Could be a touch shorter, but not likely.
It's right around the 12 week mark.
And 90 is not gonna hurt you.
I mean, the longer you go on the sativas,
for me personally, I think they get a little better.
But you gotta figure where you are on the map, right?
What zone you're in.
And the zone that I'm here in New England,
like I said, I grew for the progenies,
some Mac Reds that I grew outside and they made it.
But we also don't have a, we didn't have a,
we had a very soft fall this year.
But if I was growing this for real flower,
this stuff is outside is California or someplace South.
It's a little too cold up here.
But it manages, the plant manages well trained
in a regular tent.
And it will definitely give you a nice call.
That's it.
With solutions.
Yes.
He's a solutions oriented guy.
That's what I mean.
And also he's also a Panama Red fan.
He sent in lots of Panama Red stuff
for me to give out to people.
And he wants to free the Panama Reds.
Someone asked, is this drain racy?
Sorry, Kim Lake, can you summarize the effect?
Clear, cerebral slash introspective and strong.
I think for some people, it might be a touch racy.
Even with the Malawi in there,
which the Africans tend to add there a little bit of racy.
I don't, I wouldn't classify it as racy.
Okay.
Now somebody smoking,
somebody who's smoking Indica's all the time,
who's younger, they might get a touch.
Any questions you saw?
No, I think, I mean,
I'll wait to see if any questions trickle in,
but I think you're very descriptive and.
I think we did pretty good considering
I hadn't really planned anything.
Yeah.
Someone said, have you had them tested
for cannabinoids and terpenes and stuff?
So I tested one early and it came in,
they tend to come in around 18 to 20%,
but the stuff that I had tested probably was,
you know, a third of it is STEM.
Cause I was, I sent one in, it was kind of foxtail-y.
So it's definitely stronger than the 18 or 20.
The one thing I will tell you,
you're gonna get spice.
It's definitely heavy on carrier phylene.
So, and any of the breedings that I've done with it,
it tends to add strength and spice.
Even the stuff that I'd given out,
when I gave out the Paul and I said,
try it on this or try it on that,
the comments from everybody I sent it to
were consistent across the board.
It added potency and it added spice.
So whatever they had.
And the flavor is gonna, my nose isn't that good,
but you can definitely smell the kind of old school
and not churchy, but old school and spicy.
So the carrier phylene comes through quite nice.
Yeah, the tie we smoked last night was super spicy.
You know what, if you're old school,
because of the way that terpenes are structured,
if it's spicy, it's generally a little more
complex molecule, which means it doesn't burn off
like the citrus is quick,
which means if you're smoking a joint,
after you're halfway done, you still get as good a flavor
as the person who took the first few hits.
So there's a benefit to the spice and the carrier phylene
if you like smoking joints.
Or so they say, but I do believe that.
All right, well, I think I told you ballpark 45 minutes
and we're slightly over, but I greatly appreciate,
well, I appreciate just, I'm still speechless
in terms of your generosity to me,
but also then to the community to share
kind of some of the stuff you've been working.
I'm always excited to get stuff out to people.
So I appreciate that.
And if you're down with it, I'd love to get a,
like Cog U, Michael was on yesterday.
I'd love to get you, John and Cog U and maybe Jackson
and a couple other people to chop it up one day
if you're down for it.
And little shout out to somebody in this,
I could do tons and I'll apologize in advance
for not shouting out to somebody,
but the other is Dave, right?
So-
Are we talking to?
Oh yeah, Dave, Dave, yep, yep, AK.
So AK Beanbrains, he helped you and I come together.
Yep.
So shout out to him.
I'm very happy to help you.
I love the idea of helping and he's a great guy.
So I would do something with him anytime.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
We can make that happen.
I can, yeah, I mean, kind of what I was,
what we were going for yesterday was to kind of bring some,
it's like bring some older guys out of their kind of
digital media.
I mean, it's not a shell, but it's just like,
that's not, that wasn't your world, right?
Like, and to kind of get some of your stories
and I think it'd be fun to have you guys kind of,
and I also like that, like yesterday you had Cog U
who kind of was in Santa Cruz in the, you know,
60s, 70s, 80s, and then these other guys who were in Thailand
and SoCal and, you know, just people,
same time period, but giving their story and perspective
from different lenses, like your East Coast, you know,
these guys are West Coast.
Some of them hadn't even heard of Hayes or, you know,
or was it, yeah, I think it was Hayes.
No, I think it was, I think somebody was, yeah,
they were saying how they, first time they had Hayes
was a long time after they started smoking.
Yeah, but the guys who were focused on Thailand
were like, I don't even know what that is.
I've tried, I have a tough time with the, with the Thai.
I've gone through three different runs with Thai
and it just doesn't seem very stable to me.
So I want to bring some Thai in,
but they tend to be a little less sexually stable
than some of the other stuff.
Yeah.
Which is tough.
I don't want, I want stable stuff.
I don't want anybody ever telling me that stuff
wasn't stable and I ruined something that they had going.
So I'm pretty tough on the sexual stability.
But yeah, I'd love to do it again.
And again, honestly, thank you.
I like the, it's a great opportunity for me to contribute
to the project with like,
I think you're doing a really nice job on.
There's just a ton of content out there,
which I think is great and like seeing it keep expanding.
I appreciate it.
Well, thank you everyone for watching.
Those of you on channel three, Chris,
you're mailing it in just streaming channel two,
but anyway, I will let you get on with your afternoon.
Is it, I assume the cold front is past?
It is.
It was with Windchill on Friday,
actually just natural on Friday night.
I was out at midnight.
It was minus 10 was the reading in the truck.
And then they said the Windchill was between
minus 30 and minus 40.
My guess is today it's about 45.
So it seems like summer.
Yeah.
My mom who's in Rhode Island was concerned that the,
it's like her plants are like,
you know, they're like, is it springtime?
And then it's like cold front, right?
So like buds start shooting up
and then another cold front comes through.
So it'll.
It's February.
It's time to start them.
Time to get them ready to go outside,
try and get the babies going so you can make the picks.
Right.
I think my mom is more focused on her flowers.
Me too, but they're probably different flowers.
Exactly.
I enjoyed this.
Thank you, Peter.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
We'll see you.
