I don't know if I like the light this way, but hey, there it is.
All right.
Morning, everybody.
Welcome.
8 o'clock, my time, 7 o'clock on the West Coast.
I think most people are recovering from last night,
which is just fine.
Today, we're going to be talking about breaking
the myths regarding land race.
And we'll see if we can't destroy six of those myths.
A little bit of sage here that my thoughts might come clear.
And we keep it in a piece of abalone shell.
Omepadmeadmeom.
I have both screens going on the dual cast
here from my personal channel as well.
So again, good morning.
Happy winter to you all most.
We're going to be there soon.
And let's see.
I want to touch on folks might not know who I am.
And I'm kind of a nobody.
But I'm also somebody who's been around for a minute.
I started playing with land race in 1986.
It was bag seed from Mexico, brickweed.
That's kind of what everything we have today
began with, somebody else's bag seed from somewhere
around the world.
We have all these awesome modern strains today.
And let's see.
They all were bred over time primarily
in rudimentary smaller environments
by people who are extremely passionate about cannabis
as a medicine and herb and stuff.
Stuff comes from all around the world and intermixed
to get what we have today.
And we're still in the early inceptions of really breeding.
We haven't got into real breeding yet.
It's coming.
But we're still on these rudimentary stages
of what is cannabis.
One of the things we're at right now with breeding, though,
OK, so we're in breeding for straight THC.
And I hear people talking about utilizing colors as a metaphor,
talking about being an artist.
I don't know if any of those people
actually use paint as an art form.
Because when we take all these different colors
and we keep mixing them together,
we end up with something called mud.
And mud is just like this ugly brown, gray, muddled everything.
You can't discern.
There's nothing beautiful about it.
It's just kind of like everything
gets mixed together.
And so we're sort of there with polyhybrids.
So let's see.
What's the first myth?
I'm going to hit six myths of cannabis, one of them
being you hear me talking all the time,
praise on people saying, hey, y'all,
a lot of you are breeding land race.
And I'm specifically talking to people
who are breeders who want to really understand and master
the plant.
If you're a small grower and you're in your closet
or you have a four or six plant count,
a lot of these things that we classify as land race
are not going to be to your best interest
unless you really just want to have a better
understanding of the plant.
And so there's a huge disparity there.
If you really need some medicine and you're sick,
searching those plants isn't going
to be the thing for you to do.
It's going to be more along the lines of if you know somebody
else who has searched them that can find something.
And or so another, I mentioned in the introduction,
as young initiates to the plant and we learn about what
a land race is, it becomes this mystical thing to us
in the far off lands and places that
are hidden from us from corporate media
here in the West.
We don't know anything about the cultures
these plants come from.
We don't know.
We're told to be afraid of people from foreign lands
and quote unquote third world countries and stuff.
And time is changing.
The world's getting smaller through internet and all that.
So when the word land race gets used,
and here's five minutes right here,
there's very different things included in that word.
And a lot of people will debate me on this.
And some people who we should be able to have great
conversations with this because I include wild plants as land
race.
And in my classification, I call those true land race.
They are the origins of the base genetics of everything.
So then we can debate about, well, there's feral
and there's wild.
And if there is any wild and all that stuff,
let's just leave that aside and just understand
that, yes, there are plants growing wild,
whether they originated there or feral.
And then we definitely have plants that are feral.
We have mountainsides of feral.
Then we have the stuff that is grown as a crop.
So these are different things that people
can classify as a land race.
And so in the mystical mindset of the initiate that
has the wherewithal to travel the world,
they think, I'm going to go find myself some base genetics
and breed with them.
Or we're smoking, they might go find a wild plant someplace
and bring it home and try and grow it.
And it's not anything at all like what
we would have in a dispensary or what
you would share with your friend for so many reasons.
It hasn't been bred for structure.
It hasn't been bred for the chemotography.
It hasn't been bred for all these other things
that we like as a nice high or this, that, or the other thing.
But what that plant is good for, though,
is whatever traits it does exhibit as a dominant
could be reinserted into these polyhybrids that were lost.
So those plants aren't necessarily
going to be something that somebody grows normal
for a home grower and things like that,
unless you really want to understand the plant better
and all its dynamics.
The wild and the feral, those are definitely,
you're not going out looking for that stuff as a home grower.
We get into those plants that are domesticated
and they're in a field.
And these are still fairly rough plants, even here.
And I'm going to break this in.
I've come up with a new classification here
at this point.
And so we have these domesticated landrace,
but we also now have these new domesticated landrace,
the new field crops.
So the original, through whatever warfare,
eradication, and anthropomorphic translocative
genetic pollution.
There is multiple.
The old original landrace may or may not
be in place as a domesticated crop.
And so the overall accepted term for landrace
in the greater community would be
these plants that are planted in the same fields
by the same community as selected as an heirloom,
where they're just picking the best plant over time
and might be over-pollinated.
And then it might be interspersing
with these plants in the wild.
The feral and or wild plants.
So that would be the original old landrace
I'd like to refer to.
But now I've come up with this new term.
It really just popped into my head in the last 24 hours,
maybe, and what is the new landrace.
And this comes from when I was studying,
doing field science botany primarily,
and studying the effects of wildfire
on natives versus introduced species.
And there was a term utilized.
And they called them new endemics.
And this was the plants that were
brought in that dominated California's landscape now
when the Spaniards brought cattle over.
And it was stuck in their hooves,
and it was stuck in their fur and whatnot.
But completely changed the plant regimes of the West Coast.
Translocative.
So anthropomorphic translocative genetic pollution.
And that's one that my mentor taught me.
And if you break it down, it means
people carrying seeds around and messing up the original land
race in other places.
So let's see.
Free streaming here.
Let me catch myself again.
The new landrace, right?
OK, so there's the wild.
There's the feral.
There's the field.
There's the new field.
And so but then when we're like a small closet,
you've got plant counts.
You've got restrictions or whatever it is.
We got this category that when I say
you need to grow some land race, this is where we're getting to.
And then when I say you can find some really amazing land,
this is the cultivar inbred lines of land race.
And so that would be things like where, if I got it right,
Mel Frank bought a bag of weed from a Humboldt.
No, I'm sorry, an Amsterdam coffee shop.
Long time ago, it was labeled as Durban poison.
It was field weed grown in a traditional area
in South Africa that was smuggled into Amsterdam.
And they're still smuggling.
I just watched a video last night about 40 tons of hashish
that was busted this past summer coming from Africa
to Spain in multimillion dollar sailboats.
And they literally had, I'm going
to put this on my personal channel link,
it had big ass freaking bales of one kilo hash packages.
And flower of the countryside for y'all,
that's a new term we can employ for land race.
That's how they labeled in Arabic all these hash bales.
And I got a little lesson today myself.
Flower of the countryside.
So that's probably stuff coming out of Morocco, North Africa.
Terrible ways to see.
So we have a high access right now
through internet and globalization,
getting smaller and everything, with what
we call the new land race.
And there's also people who are going around collecting
feral and wild specimens for us to have access to.
And so if you're going out and you say, hey,
I want to check this land race stuff out and see
what the attributes are, you really
need to be aware of these different categorizations
or levels of domestication.
And for the average Joe, you really
want to find somebody who's refined that like that herb.
And so the story goes, Mel got it.
If I got this right.
And I just heard it from secondhand from somebody else
and didn't even go back to review
to make sure I got the right names.
But he took those seeds out of the bag.
He refined them a little bit.
He ran them and he found, I don't even
know how many generations before he handed some off.
And somebody else got a hold of them.
And so these are all famous names from back in the day.
And this is how all the shit we got today came around
was these guys were going around finding bag seed.
They weren't necessarily original.
Some people were traveling to those places.
But it was going to be the exact same thing.
They're taking a field seed versus a bag seed.
They're just collecting it directly.
And these things were inbred by people
who are passionate about it.
And it's the same, no different from cabbage and broccoli.
And all these things that we now have,
these diverse foodstuffs, all come from a wild mustard plant.
You would not recognize wild mustard plant
for cabbage or broccoli or a Brussels sprout.
Yeah, it wouldn't.
And then I don't like eating mustard greens at all.
I love eating cabbage.
So it's the same process here.
So the hardest work you're going to have
is taking a wild plant and trying to domesticate it,
especially without crossbreeding it to other varietals.
There's definitely, I've mentioned before,
what are the different things we might want to find in these more
wild plants that we're going to stabilize?
One of the biggest things that you're going to find
is all of them are going to be hermaphroditic.
All these wild plants have their survival strategies 100%
in the feral plants, as well as the domesticated land race.
I'd even say the new land races are going to have this.
Once you get something that's been refined and cultivated
and inbred into a proper lineage that's still
designated a land race, such as Durban poison,
there should not be that intersex issue at that point.
That stuff should get bred out.
And when that happens, though, I've
pointed out on all sorts of the breeding things,
we are selecting against a particular thing.
There's other stuff that's attached to that.
And so we're going to lose some attributes of that wild plant.
But those are the ones that if you're a small time operator,
you have plant counts and things like that,
you want to taste and see.
Or if you're just getting into breeding,
you want to see if you can't find these more refined
cultivars inbred of land race.
Now, rarely there's people like me
who will actually do these inbred cultivars where we
actually maintain a semi-open pollinated status of this,
where we'll select a couple of three females
and a couple of three or four males
that have the attributes that we're looking for.
The hardest thing about it all without having access
to the laboratory is knowing where that intersex lays.
And so standard, if you're just doing a one-to-one inbred
selection and refining a genetic,
it could be easily five generations
to get from a feral or a field strain
into a inbred cultivar.
I think you can take stuff that's more close to wild
and cross it into polyhybrids that are refined,
especially if you have something you want to re-establish,
for instance, a stem strength or a terpene profile.
OK.
One of the things that occurs, though,
the high THC levels of our polyhybrids
are basically a stack of recessives
and double recessives that allow that to happen.
OK.
So you're not going to come back with a super strong THC level
when you do those initial crosses.
There's going to be all sorts of bizarre things.
And you really, if you're someone like me
who does these crosses and you release something like that,
you need to make sure people know that's what they're going
to be phenohunting next.
Not necessarily just planting at different stages.
So some of my stuff is going to be more refined
and some of it's less refined.
If you're looking at my particular genetics,
for instance, and I do my best to point out
what stages of things are at.
Anyone ever wants to know, please feel free to hit me up
and ask, where are these at in journey?
It takes a lot of work.
And today, just selling off flower or hash
from the process of breeding, covering
the cost of doing what it is to do all that work.
And people are like, oh, do what you love.
And it's like, OK, so there's all that process.
There's all of the process involved in it.
Sometimes it literally is work to get to where you love.
Checking against the environment and stuff.
Well, I mean, one of the hardest parts of the job
is testing the chemistry through smoke.
And if you've got a dozen, 25 or 30 is really hard.
And going through and gauging, is this the one
I want to pursue and why?
Sometimes you get the wrong combination in testing,
and it's six hours later, you miss most of the day
because you just woke up again.
People don't understand the trials and tribulations
that can occur.
So let's see.
What kind of stuff would you get from a wild plant,
for instance?
And I'm not sure what you would get from a wild plant.
What kind of stuff would you get from a wild plant,
for instance?
And well, again, that's going to differ from around the world
and where it originated and where it was collected.
And so something that's growing feral, for instance,
in the walking corridor of the Hindu Kush
is something that's growing wild in Manipurna.
You get extremely different plants, right?
But these are different.
These both have it, right?
We've just got a 70 mile an hour wind,
ripped all the snow off my roof.
That's cool.
Testing in progress.
Nice, blowing smoke in Cali.
Excellent.
Yeah.
Sorry, I got distracted by the wind.
I love energy.
That might be something that we're looking for.
As time progresses, we see.
Like what did I mention earlier?
There was like 30 something tons of hash
was seized by Spanish authorities this summer, OK?
And sailboats.
People in America are going to be
like hit with this big, huge up and comings
when we have international trade comes through, right?
We've got all this back pile of flour and stuff
and grown in these multimillion dollar facilities.
And we're going to be competing with literally poor ass dirt
farmers who live all around the globe, right?
And international corporations with oil tankers
full of this stuff.
And it's kind of how it was back in the 70s and 80s
when before we really had Northern California cranking
it.
It was just getting dumped on us from around the world
for super cheap, right?
And for instance, the difference back
in the day for brick wheat out of Mexico
versus the chronic out of the triangle, early 90s,
you're paying $600 a pound third hand over the border.
And $600 got me two ounces, right?
And that's the reality that's going to hit folks.
So if you're not breeding with this land
race to be able to make it a lot fucking cheaper
to grow right in your back, in your dirt farm,
you're going to have to have some marketing scheme to keep
rich people buying it.
Besides quality, right?
Quality is always going to sell.
So for instance, what's one of these wild plants
going to do for you?
It's been dropping down into 20.
I think we might have had one 16 degree night out here.
And I've got, there's still three seedlings
from my Hindu Kush reproduction project.
And they're growing fine.
I did, because I wanted to test them not for my locality.
I know it can drop down to 10 here for a month
and they'll be done.
But for other locations, they hover at the edge of freezing.
So I went ahead and threw them into my cold frame
and propped up a bunch of bags of leaf
around them to maintain and keep the soil from freezing hard
and see if I can't keep things on a location that
may be a little lower in elevation,
a little further South,
but just touches on freezing in the winter.
And these plants, these seedlings are going to survive.
They'll drop a taproot and you can dry farm them.
You won't have to pay for irrigation, for instance.
Okay, so that's a huge one.
These plants grow naturally without irrigation, right?
There's a huge one.
And that there's a myth destroyed
is that you have to water your plant.
Here in Utah, we're in extraordinary drought.
I've let plants grow from seed this way
in less than two inches of rain all summer
during the growing season and harvested two fodder crops,
cutting them off for plant, for animal feed,
and then a full seed crop, okay?
And we didn't get rain until the seed was all set
and everything.
That is something that one of my protege, Robin,
just mentioned that he had a Tajiki stand that I produced
and dry farmed it.
And it was pretty funky.
They had essentially two inches of rain
in California this past season.
They had 10 inches on in like 10 days.
So it's all overland flow
and you really don't have that much water.
He said it had some problems growing, it was really funky,
but it ran long.
That's a particular one that never really seems
to go past cloudy when I grow it.
This is one of those typical North latitude,
high elevation narrow leaf strains that we talk about
where there's diversity in sativa and indica and confusion.
And those are whole other episodes I'm gonna get to
after I get done with this land race stuff again.
But he says, you know, it is extreme drought all summer
where he's at in California,
but then the October rain came and the thing just blew up
and started growing and produced flower so heavy
that he was starting to think he needed to stabilize it.
So some water does help,
but you don't need to have three inches a week.
That's just, especially if you're able to get
the tap root down.
So that's one of the major things that I believe in
that people should be back breeding for is tap roots.
Everything's grown from clone and what do we have
in our little micro laboratory or breeding space
where our nursery, right?
And people use the plastic bag and paper towel nursery
for these perfect conditions
and we'll set the temperature and everything, right?
So you can get that genetic potential out
for the things that we're selecting for,
which allows means we're selecting against.
And so that totally germination rates and success
and all those things are lost when we breed that way.
So as we move forward into a larger industry
and freedom, you're gonna wanna have access
to be able to field plant for hash.
It's just straight up tops for flower,
milking flowers, a bottle of hash,
or even just refining that higher dollar hash production
into our more stringent controlled environments
that we utilize.
Working with reefer men's Aaron Jensen in chat,
working with reefer men's Cambodian haze
and ACs Lebanese sativa have to grow indoors
and the lab is in the Lebanese is semi-autoflow.
Yeah, no, this high.
Some of those are definitely not, it's interesting.
And so this is the reality of it.
Breeding isn't taking perfect pedigrees and crossing them.
That's made it is, but it isn't.
That's just, eventually you end up in mud
with the palette of color.
And so taking these, exploring these various directions
and finding something that not only works for you,
other patients, it's not just this muddled high THC thing.
I mean, none of this stuff is gonna probably be
above 20, 24%.
There's definitely hash plants that are hitting 24%
that come from field stock, right?
Especially if you grow it
and our specialized systems and everything,
that's another huge difference is how you grow these.
Some of them do not do well
with intensive feeding programs.
Some of them really prefer and need to have
something like latent system with the horizontal, right?
That's perfect for testing land race, right?
The whole system is gonna go into a more difficult
rooting structure for it to access.
It's gonna have bizarre watering layers and stuff.
I know some people think that's a great system.
I think it's great for utilizing rudimentary genetics
that don't need to, that are used to working harder.
And that's my personal experience
and understanding of that system and these plants, right?
So, but yeah, a lot of times these raw genetic
coming out of a field as a refined land race
from cultivar or the new cultivars
even still might not do so well
with the head intensive feeding program
and it'll cause them to Hermi or even not flower well.
So looking at their natural,
once they've been refined and call into cultivars,
that's a whole nother story
because that refining process is all done utilizing
these modern systems of feeding and such, right?
For the most part, right?
You're gonna do more than a few plants.
It's really, really, really, really hard to be working
without a massive capital venture behind you
to do hundreds and hundreds,
if not thousands of stems and soil, right?
Moving the pots around alone, mixing the soil alone,
it all takes huge amounts of process,
which we can refer to as work that we love.
So, yeah, so wild plant,
you get seeds from around the world
from somebody who goes out and collects wild plants.
We found this to be the case
and hopefully people hear that we need to
actually grow those seeds as close to
where they're collected wild or feral
into a reproduction in a more modern system.
I've been sent seeds from wild plants around the world
and they do not germinate for whatever reason,
whether it's the pH, whether it's,
you know, there's so many things that could go into
the possibility, but you know,
they've got the solid hard rocks to them and everything.
So the World War II hemp in Oklahoma,
I understand was derived from Chinese hemp
when we had actual scientists working for the government
breeding some hemp.
And so that's the majority.
They had already kind of eradicated hemp
and then they brought in seed stocks for the war.
And that, so that seems to be where that originates.
So here's one myth I'm gonna destroy.
People say, and I believed it for the longest time
until I found this one,
but there are no North American land race, right?
And across the board, that seems to be quite true,
but there was some property owned since the King of Spain
granted it to this particular family
in Eastern New Mexico, Rocky Mountain Panhandle.
Right, and so I've come into the seed.
I'm not sure if there's anyone else has this out there,
but I call it New Mexico land grant,
old Spanish land grant and Garcia Fernando.
Okay, so the best we can tell,
Garcia Fernando is the man who owned the property
in New Mexico, granted to his ancestors
from the King of Spain in 1700.
And so in 1971, 72, when Nixon put forth the edict
that all cannabis in the United States should be eradicated,
he said, this stuff has been here, it's part of the land,
it's part of my heritage.
And so his grandson is who I accessed a pack of,
he collected off the side of the mountain.
And his words were, it smokes good,
it grows all over the mountain,
Rocky Mountain side just pops out of the ground
and on wet years, it's everywhere.
And on dry years, it just grows out of the arroyos
and rills and gullies.
And smells like a fucking skunk.
It's a very racy uplifting morning type of thing for me
when I smoke it and extremely hermaphroditic.
It's not blowing balls everywhere,
but in that early stage of flowering,
so I'm refining and working those out.
And right now I'm at the third stage
of refinement on those.
And I've released some feminized seed for that for people.
Oddly people have been screaming for it for a while
and nobody's jumped on it yet.
But yes, this is what I believe to be
a true North American land race
that is not a hemp derivative.
I believe it to be, or should we say
before the legal definitions of hemp applied
to the chemistry of the hemp plant.
So some of this I think is common knowledge
but may not be understood well by younger folks
that before prohibition hemp could have had any,
it was more defined by the fiber production
or the seed production than the chemistry.
We can look at the old formulations from 130 years ago,
late 1800s in American stock
and they'll use these different names of,
I'm trying to picture one of these labels,
but there's Indian hemp, there's sativa,
there's indica on these different labels, right?
And so I think they were tapping into the CBD.
We can also look at Shanagasi's original writings
from when he was in India
and first trying to figure out formulations for treating,
I think there was a new formulations
for treating, I think there was an infant,
a newborn baby that was having seizures or yeah,
seizures it was.
And so he concocted an alcohol extraction of one plant
and it worked great for a while.
And then he went to another plant
because the first one stopped working in tolerances, right?
That was one of the first observances of tolerance
and utilizing different genetics.
But I seem to think off the top of my head,
he was moving between what we call an indica
and the hemp plant on those two.
I'd have to review that.
And that's definitely one of the shows
I'd like to be putting forth here.
But that's a whole nother thing
that we can be adding into, right?
Like these super high THC strains
tend to be rather devoid of terpene profiles at times
or other constituents and whatnot.
So we can be back crossing in for terpene profiles,
minor cannabinoids and things like that.
So that initial F1 cross of whatever polyhybrid
or inbred hybrid you've got versus these wild plant strains.
So the wild is, there's this interesting curve
that occurs with genetic diversity, right?
A wild population is gonna be quite diverse, right?
And the feral populations can be quite diverse.
And then you have a little less diversity in the field
and you have less diversity
once we cultivate these field plants into a cultivar.
Then you start producing polyhybrids
and your diversity explodes again.
You refine it back into an IDL inbred line
and that diversity refines.
And so, we're talking somewhat more
like a true F1 when we're taking an IDL polyhybrid
and crossing it to a field stock, right?
And so you're gonna have a,
if you're selecting these more refined plants,
you're gonna have less in your Mendel square,
you're gonna have less possibilities to choose from, right?
And we can only work with what we can.
But my process, basically I make that F1 cross
and then I try and back cross in both directions.
It doesn't hurt when you're doing this stuff
if you are able to initially cross in both directions.
A lot of time it's not always possible
because we're working with a cut, a clone only
and things like that.
And so, if you're possible to keep observing
your back crossing and squaring
and looking at where things happen.
Another one I do to do this properly
is it's not just one male and one female.
You wanna take as many as you can possibly handle.
And as we get into commercial breeding projects,
it's literally gonna be,
you're gonna be taking 20, 30 males
and putting them into that many females, right?
Or into a clone.
And then you're taking 10 to 20 of each of those
and looking at the results of those.
And it's not really something
we can actually do in a closet.
It's not something that I struggle with.
If I just did with single project at a time,
I could probably do the numbers
in the 3,000 stems of a single project, right?
And keep it all teeny small
and I'm working on the parameters
that I am able to work in.
It's, yeah.
So, but this is all stuff that needs to happen.
And I pointed out in previous discussion,
we look at the fellow who's breeding poinsettias,
doing the exact same thing that most cannabis breeders do
where they go and they find somebody else's work, right?
And they find what appeals to them
and they take that and they do a sexual cross of those
and create a new sexual progeny
that is a novel new genetic mix, right?
And he says, clearly we have a problem
and we've got basically two or three original plants
that we bred all these from.
And this is something else.
If you look at the original plants they started with
that were, they were somewhat cultivated by the Aztecs,
right?
And so we call them a land race
and they had been refined to a point,
but now we go to the store and the point was like,
they had to manipulate the plant to produce
or put several in a single pot to get that.
And this was like a hundred years ago, whatever it was,
to get that to look like a bundle of flowers, right?
And now we have these ones that literally
you put one flower in the pot
and it explodes out in this massive color, okay?
So we can do these parallels with the cannabis so well
because it's the same kind of thing,
a wild or a field plant
that's gonna be a bit scraggly
than this refined flower we're looking for smoking.
Something to touch on though,
is those scraggly field plants are actually what you want
for producing hash each, okay?
Those trichomes are gonna be accessible when you shake them
and a dense hard nugget that we PGR
and have bag appeal for is not necessarily the best thing
because you have to crush that entire rock up
to get to the trichomes on the inside
if they even were able to develop fully.
So the Poinsettia guy, he totally inbred,
he's observed that we've completely inbred
these basically three genetics into each other
multiple times, but all of that potential was there, right?
All the potential for that ability to produce
that big massive bloom was always in the original land race
that they selected from.
It just took the amount of selection
and lining up those genetics
to produce these double recessive expression.
So the same kind of stuff goes on with the cannabis.
And so what, and we listened to that study, a story,
he says, well, we've run into this massive problem
in breeding, we've lost all resistance to whitefly
in our commercial production models.
And he went back into Mexico
where somebody has under lock and key
all the old Aztec varitals
and they have whitefly resistance, okay?
So that's the same thing.
One of the major reasons I preach about land race
is disease resistance, lost medicinal profiles.
I've touched on one of the pro guys says
he traveled the world, found a wild plant,
took it home and grew it.
And it was racist, he couldn't, it was too much for him.
He had to give him anxiety, right?
Well, that's definitely not necessarily something
the average recreational consumer wants,
but it's definitely something that is a lost medicine
for somebody who needs a metabolism stimulant, okay?
And so all these things that we're looking for
for recreation are gonna outbreed and exclude
the things we're looking for, for the actual medicines,
the lost medicines.
So when I'm working with some of these,
I necessarily will, I will necessarily,
will take the scraggliest looking,
least commercially viable plants and I'll breed them
to see what comes out of it.
I'll cross it to something else
to see what comes out of it, okay?
And that's where, if you see purple mutant chitral
in some of my genetic, right?
That was the narrowest, scrawniest looking
scraggly, barely even had any fluorescence at all.
And I had to use tweezers to get any pollen out of it, okay?
It wasn't gonna, it wasn't gonna pollinate anything
without me really tweaking it.
That's not something any commercial operator
is gonna ever look at, but what resulted
when I crossed it to something was the largest cola
I had ever gotten in a three gallon pot, okay?
So not just the hybrid vigor,
but there was stuff from that cultivar,
having been inbred, it kind of started repressing itself
on its expression capacity and the recesses and stuff
were able to just explode once they got
that hybrid position, right?
So these are some of the things,
I'm gonna recap, we have wild land rays, right?
We're wild plants that I categorize as land rays
and other people will not, okay?
So there's no need for contention on that.
It's utilizing words to communicate is all we need to do,
okay, and agree to disagree.
So we have wild or native plants.
We have feral, there were plants that were planted
and went back in and these things all can integrate
the feral to the wild, right?
And so that's where people will say,
well, there's no such thing as wild anymore
because pollen has blown about
or been translocated by humans.
Okay, so then we have the field cultivars
that is the traditional term usage of land rays.
It's mostly applied when people utilize it, okay?
So, but the word land rays can be used deleteriously
or out of context or confusedly
to mean all these stages, right?
And so unless you clarify what somebody means
in conversation, you're gonna be going,
boom, boom, boom, boom.
No, it's not, you don't wanna grow that,
you don't wanna grow, right?
And it's like, no, you actually do wanna grow land rays.
It's which one of these stages do you wanna grow
and are you capacitated towards?
All right, so we've got our field
and the field can be mixing with the wild
and it can be mixing with the feral,
depending on proximity and wind and weather patterns, right?
And then we have our new cultivars,
our new land rays, I've just come up with this term
and that's the stuff that's definitely been interbred.
People sending seeds to them and it's mixing around
and they've got some hybridized.
So like Jamaica, the folks, Arjun will tell us
that Jamaica being such a small area,
the pollen from the new polyhybrids came in
and overtook all of the dominant land races
in that small area.
And so now we have these new land races, okay?
And the originals might still exist
in somebody's collection, okay?
And somebody who does preservation.
All right, so the best, the first thing you should do
if you get ahold of some wild seed
and you have the capacity to do anything with them
is a preservation run.
And that literally means you're just taking everything
and growing it and open pollinated it
and allowing it to grow.
Then you have this massive seed stock
of all of that genetic information and it's been expanded.
And so you can see a different corners of what's available
when you open those up or you send them out
to other people to do things with.
But just killing the plant because it didn't meet
the expectations of your mysticism, to me is a sin.
But again, that's my mysticism, okay?
I'm a creation protectionist.
I'm not a fundamental creation type,
but I believe that whether it took 3 billion years
or six days to create all this,
it's way bigger than us to be greedy and destroy
out of our own laziness and desires and such.
So yeah, again, with the feral, the same thing.
And again, when you get into the ones
that were in a field, right?
And we have access to those,
I think you can do a combination there
because we're still gonna have intersex issues
and undesirable, we're just still gonna have
some scraggly plants and whatnot,
but you're getting a lot closer
to that refined plant that we want.
And depending on whether you just,
we're gonna use that for a hash plant
or if you wanna refine it into a flower plant,
you're still probably gonna wanna do
a open pollination expansion at the same time.
You can select cultivars for inbreeding, right?
And then moving forward into that inbred cultivar
that you can then utilize for F1 polyhybridizing
and or present as a inbred specific land-raised cultivar
that people can utilize for breeding
or for its particular aspects, right?
Aim yourself love away from eyes in the future.
That must be something else in there.
So yeah, again, the home grower,
you're looking for those refined cultivars.
You're not looking for the wild stuff,
not necessarily looking for the field stuff.
People who have an operation and one has something unique
that field stuff might be the place to start, right?
Because the cultivars, the inbred cultivars
have been around quite some time already
and have been utilized.
Yeah, so again, there's some places
where there are still unadulterated genetics,
but without having access to them,
we can only conjecture, right?
And so it's been 20 years, my mentor's passed on,
but he was traveling in the 70s and 80s,
walking the hippie trail and just like ours,
and nobody knew back then
what the pollution of genetics was gonna do.
And that's why a lot of folks from back then
became land-raised preservation enthusiasts
because they realized, oh, I fucked up.
I traveled the world with my polyhybrids from the States
and I traded those to the locals
for the best of their local stuff
and I polluted their local stuff.
So yeah, there may and may not be those polyhybrids
populations in situ still.
Yeah, there's a lot of the Pakistani land-raised.
So, Indian land-raised sistreen, DPAC, Izari and IG,
there's an amazing resource for a lot of this Eastern.
So he's primarily Northern India and Pakistan
and Eastern Afghanistan, I understand,
is where his connections tend to be.
But there's other people, Angus,
he's got a bunch of great work as well.
Give me some sweet things to come.
Yeah, no, Winnie P, that's exactly what I'm talking about,
the new land-raised, it happens.
Yeah, so there's a whole new mindset
so there's people riding a hide horse
that wanna call me out and say,
I don't know what I'm talking about,
don't know who I am, don't know anything about the,
I've been doing this since the mid 80s,
just kind of on my own on the side
and I ain't after commercial sticker, et cetera.
There's a lot of people who say, don't do this,
you don't wanna do land-raised, you don't wanna,
and it's like, no, they don't wanna do that.
Open your mind and see where your future lies
and what the possibilities are.
So there's plenty of room to create new varietals,
new, all sorts of stuff.
And even like someone says, the root skunk's getting,
a rooty, rooter Alice, not my root skunk.
Then that's, root skunk was somebody else's
actual hybridization of rooter Alice land-raised to skunk
and then I just took it to the next level
and created a feminized from it.
These are all different things that actual breeders do
and part of it's exploring.
And it was like, if all I did was take other people's stuff
and cross it or reproduce it, to me, that's unethical.
Doing it on a side project because I'm preserving it
and, or I wanna see what it does,
or feminizing things that weren't feminized
by the original breeder.
These are all different ways where you're not really stepping
to somebody's toes.
There's definitely people get ahold of my genetics
and they're making crosses that I've already made.
And I don't mind that so much
as long as you're not trying to sell them.
I'm totally open for people taking all my work
and utilizing it in their work.
As long as you give credit where credit's due
and I try to do the very same best.
So yeah, now Dennis is talking about
the anthropomorphic genetic pollution.
And yes, today's industry is THC driven.
But realize it's like if the alcohol business
was just primarily specifically focused
on producing straight alcohol, right?
And you're just drinking Everclear all the time
and no alcohol and THC are very different.
Yes, this is true.
But it's like, I like drinking wine sometimes.
I like drinking beer sometimes.
And I actually used to make a beer.
I used to brew two to three batches a week
for years and years and years.
I used to drink in huge amounts of alcohol.
I never liked being drunk.
I really enjoy the flavors, right?
At some point you get a little numb.
I can't feel my toes, that ain't cool, right?
And it's kind of the same thing with cannabis.
But like there was for several years
I brewed something I called a breakfast beer.
And it was basically a Belgian white
with about 2% alcohol in it.
And this was before I moved to Utah,
but I literally poured that shit on my cornflakes
and ate it for breakfast, okay?
It's just, there's different people
like doing different things.
And so I kind of, if it wasn't
for having charred my lungs firefighting,
I burned over and without a shelter,
80 foot flames for 10 minutes one time.
There's several others where my ears
were melting off the side of my face and shit.
But you breathe a lot of fucking smoke.
And so I prefer to just take a little bong hit
and that's all you need, right?
But I also really, really enjoy the flavors
of cannabis and smoking.
And so that, without dealing with the coughing and such,
so here we have dabbing and we have those flavors.
So sometimes I've got a plant that I call a hippie crack
because I just wanna keep smoking.
The flavor is so divine and it rolls off your tongue
as you exhale it, right?
And luckily it's not a super high potency plant.
It has a bit of an uptick in chemistry.
And so I can take five or six bong hits of that
and not just pass out.
But majority of my shit anymore, my pain's been fixed.
I can't take five bong hits of 24%.
Pfft, put it in a joint and you waste most of it.
I'm packing it in a bowl and puffing it slowly
is a little, all these produce a different response too,
right, if you don't know that.
Similar to drinking wine versus beer versus alcohol.
Those also have slightly different chemistries too
and besides the intense volume of alcohol per each brew.
All right, so we're coming into the close here.
I'm gonna go ahead and wind her up.
Why do we wanna breed?
We wanna bring back, with land raise,
we wanna bring back various different attributes
that may have been lost through inbreeding
and selecting for a particular attribute,
which is THC exclusively, okay?
Sim strength, disease resistance, bug resistance,
flavonoids, lost medicinal structure of chemistry.
All are things that we wanna be looking at
as a community, a global scale.
Not necessarily the people who are after dispensary sales
of flour and dabs, right?
They're on their journey doing their thing
and that's good for them.
It would be better for them to not say
that they dominate the world's culture and industry
and understand that there's like the rest of us
who do what we do and places where we do it,
which is the most of the world, right?
Granted, yes, there's the most money cashflow
that comes out of California and the cannabis industry
and that has a lot to do with the fact
that there's a shit ton of money in California
to start with.
People can afford to buy $90 grams of cash, right?
So, but the majority of the world can't
and it's the same thing I talk about with artwork
is the super refined art is like,
the dollar wise, it's the greatest amount of artwork
sold in the world, but volume wise,
it's a freaking drop in the bucket
for what's produced every year.
It's the same thing with cannabis, right?
So, we've got wild cannabis,
which can be referred to as a landrace.
Some people don't, some people do.
And you're in a conversation about landrace,
you need to refer to or go back and ask for a definition
as to what it is that you're communicating about
because a wild landrace is very different
than an inbred cultivar of landrace.
And there's a lot of structure in between there
and levels of refinement
and whether it is something you wanna grow or not.
Again, everything that we have today
was derived from these lineages,
whether they were polyhybridized
or hybridized originally
before they were refined into cultivars or not, right?
There's so all of this is these spectrums
of flow of this refinement.
And this is all we're looking for primary,
we're looking for various recessives.
And so when you just go and collect,
get any of these wild seeds or whatnot,
these recessives might not even be showing up
and you have this amazing magical package
that you didn't even recognize
because you didn't open pollinate it to start with
and expand the genome to look at the entire thing.
Oh, so the wild, feral, field, new field,
and the cultivars of landrace.
These are, again, the different aspects
that you might be discussing
when you're talking about a various one.
When you go to buy, you wanna find out from the breeder
which level that is,
if it's gonna meet and match your goals, desires and needs.
And then the great reward
is getting to puff some of this stuff, right?
You can't, I know, I see people showing,
it doesn't, you can't, you can't, can you see?
Here's some Breath of Red Dragon.
This is my F2 selection, but it's highly crystallized.
There's Keith in the bottom of the bag.
This is my Dr. Dream All Cure,
just 26 landraces mashed up together.
And then I'm back crossing them for my Dragon series, right?
So you have access to the Dragon series.
And they're literally in between my mentor,
my brother and I, we have 60 years cumulative,
three scientists working on the Dr. Dream All Cure
to bring it into the current state of cut only that it's at.
And yes, my fingers are,
this stuff's kind of dry.
I left the bag open.
I've been testing these.
This is refined out though.
I had 24 different selections out of the 70 from this run.
Right?
I'm down to five in the F2.
It takes work.
It just, there's this, what the process requires.
And blessings on y'all.
And yeah, the thing looks dirty.
I use it a lot.
I've had it for a long fucking time.
I clean it once in a while,
but there's not enough time in the day to keep it clean
and smoke and do everything else.
So I'm adapted.
That's all I need for about three hours.
Peace out, everybody.
Gene editing is gonna happen.
Can't stop it.
Shout out to Strong Style Organics, Louis Salazar.
His nice.
Shout out, Robert Bendula Jr.
Strong Style again.
Foe by foe, Winnie P.
Shout out, Dennis Cortez.
Robert, Mr. Greenfingers Thomas.
Appreciate everybody in the North joining us today
and learning a little bit about land races.
I'm gonna continue this series.
We'll see y'all probably Wednesday morning.
It's time for me to sign off.
Peace out.
I'm gonna close out with a couple of minutes.
See here if you can do that.
I can see what I'm doing.
Templanus, I missed your question there.
I'm sorry, I'll get on.
We'll talk about some Chitral
and some various regions in my land race talks
coming up in the future here.
I have no idea if this comes over on the speakers or not.
Eat off.
Rhythm of the Earth.
Excellent.
Nine o'clock, see y'all later.
