Oh, there we go. Hello, hello, everybody. I hope you are excited for a fantastic
evening of the Dank Hour. I know I am looking forward to it. We will see if
this will open up. Hopefully you all enjoyed this morning's Cannabis for
Breakfast. Next week we have Cheddar, the very own Cheddar Bob joining us. So
that's going to be a lot of fun. But without any further ado,
check, check one, two.
All right. Awesome. How are you all doing? Hello, Dr. Kaplan. There you are.
I make you a moderator. Dr. Jenny as well. Do we want to bring you up as
well?
I'm excited for today's conversation. We'll just let give it just a minute
while everybody kind of comes in. We are a minute after right now. I'm going
to start the top there. Hello to everybody over at Future Cannabis
Project as well. So I'm excited to have this conversation. And I'm
terribly excited to have this conversation. Because this is an area
that I know much less about than the horticulture side of cannabis. So I'm
very excited to get in and talk about this that we have Dr. Kaplan here to
join us. And Dr. Jennifer here to join us as well. I'm sure we will have
others to come in as well as well as the rest of the group. But as usual, it
is the Dank Hour. I'm London, your Director of Conversation as it were. And
we're looking forward to a great conversation today. And we're going to
get into it deep and dirty in just a moment. But beforehand, as we always
like to go as we always like to talk
about a little bit later, we're going to open up the room for coming up on
stage a little bit later. Just let me see here how I do that. And we're going
to open up the room for people to come up on stage a little bit later in this
show. But for now, let's introduce all of the moderators that are speaking
everybody that's here. So we're just going to go in PTR order everybody just
introduce themselves. And one to two minute like, you know, not too long, not
too quick. And then we'll get right into the conversation right off the bat as
everybody kind of loads in. So Ashley, why don't you get us started? And I'll
be Anita, our Dekalba Doctor, Animus Doctor. There's so many doctors, Dr.
Jennifer, and Mr. Toad in that order. And welcome to the stage. Go ahead,
Ashley, get us rolling.
Hey, guys. Good evening. Hope everybody's having a fabulous week. My name is
Ashley. I'm the Director of Cultivation for a fully aeroponic facility up here
or down here in Michigan, depending on where you are. Really looking forward to
this topic. Much like London, I know, I would say a tiny bit about this topic.
So really looking forward to learning what we can.
You're coming through really quietly there, Anita.
No problem, Anita. Dr. Kaplan, why don't you introduce yourself?
Sure. Hey, everybody. Thanks for hosting the space. Privileged to be here. I'm Dr.
Kaplan. I'm a board certified allopathic family doc by training with north of
250,000 patients under my belt as a supervisor and chief medical officer. I'm
the ringleader of Seed Clinic, which oversees the care of patients with
sequential care in Massachusetts. Basically sharing with me their journey
into medical cannabis as a subspecialist. I founded or served as part of the
leadership team of a dozen companies, including a couple exits to national
publicly traded companies and board seats and a few hot seats on the way.
Really, I'm aiming for a lot of people to come to me and say, Hey, I'm a
board seats in a few hot seats on the way. Really, I'm aiming for a national
medical agenda. And some of my partners are speaking with folks all the way up
to the White House. So I'm really the hot seat of privilege. And it's a
privilege to be here. I mean, I'm really excited about the topic.
Hey, everybody. Can you hear me? I don't know. My technology is silly
sometimes. You're good. Okay, cool. So, hi everyone. I'm Dr. Anna Schwabe and I am a plant scientist
specifically to plant population genetics and I have my PhD in looking at relationships among
different kinds of cannabis including like strains and then hemp and marijuana types. I'm really
super excited about this discussion tonight because I am very focused on what goes on inside
the plant and rarely do I step outside to kind of investigate how it actually affects
people. I am not a people person. I am a plant person. So, I'm really excited about this.
All right, am I up? Hey everybody. My name is Jennifer Kovacs. I'm a PharmD in South Carolina.
I've been a pharmacist for over 20 years. I'm licensed in Florida, South Carolina and Arizona.
I am the owner and founder of Healing Leaf Health and Wellness. So, because I'm in South Carolina,
it is just a CBD company for now. I'm contracted with some minor league sports teams, ECLH hockey,
USL League One soccer team, a member of Marijuana Policy Project, SC Normal,
grassroots advocacy. I'm on Zoom calls with senators trying to convince them to pass
a medical program for the past eight years. I'm a supporter of Freedom Grow. As of last week,
I'm starting research with Clemson University using some of my products. So, that's pretty
sweet. We're writing some IRB stuff up and I'm also part of the launch of Cannabis Spa Association
handling their cannabis pharmacology and education. And that's it.
If you're there Mr. Toad, it's your turn.
Hello, I'm Mr. Toad, brother Bone, aka Filio Phil. I am your president every day. Dude, I am here to show
that if I can do it, you can do it. I'm pretty much today, I'm here to listen and learn. I'm not on the
level of most of you folks, but I'm always willing to listen and open my mind up to brand new
information. So, I was glad to be here and I am stoked to listen. So, thank you.
Hey everybody, I'm Johnny, cannabis cultivator and enthusiast. I'm also going to be really
kind of sitting in the back, tuning in and listening. This is a topic that I'm really
interested in. I used to minor in psychopharmacology for a little bit and I thought it was a really
interesting topic. And I always thought just the effects of cannabis on the human body were
something that really intrigued me. So, I'm happy to be here listening to all these specialists.
And yeah, take it away, Cody.
Hey, thanks Johnny. For anyone who's in the room who doesn't know me, my name is Dr. Cody Peterson.
I am a pediatric clinical pharmacist turned cannabis specialist, getting my master's degree
in the topic from the University of Maryland. I'm also chief science officer at the Conigma,
a science forward media company, who's trying to help people get and understand cannabis. So,
definitely check that website out if you haven't before. Looking forward to answering everyone's
questions. As someone said, plants in the human body are not their thing. Well, as a
pharmacology specialist, what this plant does to the human body is very much my thing. But don't
ask me about genetics in the plant. Thanks, y'all. Look forward to chatting.
You're last, David. Why don't you introduce yourself and then we'll get-
Sorry, I'm too busy fucking around on StreamYard waving at you. Hey, I am Damon Giesbrecht.
A lot of the time I like to think I'm the best grower on the planet.
Probably am. So, yeah, that's all I got. What's up, fam?
And as always, Damon rolls in graceful and elegant as usual. Anita, do you want to introduce
yourself? Let's try that audio. Yeah, I was just going to say, can I try again?
Can everybody hear me this time? Really? Okay, great. Hi, everyone. I'm Anita. I'm over in
Ontario, Canada in the marketing side of the industry. However, I got my start because I'm
a patient. About five years ago, I'm just going to be real quick, I suffered a concussion real
bad from a soccer injury. I played soccer for 20 years competitively on various teams and
it knocked me out. And it was a three-year nightmare, for lack of better words. And cannabis
was instrumental in helping with my healing journey and being able to be a functional member
of society again. And I can't say enough about it. And I'm so happy to be here and listening to
everybody on the panel. And this topic is very dear to my heart. And so I'm here because of
cannabis. And so I'm happy to talk about it too. So there's a couple of things that will set the
ground kind of area here is one thing for the moderators, because you have a larger stage.
If you would really like to interject and bring in a point, it's get a conversation,
turn that mic off and then on and then off and then on slowly. And this will allow me to know
that you're actually wanting to have a jump in the conversation. If you do it fast, I'm going to
assume that's a clap. So I'll jump to you right off the bat. And I will kind of popcorn and pick
and choose as we go through the point of conversation and go. I do want to put out a few
things here. One of the main reasons why I thought this conversation be so valuable to the community
in general is often cannabis is thought to be almost like a cure all this thing that can fix
everything, this magical plant. And it's not. It has a lot of amazing properties and a lot of
potential to it. But we have an amazing opportunity to work with this plant now. But I wanted to kind
of clear some of that air and allow there to be as much kind of knowledge out there as possible.
So I'm really excited because we now have four doctors on the stage and a lot of other things.
And one of the other things that I love that is so awesome about conversations like this is
is like people like Mr. Toad, who is a breeder and a person that cares and is taking a lot of time
to be a steward of the plant, putting them in rooms with doctors like this and communicating
in a way can really close some gaps and shorten some timelines on things, trying to help
science move forward and communication there. So I'm really excited to see how this conversation
moves forward. So in general, we're going to revisit this every about 10 weeks. But we want
to talk about today kind of what how cannabis affects the human body and what we know thus far.
So if we could, you know, I'd like to pose the question maybe to you, Dr. Kaplan, to get us
rolling is, you know, typically smoking through it, ingesting through inhalation and combustion is
what is commonly done. How exactly does THC get into the system just to start our conversation
rolling? And then we'll start getting into the deeper stuff from there.
Sure. So, you know, cannabis, cannabis gets into the system through
molecular transfer where that where that molecule is jumping into the highway, as it were, your
blood vessels depends on how you're consuming it. If you eat it, it transfers through your stomach
lining through your GI tract, depending on sort of what the composition is. For folks who are eating
oily foods with cannabis and cannabis itself is oily. There is a special track that can be used
that creeps up in the stomach called the chylomicron system. Basically, it's an uptake
system that makes special access for high energy compounds. If you're consuming cannabis with
not an oily substance or sugary substances, other foods usually gets digested through the stomach,
through the GI tract and absorbed basically along the entire gastrointestinal system.
If you inhale it, it's basically transferring
from the blood vessels that are traveling around your lungs.
And the particles travel basically down the tree of your bronchioles, which start large and end up
in tiny, tiny branches. And they get so small that they're actually almost, you know, one blood
cell, one blood cell thick. And that's basically how the THC is offloaded and CBD and all the other
components. And then there's some other methods. Inside rectal tissue, you have a lot of mucosal
lining, a lot of blood vessels there. That's where suppositories can go. Across the world,
we have formulations that run the gamut. So it's not just the ways I've mentioned. You also can
put eye drops in and collect it through the membranes around your eye. There's certainly
sublingual inside your mouth. We have nose sprays now and certainly topicals through the skin.
There are probably some others that are creeping into the entrepreneurial space.
Hopefully that's an overview that's helpful. I think it's a great way to put the point.
I'm going to start. I think cannabis is interesting and challenging in both the same way,
A, because of its history, but also the culture that kind of comes along with it no matter what.
Now, Cody, thank you for coming today. I'm really excited to hear from you. What kind of like
methodology do you think about when you're trying to talk to people about how to consume? What's the
best methodology for that person and how to get the best out of their outcome for them? Because
we're all trying to navigate the space. Do you keep a note? What's your recommendation?
Hey, Landon. Thanks again for having me. I think the takeaway from what Dr. Kaplan just said, all
the dosage forms and drug delivery routes of administration that we've just gone over,
that was nothing different than every other medicine. I think that's really where we need to
think about cannabis. Cannabis in many ways is unique, special, and amazing and complex,
but in some ways it's just another medicine. All of the routes Dr. Kaplan just described
are very much viable routes for many medications, particularly fat-soluble medicines.
When I'm talking to a patient who's new to cannabis, smoking never really comes up.
Because it turns out to the non-smoker, smoking is quite offensive. There's a foul odor. I know
you think it smells dank, but other people think it smells foul. It's harsh on the lungs. It's quite
an intense feeling. As Dr. Kaplan mentioned, within the first few minutes of taking an
inhalation through the lungs, the THC is being transferred throughout the body
and sent to different organs and really the brain, which is what causes the high.
The first thing I assess anytime we're talking to a patient, and really this is probably more Dr.
Kaplan's, is their comfortability with the drug delivery method. For the vast majority of patients
are going to be most comfortable with an oral product, whether that's a tincture or a pill.
I think that applies for most medical patients. That's the route we're going to go. I know very
few practitioners, although they're out there, who prefer smoking. But that is definitely the
preferred route for the vast majority of THC-tolerant individuals. I hope that I answered
your question. I guess one thing I wanted to point out is the unique thing about cannabis and the way
we're taking it or choosing to consume it is that it actually, and we had some plant people who can
confirm this, it actually doesn't come in its psychoactive form in the plant. You can't just
munch on your herb. You have to activate that herb. Whether you're making edibles or whether
you're smoking or vaping, all of that's requiring the addition of heat to activate the cannabinoid
acids, which is the only type of cannabinoid that the plant makes, and converting them into their
neutral form, which are often called the active form. But we're now learning that indeed the acids
or the natural way the cannabinoid is produced is indeed natural. For the sake of not rambling on,
I'm going to stop there and let someone else talk. But certainly, if I didn't answer the
question, let me know. My name is Cody. No, you certainly did a fantastic job of answering the
question. I wonder, in my question, the reason why I've kind of been asking more about the
consumption side, because I kind of agree with you. The smoking and through combustion is not
really your typical way of coming into this space. It's really hard for newer people to get into that.
I also, as a higher consumer, have a lot of challenges consuming stuff through combustion,
like through a doobie or something like that. I find it a little bit easier through vaporization
as a cleaner methodology with doing it. Because I really want to see people move forward. Now,
may I ask, because this is the day and hour, and we really like to dig deep into what type of
interactions, what are you most interested in the cannabis space right now, Cody,
is what I would like to ask. What are you most interested in studying and learning about,
and where do you see things moving forward progressively when it comes to cannabis as medicine?
I think what we're seeing right now is a renewed interest in the way the plant
naturally produces these cannabinoids, these cannabinoid acids. That's probably where
some of my greatest interest lies. My biggest interest lies in telling people about cannabis
and cannabis as medicine. That's why we're already here today talking about it. Beyond that,
I'm really intrigued by the way that these naturally occurring cannabinoids were always
thought to be essentially inactive and doing nothing in the body. That's because we were a
little bit biased. We thought that THC was the end-all be-all here of this endocannabinoid system.
We looked at the entire system through the lens of THC. The truth is, the endocannabinoid system
is extraordinarily complex, and THC just simply helped us discover it. THC is not a master key
to this robust system. Definitely the acids, and we're seeing all sorts of science come out with
that. The most recent and most exciting one was that these cannabinoid acids could help reduce
the infection. How do I want to say this? The penetration of coronavirus into cells.
Really exciting, very preliminary evidence that these cannabinoid acids could help us
fight the pandemic, which is pretty exciting. Cody, I'm out.
See, this is something that I've been really interested in. Dr. Kaplan,
you come across... Actually, I haven't gotten to you, Dr. Jennifer. First, I'll ask,
how do you say your last name? Then second, I'll ask, what's your inference? You're working with
CBD and hemp varieties, but we're looking at the acids being available in those plants as well.
Are you fresh juicing or utilizing the acids in your space? Is this something
of relevance or interest in what you're doing at this point in time, Dr. Jennifer?
The Americanized version of my last name is Kovacs, which is Hungarian for Smith.
It's a pretty common name. I'm very interested in the acids. Since my line is just my line,
I haven't added the CBDA or anything like that into my line. I do appreciate cannabis in its raw
form. The whole juicing, dietary aspect of it, there's so much.
As far as the science goes, where are you going to try to specialize in? What path are you going
to go down? The big hurdle I face is this part of the United States, we'll say the Southeast,
the Bible Belt, it's a struggle. The struggle we're fighting is the part of the synthetic
market, which is the legal loophole, is taking over because we don't have medicinal
legislation in place. Now, they're starting to domino. The states are starting to fall.
The problem is the politicians are focusing on the stigma and the old brain damage. It's a slippery
slope. It's literally footloose in the devil's lettuce here. It still is. I'm still having those
conversations with senators who are actually pharmacists, which blows my mind. To get back to
your question, yes, I think the acidic forms are really relevant. Actually,
I think it helps fight that stigma. Even though, yes, you can formulate in the products,
but it works just fine in its natural state. That holds some promise. I hope I answered your
question because I tended to ramble there. No, big time. You definitely answered it very,
very well. I'd like to pose this as a little bit more of an open question because this is
something that's been on my mind and that comes up regularly because we talk about acids and we
talk about the individual components and cannabinoids and everything like that. Especially
in today's culture where we're taking these cannabinoids and terpenes and all these volatile
molecules and we're taking them and pressing them through a press and juicing them and pulling out
all these things. I know we're juicing fresh leaf and making rosin through a press. It's
completely different, guys. I'm not trying to say that, but I'm just trying to say that we're
taking these things and we're rendering them down to extracts in a way. Things like
limonol, I believe, at higher concentrations can be used as a cleaner and stuff like that.
Are there any volatile compounds that are present in cannabis that any of the doctors or anybody on
the panel might be aware of or would like to discuss at all or bring up that they would have
a light concern about? If there's anything there, go ahead and flash your mic or open it right up.
Because I've wondered this a little bit. Are there certain things that could be very dangerous?
Go ahead, Dr. Anne. I've wondered the same thing. We have a lot of information on terpenes,
essential oils, things like that in terms of consumption. But it's ingestion. People are
lighting these things on fire and inhaling them, which does concern me, especially when there are
some companies that are adding terpenes to certain products to boost the flavor or the aroma of the
product. We really don't know how damaging those things can be when they're ignited and breathed
on that extremely delicate lung tissue. I think there is some research being done on that. Perhaps
maybe Dr. Miyabi Shields is doing some of that work looking at what happens when we combust
cannabis. What do those chemicals turn into and what are we actually inhaling versus
what we know when we just heat them up? That's something super interesting to me because
you light something on fire, you heat it up, it turns into something else. We don't really know
that much about terpenes as far as I know and from what I've looked into. If any of the other
doctors or anybody else can jump in with other information, that'd be great. Sure. I'll throw
my hat in the ring. Terpene, just to clear the air on that, it's basically just describing
five carbon molecules in a row. Almost everything in nature can be qualified as a terpene.
When we in cannabis talk about terpenes, we're really talking about the five carbon molecules
found in the plant. Those basically fall under an umbrella of most of what nature already produces.
There are something like 400, 500 different terpenes that are commonly found in cannabis.
There are probably just as many that people are starting to synthesize now because we can.
I think underneath the question are things like we hear about terpeneol, we hear about,
like you mentioned limonene, those things are found in cleaners, but really they're found in
the smell behind the cleaners. What makes a lemon or a citrus, like a grapefruit even,
any citrus fruit, what gives it that citrus smell is limonene. It's not so much the toxic parts of
a cleaning fluid, which are in cannabis, although there is terpentine, where terpentine comes from
is a terpene that's in cannabis. I think partly the calm that I feel is when you think about a
forest burning or you think about cars combusting all around us, we're breathing a little bit of
that stuff in all the time. That's part of what being a human on this planet is, that we're
constantly inhaling a mixture of what's in the air. We don't see areas near certain forests where
people are dying of certain things or in that area where there's a garden of flowers, we're not
seeing people die of geranium smell, the geraniol. We're not seeing people in, I guess, Australia
drop dead because of eucalyptol. Most of what is found in nature is found in cannabis and we don't
see through the natural history of science that there's anything of concern with inhaling the
products. I'm speaking actually just about vaporization, so inhaling them where we're not
combusting. I think what Cody mentioned before that most people are not really recommending,
or maybe it was someone else, but most people, most doctors are not recommending smoking
simply because of the fact that the temperature of flame is close to 2000 degrees Fahrenheit.
That is roughly 10 times hotter than anything that you need to boil a cannabinoid from the
plant into your body. If you think about heating a vegetable up 10 times hotter than it needs to be,
you basically char it and you turn it into ash. That's an extremely hot temperature that's more
than what you need. People like the extra flame because it happens to heat up the tissues of your
mouth and your throat and it brings blood to those areas, those areas flushed with blood, just like
you would feel a hot pan approaching your arm before it hits you. Your sensory organs are
geared, your topical sensation is geared towards sensing things before you get burned. That blood
rush brings actually a nice target for the cannabinoids to jump right into the bloodstream
locally, which is partly why people like smoking. If you think about that temperature, it's way too
hot and you're really mutating some of the cannabinoids. Most of the cannabinoids and
terpenes can form molecules which are harmful pretty easily if you give them enough heat.
Some of the concern that I have with smoking is that people are consuming something that they
think is going to help them and might accidentally be consuming something which has changed into
something harmful. Thank you so much for that rundown, Dr. Kaplan. Totally spot on. Definitely
the pyrolysis, the burning of plant material can change the constituents and the chemical makeup
of that plant. We know this for a fact with THC. In fact, when you burn THC, delta-9-THC
is technically the molecule we're talking about, you actually get some conversion to delta-8.
The delta-8 that is available over the counter in South Carolina and all these places is being made
in a laboratory, but there is some degree of natural production to any time you smoke cannabis.
This could be one of the reasons why some patients report that only smoking works for them. Because
of the unique breakdown of certain cannabinoids and certain terpenoids, it is possible
pharmacologically that those patients only get benefit from smoking. Certainly, we'd like to
develop some products and ways to do that so that you don't have to inhale all the other crap,
the tar, and all of the what are called aromatic hydrocarbons, which can cause cancer,
that do exist in cannabis smoke. Anyone who tells you that cannabis isn't bad for your lungs is full
of it. It's not as bad for your lungs as cigarettes. That's also absolutely true.
Inhaling any burning plant material is not good for your lungs. Cannabis has been associated with
an increased cost, bronchitis, which is inflammation of the lungs, and a number of other
somewhat benign but still very real lung issues. The other thing I want to jump back to the
beginning of the talk, we talked about terpenes and their importance in nature. It's important
to note that there are about eight common terpenes in cannabis, and we lean on them to try to help us
predict effects. Some people say Indica sativa, but really we haven't figured all of that out yet.
We have to then go to the next layer, which is likely the cannabinoid and terpene profile.
When all things are the same, THC and everything else, then we can lean on these terpenes. I want
to touch briefly on these terpenes. These are essential oils of the plants, not just cannabis,
but all plants. They're all made up of what Dr. Kaplan mentioned, which are five carbon units,
but they're all made up of different numbers of units. This unit is called isoprene.
Isoprene is a building block of plant life. The plant uses this five carbon unit to build things
like you would with Legos. It turns out plants can build these in a shit ton of ways. Excuse me,
sorry, re-recorded. A bunch of different ways. Oh, no, it's okay, man. You go ahead. You can
speak freely here. It's crazy how many different ways the plant can configure this little five
carbon Lego. In fact, in nature, we know of at least 30,000 different ways that plants can
rearrange this five carbon unit, making terpenoids the most diverse set of plant molecules known to
us. There's a lot of different terpenes out there. In cannabis, there've been up to 200
identified. That's true. Really, if we get down to brass tacks, just like there's only a handful
of cannabinoids typically found in cannabis, there's only a dozen terpenoids found in cannabis,
just to try to reset the focus. No one has to think they have to memorize 250 molecules.
My name's Cody, and I'm done speaking. Hey, Cody, I just have a question. In terms of
potency or abundance, it's not the same as potency. How do we discuss that? Because there
are some things that are found in very low quantities that have a really,
that pack an incredible punch. We know, for example, THCP is 30 times more potent than THC.
Although we're only measuring, you said, eight terpenes that are found in abundance,
what about some of these other phytochemicals that are found in
just small amounts but are more potent? Do you have something to chime in about on that?
Well, I always have something to chime in about. Clearly, you haven't been on Clubhouse with me
enough yet, Dr. Hanna. I think that we got to start off with the term potency. Potency is
actually a complicated word. It often gets interchanged with concentration. Often, it's said
that 30% THC is more potent than 20% THC. That is true, but not just because of the percentage.
Potency is if you gave the exact same dose of the molecule, which one would create,
where would you get the similar intoxicating effects? When THCP is claimed to be 30 times more
potent than THC, that's actually a misnomer. That's a mischaracterization of what the
scientists found. The scientists found that there was a 30-fold increase in affinity or attraction
for THCP to the CB1 receptor. That affinity is important, and it often predicts potency,
but it is not a measurement of potency. Potency is a measurement of effect in the body. When they
gave THCP to rats and compared that to THC, they saw about two to three times more potency,
actually. If I gave you one milligram of THCP, you would get as high as if I gave you three
milligrams of THC, not 30, which is commonly misstated. I think that's potency question number
one. Then just to piggyback on what you said, absolutely. There are so many different variables
in these cannabinoids and in these terpenoids. We don't even understand which percentage,
how abundant they need to be to be relevant. Dr. Ethan Russo, one of the most world-renowned
cannabis scientists, has stated that any terpene in the amount of 0.05% or 50 milligrams per gram
is considered pharmacologically active. It might be five milligrams per gram, I bet,
is pharmacologically active, but really we don't even know that to be a fact.
It is definitely a question is how much has to be present to matter? We don't know. What we do know
is some terpenes are not ever very abundant. Linoluol is a sedating terpene found in lavender,
but it's not very common in cannabis. When it's there, it seems to have some pretty distinct
effects, even though it's not as abundant as most of the other terpenes in the cannabis.
This is nuance, and this really is the entourage effect. I guess I'll leave it there and let
someone else talk. I'll keep my line. Cody, I agree. One of the things to note that adds
confusion to complexity is some cannabinoids, some terpenes have effects, and we're also aware that
other terpenes and other cannabinoids actually counteract those effects. You can have a
combination which is undoing some of the action of a single molecule. It's really
a pretty complicated story. The bigger issue I have as a practitioner right now is it is more
predictable in flower what the terpenes may or may not do for someone. We're now trying to throw it
into a vape cart because we have many states and many markets that are not allowing flower sales.
They don't want combustion. They don't want flower. You can still buy flower to make it into
an edible, etc. We're saying, okay, here's this cartridge that was made, which there's really no
regulation or restriction or a 101 sheet on who's making the vape cart and what they're throwing in
it, hence the recall we just had in PA. When you're making mimosa or orange chai latte,
is this really what we had in our mind of what people are going to be vaping? If it has the
terpene in it, you never see on the packaging, well, hey, this may have this terpene in it.
You want to set your vape pen temperature to X temperature since each terpene has its own unique
combustion point, boiling point, what have you. That's my issue from day one with adding terpenes
into things like that because we're not educating everyone on, okay, well, linalool is different
from murcine, which is different from osmium. There's all these nuances with each terpene.
We're just trying to get people up to speed on the terpenes and how they're going to react with
people. Now we're just throwing them all in vape pens with a bunch of other stuff or yummy flavors,
which also isn't meant to be in your lungs. That's a problem and I'm complete.
I'll jump on there and add to what Dr. Jen said. A couple of years ago,
everybody probably remembers the vape crisis that we went through where folks who were making
products on the street really were contaminating their cannabis, mostly unknowingly,
unintentionally. People were putting things like vitamin E acetate into cannabis mixtures because
vitamin E, if you look it up, when you eat it can be basically inert. We don't see too much
that's evil when you eat vitamin E acetate, but it wasn't meant to be inhaled. Folks who were
cooking the cannabis were aiming for people to inhale it. In terms of vape cartridges,
most of the vape cartridges that are on the market, as Dr. Jen pointed out, are not regulated.
States haven't put together laws that govern how vape pens should be made. That means most people
will try to find the least expensive way to develop or buy vape pens. Of course, those are
mostly made overseas. They're not made with the most meticulous science or machinery. Oftentimes,
when people are consuming a vape pen, they don't know that they're also consuming
solder, metal soldering that's inside those vape pens. Metal solder can have things like arsenic
and cadmium and mercury and even lead. These are heavy metals, which obviously don't belong in our
body, but they are common to have in metal soldering. You can imagine that there is some
legitimacy to rules and regulations. It's important that we have those. Without them,
we are exposing ourselves to some degree of harm. On the other side of the coin, though,
it's also important to remember that those of us that live in cities or near cities are also
breathing in combusted car engine material all the time. Certainly, from smokestacks of the
companies and machinery infrastructure around us. To some degree, we like to speak out of both
sides of our mouth, all of us. We blame cannabis and the cannabis industry for these evils, but we
somehow acquiesce that infrastructure all around us anyway. I think I will take this opportunity
to do a quick reset.
YouTube, welcome to the show. I hope you are enjoying it. Those that are over here, I hope
you're doing as well. Dr. Catliff is dropping some amazing bombs of links on the top there for
everybody to check out. Definitely check out that replay so you can get a little bit of those.
I'm a bit excited to get into this next little part of the segment. What we're going to do is,
because I think there'll probably be a few questions out there at about 6. The 6.15 PST
will open up the ability to hand raise for people to come up and join the conversation.
Ask questions. We do have a hard stop at an hour and a half to respect the time of our very amazing
speakers today. I'll call that. This next segment that I wanted to go to before we start digging
into the asking questions part is, what are some common misconceptions that you believe could cause
that are more damage causing for the growth of cannabis as medicine than it practically?
What are things that you think are of a great challenge for us moving forward that are common
misconceptions? Maybe we'll just start with Dr. Kaplan and then Cody and then Dr. Jennifer.
Then we'll go through and see where that conversation leads for a little bit.
Sure. It's a really hard question, common misconceptions. I'm actually running a whole
tweet storm on common myths and misconceptions in cannabis. I think probably the most harmful
misconception is that cannabis is harmful. We have all grown up in a culture that has demonized
cannabis totally unintentionally, I think, but really wasn't intentional. Actually, it's not true.
I'm trying to see it in a positive way. It's really hard. There was a deep racial injustice,
political storm that began in the 30s, was continued in the 60s, 70s, 80s, really up through
very recently politically. It's been a nightmare for cannabis, totally undeservedly. That's the
word I was looking for. In terms of number one myth, I think the fact that cannabis is helpful
for many, many millions of people, to me, shines a light which points to blood on the hands of
really a culture before us. In terms of COVID today, there's clear evidence that cannabis helps
both prevent the COVID molecule coming into human cells, as well as folks who are dealing with COVID
illnesses and the cytokine storm, the alarm system that goes off in the blood that is too much and
sometimes is harmful itself. Cannabis can help with that. In terms of autoimmune disorders,
which kill millions of people, in terms of emotional and psychological disorders, which
kill millions, in terms of cancer, there's so many kinds of illnesses that cannabis can help
at the bare minimum in terms of symptoms, but in many cases, physiologically, can be an effective
treatment. It's shameful and embarrassing and unethical that it hasn't been part of our day-to-day
life. I think we have an opportunity, those of us here and those of us basically alive today,
to explain to our children and future generations that cannabis, this puzzle piece of medicine
that's been missing for so long, is still just that. It's a cornerstone of medicine. It's a part
of every living thing. It's important for us to realize that this has just been a huge error
in our forefathers. The hard follow-up. Cody, do you want to tell me about a myth
that you're tired of urine? Something that needs to change that could cause further damage? I
really think that's an awesome myth because it's something that we all run into, is the
stigmatization of people that consume on a regular basis or people that are out of the green closet,
as it were. Even my mom is perpetual, we'll say, slow stoners and stuff like that. I think it's
quite interesting and they pass it on. Cody, if there was something that was damaging to the
space, the misconception, what would it be? What do you think? I'm going to take the flip side to
Dr. Kaplan and talk about the damaging within the space. I think the idea that we evolved to consume
cannabis and that we need cannabis to thrive is complete bullshit and a misunderstanding of what
is going on here and the importance of the endocannabinoid system. The endocannabinoid
system goes back 600 million years to a very early time on this planet when life basically only
existed in an ocean. It's been evolutionarily preserved over those 600 million years, so much
so that it's now in every animal, every cat, dog, lizard, bird on earth, some variation of this
system. That system does not need cannabis to thrive. What really happened is humans are quite
smart and we identified the cannabis plant around 20,000 years ago as a really useful herb. We
decided we were going to take it with us all around the world, just like we took the seeds and fruits
of many plants as part of our agrarian come up as the number one species on this planet. I think
this is a misnomer that needs to go away, that you need cannabis to thrive. I will also point
out that in modern society, we are not living the life or eating the things we need to do to be
healthy and have a healthy ECS. I'm not surprised that so many people find benefit from
supplementing THC containing cannabis or even non-THC containing cannabis because of this
imbalance that's been set off in the modern world, whether that's from our food, our diet,
our lifestyle, and many other things. That's one that really irks me, is we have a system
inside of us, therefore we were meant to consume cannabis. That's a lie. My name's Cody,
I'm done speaking. My take is, well, thank God they did decide to ingest it,
because we wouldn't be here. I think the biggest stigma I know I face in this state is the whole
slippery slope belief. We got everybody hooked on opiates, people have legitimate pain, but now
we're taking away those pharmaceuticals or people want to get off of pharmaceuticals. Rightly so,
once the healthcare profession not intentionally getting people addicted, but that's just what
happened over time. You're trying to treat the patient, not realize the damaging that was being
caused. Then all of a sudden, okay, the DEA says, we're just going to crack down, we're going to
reduce the amount of morphine, milli equivalents every doctor can write for, your hands are tied,
or we're taking your license. Pharmacists are getting sued by families whose family members
got addicted and they're blaming the pharmacist that filled the prescription that was a legal
prescription from a provider. You think you're doing your job. It's a real paradox, right?
We have people that are still in pain. We took away all their, take away everything that we were
giving you for the past 20 years, the Holy Trinity of a muscle relaxant, a benzo and a narcotic,
and they still have pain. Now what? Okay. Well, yeah, you do have a plan and you are going to
have to probably ingest it to get some pain relief in this instance. That's my whole spin on it is
it's there, it could be utilized. It's not going to help everyone. I guess that's the other fallacy,
that if you do partake whatever cannabinoid of choice, all of them, one of them, single amount,
whatever your condition is, that it's going to help you. It doesn't help all the patients. It's
not a panacea, but it does help the majority of folks that get to hone in on what actually
ails them. And if they're guided or they do their own education, they are usually able to find some
relief and that is rewarding to me. Awesome. Do any of our moderators have a question or
a statement to add? Because I know we've all been very excited. I wonder if anybody
has anything for our speakers for tonight. I'll chime in here. So something that I always come
across is, you know, people say there's so much cannabis research. There's so many, you know,
if you go on Google Scholar and you put in cannabis, there's so many papers, so much
research has been done. Why do we need more research in order to legalize or whatever the
case may be? But, you know, if you look at those studies, it's not all medical research. It's
research on the plant, medical research, addiction, it's most of it, a lot of it is
psychology and addiction research. And the other thing is, is for every paper that says cannabis
is bad because of X, Y, and Z, there's an equal and opposite paper that says, you know, it's the
opposite is true. So it's really difficult right now trying to figure out, you know, who did the
studies, who, you know, how were the studies done? And, you know, especially with the national,
the stuff that they're growing at the University of Mississippi, finding out that it's not actually
comparable to the cannabis that people have access to is, I feel like it's problematic, but
it's, oh my gosh, there's so much work to do. So much work to do.
So here's a question. Where do we start? Like, what's kind of the, where do you guys see us
needing to, like, not us, I'm going to go and do this, but as society, we need to start stepping
into first, like what's the first steps of it? I mean, obviously legalization, but where are we
lacking the most when it comes to studying cannabis as a plant in general? I mean, you say
in general, you know, medically there's not a lot of papers out there, but like,
is there a specific area or region that we really need to look into that interests maybe the panelists?
Hey, it's Cody. I'm going to chime in here real quick. Look, there is a ton of work to do. As
Ana said, there is no perfect place to start, but you hit the nail on the head. Yeah, obvious
legalization, but I mean, this is the number one hindrance to our entire state of affairs. The
reason we don't know shit is because we haven't been able to study it. So what we really need to
do is we need to force our bureaucrats to allow us to cultivate an herb that's been cultivated on
this earth for 20,000 years by humans, at least 10,000 years. And we need to stop restricting it
as if it's some sort of synthetic drug. Cannabis kills, you know, less than five people annually,
directly, probably close to zero. And fentanyl killed 100,000 Americans last year. Fentanyl is
a synthetic. Cannabis is natural. If we let pharma take cannabis and make a bunch of synthetics,
I promise you, we will find ourselves in a circle because their interest lies in profits and not
the health and well-being of people. So legalize the plant, stop restricting its comb cultivation,
and then start studying the real humans who are using the products. We're in this situation where
we have all these rat studies and we have all these test tube studies and all of this. We need
to know what it does in humans if we want to make any assertions. And so we really need to push
for normalization. And then we need to leverage technology to help us figure out and track and
monitor real people and how they really respond. Not test tubes, not binding affinities, people.
My name is Cody. I'm done speaking. I agree 100% with Cody on the synthetics because
once we start having all these bathtub chemists coming in for the big money grab,
okay, so what, two years ago it was Delta 8, Delta 8, Delta 8. Then it was Delta 10. Then it was THC
acetate. Now it's what, HHC. I mean, they're always, it's not about helping anyone. They're
not patient-centric. Now they may just pop in the industry to make their money and leave.
I've been approached by a lot of companies, oh, you need to be adding Delta 8 gummies. No, I won't.
I won't add synthetic shit to my products. And I don't mean to offend anybody who's in that kind
of space. It's just not for me because to me, that's the unknown, right? How does, we barely
know. Cannabis in a study itself is fairly new, right? So how are we going to now cook something
up and know all the potential outcomes? We don't. So when safety, right, is your end all, be all,
and risk versus benefit, you're not going to go there. And I don't even know that big pharma will
go there because they won't know what the end is. But I mean, they may because drugs come on the
market, they study them, they think they're safe. Five or 10 years later, they get yanked off the
market, right? It happens. But it's just, it's an interesting, it's an interesting topic. I don't
know that, you know, synthetics will even be around because eventually then everyone will be making
the synthetics. And that isn't new chemistry, you know, that's just from the 40s and 60s.
They're just, you know, they're not reinventing the wheel. They just found a way to, you know,
make Delta 9 legal in states where it's not legal or make it in 100 milligram edible form,
you know, things that were never meant to be ingested by the plant anyway, because when you
consume the plant itself regulates. So I'm complete. So real quick, Cody, correct me if I'm wrong, but
pharmaceutical, or just the general pharmaceutical industry is, has been historically focused on
single molecules and how those can help, you know, in therapeutic ways. Whole plant medicine is kind
of not really a thing. I went and talked at a conference, they invited me to come and talk
about how they could use or how they could sort of make whole plant medicine more consistent,
because plants are not consistent, and especially cannabis, because we have, you know, it's
cannabis. But it's, I mean, I feel like that's sort of a problem with, with pharmaceuticals is
they want very, you know, specific measurements of every single chemical and using a whole plant,
it sort of deviates from what they do. So if you go back in time, you'll see that
always medicine for all until the 1800s, late molecules that and extracts of plants, etc.
And then once we started isolating, it was morphine from the poppy plant, and look where
that got us, aka eventually fennel, is a movement away from how a plant can help humans kind of
worse. And this, this, I'm sorry to cut you off here, but you're you're you're going in and out
like you're glitching out. I don't know if you're able to like switch off or on a Wi Fi there,
or like where the T has popped up, but he is. He's not able to get there. Anita, go ahead.
I just had a quick question, actually, because just listening to the conversation about and I'm
coming from a Canadian standpoint, right? Where we're, we don't hear a lot about these like
molecules and things like that, because it's, although we have our issues, and people complain
and things, but it's like, essentially legalized form, right? So and we also have our medical
components and stuff. But what we're mostly seeing is like extracts and, and capsules and things like
that, and the normal things, but not the delta nine and other types of extracts that are like
chemically produced. I was just wondering, like, what do you guys think? Like, do you think that
that's because of the regulations, because they're trying to work around, like, current, like federal
regulations that you guys have to deal with where that's not something because I've had people
approach me like about getting delta nine into our market. I'm like, I don't think that that's
gonna fly. Not like because we're legalized. Like, why would we want something that would be chemically
produced? So anyways, I just wanted to hear your guys thoughts about that. Like,
like the reasoning, why you think there's a variance between maybe that?
I'm happy to jump in. I want to make sure everybody understands kind of what we're
talking about. You know, when we go to the pharmacy, you get a medicine that's a prescription,
it's usually passed through some regulatory body. And in Canada and the US, we have different bodies,
but they basically function similar rules. And in order to have a safe medicine, it has to
pass safety testing. And it's very difficult to show that a medicine is safe if it hasn't been
tested in 10s of 1000s of people. In stages, there's, you know, stage one, it's fewer people,
sometimes animals, stage two, all the way up to many, many people. In order to do that, you have
to have a compound, which is very reproducible. So you're sort of trying everybody with the same
compound, you have 1000 things in your pill, it could have interactions with different people,
different circumstances, that's, that's not an easy thing to test. So our system has really
evolved around very simple molecules, you'd be FDA approves molecules often with one ingredient,
sometimes two, almost never three. And that's just because it's very difficult to prove safety at
high levels. If you don't do that. You know, one of the things that has come up for the cannabis
community is, is really are the tools that we have currently the wrong tools for cannabis.
You know, for one, we know that when we when we look at how people do how people are treated with
pharmaceutical medicines, pharmaceutical versions of cannabis, so one or two different compounds
versus the whole plant. So the whole plant naturally has, you know, 600 ish, different
components. Generally, people do much better when they have the whole plant. And that's something
which really the pharmaceutical industry could never produce because of the current system. So
is the tool of us saying that this medicine is safe, the wrong tool for cannabis. And that's also
an interesting thing about research, you know, research right now, randomized controlled trials
and meta analyses is considered the standard of, of how we understand whether science is,
is accurate or showing us a portrayal of truth. And what if cannabis, you know, this thing,
which seems to help a lot of people, and we don't quite understand it, overlaps with this other
thing, which seems to work for everybody, we don't quite understand it, which, which is the placebo
effect. And if the placebo effect, as we understand it, is governed by our endocannabinoid system,
that poses a serious problem for studying cannabis with traditional tools. So not only are the tools
to approve medicines, but actually the tools to study medicines might not be the right tools for
cannabis. It's a really interesting problem that we're kind of grappling with as a culture.
So I'd like to take this opportunity to say hello to T. Welcome to the state. What is your
question or comment for our panel of speakers today? Hope you're doing well. And thanks for
joining us. Thanks for having me. For, I'm very familiar with some of you. Thank you,
Dr. Kaplan and Cody. Dr. Jennifer as well. To have this type of platform that has this type of panel
is, I'm super fortunate for, right? So I just left my university where I'm going to propose
cannabis research on human studies, hopefully within a year, year and a half. I have to join
other labs, of course. So I wanted to get some feedback on you guys, from you guys, just to see
what you guys think I should do. So there's psilocybin lab right now studying mice, right?
And, but at the same time, I'm trying to get it more into human studies where there's like a REM lab.
There's, you know, different type of emotion, physiological, psychological, other labs that is
on human studies. What do you guys recommend? Should I stick with the psilocybin, although it's on mice?
Because, I mean, we were just discussing, I just heard you guys a few minutes ago talking about
the urgency on research. And I too am as passionate as you guys. Okay. So just to push some urgency
and show how serious we need it. For those who don't know me, I do also, I'm a columnist for Vegas
Cannabis Magazine. So this is a full-time thing for me. I've dedicated my life to studying the plant
and its efficacies. So where do you guys think I should head next just to kind of get closer to
where, you know, I'm headed? I think if you stick with the psilocybin research, you're less likely
to get shut down at this point, because for some reason that, you know, that side of the psychedelic
space, they're moving forward rapidly, which is something that amazes me because I look at all
the cannabis research and, you know, not only will someone who got all the approval, that one
researcher, you know, had her grant money in Bank of America and then Bank of America closed her
account, but it was actually, you know, government money for this study. So she got shut down. It was
a cannabis study. You know, that was in the news, you know, I think it was a few months, like six
months ago or so. But obviously the, I don't know, the government is just not happy with us
researching or talking about the plant, but everything else seems like it's pretty copacetic
right now. So, you know, I hope that, you know, even though Clemson University is really known for
synthetic research, if you've ever heard of John W. Huffman, hello, he's 30 minutes down the road
from me. Well, he used to be, he's retired now, but I mean, that's where K2 and Spice was born.
Nobody wants you to know that, but it was, you know, he found over 400 synthetic cannabinoids.
Most of them are phylogenous and there's your problem, but, you know, I'm hoping that they
start researching whole plant medicine and get away from trying to create all these synthetics.
So that's a struggle. It is a struggle in the pharmacy industry and most of the industries,
I guess with psilocybin and even I know MDMA is like making a resurgence right now in all the
research. So it just depends on, you know, do you want to do what you're really passionate about and
have it get shut down potentially, or, you know, continue with the study that you're doing that
probably, you know, that research would come to light. That's, you know, that's a pretty personal
question and I'm complete. Yeah, that's true. It just, you know, I do have the financial backing
from the network that I've built throughout the years working in the cannabis industry.
And so I'm not asking for funding. I'm asking for permission. Although I have family members who own
cannabis companies saying, no, you're a minority. You need to take those damn grants. So, you know,
it's, I'm just kind of looking a little guidance to see which research lab I'm going to be joining next
because I'm trying to push as hard as I can and I know it's not going to be easy. And if I end up
missing, you know who did it. One of the things that's coming through the sort of between space
here as we're talking in cannabis research is, you know, how to study a plant, which is working
for people. And, you know, oftentimes scientists, including probably most of us on SAGE, kind of,
we get lost in the weeds, so to speak about, you know, kind of one compound working for,
you know, one indication. There's a lot of need for data in cannabis, which is experiential,
which is sort of whole, whole picture. Is someone's quality of life better? Is someone
happier? Is someone sort of less anxious overall? Is their kind of quality of life better? And those
kinds of studies are pretty easy to do. If you have a population of people that are consuming
cannabis, you don't have to be, you know, too loud about it. And I think, you know, in terms of
cannabis versus psilocybin, you know, my take is really psilocybin, although a couple of papers
have come out, it's still very much early. There are a couple cities in the country that have
legalized it here in Massachusetts and over in Oregon and a couple others. But by and large,
cannabis is sort of out of the gates. You already have a majority of the population
that sees cannabis as a staple of humankind now. And I think, you know, if you really want to make
progress, cannabis is where it's at right now. I mean, I'm fully biased, but I think in order for
the government to swallow psychedelics, you know, MDMA, psilocybin, even ketamine, which already
is FDA approved, I think there's a lot still to go. So my take, I guess, would be cannabis.
I would also throw in there, T, that, and I hope you guys can hear me now. I would also throw in
that sometimes governments look, or at least from a FDA perspective, that psilocybin, MDMA, LSD,
these are all being studied right now and making headway because they're isolates, because we're
making them synthetically. There are very few, at least in the United States, trials using whole
plant mushroom, right? It's either psilocybin extracted from mushrooms or psilocybin made in
a laboratory. And that falls much more into the typical box. Whereas cannabis continues to be an
outlier as a botanical. And, you know, they've even, and are testing many medications that are
working on the endocannabinoid system and have even approved, you know, synthetic agonists like
Nabilone for this system. So the bias is really towards plants and less, I think, towards the
active ingredient, be it psilocybin or THC. But that's just my take. We need to stop treating
plants like they're some sort of crazy myth outlier and recognize that nature tends to do
things more safely than humans. My name is Cody, I'm done speaking.
Those are great points. Thanks everyone. Appreciate it. While I'm here, if you don't mind, I do have
a question on my Instagram bio for, you know, demanding the state to have CRC regulations,
because there aren't any. And as you mentioned, there's, you know, with vape cartridges, metals,
toxins in it, same thing goes with CRC. There's media being used that is also potentially
harmful. And the fact that we can utilize these types of technologies without having
the evidence and the research behind it to show that it's healthy is a huge concern. So if you're
a dabber or if you don't know what I'm talking about, please, please go hit my bio on Instagram
and check out that. Thank you so much for this platform, everyone. Awesome. Thank you. So
I hope that answered everything to your heart's joy there, T. So next up I have, Damon has a
question for you all. He's excited to ask it. So go ahead, Damon, and then we'll get over to you,
Gravy. Awesome. Thanks, London. This is actually for Cody, Dr. Kovacs or Dr. Kaplan. So I've been
growing for 20 years and every once in a while I'll come across like a particular strain that,
you know, I get that class one adverse reaction, you know, slight panic attack. But the second
that I turn around and I take that same strain and I run it through like a rosin press, I'm able to
take the flower rosin and do dabs and I have no adverse reaction, like there's no panic attack.
And it takes that unenjoyable experience. But when it's done into an extract like rosin,
there's no adverse reaction. So I was wondering if the three of you would have some sort of idea
as to why that's happening. Right. So like for myself, we talked about it before about how drugs
go through a fairly regulated system. All of my evidence is anecdotal. So anecdotally, I'm able to
take a strain that would normally induce some sort of mild adverse reaction. And if I put it to an
extract through a flower press, there's no adverse reaction. Do the three of you have any idea why
that happens? So I'm going to go out and just say onset of action time. So, you know, if you're
talking about combusting something, you know, straight, you know, whatever, you're going to
combust something, you know, your peak, your peak plasma concentration, and the onset is a lot faster
than any type of, you know, you know, with the rosin, you know, it's obviously an extract,
it would theoretically have a higher concentration. But like Cody just explained, like,
top of the conversation, the difference between absorption and concentration, and the difference
in what your body is getting from the rosin versus flower onset. And I'm sure, I'm sure Cody
will help us with that. Well, Cody's getting ready, I guess, to fire his missiles. I'll throw
in a couple ideas. You know, I think the higher concentration of extracts and concentrations
might be hitting sort of relaxation mechanisms first. You know, one of the things that can
happen with the presence of anxiety in cannabis is A, too much THC, you know, B, set and setting,
that sometimes, you know, you're in a better place. And maybe it's just the simple fact that
in the past with concentrates, or your own extracts, you felt better. And that expectation of, oh, this
is what I do when I feel better, or this helps me feel better. That mindset can actually make it
happen. And then certainly the absorption stuff, I completely agree. That's my take for now.
I just had a question. Could it be the difference between like the temperatures of like, because
you guys were just talking about that earlier about cannabinoids and terpenes and the effect
and how temperature. So when you're dabbing or using concentrates, usually it would be a higher
concentration. Would maybe it like something that is in a lower temperature be more anxiety
inducing? I don't know. For you? I am not a doctor. So don't listen to me. I just thought of that while
we were talking because I'm also... No, you know what? I think the temperature would absolutely
have something to do with it. Because when I'm hitting dabs, it's a lot lower temperature than
what it is when it's combustion. Now, again, I'm not a doctor either. I just have 20 years
experience here growing. For me, originally, I was going to, well, obviously, there's something in the
flour that's not transferring over to the extract, right? I never thought about thinking about the
fact that I'm hitting it at a lower temperature, which would mean that I'm not, you know, getting
that benzene or something else, right? That's causing that adverse reaction. So no, that's a
good train of thought there, Anita. Yeah, no, it's hats off to you, Anita. You're spot on that
that certainly is reasonable. Maybe I am a doctor. You should be a doctor. You can be a doctor.
Hey, Anna, will you put that in writing for Anita? Us up in Canada, we can help. Yes, please.
Those letter referrals from practitioners help us immensely. Cool. Can I get one too?
Yep, absolutely. I'll take one as well. Just kidding. Dr. Kaplan, Dr. Cody, Dr. Jennifer,
thank you so much for being here. I think the conversation is going really, really well. We do
want to kind of narrow it down at about 630. So I want to give you all a chance to kind of like,
let us know what you're working on before we go. But Gravy is down there and he has been ever so
patient to ask this question. Go ahead, Gravy. It's always wonderful to see you, brother.
Dude, thank you for putting light in my heart. Your voice is great. So my question is a big one,
but I know we have a hard stop. So anyways, to my question, I was just wondering what type of
flour was being tested in these test trials. I understand that. I like how Cody mentioned the
rats and their brain matures much faster than the human brain. So human testing, I think that's
definitely necessary. I put my plants through a lot of stress and I don't want to anthropomorphize
the testing or studies too much, but I feel as if sometimes the plants struggle for survival
in hermaphroditic traits is not being looked at. And I feel like Sensimia flour is the only flour
that's being studied right now. So I was just wondering if there's any facilities studying the
flour of the plants that are same variety or same cultivar, grown together, pollinated separately,
so on and so forth. So I guess my big question is what kind of flour is being tested?
Is there any buddy looking into studying hermaphroditic flour? And are there going to be
future studies on breeding plants together to get the natural nature medicine?
Thank you for your time tonight, guys. I hope it wasn't too confusing.
All right, I'm going to jump in here since this is my realm of expertise. So, Gravy, in answer to
your question, those are, I mean, that's a fantastic question. In terms of like these horticultural
studies, they are so in their infancy and they're also not very robust when they are able to get
the funding and the thumbs up to be able to do them. So, yeah, I also have concerns
about, okay, so this is a whole nother like show, so I don't want to like do a really big long
answer, but yes, I'm also concerned about the hermaphroditic traits that seem to be coming out
a lot more often. I don't think it has much to do with what we're talking about here in terms of
like the endocannabinoid system. So if you want to message me offline, cool, do that. I'll end there.
Just to explain what might be sort of causing people to gloss over, hermaphroditic traits in
cannabis means when a plant sort of has male traits and becomes a little bit female, has
female traits and vice versa. It's a very common biological phenomenon in cannabis when the plant
is stressed. So there are a lot of reasons to understand what's happening to cannabis as it's
being stressed. I think to the point about research, I'm trying to throw a couple of links
on here that show the DEA has changed its tune. In the past, we have all sort of thought that,
and rightly so, that the research in cannabis has been really crappy. The supply of cannabis
product as was discussed before has been terrible. The research based on that was therefore biased
and makes it very difficult to be reliable. The DEA has changed their tune. It was voted,
I think, December of 20 and May of 21. They're sort of carrying it on. The DEA,
the Drug Enforcement Agency, is looking to license and help people grow better strains of cannabis.
Gravy, I think the nuance of them encouraging people to grow hermaphroditic strains is probably
not going to happen for a few years. I just don't see that being taken up by someone unless you
wanted to do that. I think there's certainly ample opportunity for you to grow and sort of
study more interesting things. But there's, in my view, as important as that is, there's so much
more that's important for us to look at in terms of the cannabis that's grown everywhere. But,
you know, it's really picking among straw because it's all really important stuff for us to learn.
So I just want to say the DEA has been accepting applications for other facilities to be growing
different kinds of cannabis since 2016. And they really haven't come through. I'm hoping that this
round of them saying, yeah, we're going to open it up will come to fruition. And it won't just
be limited to the plants that are grown at the University of Mississippi, but we don't know.
Now, in terms of hermaphroditic or, you know, plants that are producing
seeds when they shouldn't, it is the almost all cannabis geneticists kind of think that
all cannabis has all female cannabis plants have the potential to self fertilize, they will,
in the absence of pollen, try to fertilize themselves. So, and the more we breed without
the with the absence of pollen without males, we are going to keep pushing this trait. So
again, if you want to talk offline about this, happy to or London,
if you want to create a whole nother episode on this, we can do that too.
Yeah, I just want to get in there real quick. Thank you so much. I really, truly appreciate
it. My friend looked at me like I had three heads the other day, because I was like, bro,
I'm going to start a hermaphrodite line. I'm just going to take the ones that go through the wind
tunnel of shame and all the stressed out plants over the last three years, I've only had two that
were hermaphrodites. One got trashed, and I only have one left, and it's completely isolated. And
now I kind of want to run that line and see how many I can get that turn into hermaphrodite. I
just feel like the medical testing on hermaphroditic flower would be beneficial to the
human body and the files terpenes and cannabinoid profiles that are thrown off from something in
nature that wants to survive through all the microorganisms that are helping it thrive through
the soil and communicating with other plants that it might help us in the long run. So thank you
very much for your time tonight, guys. gravy five years ago, I would have told you that you're
insane. And that's not how it works. But I'm lucky enough to have an IRS device in my garden and
test my strains. I'm finding that my stable lines, you know, they'll top out at 17 18%. But some of
the ones that end up going Hermes, those are the ones that are coming in at like 23%. So you're not
crazy. It's a great idea chasing. And it kind of makes sense that that's a strong line, right?
Because if that plant were stranded in the nature all on its own, don't worry about it. She's still
got it taken care of and she's going to reproduce and continue her line. So it makes sense that
these are powerful plants. And then also building THC to protect itself wouldn't make it last
longer. So you know, in nature, so I think that kind of lines up if we try to think about it,
just logically about what a plant might need to do in the wild.
Well, I don't know if you've lost your mic open there, Cody, so I'm gonna I'm gonna close it for
you. So we are we got like five minutes left here. I think the conversation is an awesome point. We
are going to have another one of these in about 10 weeks, specifically focusing on that topic. But I
really want to take last few minutes and go through each of our special guests, Dr. Kaplan,
Dr. Jennifer and Dr. Cody, and and just kind of ask them what they're working on and where we can
check you out and see what's going on there. And thank you so much again. Also, Cody and Dr.
Jennifer, if you could shoot me a follow just so I could like link you on a couple things
and shoot your message here and there just for the show updates and stuff like that. I appreciate it.
And and go ahead, Dr. Kaplan, let us know a little bit about what's going on with you and
where we can see and check out and learn more about yourself. Cool. So I'm I'm a tinkerer doing
lots of stuff in lots of different ways in cannabis. I have a whole clinic which is franchising
into a couple of different states now. Basically, it's old fashioned medicine trying to bring special
the specialist sub specialist area of cannabis medicine into the medical sphere
for folks who want really personalized care and understand their cannabis consumption at a really
high level that can go as deep as you want. I've actually started another company which is working
on digital doctoring, basically putting cannabis opportunities to learn from a regimen about how
it's working for you in a really fine, fine tooth kind of combed way. In other words, you know,
that company you sign up, it's like it's actually the first cannabis companion app on the App Store.
We got special approval from Apple because of what we're doing. And basically, their regimen is given
to you based on a profile of who you are, what you're looking for, what your goals are. And as
you're consuming cannabis from products that are sourced near you, you can tell the app basically
how you're doing and what you like, what you don't like, and the Apple adjust over time to sort of be
a guide for you. I'm really excited about that. I think, you know, the days of doctors not knowing
anything about what patients are doing at home, I think are soon to be over. That's a ridiculous
concept that we've all kind of accepted that we have, you know, no connection with the doctor
beyond when we're in the office. I'm trying to bridge that gap. So that company is super exciting.
I tried to throw the link up there now. For those that are interested in learning more about it, EO
Care, it's I think going to be a version of a cannabis brain for at least local industries where
I travel. But if you think about the cannabis commercial market now where sales are offered by
how a bud happens to look or how an edible package looks online, I think that's a little ridiculous.
My hope for the future is that, you know, cannabis product can be matched to the person who's trying
to buy them. You know, the company who's selling you something should know something about you.
And we shouldn't have to depend on folks behind the counter who are not trained and don't know
much about, you know, medicine, how cannabis should be treating someone as an individual.
So that's what I'm working on. Super excited about it. I'm happy to share it.
Awesome. Dr. Jennifer, you're up.
I just want to say thank you for the space. Thanks for the invite to the stage. I really
enjoyed it. You can find me in the clubhouse streets at HealingLeafSC.com. Don't just type
in Healing Leaf because that's some dude in Texas and I do not know who he is or his products.
I am trying to focus on the female side of my product line. So right now I have a
lube and body oil in the works. It's like 500 milligrams. So I'm trying to go back to the
some products that are just specific for females as we get into, we find out more about hormones
and how cannabis is affecting all those systems as well. So I don't want to leave out the ladies
since I am one. And Cannabis Spa is looking for founders. So if you are in the wellness space or
in the spa industry, know someone that owns a spa, there is no education in that formal education
for practitioners in that space either. So if you want to be a founder, go to joincsa.org.
That should be launching in the next month or two. If you'd like to be a founding member,
if you have products that you need vetting or you just want to go there and learn something,
those are the options available for that. And I'll keep everybody posted with my research at Clemson
and I'm complete. Go ahead, Cody. You're the last. You'll be their closing person for the day.
Are you there, Dr. Cody? You are on mute if you are not aware of that.
We'll give you a minute here and then for like three seconds and then we'll chop it. But I was
excited. I love the question you brought up, Gray, because I've wondered something similar,
but not necessarily on hermapredicative plants, but more like, do seeded plants have the potential
to have a different, completely unique terpene profile or unique breakdown or something?
So I thought it was an awesome question. Thank you for bringing that to the stage. I'm going to
give you one last chance there, Cody. Do you want to let people know how to get a hold of you,
where to see you, what you're working on right now? And before you go, oh, he's dropped out.
Apparently he has lost connection, but I do have his Instagram as well as Dr. Kaplan's. Dr. Jennifer,
I'll get yours on the back just because we'll put it in here. We are also semi-closed to
over a future cannabis product. So thank you all so much for showing up. And I'm going to
shut the room down again and thank you all for coming today. Bye.
All right. So I'm going to make you do it. You got to, you got to, oh, there you are. You're on stage.
Can I hear you? I can't hear you.
That was fun. Yeah, that was a really awesome show. I was super entertained by that.
Like just absolutely stellar to dig into that. I can't wait. We've got a lot of fun stuff coming
up in the next little bit too. What's our next week is retail sales. And actually the guy,
we found, Anita found this awesome fellow called Owen, I've forgotten his last name, but the video
is already up there for people to check out. But you can't, you can just like, you know, save it
and share it and stuff. Because it's not, it's not till next week, but the next day, however, he's a
retail, he's a one-off, he was a one-off retail dispensary in Southern Ontario and he's killing it.
And he's like, he's the top place in the local, he's not like owned by a big corporate company.
He's just like some guy that won that, the lottery and is doing super well. So we'll talk about the
retail side of cannabis in the next week. We got acid cannabis near on tomorrow. You're going to
come for that. You're welcome to come for a visit for that one. If you'd like. I'll try, I'll try,
man. You know, I'm like fucking busy. And like, even today, I just, I kind of took a personal
day and talk shit online all day with everybody, which is nice. I haven't done that like a good
six months. So, Oh, we're still alive. Yeah, no, we're still totally live.
So we'll do the wave. We got to do the wave. You got to do the wave.
