Okay I think that one's gone. And I hope this is working.
Ah, Loyalty is there. Cool. Fired up.
Transition. I'm not there though. Here I am. Good morning. How's everyone today?
How about I need to figure out how I can press the buttons and play the flute at
the same time. Would that be neat? That's the assistant.
Ooh we're out of tune. The stone is out of place. Little broken note is up for
Brackey there. Good morning everyone. Thanks for joining. We're gonna do a
little more review of the internet posts. No, not internet. Instagram. That guy.
Alright. What's up Dan, Dab, Loyalty, Keeper of the Strings. Good morning everybody.
I just had a, I kind of knew this already, but the original mail from the
Breath of Green Dragon that I used and I used it to cross into a whole bunch of
other things. Just everything come out heavy to them and heavy to them. So I'm doing my
square of Dr. Dream and I'm, it was heavy, lemon when I put it in the bag,
but it's been in the bag for several months and a cure, and my goodness, purple lemon
cushions with skunk background. Wow. It's a great head. So I'm gonna be smoking on
that a little bit today. And oh hey, look what else we have. The friendly giant, like with the green
beans, Laura. You know what I've been remembering is the story of the giant
that had a big old block, he had a big yard and a block wall they put up to keep the kids out.
The kids kept creeping in. Kids kept, kids kept creaking in, coming in and playing in his
yard. Eventually, like, creeped a little love into his heart and he broke down the
wall so they could all come and play on the swing in the tree. Harmonic vibrations. Vibration is what the
universe is created of. There is no matter, there is only energy vibrating at
different levels. And that's how we make everything. So we refine the harmonic.
I'm on a different level, that's why we're shifting the paradigm. And you guys are here too, because you're on that harmonic.
I'm gonna do, I think I have, there it is, web browser. If I set everything up again, I did.
Alright, I wonder what I can do though here. No, that doesn't work. I can expand what you guys are seeing.
Ah, yeah. Is that better? I think that's a little better. Then, I don't need to see all that, do we?
Oh, hey. Yeah. Now I'm gonna go, um, string theory. I don't think it's string theory. I think it's just the way things are.
Here we go. Cannabis overdose deaths are now equal to the number of people gored to death by unicorns.
I wonder if I can do this. Let's see, I'm gonna try something. I can do this. Oh, that gets smaller for me.
Then I can see the comments still. Alright, last time I missed some questions. And then you guys still get to see this.
But, okay, if I got the right button, I'm going that way. Again, this is a male. We saw this last week.
And I posted this. This was, oh gosh, do I have on here who grew that one? I don't.
That came out of the Pakistani Chitral Kush. It's not a reversal. That's an actual male.
This is a super frosty land race. And the cousin to, parentage of, uh, Zakhistani Kush.
And, um, but these are like really tough to produce pollen.
And there's some chemical treatments you can give them that might help push it out.
There's a little bit of the, uh, the hardcore showing off. This is talking about my expungement papers.
And the good news, I got my expungement papers today. That means, A, I'm not being un-vestigated for anything.
I can clear my record scrubbed all shiny and start driving my, yeah, I didn't do that.
Who went over this last week? Let's see, let's get caught up and get ahead.
This is from when, yeah, this is, uh, haters gonna hate, and losers gonna lose. Thanks for the support.
Oh, don't matter. Let's not read that. But this painting, this is me talking to hippie and the shaman.
And I met him. We were both in the other side, down in the Grand Canyon.
My first wife was taking photos. I'm oil painting this large at some point.
Picture my beautiful, how nice you to treat my children. This is like some witchery from an old brother's grim fairy tale.
Skunks and berries for sure, with the background of gasses. Thanks for, I'm not sure which train you grew there.
There's Tom K. Again, was a volunteer out of one of my bins that I've been pollinating selects into.
Here's that Breath of Green Dragon male I'm talking about that just put lemon, lemon skunk onto everything. Incredibly.
No, Brian asking about that male. They are not. That is an extreme outlier, is what we would call that.
Most people don't really even believe you can get males that are that frosty, but I've seen them from some modern hybrids, polyhybrids.
We'll produce some, but I've never had one of those. I've only had these old land race ones that I run through tons of seeds and find.
And then that was, I'm sorry, I can't remember who his name is right off the bat, but he ran, I'm having good genetics.
He ran through 50 or 60 of those seeds to find that.
This one here has got frost on it, but you can hardly see it.
But that's pollen and where it's distorted on the left side, there's a little bit.
You can just kind of barely see the frosties on this guy.
Another runs. Let's see, so I got to go there.
Why is my internet so slow?
So somebody saved my life one day and shouted out.
I stopped complaining online. I realized this is a downer for people.
No one needs to know about how much, lots of people are in pain.
And so I, but one day this was so bad, a storm was coming through and I wanted to die and the pain was so bad.
Somebody shouted out for someone else to send me some topical and I ended up getting a jar in the mail a couple weeks later that changed my life in ways that like,
I was laying on the ground and just wanted to die because the pain was so intense.
And I remember I had that jar, I took it, put it on my back and 10 minutes later I was doing housework.
And so I chested again the next week and just put it on one side.
Nothing's ever worked, nothing at all until I do put this stuff on.
I do some stress testing on males, yes, but not the same way I stress test my females, but they do get, they tend to get root bound stress testing and I crush their stems, see how strong they are.
And then I put them through weird light cycles.
But here we can see what I'm putting in this, Dr. Gene Volkier's topical alone mint, coconut oil, olive oil, beeswax, feco, which is a cold extract, cannabis oil.
This one had orange oil, lemon oil and rosemary.
Doing a lot with just lavender, I'm putting lavender flower go.
And it doesn't take much of that THCA to really make a huge difference in your life.
And I take pills that are about the same.
That's about the same thing that I'm looking for when I start out a cancer patient is about 2% that doesn't use cannabis.
And then you start adding.
Dr. Days Gardens saying, I've started eating raw cannabis flower since I heard you talk about raw flower for pain.
It helps me to eat and kills almost any pain.
So it's not just me that this works for.
And I appreciate you shouting out with that info.
Right now, I'm having a really hard time getting my daughter's mother to understand the benefits of cannabis.
She started her. She started she started chemo last Thursday and went all week without even asking for anything.
Just take a little puff.
I'm trying to get her to take the whole pill is a whole nother story because I have somebody might have heard me say she went to Portland where she has cousins and walked into a dispensary and they sold her chocolate bar and she ate the whole thing.
And had that typical bad experience that people can have when they're not guided properly on how to consume these things or titrated up a little bit.
Let's see.
I'm looking at what I'm testing the males of people that people talk about male testing over here and I'm looking for structure primarily smell.
We shape leaves inner nodes structure the flower through the timing of the flower and the timing the onslaught of the flower the timing of the completion of the flower.
Exit is 3023. That's one of the holy anointing oil protocols.
So some of you may have heard me talk about there's Israeli scholars who have taken the time and they're not potheads are not cannabis enthusiasts are not there.
They're scholars of their ancient faith and the language and the words and the math words and interesting math syntax languages is awesome and this language kind of started out the same way.
They went back and did the proper translations from you know, we talked about these books having been translated so many times and some of you say it's the command of the deity controlling the hand of the translations and this that and the other thing and then people go back and say well, but that's not even what it said.
So but but these these Israeli scholars have pointed out that like the sweet cane that we talked about in the holy anointing oil is actually the cannabis and that's where the origin of six pounds of cannabis and the
Was it five gallons of olive oil comes from for the holy anointing oil or the cannabis and oil and so it's just a really cool little screenshot of an image that was talking about that I grabbed at some point.
Happy winter solstice so that would have been 165 weeks ago. It says anyhow.
Little superior and superior proper says this is actually where is this is beer. There's the bottom of superior suicide shoot off to the right.
I took that shot years ago. So how do you keep it real this six millimeter black plastic is the same I use for po boy light depth. It has light insulation as insulation at night and absorb solar radiation on a snowy day.
So a cold day I threw I could throw this on there on halfway. I've designed and tested many passive systems to reduce costs and increase productivity soil outside is frozen and 50 degrees inside.
This is before I put my gas heater in there and I think I only had like a single layer. You can see plastic on there.
I can help you. So if you live and grow in a harsh environment. I can help you solve the equation to maximize returns on minimum inputs. So I'll hashtag solve the equation hashtag sacred or sacred plant hashtag logo life hashtag ecosystem imagery energy cycling systems.
So that's inside
36.8
36.8
71 I'm not sure what I was touching. Oh, maybe soils temperatures.
We have here. This is by no means an empirical list. These have all have variable synergistic and antithetical interactions compounded by terpene and flavonoid profiles.
If you have not seen the December list the vault is open until New Year's Day hashtag into the botany hashtag solve the equation hashtag beans beans beans hashtag land race seeds hashtag genetics hashtag grow your own. And so the chart has medical benefits THC. So yeah, just one of those charts.
And you can just research medical benefits of cannabis.
There's all sorts of relieves pain THC CBN where the I don't know what the different colors.
Suppresses appetite CBN THC V. I guess to lesser extent. So it's saying. All right, greater stints. I don't have the code on there. You always need the key to a map to understand what the map says.
With different things that can or do and different strains kills or slows bacterial growth reduces blood sugar levels.
This is vomiting and nausea THC CBD THC a CBD a reduces seizures and convulsive. So I wonder. Oh, there's red up there to
That's got everything marked on it almost CBN is not marked THC V is not marked for cancer.
With the rest do nervous system protectant THC and CBD suppresses muscle spasms.
Modulates the immune system CBD reduces spasms in small intestines tranquilizing and anti-psychotic.
With the rest do nervous system protectant THC and CBD suppresses muscle spasms releases and relieved anxiety stimulates appetite. Just THC.
Modulates the immune system.
CBD.
Reduces spasms in small intestines, tranquilizing and anti-psychotic.
CBD.
This thing's pretty cool.
Old school Rosin Press Hash Pest.
So this is a rubber vulcanizing tool.
Weighs like a lot.
And...
It was given to me by one of the founders of the first medical clubs in the Bay Area.
John... I need to get a hold of John.
And anyhow, yeah, that's just a... he used it for... they pressed hash with it for years and years and years to get the cancer patients and stuff.
And...
The funniest story, it got to me because it was too heavy to mail.
And you see it's just solid steel.
And he walked out of the house one day and there's somebody like filling up buckets and buckets of this spent soil that he is spreading out into his garden.
And he's like, what's going on here?
He's like, oh, I'm trying to help out.
I'm from Utah.
And John's head goes...
Well, you want some soil, do you?
I've got a friend in Utah that needs this thing.
So he gave him soil in exchange for bringing this out to me.
And I ended up meeting these people to get this from them and teaching them about cannabis as medicine for cancer patients.
I think his aunt or something was about to go under.
So... and helped him out understanding that stuff.
Frequencies.
People talk about Dog's Day's garden is asking, I've been interested in how the quantum world effects biology.
And you hear it in the woo-woo form of your attitude affects your garden.
And this is the truth because it's all frequency and energy.
That's where it's real.
Here's a neat one. Have you ever grown gold in cannabis?
I was just cleaning some seeds from this Malawi gold and it struck me that the stark color difference was quite profound.
To be sure, there is more than one way to grow gold.
Tell us about your gold flower tech.
Area Zing sells this. They don't call it gold for nothing.
And Bro Organico heard it had something to do with sun drying too.
At least the so-called Colombian gold.
And so I believe I replied on that one.
Colombian gold in the elevation and a lot of the sativas, I talk about it like a forever flower that can be bred by combining the two forms of...
The two forms of auto flower or two of the forms, the equatorial and the high latitude ruderalis.
But the equatorial sativa is also not daylight dependent so much as it triggers by how many days it's grown.
And so you trigger those ones together.
But the Acapulco or some of those tropical gold highland strains, they literally would go through and they would become these trees, monster trunks.
And they go through and wrap a wire on it to girdle it and they crank that thing down.
And it would stop the nutrient flow into the plant and that would yellow it out and golden it.
You can overgrow it in the sun, dry, you can leave it in the greenhouse for the winter and it can totally bleach out a lot of that chlorophyll.
And there's different benefits and detractants from it.
But it still works as a medicine for various applications when you've done that.
Let's see, I got some other pictures of it there too.
Yeah, golden weed.
There's definitely different colors of cannabis.
That's a beautiful, that's a good hashtag I use occasionally that I got from, oh I can't think of the name of the gal with the blue hair.
But let's see, do you even probiotic?
Hashtag. I use fertilizers to make, I use fertilizers I make from plants and milk.
All of my inputs besides the full strength acid used to deal with 9 pH tap water is fully safe to eat.
And even that acid when diluted to balance pH is safe to drink.
Mostly I use labs to balance, but I mix it up with other probiotic acids, apple cider vinegar away from yogurt.
And shown as kombucha mint tea forming up a new SCOBY.
The reason we do not use one only and particularly vinegar is that it precipitates with phosphorus to balance pH.
Meaning you're having to add phosphorus and eventually we develop other deficiency imbalance over or overloading imbalances.
Quote, microbes are to the organic grower as medical radians are to the Jedi masters.
Be the Jedi gardener quote. And that's me, I am quoting my own little.
But if you didn't catch what I just said there, if we're adding vinegar constantly into our, into our reservoirs or grows for pH balance,
it precipitates the phosphorus and goes into, falls out of solution.
So you're constantly adding phosphorus to balance up and it messes up other balances.
If you look at the, I can't think of the name, the Mulder's list, right?
So if you look at Mulder's chart, you can understand what I'm saying a lot better there.
Yeah, my seedy weed is more crystally than your crystalese.
Some hash balls from back in the day.
Those were full on Cedra and Char Ross removals.
Static love isn't working for me.
Dry sift clean, I've not had any dry sift static tech work for me.
I need, I want to try building the multiple screens and push wet through.
But I get, I've, for my, I make some amazing dry sift.
It is full six star, but it's very small quantity.
And if you follow these reviews, we'll be seeing some of that.
I've gotten to where I can make better bubble or more easier with the fresh frozen is where I've gotten to.
I see people doing, but we all have different abilities and stuff.
I finally got my very first bulk substrate run to really flow.
And I'm building a pinning and fruiting chamber.
But I've been trying and struggling with this shit since I got out of college.
But it's what we concentrate on.
And someone was asking about how the sub, the quantum affects the macro.
And that's part of it.
And our, what we concentrate on, it becomes a reality of what our thoughts are a reality.
And if they don't spend the time to concentrate on the particular item that you're concentrating on, you're not going to have the information.
The Jesuits used to talk about like, you can't do two things at once.
You can do multiple things really fast together, but you can't do two things at once.
Okay, like you can't drive and tune the radio, the car goes into autopilot or not pilot and you're tuning the radio or texting.
Okay, and so it's the same kind of thing where it's like right now I'm putting as much concentration as I can into understanding where I've gone wrong in the past and making sure I don't fuck that up on this particular.
But, and so with our plants and everything like that, our vibration, our flow, our, let's give it for instance, the last few days I've had incredible spinal pain for my thoracic edema.
So the last, the two days prior I didn't do shit, right?
I haven't been doing a damn thing.
I mean, my body was in full recovery mode.
It doesn't matter what else I need to get done.
That's all I can do.
So I have to concentrate on alleviating the pain and then I can get on to dealing with scrubbing out the grow room for the free chamber and sterilizing everything, right?
But if it goes to where I'm laying on my back in pain for a week and I can't get to check the temperatures and the humidities, that shit goes to dust, right?
And so the same kind of thing, same kind of thing with getting that static tech.
I've tried a whole bunch of different things and there's so many different parameters.
Like your humidity, your temperature and all that kind of stuff plays into, like my hands sweat like a fucking bit.
I have hands that sweat profusely and feet that sweat profusely.
That can totally affect whether the rubber is going to hold that static charge or not.
But yeah, so the quick balance and that first quick balance or trim is, and then I'll actually go through and triple sift it.
And so the finest, we're talking about cultivar relationships with sifting and bubble, it's the same thing, right?
Your cultivars and then there's so many things that go into these factors, right?
Just like that, getting the pinning to happen.
I had literally a walk-in mushroom facility for trying to grow oyster mushrooms and I failed at that, right?
Just being honest because I had so much other things going.
I was running my farm and I'm like, I want to expand out and I had grain spawn was handed to me and I ran that and I expanded out a thousandfold.
And then I had a coffee shop that I was going to and I was getting five to ten gallons of coffee grounds a day, right?
Inoculating with grain spawn and getting these bags full and I had this room just stacked up with, but I could never get the humidity to make it go.
I got a couple of pins once.
Anyhow, so yeah, there's a whole bunch of different, like I watched the guys in Pakistan and Afghanistan who dry sift and cold temperatures is huge.
And then like refining it down, refining it down.
There's definitely some nice, I see over here smoking some dry farm hardcore.
I think this afternoon I'm going to sample some of those samples.
Samples, thank you.
What do they do?
So they refine it down, they refine it down.
They'll take their big pile of finished stuff and then they'll take it and they'll super fine it and throw off the ball.
Each time they're just like making a moonshine, they're cutting their heads and tails off, right?
And they're pulling the good bulk in the middle and the heads goes to the super refined zone, tails gets tossed off into the lower quality.
So there's different ways of doing that dry tech, but I got way more than I can ever.
What does it say?
Tangy, wish you were here.
I grew up with citrus trees.
I grow citrus at home.
The blossoms are divine, but they just starting to flower now and they're all ripe in La Quinta, California.
The electric orange citrus phenos remind, reminder post, thinking about it.
I have pineapple, lemon, lime, oranges and grapes and watermelon.
There's one that is a straight peach cobbler in the vault.
Terpenes, hashtag.
So yeah, there's some crazy terpene.
What is this?
This is a fig I think I got growing here.
That's my variegated lime, I think.
Pink variegated lemon.
That's what that one is.
So the King Strephoria and I want to get lion's manes rolling.
And I'm going to keep on working on getting the psilocybes until I can figure that out.
Here is descendants of Dr. Dream.
This is a feminized seed production run.
Not too concerned about the perfect nutrition for the girls.
And I'm using only half as much light as normal for flower production.
Using as little energy inputs as possible after the pollen sets.
These are getting moved outside to the heated hoop house to finish out in late winter, spring, sun averaging 12 hours.
I've sorted literally thousands of seed starts to put this group together.
The pollen donor is the alpha female, Breath of Purple Dragon, and a secondary source from another keeper.
That selection, and that was again a Breath of Purple Dragon.
So I used two females, the alpha and beta on this run.
And wished I got more pollen and more seed from that whole run.
Dr. Dream all here, hashtag Breath of Purple Dragon, hashtag Spiders from Mars, hashtag ZTrack 2.0, hashtag Henry Kissinger Phoenix, aka HKP, hashtag Sogmaster,
hashtag DDAC by Gonzo, all the above are backcross squares and cubes.
And the closest thing to Dr. Dream all cure I'll be releasing in any foreseeable future.
Hashtag Tangy, hashtag Mazer Sharif, hashtag Hindu Kush, hashtag Yeager, hashtag Cherry Cookies, hashtag Pintar Skunk from at Magic Beans, and hashtag Wet Dream.
And a cold tolerant hashtag hemp.
I'm also making a large run of feminized cold tolerant hemp in this cycle.
As soon as these move out to the hoop house, I'll flip another set for cancer medicine flower production to set into cold frame for spring 12s after two or three weeks under lamps.
I can roll out three spring cycles in a very small time space using extremely low energy inputs this way.
I can scale this up from a one man operation to full industrial economy of scales.
This is 34 years of thinking and doing and learning now teaching and giving, paying back, paying forward.
I have found the quality source colloidal silver I'm happy to use with the local.
The local to me producer has asked me to market the niche market and I have some available for Seminine seeds.
But I can recommend this stuff as an integral holistic health and personal freedom.
Yeah, I know ignorant group thinks is colloidal silver is GMO, but I'm a scientist and I know it's not all GMO.
Not at all GMO. The persistence of hermaphrodites and most feminized seed is a result of greedy puppy mill production.
Quote, so-called breeders quote that have never performed a stress test on any genetic in their pool.
Every single girl in my arsenal has been extreme tested.
From 160s two weeks ago.
And I ended up having this like the worst time because I couldn't we'll see they go through these.
I just wasn't getting here is hashtag Dr. Dream all here hashtag.
I smoke bottoms hashtag one hit shit hashtag one hit and quit hashtag land race breeding hashtag 50 year project hashtag and theogen not available in stores.
I cut so elite only one person besides me has a safety keeper and then actually everyone I ever gave a safety keeper to killed it or failed to keep it alive.
It's a tough strain and yeah, and my house since 97 this particular keeper clone from the last five seed popped in October 11.
And actually were killed by if I thought through a damping off but I got skills knowledge and abilities.
I managed to cut the ceiling tops off and recessed resisted to two of them and the right one survived the godsend genetics.
When you know it's all good. It's because it's all good.
The base Hindu Kush IBL from my brother ran over a decade and group of Snoop Dogg's first contract grow in the early 90s.
Across the Phoenix my mentors life work to a mashup 26 land race genetics he selected in situ walking the hippie trail from about 71 to 90 and all of 30 years of work before the feds took him out one pack of seeds survived the raid and he gifted it to me.
I back cross that two times into the end of Kissinger of my brother's handiwork 2008 acquired a cut of the San Fernando Valley ogk from the dispensary in San Fernando Valley.
The five seed Dr. Dream all cure came from was across of these two and I'm pretty sure it was a Herm flower and this is why I've spent several years making crosses and back crosses and land races gear etc.
The Dr. Dream all cure has a very minor unpredictable fluorescence of monoacism or male flowers, LD me and randomly pops out of the auxiliary bud site basal position.
They are conspicuous obvious at day 14 to 21 and fall off at the touch of a finger and less than 20% produce any viable pollen just enough to ruin a commercial operation.
Fully tolerable in micro production or intensive managed craft production.
It is the back crosses that really bring out the Dr. Dream cure flavors nose uncontrollable stink and one hit potency.
Hashtag flowers better than dabs hashtag sacred or a secret plant hashtag plant medicine and Dr. Dream all cure Zion God send genetics.
We weren't list searches of my home in the period of time before I even got it cloned out the great spirit the universe vibration the first thought origin protected it to be the cure all God send genetic.
But it um boy so that's what I typed out and that's what it says there yeah black and white that pretty doesn't look like much does it.
Static tag and see fish to three year old rotting wood chips mixed in the soil and I'll get the inky caps out nice growing edible mushrooms with the herb.
So the side over here over here we said I got it nice we got the in comments couple of mods here but the purple dragon go people have really really dug that particular.
And I wish there was more of those I really think there's a bunch of them sitting somewhere on a shelf.
It seemed to just disappear was a explaining mad science math and a wheezer ease take off a.
What does this say parent parent female one parent male one hybrid form F1 we got back crosses got arrows going up with you can we here we go.
F1 F2 F3 is back cross boy what am I saying here.
Back cross three to five times to get a parent one female cut only you can back to the true producing see you go parent one parent to parent three hybrid to form new F1.
Yeah this is nuts what am I fucking trying to say here.
F1 of P1 P2 hybrid to form oh yeah so I'm showing where squares are where cubes are.
That's what's going on here.
Orange blossoms are so divine.
Of course circumstance would be such that I'm headed to so California.
Of course, circumstance would be such that I'm headed to SoCal for a week right when my citrus blossoms.
Last picture is from
Rude Skunk Kush.
Salmon Row. The filter makes it look like more red than gold. I see if you're anywhere near La Quinta.
And I was pit-stopping in Apple Valley.
Vegas for gas.
Orange blossoms. Beautiful.
Oh, Salmon Row. That's what that is. Back when I was making diamonds by hand.
Hardy Gear. Hashtag, Feminize Seeds. Run update.
30 days or so long. The first picture, Breath of Purple Dragon. Second is with Colloidal Silver. These were sprayed
once a day for
the first two weeks. But the fact is I did my work and ran thousands of beans and
each hashtag stress tested to the extreme. Called all but 20 or so to work from. Folks always bitching about
hashtag Femgear being hashtag hermaphrodite prone.
But what they need to do is bitch about is being scammed by puppy mill pollen chuckers. Don't get me wrong.
I am the king chucker.
I am only able to run 72 to 300 seeds at a time. True breeding requires
thousands of individuals at each fallilial stage.
But if you don't put in the work, you're basically a ripoff or a selling bird food.
My mentor found it takes five generations of selection and open field setting to eliminate the hermit traits from
hashtag land race is my belief and experience.
That stress test selection can do it much faster. Ethylene stability is the key factor removing the hermit traits. In order to find the
unstable girls, you have to do stress testing. Note the hemp plant in the last photo.
It was selected only for cold
tolerance. Flipped, sprayed, the same schedule as Beth Purple Dragon.
It is ethylene unstable and was producing male fluorescence at the same time as the first pistil showed.
I stopped. Where'd that go?
I stopped applying colloidal silver 10 days ago and the hemp keeps on just kept on going, right?
I actually re-vegged it and
went back into flower and it continued to produce
male pollen
or feminized pollen. The Breath Purple Dragon on the other hand, I started
there's the hemp
heavier doses twice a day and it's now just beginning to show the stamens. Yeah, I'm aware that I have some nutrient imbalance.
There are about 15 different genetics in the group and each has a different feeding requirement.
It's near impossible to get them all and perfect in this system in small pots of living soil without
massive amounts of waste using short recirculation effluents exchange every seven days.
So I was doing all at this time
not really KNF but different types of ferments and stuff
from
yard waste five gallon buckets and labs
primarily and I would ferment things and add them in to
my biodigester system and I was doing all this stuff is
pure as I could get it. One of the most extreme equations you could ever do is a multi-strain
pure hydrogenic system like that.
I don't make colloidal silver. No, I find that it just lets some economies of scales.
It's not that expensive when you find the right producers.
What's here? Oh, that's that hemp again.
15 different genetics in this group each has a different feeding requirement. It's near impossible to get them all and perfect in the seeding system.
I grow for the hashtag seventh generation. My daughter's great-great-grandchildren.
Hashtag clean water. Hashtag clean air. Hashtag clean soil. Hashtag probiotic garden. Hashtag living soil.
Hashtag high times magazine. Hashtag breeder cup 2018. Hashtag organic seed. Hashtag grow your own. Hashtag homegrown. Hashtag
drop seeds not bombs. Hashtag breeders choice. Hashtag stoner nation. Hashtag instaweed. Hashtag heal yourself.
Hashtag sacred medicine. Hashtag entheogen.
Live music is better. Bumper stickers should be issued.
So this is
Sogmaster, Henry Kissinger
Phoenix.
These are a few of the hair I'm about to take the feminized poem from Breath of Turf or Dragon.
Keep in mind there are 600 watts in a 1200 watt room.
Gallon pots not being fed nudes or carbonized air. Waiting patiently for to produce offspring.
So something I've realized now at this point is that in order to get
reversal pollen you really need to have the full
high pressure sodium spectrum going at full strength for those girls and that was a lesson I've learned since then and
understand now that was also attributing to this thing not reversing.
But I also just that Pakistani line the whole Pakistani line
which Breath of Purple Dragon is Dr. Dream all up here across to the same parents line of
Zaki Stanley Kush has a really hard time producing pollen both from that frosty males
never really get any pollen from
and you'll see some pictures I think we'll get to
The purple mutant Chitral Stardust had like the scraggliest little male ever and I literally used a
Scalpel to extract pollen from that one
See
Variability in fertilizer talents, how do you know what you're getting out of the most out of a plant when phenol honey?
So I like to do for me. I believe in utilizing when I'm phenol hunting
Starving the crap out of them and then maybe even over feeding them and stressing them on all sorts of ways that the
beginning brown thumb
Patient who needs medicine but has no fucking clue how to grow a plant
It's still gonna get proper medicine and if it can survive and produce in the worst
possible situations and the worst stresses
It's gonna fucking crank for you when you put it under whatever system you've developed over
However, many years even grown and perfecting the art of understanding and dialing in the system, right?
Other people do it completely different other people believe that you have to have it growing in the perfect system to find the best ones
And to me, I think that's just confusing
You find a whole bunch of them to producing really similar because they all have perfect conditions, right?
So that's that's
That's my philosophy on those parts and other people again. There's a lot of us doing different things
We're not all doing the same thing and and the results are very different and for different people and such like that
There's people who've never grown a plant from seed that sells seeds
Okay, so
Here we go, so what I saying waiting patiently is produced offspring progeny of legends to come
Each pack will have untold og qualities of connoisseur level nose and head
Primarily for my own severe pain issues
I needed to be able to climb trees with the chainsaw or fight fire for 30 hours initial
Attack while living with pain from an undiagnosed broken neck
There are a couple of sativa
Dom in here too. These seeds will be labeled as
not for breeding purposes
If you're interested in fire spelled f Y re breeders I have actually
hundreds of regular male female hybrids and
IBL and race genetics
Z track again 30 days with under half light
Breath of green dragon
Jaeger
In do a coach
You like the Gregorian
Seed packs seed packs seed packs
See pack twists this dr. Dream by gonzo a sweet purple D by plush berry by a plush berry by narco berry
You don't got that one in your staple though you so this one I did as a test for
Guy that was going by the name of gonzo. I think
608 to next now. I'm not 100% sure I lost track of him
But I did an experiment as well as ones where I crossed it to dr.
Dream two plants determine there was all these fruit pie flavors and cobblers and things teeny little flowers
I couldn't get to go very big but man when I crossed them over just
Made some great crosses and neither one of them
It didn't hurt when you hurt when you cross the two herms, and this is something
I've done it several times, and it's kind of weird. I have no idea which what why
But this is like the other double recessive or a recessive and it cancels out with the double ah here check this out
This is purple mutant Chitil stardust
Bump bump bump bump bump so like um in the jars holding one of its sisters
Like grown in the same system same size same time right and that's a that's a court. No pint jar right
so
Like sometimes you find those outliers that like this is the winner
This is my head so purple mutant Chitil stardust is dr. Dream all cure bogs blue moon rocks
alpha female
F1 by a purple mutant pakistani
Kush male
Kush male
My mentor explained the narrowest leaf he ever saw was a landrace indica growing in the hills above chitral
The test run I made using the most mutant
Skinny leaf male that I could literally had to tease and tweeze pollen from that's when I just said I used a scalpel on
Produced the biggest dank cola i've ever grown in a two gallon pot of living soil
That is its sister in the jar a very limited f2 packs went out of this stuff
Male hermes happen. Someone's asking over here in chat. Do you ever come across male hermes? And so the male herme
has different attributes that are fun to explore and um
dj short
used to say that they were the
Way, he would produce like a 70 female crop
and um again if you're
So some people shy away from them because they think that it's the hermaphrodite genetic and now that we have actual
Genetic genome studies we can check that shit out and I would love to
um be doing that kind of stuff instead of sitting here from
My living room telling you about what I did three years ago
Bog was the man, right?
Yes, bog totally made fire
Rest in peace. I'm getting sour diesel from my uncle in a couple of weeks
He's driving it to me from montana. I also bring in purple punch and form cut
girl scout cookies
Well, those are some classics from a minute ago
Good for you
Nice to have some actual cuts to know what they are
Um, what's the other picture of this guy? Let's see. So it's a little film of seed. No, it's a bad picture of seeds
So yeah, there's only a dozen a lot of these things I put out. There's only a dozen was this there was 24 35 p track
Or the 1.0 p track, right which is which is the uh
P track 1.0 is breath of purple dragon alpha male back cross the dr. Dream all cure here
huge chronic turkey thighs
Check earlier post to see more
Breath of green dragon just
Announcing I have seeds. So the last of these seeds peter has it was at 34 out of 49
I sent him like the last 20 packs of those and the last I checked there was a still
um
Quite a few people aren't buying those, you know
Whatever it is what it is. It's kind of funny
Um
Breath of purple dragon alpha female reversal ff1 production seed run there. It is finally tired to push off some may some pollen
um, so ethylene zero the
Zero stamens have appeared thus to disproving any nonsense about trioceous
Tri trioceous species, which is a misnomer for use from not understanding the actual hermaphrodite versus monaceous
versus dioecious and
I've maybe seen a true herm and cannabis once in a male, but I don't
Did not dissect and examine the ovule
And stamen base to see if they originate from the same floral meristem base point
A true hermaphrodite flowering plant has both male and female in one flower
dioecious species have the general requirement of two plants with
Male flower parts and another with female flower plants monaceous is a plant that has both male flowers and female flowers on the same plant
But not necessarily in a single flower structure. It is my understanding that stress testing cold protocol
Eliminate the weak ethylene unstable undesirable traits that lead to common error system
Failure from self-pollination most folks would sell seeds are not breeders nor have done any actual breeding selection use of hype
the name to find
pt
suckers
Pts pt barnum suckers. You won't find my work hyped up anywhere. I've been working on some of my
Some of my ones longer than euc finder has been a dot com thing
I've been arrested by federal agents of mexico canada usa for my sacred anthelminton
This isn't about getting rich to me. I would have left my daughter before she was born to go to a green russian
To go a green a russian, but that said i'm not giving my life's work away for cheap either
Hashtag high time hashtag thc hashtag thca hashtag stoner life hashtag weed is medicine hashtag
Entheogen hashtag gray around hashtag masculine meal hashtag probiotic weed hashtag probiotic seeds hashtag pfa hashtag
nftg
Hashtag 801 mmj
Hashtag land race breeding hashtag breeders cup 2018 hashtag dang hashtag skunk weed hashtag by cannabis seed
I see a party
Ba ba ba ba
Let's see here next where we at on time 8 55
Here's some film
Do you sound oh me turn the sound on to the girls? I got
um
Dozen of them down there. These are all selected females. I got one duplicate
I've been working on for years and they're gonna get pollinated by a selected male
And we're gonna have a bunch of squares and back crosses and stuff here
But so we're in the shower to keep things awake and we're able to after
Detest or pollen go ahead and close here and then we can grab our
Spritzer and start spritzing and all along
Our fan's gonna be gone. I'm going to do our clothes until we fully spritzer ourselves
Closet check and one-on-one so we got a bunch of uh girls. I got
Um
So i'm teaching here how I use
I've been working on it. I use uh different systems for pollinating things and now you can do some home home seed poll
Chucking here's a little clip showing a method of pitching pollen isolated in a small workspace and closet chucking without cross-contamination
I have three groups of hareem right now and I don't want to mix studs
So I got these in the shower exhaust fan running bathroom door closed creating a vacuum through outside isolation chamber
no steam or
No steam or residual moisture from bathing as that jeopardizes the pollen viability after using a paintbrush to release the love dust
In air above the flowers we can close the shower and start to spritz ourselves in any surface pollen
May possibly settle on the closed shower space keeps the plants isolated
From
Rh increase as we spritz ourself on the way out
After a couple hours to allow the pollination process to engage
We re-enter with spritzer and neutralize remaining loose pollen and return the harem to the normal growing area the full season
I have multiple vacuum
pressure systems to isolate various rooms
And control airflow for precision chuck on pre-marked branches color code tags and pollen together
um
Really helps keep track. What's what and so
again pre-marking
pollen containers with color code pre-marking your branches and then like
You know having a swamp cooler kicking air through the house and having vacuums moving things around
Exhaust fans and stuff. You can control where your pollen goes. You can literally watch it with a backlight against the shadow
And see where your pollen move
techniques that i'm using now though include utilizing
um
actual syringes and injecting pollen into
small micron mesh bags that allow uv light through and stuff
um
So, let's see. I'm gonna go
We got two minutes left i'm gonna find my shutdown
You know, I just realized I wasn't in the
I wasn't there talking the whole time
Um
Golly, uh, you guys missed all the facial expression fun stuff and hand signals and blah blah blah blah
anyhow
Such as as it is
We have no filter cam. I got to do the same thing. Where is it? Um
Can I activate it? No source selected how?
That ain't working why ain't that working I guess I got that one's working
um
Any questions
There's people talking about genetics
Yeah, I don't know i'm i've got some some testers going right now that I started last fall i'm gonna be feminizing some
Hindi kush and making some more nigerian
ubuntu
And other than that right now i'm
Doing a little soul search and my daughter's almost turning 18 and i've been saying for years
It's time for me to get the puck out of utah
And go do some other things
but
Making seeds don't even pay for itself. So i'm kind of backburner in that and just concentrating on some small projects I think
and uh growing more food
Pulling tarps all summer is a lot of work if you've never done it
So the last several years i've done it from um
Um basically the end of march right on through mid-september and that's every 12 hours you got to be there
Appreciate y'all for checking in we'll do this again next week
Have a great day go out and do great things make the world a better place to live appreciate you
Let's see I
