Welcome back. I'm here working in the office studio.
Appreciate you guys joining me. Another beautiful day.
Checking out, doing a little bit of basic design work on some technical stuff on Works
Granon. Listening to a little bit of philosophy.
Let's see. It's time to shift the paradigm.
It's time to see the world from a different point of view.
Good morning. Good morning.
Welcome. Let's see. What are we going to do today?
Let me show you.
I'm drawn. I'm drawn.
I'm frustrated because I can draw really well and I know how to draft, but I don't
know how to do it on the damn computer.
I'll figure that out after we have our chat today.
I know this is a simple way. I just haven't played this game in a minute.
I've got to capture this little piece of design I made on one side and flip it over
to the other side.
I broke my computer.
Hold that up there.
I'm copying a little bit of scroll work off of here.
I'm flipping it over. I'm dyslexic and I'm trying to force myself.
It's drawing off the stylus.
That's not what you came here for.
You all saw something new.
The new money.
What's this one from?
My money.
What's that one?
I said New Hampshire on it. Happy, happy day.
Wyoming.
One one thousandth of an ounce of gold.
Real money.
Money, money, money, money, money.
Money, money, money, money.
Let's see what else is there.
There's one more state, two more states that I have these for.
Nevada.
These have gold infused into them.
Just like a gold coin.
Micro collectibles. Nothing else.
It's not an NFT. It's real money.
There's 28 states now that have passed legislation because of inflation.
Why? I think that's a pretty good reason.
Let's consider 1962.
Behind the curtain, Wizard of Oz.
Let's see if I put these right here.
I'm sorry, maybe they're not right here.
I don't know where I put them.
I had six silver quarters sitting around here somewhere.
Six silver quarters in 1962 was minimum wage.
30 bucks for four of them right now?
Most of that's silver value.
The actual silver value of the six of them would be about $30.
That was the true value of two bits.
Two bits is a quarter.
So 12.5 cents is a bit.
A bit is also a real.
So pieces of eight is eight reals.
That was the first coin that we had for the United States of America.
Our first currency was actually Spanish taboos, pieces of eight.
It was eight reals.
We had a lot of Spanish coins.
They were a lot of fun.
They treasure at the time.
We were trying to figure out what we were going to do for currency.
They took a whole bunch of these old Spanish coins and weighed them.
They used to clip the edges off of them.
They didn't have a proper mitt.
They were slamming with a hammer.
They were just like a bunch of coins.
They were just like a bunch of coins.
They became currency.
People would trim them and shave them.
That's where our money came from.
They weighed a whole bunch of these.
The average was 27.5.
That's where our silver dollar came from.
That's where our silver dollar came from.
That's where our silver dollar came from.
Anyhow,
that's where our money came from.
A penny,
it was 110 of a troy ounce.
3.11 grams of copper metal.
Cannabis root saw.
There is someone in Nevada that does that.
They tend to use hydroponic clean to start with.
They don't have to wash off.
You have to pressure wash it.
There are a couple of different things you can get out of it.
That's a new thing I got there.
It's kind of neat.
They are beautiful works of art.
They are beautiful works of art.
They are beautiful works of art.
I have a lot of money collectibles.
I can go exchange these.
Eventually,
there will be people exchanging these.
There will be a new mastic.
A whole bunch of states.
A lot of people have misconceptions.
It comes from a lot of different places.
Green River is definitely beautiful.
Green River grows some of the best melons.
I got a little stack of these.
People are paying twice as much as I did.
I'm going to list them.
Coin show!
I wish I spent more time
on coin show.
I wish I spent more time
on coin show.
The government doesn't own the money.
The government leases the money.
This is where it gets crazy.
There are so many sources.
The government doesn't own the money.
The central bank is a private business.
It's all capitalism.
It's where inflation comes from.
The government has to borrow money
from the central bank.
All of our taxes pay the debts
on the interest on our loan.
It's kind of nuts.
There are so many misconceptions
about how and where it works.
The central bank,
Nixon devalued it, but he was told to.
I got a $20 bill
that said it was exchangeable for real money.
That's what these say.
I can take it to these private banks
and exchange those bills back for gold coinage.
All of these right there
are $101,000.
There is one one hundredth of a coin.
It's not a very big coin.
It's a lot more coinage
than there is in a blockchain.
Where was I headed to?
I had some neat things.
Oh!
Let's see what
Ishii has to teach us today.
He's got a lot of stuff.
He's got a lot of stuff.
He's got a lot of stuff.
Let's turn the cabalian off.
This is the true history of Ishii,
the last wild American Indian.
He's got a holdout in California
until...
I'll read the entry here.
It is nearly half a century since Ishii
startled the modern world by accidentally
wandering into it from the Stone Age.
There follows an account of all
that is surely and truly known to him.
What he believed and felt and did in the
modern world and earlier in his own world
are the bone beads of his story.
The stringing of such of these beads
as could be recovered onto a single strand
has been my task.
Surprisingly, the circle of his life's
history is not just one of its many
incompletions.
The history of Ishii and his people is
an exorbitantly part of our own history.
We have absorbed their lands into our
holdings, just so must we be responsible
custodians to their tragedy,
absorbing into our tradition and morality.
Two worlds.
Theodore Crowe Bear.
1876.
That was to the husband.
Published 1961.
The husband died in 1960.
The author.
Give you an idea of where we are at.
California.
These are some of the larger
tribal group areas.
There was over 500 languages spoken in
California before.
Government doesn't control the central bank.
That's an all big mask.
World Bank, World Monetary Order and all
sorts of.
But yes, it's been.
We've been getting we've been getting
for our money like like the real value
of wages has gone down over my
lifetime by like 300 percent or
something.
That's the real like I said that I'm
1971 but my dad's minimum wage in 1962
is six over quarters and that's now
basically 30 bucks, 45 bucks depending
on where and what you're doing those
we look at the silver content value or
the or the
the purchase power right.
And then some of them I got really nice
shiny ones are worth a little more even.
Hmm.
Just read right where I open it up because
outside the jail.
The ordeal of civilization began
for he at the door of the Orville jail.
It was a sunny September morning less
than a week after he'd stayed out of his
own stone straight out of his own stone
age Yaki world into a 20th century world.
This happened by chance during the
abulia induced by starvation and grief
and was out of character either personal
or tribal except that another Indian
than Ishii would have laying down his
home shelter passively waited for death
and so died. Ishii was sick of life but
his tribal heritage opposed to Indian
quietism fatalism a stubborn will to
fight to the end. This kept him on his
feet and moving even after he ceased to
know or wonder where his feet were
carrying him. They carried him in due
time. Ishii's fate had served him well or
ill. Ishii could not then have said
fearful and preoccupied with the new
reality. Ishii started down Main Street
a myth already beginning to weave itself
around him. It was a personal myth
powerful enough to replace the old one
of the Yaki people as plunders murders
and savages. From the moment he was
freed. Sheriff Webber pooh poohed all
this nonsense and reporters arrived from
Sacramento and the telegrams poured in
from the University and Department of
Interior from private citizens and from
newspapers all over the country. No one
outside had paid Oroville any attention
since the gold rush brought it into being
and left a country town where young
old Detrius of Placer mining. Now it was
name on the lips of the people across
the land because the naked old Indian
locked up in the jail downtown. He was
spoken of as the wild man of Oroville.
The professor who came from the train on
the train from San Francisco said he was
a stone age man the last in America. The
myth had it. Sorry. Shit makes me fucking
cry.
Get that book and read it. I can't do it.
Challenge this.
I gotta find a lighter.
Sorry. Sometimes I forget why I do shit.
Let's go check out some seeds.
Action. Light.
Why do shit? Why preserve land raise?
Here, look.
What's this right here?
All we have left.
All we have left.
Is finding things.
We go left behind.
Alright. That's all that's left.
Rocks on the landscape.
Now we have stuff.
We don't really have real lives. We just got stuff.
Let's see. We got...
Where'd the list go? I'll just go through it sitting here.
Baldia. Alright.
Land raise seeds.
So these are two generations. I got these from
originally a guy in Hoffa.
Hoffa is in Israel.
And I asked him to send me whatever old school stuff they got.
He wanted some more American hybrid stuff.
So I sent him some green dragons and got some baldia seeds
and grew them out a couple of generations.
And that's what I did the dry farm with last year.
A demonstration to show people how
you can grow these old school plants
without a whole lot of water and stuff.
Mixed in to them.
There's one in the background. That's...
Nope. That's not it. They're gone.
They used to be a bunch of Ethiopian barley back there.
Alright. What do we got here?
Pakistani Chichil Kush.
Female Nigerian Yoruba Bantu.
Dad. F1 hybrids.
So that's like an old school, early 90s.
Just pick out a fucking killer hybrid.
The way it looms. Your preference.
You're gonna have a big...
Oh! You know what that's great for?
Someone who wants killer little purple fucking
bank indica buds.
That are spread out with that Nigerian
fucking form from the dad in the northern area.
Someone might be able to fucking pull a...
It's a 60 to 90 days.
Because the Nigerian's 90 and the
Pakistani's 60 on the short end.
We also have Pakistani Chichil Kush
or the Zaka standing Kush.
You can pick your choice on those two.
And what we get with those is the killer purples.
Some bank fucking weed.
And we're gonna get a bunch of hybrids
as we get into here in a little bit.
On the list for the tax day deal here.
Let's see.
Yeah, we got Zaka standing blue line.
We got that label there.
Just Kyber.
Kyber Chichil.
Pretty much the same district there.
Which is not the same district as
the Jalalabad.
What else? Oh here is a whole other
whole other district of Afghanistan.
It's the Hindu Kush.
So I'm just running through these.
Zaka standing is gonna lean towards purple.
And the regular PCK's I offer
have green purple hybrid.
They have very distinctive flavors to them.
Very distinctive stocky straight stem.
Very little blotting branching.
Big main cola.
Of course you can always top it.
That's stuff from the seed.
You can top it and let it grow out.
And clone it, whatever.
And you get multiple beautiful super frosty colas
when you run out the...
Sometimes it takes a little looking to find one
that's got the bigger cola.
But I've tried to again just use
the biggest best males and continue that.
When I run through those.
Those are the four generations I've done on them.
Let's see.
The Jalalabad.
I believe I did one generation from...
I don't know if the stuff I got was reproduced in the States
or came straight from the field.
In 18.
And I think I just did one generation myself.
You get these big fan leaves.
And tropical fruit flavors.
And your hash, right?
And I don't...
I didn't give it the best grow.
I'm trying to like really dial it in.
So I definitely call it a field hash plant
where you need volume of plants to get the volume of hash.
But I think it's like the thing you might want to look for
various turpene and awesomeness
that's different from what someone else has got.
Especially in doing these hybridization projects.
To produce some of these things like I've done.
If you pick one out and then breed it into like a mango.
I'm trying to read my notes in my head on this.
I'm trying to read my notes on this.
There's mango, papaya.
There's some light skunky.
Definitely would be one of my streams.
Each of those different districts in each group.
Farm basically.
If you follow like Azaria or Baba.
They show you the hash bazaars.
And you can see in the buckets in each of these guys.
They each have a slightly different shade.
A different grade.
They might have three different varieties.
And those are all going to have a slightly different effect.
Depending on what they grew in the field.
And what they've been growing and then breeding in.
So whatever.
I think...
So there's a whole bunch of this Jalalabad got spread out around.
And whoever reproduced it's going to have a slightly different...
Direction it goes in.
If that's something you're interested in checking out.
Well.
Hindukush I've got in regular and feminized.
And all my regular packs have 13 in them.
Feminized have at least six.
Sometimes there's a lot more.
And that's because it might not be the best germination rate on them.
And I want those...
Make sure you get six plants at least.
I do all my own casting.
And everything here has been grown by someone else at this point as well.
Pretty much besides me.
I think.
Or part of the series at least.
What to say about Hindukush.
I spent some time looking for a guy.
This guy in Spain had some.
He'd been in breeding for years.
I got it from him.
And I don't know what happened to Shiva.
He told me to fuck off one day and disappeared.
And that's just what the internet does.
I've interacted with him for months or a year.
And I just got a text like, what?
Okay.
I don't know what happened.
This has been my buddy.
So I kind of.
I guess I've bred it towards particulars.
That don't really knock you out so much.
Until you get a bunch.
And then you just, boop.
And you're like, what happened?
I really enjoy it.
It's strong.
It could be one of the stronger ones if you really dial one in.
You can find them in the drone world as well.
And you can take a forest feeding if you want.
Or you can do them totally organic.
You can use them to fully funk this guy.
All these have the same.
Same.
Same.
Same.
Same.
Same.
Same.
Same.
Some of this will hit you right up front, actually.
Again, it's going to be the individual in there.
I try and do.
Not.
I just started doing like on the fifth.
Generation of this.
That I've grown a fourth generation.
I started selecting individuals to inbreed lines out of.
With correct flavors.
In effect.
I've always kept them.
Fairly open pollinated.
I've had six.
I think that I just.
To keep it like a land race.
Right.
Which is, you know,
it's a slightly different way about going about things.
Well, I think that's personally.
Better than this.
You know,
If you, if someone reads it straight in and that's all there is.
There's also, there's a whole nother thing is like, like.
There's a whole nother thing that I've used years ago to baseline all
these.
Award winners.
He's got now.
And he brings it back out to that cross into.
And keeping that particular one.
Once you find it.
But that comes from like.
I come from original ship back in 88.
Time.
There's one is.
Mazzi, Ribi, Anna, Dori.
F two's.
Mozzie was really big, big.
Big, big flavorful.
I did this all in really small pots and again, same thing, crazy amazing flavors, funk, tropical fruits, great hash.
I didn't grow big plants though, so it's kind of hard to say. I think this is a little more refined than a field plant at this point though.
There's more of these good original plain F1 basic landrace.
Hindu Kush by Nigerian Yorubu Bantu.
Classic 50-50 hybrid.
I think those are breeder packs.
Yeah.
15 packs from the Seed Smith.
Next.
Oh, come on. Come on. Full tide. In the wrong eye.
Malawi Gold, Malawi Gold. Is my eyes blurry? Is it not? There it is.
A little bit of both.
120 days.
Like, kind of like drinking espresso in the morning, but don't smoke too much.
Because you'll be like, it ain't like the GMO that gets me wired. It wakes you up, but it just, it'll melt your mind.
I don't know how else to put it. All these will melt your mind if you smoke too much of it.
How dank is the skunk?
Next.
There's, so, somewhere, I didn't see the packs, but I have the two of these, so that's Nigerian Yorubu Bantu.
And then I have, I also have the, somebody wants them, I'm sure I can find them for sale.
The F1 hybrid of the two of those, which is the Afro Tiva.
Alright.
So the Malawi's 120 days and the Nigerian's 90.
And the Zakhastani Blue line, excellent.
Someone's gonna have some, some funky, funky purple fuchsias.
The blue line and the red line had to do with the, with the, I think it was the dad.
I think it was the dad. There were two.
There's definitely two moms.
One just had a blue hue to the, to the leaves and one had more of a red hue to everything.
Umm, what's this one say?
New Mexico Land Grant Feminized Six Pack.
Those, I just stuff them full in before I, like, those are, those are, yeah, those are Magic Six packs.
What's this one?
So New Mexico Land Grant, if you're new here, is, uh, Old Spanish Land Grant, Garcia Fernando.
Fernando Garcia. Garcia Fernando, New Mexico Land Grant, 1700 Fem, Six Packs.
And so they get, you know, I don't have a sticker label machine going right now.
So if it doesn't come with that pretty label, it's handwritten on there.
And, um, if it comes in a coin pack.
Once upon a time ago, let's see, we were talking about Spanish doubloons earlier, weren't we?
Right? So we'll go back there in long time ago times.
And, and the Spanish came and we're, we're, uh, traipsing about looking for the Segola Seven Cities of Gold and all that shit.
And, and they showed up.
These seeds, these are all, I'm going through my list of, of these super, super seed silver.
So it's the tax day for 20 super incentive, double your money seed sale.
And the deal is you go out and you buy some silver.
I've got these seeds discounted to start with right now.
So if that's all you got to cash and, and then, um, and you buy some silver and you show me all the silver you buy and you send me half and I send you the sale price value retail of the seeds.
If you're half in silver, you're bought and you get the full value of the silver and seed.
So you doubled your money and, and, and, and you go out and get your tax return right fucking now and, and, and go buy some, take your time, find a good spot to buy from.
Right. And you can get, you know, yeah, I got a guy right now is buying a 10 ounce bar to do this.
We were talking about before I threw down the tax day sale and, um, I'm hooking him up with the sale price across.
I got multiple, one, two, three, um, ounces.
And I want you to, to, um, start saving for yourself.
Right. And I have this incentive to move forward with your own and learn about a whole different way of looking at things.
And that's the paradigm shift, right?
Um, we're looking at the world in a different way than just, um, being part of that machine.
It's just walking over us constantly.
Hold on. It's I'm, I'm not going to just throw this away.
The sale price might go away, but the, but the, the, the buy silver and keep half and send it to me.
That's something I'm going to keep out there for folks.
If you see the opportunity to jump on it, when it comes, um, I've got a bunch of seed here and, um, you know, yeah, we'll take some money and do it.
If you got some seed, you can do it.
Copper's worth something. It's, it's moving it though.
Um, and it's supposed to go, someone was talking, I was at coin show this week and they were saying, uh, hold on.
I was trying to sell my pennies and, and, uh, the coin collectors and the only people wanted it would melt them down.
So, um, there's, um, follow my Instagram.
Party gear, H-A-R-T-I-G-E-R.
There's, I got a bunch of stuff and I'm, I'm, I gotta get a little website together.
But I just have this minimum list right now, like 30 seed sets.
I'm doing this simple and doing the silver trade, but I'm going to eventually before too long in the setup of.
And it might be June here at this point.
But I just have this minimum list right now like 30 seed sets
I'm doing this simple and doing the silver trade, but I mean eventually before too long in the setup of
It might be June here at this point. I'm working on a different project
I'll have a
Shopify store set up and
Built through Venmo, okay
And I just I got to do some other things before
When I have that in place, I'm gonna fully stock Peter as well
Okay
so yeah, I was saying is sitting chopper may or may not be the
The shipping on copper can get beyond the value right so I can only get I
Like I have no use for the copper except for to melt it down and
I
guess I mean I can make
Ten pounds copper coins too, but that's a penny and you can get them you can get them for a penny
They're worth two pennies is the problem with with copper
So
Yeah, it melted down cost the gas for me and all that I got a little I got a little furnace and everything
Earth worms are good. The barter is great
Like and if you got if you got earthworms ask people to go out and do the same thing
Go go buy silver and hook them up. Give them a deal. Maybe not half-off. I know what earthworm takes to make right?
I got earthworms here. I know what it takes but figure something out to incentivize people to trade you a barter deal
Right get them to barter you something barter and awesome
Are they right here? Where are they? I got I got
one of the coolest things I've ever bartered for I
Was living in I was living in Mesa Verde National Park
Um, I'm not sure I got these things there's there's um
There's trading post down in the four corners, right and I went down to the trading post and I was talking to the guy
And you know, I was like hadn't was making I was looking at pricing on things and I was doing all sorts of cool arts
And craft stuff and making arrowheads and arrows and I've got one that's upstairs. I think
The
Get to talking to the owner of the trading post and he's like tells me his story and he'd come from like Chicago and
When he was young and saw the four corners like holy shit. I want to start a trading post
I want to live in barter and trade and he gives up his life of the big city or his New York or ever back
East and he came
He came came and bought the four or started the trading post bought one that had been there for a long time
Built it up and he's like dude, I've been here 35 years and no one's ever
bartered me anything and
I was talking to him about
trimming his trees, right I carried my tree trimming gear everywhere and
I bartered him
We did half cash and to my hand and half store barter out of his store and he was so fucking giddy
it was the most awesome thing and
What I got so what was I looking for is I got a little box of
Navajo dime buttons where they took silver dimes back in the early
teens and 20s and they would silver Smith the dimes and the Navajo jewelry, right and
they put a little
Brass jump rings on the back of these things. So I got like a dozen it was part of my trade
I got a few other things from them
but
That was one of my cooler dickers I
Screwed myself yesterday on a dicker. I took cash for a rock. I should y'all seem like chunky Galena
I took it but I hooked up an old silver trader and he's got a nice a nice chunk of Galena
It really only had a couple pennies with the silver and he gave me 20 bucks for the rock, right?
All right. I saw the rocks for 20 bucks yesterday
but I
I'm not the best dicker and I I
Said the thing the bottom end I would have took first and told him what I wanted for a second
The electric dipshit. Yeah, so I
Wanted a silver round and I took 20 bucks
This is whatever but again, he's gonna be able to educate people that rock. I've showed y'all. It's kind of cool
All right
Um
Oh
Man let's figure out the wilds go out and you can you can um
You ever seen worm wrangling
When you take the rattle stick on the ground you shrack a rack of a rack of rack just I kind of like kind of like
the Piscata
fish instrument
Crack crack crack under the ground. Yeah, so New Mexico land grant though. I was talking about that and got distracted wasn't it?
So we got feminized
feminized six-pack and
What was the other one where I put it
This is right here somewhere I think it was the squares I
Think it's a New Mexico land-grant squares
No, that's down in the hybrid section
No, it was just different. Okay. Okay. That was the bleeder packs. All right
yeah, so
Spanish came up. Oh, that's where I got the strike Spanish came up into
New Mexico
there was
Padres there was
Hacienda like Don's setting up the big fucking cattle ranches, right because tallow
Seriously like we changed the entire
Like all the plants in America all the weeds that you grow your house primarily unless you live someplace that's totally extreme
We all in the lowlands all the grasses and stuff
It's it's dominated by plants that came over with these Spanish cattle
Stuck in their hooves and they brought them over on boats and then they it spread like sheetgrass that stuff
That's one of them star thistles and all these things
So so the new endemics the new be the things that we can't get rid of
The perversely overgrow the native species
So the yeah, they came up and populated before they came on up here in the Utah and stuff
But but up in the mountains there was in
1700 when
for the nine king of Spain put out the Spanish land grants
Gave all the land to all these these powerful men who were running the ranches
this family
Fernando family I
Got it, right
but
Garcia is the first name of the
grandfather the dude I interacted with who's the don of the property when I got the seeds about eight years ago and it's
Been growing wild for as long as the family history memory goes back on the property
So I conjecture it probably showed up in the late 1500 1580 70 maybe fit in mill
1590 maybe it probably was wild
the
by 1600 right and so it's totally adapted to
in as far as I know and all the research I've done and all the
trans
Transcontinental movement of cannabis and there's a lot of different theories and stuff and and I'd really like I don't
This for my experience the the whole pollen going around the world shit doesn't fit because it moisture changes it
Makes it inviolable. It'll move but it can't stay viable very far very long and the right kind of conditions. It takes the new pollen
Is like
So so there's as far as I know that's like the furthest north
New world land race
North American land races
Mexico it's further south
in Central America more right I
Guess there's debate on that but is the where what for not and
Anyhow, though so for the most part stuff was more further south
But apparently quite a bit it was growing in different properties up there
And then when Nixon said eradicate it all in the early 70s is this guy Garcia Fernandez
That's part of the family heritage and still here so it's it's it's a very skunky sativa II
I don't know how else to put it
It can be it can grow
Out of a dry mountainside and the southern rocky panhandle in New Mexico in the dry years
The guy says in the dry years
There's a
There's all sorts of
All sorts of possibilities for land races whatever or where it will grow I guess as I was going at that's our
Distract myself looking at chat
I
Don't know. I don't know
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know
I don't know. I don't know
I don't know. I don't know
I don't know
Distract myself looking at chat again
Mexico land grant
Hmm here's something neat. Let's look up over my shoulder
And what do we see
What is that over my shoulder right there
That is the Balboa Island Ferry
That's not my own artwork I found that at the pawn shop, but that's literally like where I grew up
And there's like three
Three people let's look at this up close. Hold on a second. This is a cool painting another distraction
In the days of my youth I was told what it means to be a man
Now I reach that age. I try to do all these things the best I can
Good times bad times, you know, I've had my share
Now I think dollar store this is this is from thrift shop
The Mormon Church has a big old thrift shop program
They send stuff around the world people donate and get their tax write-offs for
The original price of stuff because you can write your own tax write-off card
It's a great. It's a great scam and then we can go in there
I I missed out yesterday a gold ring because I didn't have my fucking test kit to make sure the value was good
And they're gonna be like, oh, yeah, I'm gonna give you a free gift card
It was good. And if you look there on the boat, there's a dude with three blonde haired kids and joke
That's my dad and brothers and damn me. Well be
You can see that the ferry does have the right away there. They're like the date and everything nine nine eighty four
Like very well, maybe me on the fucking sailboard except for the fact that if we look behind the cattle brands over here
The big fishing boats aren't at the dock
you can see the pillar the pile line right behind the angle of the blue on the sail and
That's where the fishing boats. I grew up
Working on we're at so I was out at sea on the fishing boat that day and that's but it could still very well be my
My three brothers and my dad going across the ferry to go do some body surfing
We lived right there on the island and that's that's how fucking blessed I was as a child
Right
That's how blessed I was as a child yes
New Mexico land-grant feminine. All right, so I think that covered the group of land races that I put on the list
And yeah, go to my go to my Instagram hearty gear a tear TI G
er and or you can email me and
There's a few if you're out of the country. I'm sorry. I can't do this
But if you're here in the States, this is this is a stateside thing and
first amendment action
First amendment action
Oh
No, that's it I already said Hindu Kush feminized
So I've got all those up in the top row and cover. What's this one? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay
So we're gonna go into the hybrids
And so Zaki Stan is
the Pakistani
Chitral Kush that I inbred purple purple picking out and good and it's it's not necessarily
That black some you can get them really dark purples out of this
but one of the really neat features that I drew out of it is it's like this fire fuchsia and
You can get buds that are green on the outside and you break them open and there's this like pink layer that goes in
the golden orange
Like fire fuchsia flame. I don't know how else to put it. It's it's a it's like something in the fucking
right and
Like I
Don't know maybe a little bit darker purple, but and then when it gets cold those ones will go really dark purple, too
Okay, all super frosted
So here we have I
Think it's that blue line dad
Went into GMO
So we call this is the funk is that Castaneda funk Z funk the GMO by Zakistani
Kitchell kush these are again
These are f1 for the bigger and there should be two true bred in brick hybrid and you should get really
close
Resembling for you know for
More before
I found it should be huge bigger from these and
I tested some of these other though. I definitely was a Castaneda light
Is
Peanut butter souffle, is that right? Yeah
Okay, I got to yes, that's peanut butter souffle with the Zakistani male
And
so increasing bud size open open up a little bit just
Frosted fine. There's so much so much complex flavor that comes out of that. It's in gas and
Some heaviness for sure
There's always all this stuff can have various
I'm always I'm always choosing for the skunkiest thing I can
Don't call anything skunk. You've heard me talk about this. Let's be all show and stuff
All right, so the next one is gelato 33 with the Zakistani into it and
That's Joe. That's that's a Zakistani soft serve
And now that one there. I'll just blow your fucking mind
The
Everything I've crossed that gelato just fucking debilitating fucking tasty stinky awesome. I
Know it's overdone
I'm a late comer to that fucker, but I put my own spin on it with the inbred land races, right?
And then
Someone just sent me a picture of their harvest
They just chopped their Zakistani wine, which is which is great pie with the Zakistani cushion to it and
And to give you a little idea and this thing it's really cold in here. I'm just gonna grab this real quick
They're not growing too fast
Red on the Green Dragon
but this is the
This is the Hindu Kush
Feminized FF one. We'll see a little bit later with the
Great pie
right and
The people who don't know don't know and it's okay, there's only
63 you know, maybe a thousand to two thousand people watching these shows and 2% kick down and
Grab themselves some seed and find out
Fuck around you're gonna find out
So one of the things I haven't said in a while, right
The bad scientist off the fucking out in the desert in the hole the rock overhead not paying attention
And I came up and found out it was like I thought they had this shit all figured out mmm
when I reconnected in the internet with the industry world and
Find out like people don't have a fucking clue
And
Great weed out there. There's amazing fucking weed out there
Yes, there is especially with all the legalization and all that but it's how much of it's all the same shit this back
So there's definitely a great a great freakin
Movement that's been coming forth and I'm happy to have had a hand of it and getting people to do like what I'm presenting
here is these in red land races and even a lot of raw land race into these
Super polyhybrid eyes plants and you're creating these amazing
diversified gene pools
The bottleneck
Recross spread the seeds. All right, so so that was the
Mission yeah, the zackastan e
zackastan ease the zackastan e wine
soft serves that the standing delight is
the Z funk
All right
Elites back cross to the inbred
zackastan eq is zackastan is a little micronation in the West Desert of Utah
Bus loads of China people probably start resuming to show up there this summer
It's a cool little spot and they're fucking nowhere just to blow your mind
I don't like people pay that money to ride bus out there. I
I
Still gotta walk a mile across the fucking desert to get to it. It's nothing
Absolutely. Nothing. Ah, all right
Okay, so I'm gonna pack this might be the only packs I have this I'm not sure if I have any more
So you might want to jump on this zackastan e rock candy
I'll get some of this to show you real quick
I
Wish I could do this cleanse for folks
This is a late season crop so it didn't get big and dense but you can see it's like purple and green
That's no
But not
Sweet
Scum earthy
Gas gas gas
Always so dry here. Probably don't stick very well, but sometime
So
When I smoke this and I get people impatient type folks who really ask for this one particularly
Some people just want TAC and some people want to fucking their body to relax after serving drinks for fucking 12 hours
or whatever the fuck
Ski patrollers got aches and pains
The way this credit it feels like when I take a bong hit and exhale
You started your flavors guy developing you
It
Feels like the top of my scalp gets peeled off right and it turns into the handle on the zipper that peels down the spine
And everything fucking opens up on the back
Relaxes the zipper just kind of goes down the spine and it kind of comes out my fingers all warm
And it feels like there's a light shooting out my fingertips and bolts of lightning or like coming around
This feeling keeps on just like goes down my legs
Like warm up and there's like like my toes are connected to the fucking molten lava
It's all the sudden, right?
And I've said to people like you really got to have like body fucked up issues like I got to be able to
experience that but maybe it don't I
Don't know
I'm like that I get everyone to find out so that's the Zack Astani rock candy and that one's that one's uh,
That was the Zack Astani
Kush in two three King seven
Miss Sarah King seven never really did it for me itself, but these hybrids I've made of it and
It's not every single one coming out of the pack. I didn't run a whole lot of
The Zack Astani rock candy and I ended up with three
I think they ran like 30
I ran a short test run of them and came out with three phenomenal. I ended up losing one and
it's like
Take that hit it feels great and I walk up halfway up the stairs
I want another one I go back down and grab another and then but then like I go back to work at the office and
Ten minutes later that other comes quaffed
Who's in the basement smoking
So I'm at this poem and cut and hopefully you can get this out in the world somehow some way
Yeah too much of that and I go to sleep to you
All right, so that's the Zack Astani line there, let's see, all right, I
Think I think oh, here we go. Yeah, I mean that's the best way to show I got packs packed it we got
New Mexico
land a grant F
Yeah, you know smell the headband people talks about it does that kind of smell type of thing and feel right?
Which gives me a think is their doppelganger genetics do pot plants have their evil twin somewhere on the other side of the world
So this is New Mexico land grant F pack
Squared and so across the New Mexico land grant with with a Afghan on a doer a and
There's a
P
PCK
by New Mexico land grant and I took the
Outputs of those and crossed them back together to do this
A nice three-way
And that's pretty pretty chronic I like smoking that one same kind of thing that is super super super drought tolerant purple stinky
Quite feasible there
And
Yeah from 1021
This seems packed up similar to that but different and better this guy
This is crap. This is great. So I have I have craft push
And I have
We have we have chunk of monkey crap push
How's that
so not tested, but I know there's
What's there to test?
so but even the creator of monkey ball says that it's one in 300 there, but throwing back in these these
This crap cush is way better odds than that and it was it's a pre-2000
Afghan cross to
That Pakistani kush and it's the same guy I got my PC caper
And I had these forever and didn't grow them and then I did and like home
So he had him like seven generations inbred maybe ten and I gave it another
And I had to keep his name on it Chris Roberts Afghan Paki crap push and then I crossed that
Deep chunk monkey balls
Is is chunk of monkey trap
All right. So those are those are available in the hybrid zone on the sale
extremely exclusive
Extremely exclusive
Only place in the world you're gonna find this shit and it's it's like real deal old-school
Fucking crazy, you know inbred indica and not that's not this the land the field land race
Right. This is this is the shit
Talk about old-school
Stuff from 80s and 90s when the Indica's were really fresh and not super hybridized
You can still get the monkey balls directly from the breeder
Next on the
Here's the one here's the one that the kids Audrey grew it says it was more uniform than
Drawing clones from the same mom. It's an f1. This is a true f1 and
unfortunately, there's only
One two three of those packs for those packs in my breeder set of that
I could probably whack out some breeder set from that because I also ran
Somebody's really interested in in those direct line one
This is open pollinated pretty much the same thing, but I had multiple
multiple
Males into this one, so it's not gonna be super uniform
He had a good words for it like funky and dank and all that
And that's something that so the northern Utah hash plants the 88 hash plant
Right, it was acquired by a farmer in Logan Canyon, Northern, Utah and grew that for 17 generations
before I acquired it and then I
I took it a generation
And I'm down. I just got one plant and I think I'm trying to reproduce it
In hybrids primarily that crosses and stuff I had some others and I
They're around but that's some dank stuff
for sorting
And I wouldn't call it hash plant so much to say is other than that's the original name
Right as opposed to these modern dumpers, right?
No, like like some of this is really dumpable these exact astounding hybrids
I think you can really get stuff out of these crap and monkey ball ones
And I have got hash out of
the northern Utah
For certain I've gotten hash out of my Nigerian, but they're not this the Nigerian
Definitely, I think it might be even close can be closer to a dumper and it's hybrids. I
Just I was just thinking about the hash plant itself and it's big dense thick buds
And I don't think of that as a hash plant myself
Right, I think it and traditionally that wasn't what that was the one that they would they would select out on them when the seed
Selectors would go in for Western bud culture in the United States. We'd select these more
Mumble maybe man. I'll tell you what that's one of my next ones right here. Where is it?
Where is it now? I have it here is it over the
It's over. I think it's behind me in the hybrids, but the that took pookie Thunder
Holy shit, I made the mistake of fucking smoking that before I went to the coin show yesterday
and I had I had all these deals figured out the people because I went the day before and I like I got I broke
out my coin collection and I had
So much dollars and I had so many I'm gonna go and talk to her and I I sat down to the first person and I
Started talking. I couldn't fucking get the words out of my mouth and it was an hour later
I
Said that's the tape pookie Thunder if you want one of the mumbly bumbly fucking melt your brain hazes
And so that's in the offering as well
Yeah
You know again
You get a you'll get a variety of the open pollinated one, but it's gonna have
Drought tolerance
I
Think some some more northern latitude adaptation not super north
But that's what these these one of the concepts I make with it with putting this this
Cross at least the team is f1 into into and because
Just open up the flower a little bit if you're up north or if you need to in the tropics as well
To avoid rot
Sometimes though the buds on some of those just get too super chunky donkey and you got a you got a pinch
Femme them so they don't get too big. You know, if you're if you're in a place that tends to rot
I just I just say don't grow big buds. Keep them under two inches doesn't matter what the variety is
super breeding for rot resistance is like
Is a huge program was like you just you got to find something that has that reason now that proper breeding that shit's
Been I didn't getting identified and that's one of the things everyone hates on Mowgli and I've said this once and I've said it twice
And I'll say it again
The the when he said he wanted to create the best cannabis strain it was breeding out
mold
issues finding the mold resistant genes and
Getting that into the breeding programs
Happy day
Chocolate tie
Acapulco gold these stem from happy day farm in California
And he sent me the seeds and I've reproduced them into feminized as well as regulars and those are available on the steel
Big sativa plant runs long
Again all those all those all those all those. Okay. So this is one
I've looked at I'm only offering these because I know they're just not super available
We still weren't last time I look maybe they are now but somebody somebody gave me a pack of these I grew out and found
Primary hermaphrodites and found the one female that worked really good weed excellent fucking structure
incredible
Production
I
Don't know the line of it right off my head
Was so I did this I was being reading these sitting upstairs
I had to run away from the good book and just look it up. But anyhow
Yeah, I'm calling me f2
but I think I think these were inbred before I got to it and
Mostly we're just pretty offered. All I saw was this feminized is and it's
The whoa
from exotic genetics
You know, I got regulars of those in this offering through a little bit of something extra their sidetrack in there
No super guarantee on their stability, but I think I think I got the good one there
I had one volunteer this year. It's pretty
it's I was happy with what volunteered a lot more when when I put the effort into growing the pack and getting a
shit ton of males and
One solid female. Ah, yes. So here's this great pine
When the fish
Feminized so I'm in the last group last group of the details to feminized seed here
Hey pookie Thunder was just talking about those so I mixed and matched and then I tested them
There's six packs, but there's eight or ten seeds in each pack
Make sure you get six seeds are good plants
Here's a
Okay, I'm calling this one red hot
slurry cane breath of red dragon breath of red dragon is is the
Nigerian Aruba Bantu and the my doctor dream all cure. All right, my doctor dream all cure is my long bread in house
Luigi
So this is kind of like
60 years of
work and and and hybridized the slurry cane and like I said, I didn't like slurry cane so much but the
Stuff that comes from it's fucking phenomenal
Super super down but bigger bigger way bigger buds, you know
yeah, you throw that sativa component into the structure and open up these big open buds and it becomes a
way better
Ash plant dumper and this is actually
Being produced in Montana
King green I think his name it near Glacier National Park. He's got these he's he's running a bunch of my gear there
he ran all these ones I'm gonna tell you about right now and instead like I
He usually keeps less than 10% of any breeders feminized gear and he was more like 80% on these
and
He's asking you some lineages of a couple things recently for
He was making rosen for some of these and says I can't I can't keep it from Stan. It's liquid in the refrigerator
I got to keep it in the freezer. This may be a solid at all
So that's that's a pretty that's a pretty solid one right there we've got the
Our track feminized in there and so this is gonna be one year this is this is literally one of my top
This is this is breath of red dragon back crossed into
Dr. Dream all here so you might get some scraggly plants out of that
But if you dial it in if you're gonna get that crazy OG
happening
and if this
If these rates you can't fucking go wrong because it's literally
the ATP it five five packs for 125 or
By by 10 ounces of silver 75
Right double your money
Keep five of your silver 75 get five packs and wait, there's more I was sort of 3d in
Peanut butter souffle
With the breath of red dragon, that's another same thing
Just fucking fire hash plant was with complex earthy nutty flavors to it
Gas all these guy gas and skunk funk to them, but
This one here does it as well the gelato with the breath of red dragon
FF one first filly Lille feminized
To the K poopy Thunder, so I've seen a couple of things I was reading this last week
It could it's from New Zealand. I got him feminized. I'd really like to get this back out of the world old-school hazy
And I've seen two different things where where it was the the native Maori people were growing it
in
The 70s and then I saw it might have just been white people doing it
But anyhow, this is this is originally from the 70s
This is the true lost strain and I got it from like a hermit in back hills in New Zealand
You gotta buy you gotta buy yourself five ounces and send me five ounces using your tax return
No, but yeah, that's basically if you got it stacked to
I'm doing this go to my Instagram and check it out. I've got the list listed there. Obviously. I've just reviewed and
This is a super
tax day for 20
Double your money incentive sale and of course if there's if there's other ones that you wanted on my list that I'm not good review
And then I'm not have on the sale. You can contact me and I've got rates kind of for my top shelf stuff
That's not on the list
The very best ones I'm doing I'm doing
Three rounds three ounces for my top shelf
Dragon series and dr. Dream stuff
And those listed $200 retail right so that I mean that's it's super fucking awesome deal
But otherwise those aren't really in the deal
Just if there's ones you're looking for that I got like 30 I'm offering on this right it's like in
You know, I'm looking it up for silver
Like I want other people to buy the idea is to get you to buy silver for yourself
It's so easy to do so like buy it buy enough
to cover the cost of the
Right and send me half of it keep half for yourself
You doubled your money and keep that silver sitting there and you've got yourself a little investment and then you grow yourself some more
Right. That's that's the idea. I don't want you to just go buy silver for me
I want you to take that money and double it for yourself, right and people who are already stacking or like, oh, dude
I got fucking silver. I bought it $15 an ounce. Yeah, I'll fucking toss that at you, right?
And yes, I'm looking to hook myself up with silver. This is I'm not gonna deny that
This is definitely this is the truth. I'm starting a fucking mint
I'm sick of being poor and I'm literally gonna start pointing my own coins and it's not
It won't be money be like this
Gold backs I showed you upstairs a temperate silver
The nickels if you got it, you got a bunch of nickels we got to do the math on them
We got to do the math on this might be more valuable to hold on to this the nickels because they're like
Yeah, they're only 30% I think on the nickels
It's pretty 50 nickels
Nickels are actually nickel. That's why they call
And
They're not part of the silver breakdown I was talking about earlier today right where we were talking about the silver dollar right in
Scattered around
Go back upstairs
And we'll go back and I oh there's one more one more someone wants to buy a hundred ounce bar
I've had two people fucking bail out on full Monty's in the past
Everything I have Britain and I'll throw in the whole fucking seal
That's a hundred ounce bar about three grand right now
With the premiums if you got one sitting you got it cheaper. You'll get
90 packs plus the whatever's in the list here
So, I don't know that's that's that gets kind of screwed the the
Big deal, but that's like all all the stuff I produced over the years and I've had twice when people asked me and put together
the whole pack for
X-thousand dollars and then they just never shut up with the money
So I've got those sitting there and I'll throw in the sale deal here for a hundred ounce bar
in
I've got bulk as well on a lot of this stuff
Right like like somebody wants to really find out about Nigerian Yoruba bonnets
Or some of these other feminized I have
Some large quantities of somebody needs to do a big field run of some killer feminized
You know big big hands or whatever you want to do
Work it out make it work for you and everyone's a hand up and before and so this whole thing with
with with the coinage is like
I'm freelancing with the seeds right? No different than any of this other
Bunch of artwork, what's it worth? Is it worth the oil on it?
the board
Right. I've sold them for a lot of money
but I it's a hard push and a hard sale to get those sold and get them in front of people who have the money to
give me
the artistic value of it, right and
And then there's the mindset
So many people who are like, you know, I'm a fan of this stuff. I'm a fan of this stuff
And
And then there's the mindset
So many people who I know who are skiers and I have tons of ski art
That I would hook them up for the cost of the oil and the board and the time, you know
20 bucks an hour standing there to do it and it only takes me a couple hours to do it
right versus
The rich person is going to pay me their time
300 400 an hour what they're making when they when they pay me for an oil painting, right?
And they're harder to hook up and find those people
but in the mindset
The rich person needs someone to tell them this is the guy to buy the art from
And then they see it and it feels good or it doesn't so they buy it or they don't
but my friend
They think in their mind. I can't afford an oil painting no matter how cheaply I could sell it to them
right
And their their poor ski bum mindset
Okay
And and so this is part of the whole thing with this silver incentive deal that i'm wanting to get people in a whole different
Mindset and looking at the value of metal how things changes and like realizing you can just you can
I know there's people who do this and i'm just starting to really look at this. It's like wow, you can literally
Just buy one currency
As long as you got a chunk of change of it enough and you have enough to cover the incentives
Or the the premiums on the trade
The cost of doing the business of the trade, right? There's somebody who's got to facilitate that trade and it costs to do that
um
You can just like sit there and trade currencies around and make money day to day by exchanging currency
right and um
Never actually do labor again in your life and that's how a lot of people do make money
And so there was a the coin show and there's people literally
exchanging
money for money that nobody spends except for
To sell for more money
And these people all make money selling money
That's all these people do is buy and sell money
It's the fucking crazy and and I watched I watched these huge coin racks just go
silver and gold silver and gold coins
ancient coins
modern coins
Right coins that people make themselves
Boom boom boom, but there's
There's a niche market and I've and all these things. I produce my artwork my seeds where I have my vegetable farm
Right i'm freelancing out and saying hey, this is something
That i'm hoping i'll find a market for and present it in front of somebody. Well, you know the vegetables before it rotted
um
Here how much how much competition do I have with seeds and how many people have to convince it's like hey, I
Got something you might want right now
It's the same with it
but with the silver and
in here after my hand injury and and all this bullshit trying to take a job to survive and thinking like i'm gonna have a
job
Weather through whatever it just up the road and ski
And like this doesn't I can't work with the corporation can't work with me. I'm too much. They're too much. Whatever it is
I'm, not young
um, I work myself to the fucking bone already and I can't do it for
but
I got just enough fucking money to throw this together right now and
Pay a professional fucking engraver to make my dies
And that's what I was working on this morning when y'all joined me is drawing the
One of the things about being dyslexic is you got to check your work
I spell e pluribus unum wrong because it's e pluribus not pluribus
Yeah, so um
And i'm trying to teach myself that fucking digital art
Bullshit, it's not bullshit. It's part of the whole move forward thing
So
Yeah that but that coin it'll be able to be it'll be a thing that people can use around the world
In trade and it was really neat seeing
And talking through so
Two bits a quarter, right?
It's a that's a quarter of a dollar and we were talking in the beginning where the dollar came from the silver dollar
the spanish
silver dollar
was
Originally, it's eight reales a piece of eight
Right yesterday. I was looking at eight eight three. I almost bought some eight three al coins from from the early 1800s
They're beautiful little teeny little
Fucking coins the size smaller my my pinky fingernail, right?
And they got they got gold coins that small and they got they got small. They got they got 20th grain
gold bars
Right, which is less than what's in those those gold papers i've got
Hmm
Grain's pretty small
I remember what is it like 50 grains in a gram or something?
So, yes i'm trying to get silver but my plan is i've already got some silver and it'd be nice to have more but um
I don't plan on really
Buying a pile of it myself until i've sold off the stuff that I meant
and um
From there. Oh wait, so here
This one is right here
It's crazy so morgan's morgan's at the coin show I bought this one for 18 bucks in 2000, I think or 90
97
and um
That would have been 40 bucks
Easy, they're arranging it could have been I don't know the date special or anything
They're arranging up the hundreds and hundreds of dollars for these things
right
So but that that is got more silver in it then or less silver in it then
Around and we'll just do a quick little generic rounds
Bars gonna have your lowest premiums
U.s. Mint's gonna have the highest premiums on coins and rounds and silvers, right?
So, yeah, you're asking have you seen those those cards that's called valcomby and that's like one of the highest premium markups there is
And and so like people are paying more than 25 a gram for those little micro cards
Which one card breaks up into smaller pieces?
It's just it's ridiculous. So but like even the biggest mints they're minting these
10,000 coins and they don't want to because they have to retool their whole program
And they make a lot more money doing volume of larger pieces of silver and
They're pushing those volumes out and so they there's a niche market
For people preppers whoever believe it and it's the same thing. I was showing earlier and a lot of you aren't there this morning
we started but
So utah was the first state to do this. I'll go ahead and set back up sit down here
In 2011, I believe they passed legislation for
gold, uh gold and silver
currency
tender legal tender
Legal legal money. I think they call it
And so this is a private bank note
This is some neat history
Can't show it through there
Um
Like this is a private bank note
Can't show it through there. Um
Like they didn't always have like nickels and quarters, right and um
Like the silver dollar you cut it down it would get cut sometimes
Into halves and eights, right and so quarters and eights
So a quarter a quarter of a dollar that was two bits like i'm saying it's reals eight reals
eight bits
was a dollar
and so a quarter so I was looking at a token and this guy said the the marshal up at utah who's a
coin detectorist
um offered him a thousand dollars for it because there's only like four known in the world, but it's
Uh, like h&m mercantile up in up and out the town
and uh
Civil war era
and it was
12 and a half cents, which would have been one bit
Trade token good for groceries in the mercantile
Right, and so they didn't they didn't have
State or federal
Issued and it was the territory
87 so right in the same time it got statehood
um
It was a civil war
But yeah, so there's other things going on right? They didn't necessarily get and then we like mormon coinage was the utah mormon cormage
They they got the old spanish gold that got thrown back into the mines by the indians when the uprisings happened
and then one of the chiefs gave them access to that gold, but that's like
18 carat
And they had the mormon mint and coins and those are worth a ton of money
Now that are the real ones or they must have got melted down
But a lot of people wouldn't accept them because they just said gold on them
Right and they didn't say
What their percentage was or how much of the true pure gold was in it and there's copper and silver, but it was a dore
It was a crude a crude smelt
And it was done on a rock furnace back in the day by by spaniards in the 1700s
And so those weren't accepted by a lot of folks
And so part of that all that history goes into my design of what i'm creating here and these are pretty neat
so
so one one thousandth of a troy ounce and again, um
I got these from several different states right here in new hampshire, nevada
and wyoming
All right, and so 28 states and there's others that are passing legislation for state money currency
Uh state state metals currencies reclaiming our our right. It's in our constitution for real metals
to be
Coined and stuff like that. And so this is private bank notes
which
Before central bank there was private bank notes were perfectly common and and uh, it's kind of like a check on the bank
so, um
My my coin i'm designing is going to be
Done in sterling as opposed to right here. We've got
Uh
The silver we get
Is bullion is is rounds should be 925 and then something you got to be careful of if it looks too good to be true
If the price is below the price of silver, it's fake
And people will put them right up to fucking a dollar or two below the price of silver
and like
The real common one is the 2016 kangaroo, I think
um
Gold bars and stuff are quite often. They're fake and thickness
Has a lot of size
Usually it's the thicknesses where they print them off
whatever and what's crazy is you can just you can put a little 10 percent of freaking zinc into a silver bar doubles the
Size and it's like why the why would you do that?
Right straight integrity. It's the same thing with my seeds
How do I approve to somebody that my artwork or my seeds or anything else that any of us do or is?
Integratable and worth exchanging
We're hard or you know work for right and and uh
My standard those can be printed right on the on the on the coin. It's not money. It's a sterling bullion
fraction
and um
So it's going to have it both in sterling and the pure silver content on it. And so like here here's a dime
silver dime that was made in 1900
1900
And so copying some of that and utilizing some of the scroll work on the spoon
Right, but that's this one here, you know at the bottom end, um
Four bucks three bucks is what this is worth silver content about two dollar fifty cents and that thing right there
Um, it makes it takes 12 of these to make a full ounce of silver though, right
There's not a full ounce in a silver dollar
but every dime
the nickels
There again, there was there I think it was pre-war nickels were 30 percent silver
The most nickels are nickel and not and then but everything else is 90
coming forward
Coming forward, um
This right here
I'm sorry. I have this is cool if I got these right here. I don't have I have I have
I don't know where exactly where I dropped all this stuff too. Let's see
No, those are those are well
These are tokens. We're talking about tokens, right? These are you know, no cash value
Okay, so we we use tokens. We're used to tokens at the gaming
Right
You go to the arcade. So to give you an idea we
At some point our labor got exchanged into a token and we used it in exchange
And that's kind of what this one I was looking at from alto is 12
12 and a half cents
Or a bit, but I was showing I wanted to show
copper penny
Because I had I had a copper penny. I got an old cent. They're huge
So it's it's basically a troy ounce of copper and then they started making them smaller
So here's here's another big token. No cash value
big copper
And some these are trade tokens, right and what's this one?
Great food big cheese
The big pizza company
With all the toppings so
These are either for you pay cash into and get tokens to pay their their um
Arcade machines is probably what that was
Right, but i've had other ones where I've got wood nickel in my coin collection that was given to me
When I was firefighting a little town in nevada
And it was good for a free drink
Right
It had no cash value. I couldn't sell it, but I could go in and drop it down and get a drink on the house
Right, and so there's different uses for these things and then the trade token i'm talking about those 12 and a half cents
or one bit
it would have been good for so
a dime
True value money again. We were talking about about so 30 dollars for for
an ounce of silver
Three bucks that's about a loaf of bread
But if you have a full dollar how do you make change for it? Right and sometimes they didn't have that coinage
and again paper money or
Zinc
Nickel clad copper and and copper clad zinc don't have the value of
What we put or the paper right, okay, so
These things here have a high premium on them the fractions just like
Dime bag has a higher fraction premium on it than an ounce than a unit than a pound than the truckload
Okay, so you gotta you gotta understand that when you're purchasing metal if you're gonna be purchasing metals
All right, so super high premium on these guys
even directs from the source the the bank that I can take this to and exchange it for
1 40th of an ounce of gold
There's a 40th of an ounce of gold in this
But if I got 40 of these
I can walk in and they'll give me a fucking ounce of gold
This is the utah 25 gold back
So this is 1 40th ounce
Again utah is the first state to do this. There's now 20
8 or so states that have have
metals currency law and that's
Dime bag will be yeah
I tried I tried to trade I got close. I tried to trade I did trade that
I did trade that
I've screwed up. I already said this I traded off that beautiful piece of of uh silver or that I had
for cash and I should
I'm dyslexic and I said I said my bottom dollar first and I want my what I really wanted second and he gave me the
bottom dollar
so
I'm learning. I gotta I gotta I'm dickered for fucking ever. So
um
yeah, we've been this gold gold was when I was
Chronic was 300 an ounce retail when when I was a teenager if you could find it
And gold was 300 pounds
One cent I think that beauty
Not dying, okay, that's from 1900 though, I dug that one up eight inches deep
What else will we um, so yeah the dollar breaks down the tube to uh, you know 12 12 and a half cents is one bit
And so i'm gonna make bitcoins i'm gonna make
That's where that name comes from
Bitcoin, that's crazy. It's not the computer bits
All these things oh and the penny so the penny is is one tenth troy ounce of bronze or copper right and then
and then so this will be
broken down
Into fists so it'll go into 20th
of a troy ounce
And it's gonna have my uh
I've got a a device. That's my signature anagram
That anyone copying it will not have a clue and they'll copy my signature and and they'll have to pay me royalties
Um
Let's see. I was planning on getting into some soil science and shit after reading ishi and I I lost my shit
because uh
Reality got home
Let's see
Let's see
Tokens tokens
Did I bring my coffee up with me I didn't did I i'm thirsty
Thirsty let's see. Let's take a little interlude. I wanted to have my coffee. Sorry
I'm
Cat's been limping and I've been putting the stuff that we use for topical. I just put a little bit of it on her food
There's the coffee
So it's interesting though and start looking around like hey, I want to make I want to make coins and
Well, you know you need a need 100 to 300 pound press
But how they used to do it with a sledgehammer
The sledgehammer only delivers like three tons of force
But but you need you need a 300 pound 300 ton press you can't you can't make coins that how they used to do it
Hmm
Here
I did a little I don't think I showed you guys this stuff
I haven't played with it yet
Here's my
The start the start of my foundry I gotta get a propane tank
Shit so cheesy, I I know I can forge a way better set of tongs than that, but um, I gotta take a file to
I love gold
So much I got the gold colored one it just happened to be the cheapest one, but you know, it still works
Graphite
I'm done with it like this. I can use it for artwork pretty simple setup
So
Not only i'm gonna melt silver. I've been wanting to do this for fucking ever
But yeah, I guess I said I got copper. I got copper and then maybe look at that
um, because I can melt it in there, but that's not really what the
I'm not gonna make gold leaf. Was somebody asking me questions. I'm, sorry
Oh the undercutting prices comes from from um
Like here in the states we got we got like the freaking mafia
like in mass producing weed and then
People give seeds away for free you talk about undercutting the price people who are not in the seed business aren't breeders and they
They give it away for
Incentive to buy their other products
Yeah
Yeah, there's a lot of mafia in the united states there's chinese mafia mongs in northern california all over
there's in oklahoma, there's been weed farm murders and it's
it's
Mafia from you know trafficking human beings and growing weed and selling it undercutting
Legal prices and licensed farm legacy farmers and putting people out of business. It's not just big money
If you if you google google it you can find it on the the youtube. There's a whole bunch of news stories about it
and um, there's whole areas in northern california where like they just
They got their little militia and they don't let law enforcement come in at all
The ticket's only 500 bucks if they can get in there and hand it to them
And destroy the crop and then they but the overlords
They got the leased land and they bring these people in and put them to work and and uh,
And there's there's again. There's the there's the cartels the mexican cartels and they've been doing it for a long time
but it's it's it's got worse with with less enforcement, it's
less, you know, it's easier for them to get away with it and we talk about um,
it's not so much in the national parks anymore because they got the feds in the national parks and
um
Like the feds aren't going after illegal states so much anymore unless there's like
some reason for them to
right, and it still happens and whatnot, but it's like
It's kind of it's like oh, this is this is like the the fucking grass fires out of the fucking barn
With the horses running in the front and dragging it behind
the wind at their backs
It's like uh, oklahoma used to try and stop it would they do?
5000 license growers or whatever it is for for state that's got less than the population of utah
um
Just open the floodgate right and and so but that's there's a lot of that everywhere and
um
The funny one is my daughter is like, oh my bunny got into my stash
She just sits on the bed the stairs. I'm like, oh man the story of the stone bunnies utah stone bunnies is true
But if you look at this, it's kind of crazy when they were trying to stop the dea was trying to stop here in
Utah they had brought in some agents the dea wasn't whatever it was everyone was trying to stop
they want to be able to bus people still and um
And this guy had a valid point the cartels were growing on the edges of our national parks
They'd be down in the zion national park and arches and stuff
They I guess they was zion not arches for a little further north. There's some there's some sections there
There's natural watershed
And they were running drip lines out
pinion juniper red rock zones and and and
Dea talking about the stone bunnies and they lose all their initiative to run away and stuff and
Yeah, but that is it's a real thing right they're destroying them, you know
They're not regulated. They're not they don't give a fuck and they're poisoned and stuff and
They're not regulated they're not they don't give a fuck and they're poisoned and stuff and
There's a document you see the stuff in southern california out in the certain valley. They're the
In
Eastern los angeles and san bernardino counties in the mojave
and um
Yeah
How do you what do you
That's what i'm like I nearly need something that
the people people want and need and
You know using the law of attraction and all that stuff. I'm visualizing my coin getting copied
My people in china then, you know i'm sending out fakes
um
I'm not gonna make a whole bunch of stuff to start just one
Let's see, I got books all around here
What should we?
What should we read from?
Should we do some science?
Should we do some some uh philosophy?
Should we do some mystic stuff?
What should we do you guys tell me?
Yeah, I got soil science in front of me I got the book of virtues to the right of me
I got carlos castaneda to the left of me
Music
Music i'm gonna take you to me a little musical interlude
Yeah
Here's a neat one.
I missed out because I didn't have this thing with me yesterday.
I stopped by the thrift shop on the way to the coin show and for 75 bucks there was like
a 10 gram, I think it was 22 karat gold ring, but the last fucking gold thing I bought wasn't
gold.
And so I was like alright I'm not buying anything more until I got the test kit and even though
I'm starting to learn the feel of it and everything I wanted to be sure and so I didn't have this
but I picked up these really cool, the little, you can see the acid watered off of the things
I was testing right?
And then there's a pure silver right there that they put on there to start, it ain't
nothing more than that off yet.
And then you get ACID!
Do not put this in your eye!
And then it's got a neutralizer and I'm going to have a baking soda but here's the nitric
acid for the silver.
And then it gives you a little color chart that tells you what happens in the reactants.
This is all just chemistry that occurs and the colors and how it reacts with the different,
and this stuff it all is like knowledge that I kind of have from, we teach the soil science
and how things react and watching all the metallurgy and all that stuff and it's like
I should show stripping metal and reverse electrolysis to get a little better understanding
of chemistry one of these days right?
I'm pulling silver off of other metals using electrolyte and a little electricity and then
it slowly sizzles it off, yeah.
So anyhow, if you get into, another one that's good to have around is just, so I tore apart
a disk drive to get the molybdenum magnet out of the fucker and if anything reacts to
the magnet on something it's probably not precious metal.
People who do precious metal work it's like an art form and you don't put steel on golden
items and then a scale so you can do your math after you, the multiple chemicals in
there will tell you if it's 22 karat or 10 karat or 15 karat or whatever.
That's just sitting right there, figured I'd share.
Cat's going out, oh shit!
I totally spaced on, whoops!
I knew there was something else I needed to fucking do.
I got all fucking emotional earlier and duh, duh, fucking jimmy rigged here.
Whoops, whoops, whoopsie daisy.
Oh I need to find my push stick, this will work right here.
So to pull it over it's pretty simple, super heavy duty duct tape, grommet, parachute cord
and these just slide over right and we'll talk about doing it wet and so I got one in
the middle, one on the ends here, oh I need that stick still, I'll use this one.
Springtime!
I had to mow the lawn already.
So there was frost on it, it might stick a little bit and usually I use two hands to
do this.
So if I'm doing this in the summer I'll use this steel here to tuck this all in and roll
it in to protect it from the sun.
Except for when I want it to dry off still.
So yeah I've had so much money and I'll do this for so long and it's like I really gotta
do something that makes me money and so that's why I keep doing this and do the coins instead
of day of the job.
So we got males, we're down to, kind of going more towards stinky than bulk more than anything
but there's, this section over here is just fucking loud as all get out.
Coals, alright so this is a slightly separate one, these little miniature girls but there's
definitely a distinct phenotype in there and people wonder how do you do this with these
little teeny plants and it's like well you know some of these guys just really are girls
and the same thing happens with some of these, that's why I'm waiting on light, we've had
some storms and if we can look at, little fuckers but they're fuzzy.
So I want to go through and do an evaluation of what's left and looking at, then with a
little side light to see before I call anymore.
And luckily, so I have, you know I got rid of all the little fucking leaf hoppers in
here and I only got two males out of those plants that got infected and if they even
did respawn they're pretty fucking resilient so I'm going to go ahead and breed just within
real quick with this one here is the OG Deep Purple Punch.
OG Kush, so it's basically OG OG OG, these other ones behind this, it's kind of a project
together and some of it got froze you can see but I found, I thought I did all the seeds
I have more so like you can see this one here has got that twisty twisty going on and it
did not seem to affect everything else.
Here's a whole bunch of more of the different grouping from the Green Dragon, so everything
I was showing you before is all Green Dragon, this is OG Program here, OG OG, let's see
here's our North Lights from seed, I think I got clones of these all gone, they don't
seem to, I'm not sure, this is what's showing up when I have that in there and it gets frozen
that's just from freeze damage and yeah fly on the little fucker.
Okay so here's some of the, I'm sorry, Zack and Stanley Kush, it's getting a little colder,
it's been really cold in here so it's got that darker, this is a wedding bouquet right
here for 420 wedding, so it's got a nice structure that will just, I'll wrap it up
and do it nice, I'll see if I can't find some feather ferns and stuff to put with it,
no, just fan right there,
but this sucker died, everything got cold, it got really cold again and I think I lost
more peppers unfortunately, stocks, all right, what do you do, and you can tell, and then like
I'm going to go through here this week and pick out which ones,
which one of these little things I want to re-veg,
here's Dr. Dream All Cure, it likes really short days, it doesn't do so long, well with the longer
days, yeah I got some afghan pollen I'm going to hit these north lights with
here in a couple of days, bag them up, I'll put a paper bag on and I'll inject with a
with a needle so I don't spill it around everywhere, but yeah so here's again Green Dragon
and it's been taking a while, it's cold this year and I've been dealing with my hand injury,
it's getting better, keeping it up has helped, I just I've had it on, you can see the goo on my hand,
it's definitely the thing, you know, get the males together, compare them,
there's that, you know, I spend a lot of time looking, feeling, smelling,
again I went through and did a mass call, this one's kind of chilling, waiting to make sure, and then
the next step is figuring again which of these got the juice and then you can sift, so this is
a sift and I'm already in, I've done grown so many, it's like what's, I know I'm not going to look for
the ones that don't have the full juice right there, right, and even if they juice up later,
they don't got it now, that's not what I want for these, these are the outliers and there's literally
that's rare though, right,
you need that frosty, that little, these will all get super dank, you can see it, you can see if you
look down, let's see now, I'm doing, I'm doing stuff to force this out, like this late
late pull on the tarp, right, so here's a call, boom, and then I pay attention
and how I mark that is, I'll pay attention to look at some other aspects, but
so I've let, I've let days get longer, I do not have a regular schedule for the tarp as you saw,
I'm an hour later than I was yesterday and I'm getting up in the morning and it's already
almost dawn and then pulling it, so I'm really fucking these up, trying to get them to expose,
I don't want to give that to you,
if any do this, so I've come out another 18, so I really want to inspect the rest of the 18,
but what I was looking for to show you was, okay, and we found that, but you see how that's got the
frosty down underneath on the pre-cum and not so much there, so it'll frost up here soon,
but that's like a full-on outlier, same parent line,
but that's like a full-on outlier, same parent line,
chunky, and that's the next thing we're looking for out of those ones, is which one's got the
chunky versus and then does it have any branching at all, and then some of them I had to take the
leaf off, so I have to think about that when I'm looking at those things, right,
and we're looking at all sorts of, all sorts of, but so I see, when you think about that,
okay, that one had some hermi going, how many do I have here, and that's the only one I'm seeing,
all right, I got no, no problem telling you, one of the reasons this has never been put to the
world as a cut, because it does have a random hermaphrodite, it's not even doing it right now,
actually, no, it doesn't have any pre-bulbs, so yeah, that outlier really, this one here,
it's behind a ways, and then when we look at structures, the next thing we're gonna look at,
right, I was saying the branches, how this one here I like, and then stinky,
you know, sometimes maybe it's super fucking awesome frosty, but
it just doesn't get the snow, what's the point,
right, look at these, oh, that's a woodpecker, or the fan,
super sensitive sound waves, huh, it's fucking dry, oh, it's dry as a bone, right,
gotta lift the pot, right, and I mean, you can see the frosty, these have all been in the same
cycle, so something else this tells me too, because I've been allowing it to reverse a little bit,
is, and they just started getting tarps pulled, like, five days ago,
we had snow on the ground seven days ago, a foot deep, so I couldn't, and
it tells me a whole lot about how deep in the flower they are, that's how far out they've come,
you know, in the males, and how they open up and stretch and stuff,
as it tells me how late in the season they're gonna be flowering, if they went into full flower,
not right now, with the spring, you know, because I wasn't pulling lights, I just,
I had them in veg until mid-March, and then let them go, look at this, this male here,
the, this fucking male is railing, railing on a lower fan leaf on the male,
different colors and pollen, definitely, yeah, I love, I love the colors of pollen,
that'd be a fun one to break out old, whole bunch of old pollen jars out of the freezer one day,
and just dump them out on a piece of white paper, and see all the different, oh, here,
what's this, start seeing bees out here pretty soon,
start seeing bees out here pretty soon, I just want to like, make oil paintings of stuff like
this, right, that's all I really want to do, this is apricot, isn't that beautiful though,
but who would buy it, like I make beautiful videos of this stuff with,
with bees in slow motion, and no one ever sees it, so, whatever,
but one thing I need to do is go around and start pulling all the baby maples,
here's some right here, and so I'm going to start growing them into bonsais,
garlics all over the place, here's, here's the peach tree starting to, I'm totally,
this thing I was going to transplant or sell it out later, but it's totally going to be a,
a bonsai peach tree, we'll just see how long I can get it to grow,
just went out front that I've been wanting to transplant, and then I'm thinking like,
I should put it into a, put it into a, what's it called, pot, shallow dish,
oh, we were gonna, yeah, I just remembered, I forgot, so we'll go back and we'll do a little
um, phyllos and scions, and then it'll, it'll be hanging out in, in the Sunday session at that
point, if it's not already, I don't know, you guys hanging out in the Sunday session,
Peter there, as he's driving to the venue, venue, all right, so here, I don't know if these ones
are cool enough, I'm the guy that is ghost town living, ghost town living, Cerro Gordo,
that's what I just sold, I just sold, I sold off that chunk of the galena lead
yesterday, sold the dude a chunk of lead for 20 bucks, I'm good, but I really, I should have got
a fucking round of silver out of him for it, right, um, okay, here's a neat one, where do we
open right to, tillage systems, let's just do a little bit of tillage systems, look at this guy,
what's he got there, it's like fucking a, a tree trunk, he made into a plow,
so it's got mass like a flywheel would, and he swings that thing, and it turns turf,
you imagine, fucking, a wooden fucking plow, hand fucking driven through sod,
that's a man, I'm sorry, that's a man, farmer in, um, where did those go, there they are,
farmer in southern Senegal on the western bulge of Africa using a
it's C-A-I-L-L-A-N-D-E, and I don't know with the, with the, how do I pronounce that,
how about, how about, should I do the, do this style, I think it'll fall over though,
like just my hands, you know, and so we're just gonna like do the faceless channel from here on
out, and like every word my hands will do a gesture, and it's kind of like an ASMR visually
thing, better than my ugly mug, I think you've probably seen this video I'm talking about,
on the western bulge of Africa, a special hoe, scalp,
sod, and turn it over to form a ridge from two sides, the weeds,
the weeds in the sod will gradually rot, and the bear strip will be used to plant peanuts, yams,
and other crops, pretty cool, yuntas, or oxen plows incorporating wheat and fertilizer in the
Caracas Province, and Cochabamba, Bolivia, these parents of the students are donating their time
to plant school land to wheat and other crops, and they're also using the sod to grow crops,
and to plant school land to wheat, to raise funds for the school, annual precipitation is,
that we're so fucking blessed, we're so blessed in our indoctrination systems for free,
I have to say that having gone to
private school and understanding the differences,
one of the worst experience, or real, the greatest waking up moments I ever had was playing American
football, and I had, every one of the football games I ever played in, in high school,
the great American football star Dick Buckus stood on the sidelines next to my father, who's Dick
Hardy, and watched the game, and my dad was a leatherhead player back in the day,
and of bad knees, you can't keep playing, right,
anyhow, we're playing, our private school played South Pasadena,
right, industrial and not white part of town, and
these guys were kicking our ass, and it wasn't, it wasn't league play, it wasn't a scrimmage,
I don't remember what you call it, but it wasn't a practice game,
but it was kind of like a practice game, and they were kicking our fucking ass,
and I remember one of the rich snotty guys saying something, I didn't know he was a rich snotty guy
until that moment, it's like, one of the guys just clobbered him and said something, and I don't know
what he said, but the response was, that's all right, my dad owns the factory your dad works in,
and I'm gonna own the factory you're gonna work in, and that was probably one of the moments that
when I started being woke, when I was 16, 15 years old,
if you look at the definition of what woke actually means, instead of this fucking bogeyman bullshit,
it for over 4 000 years, people have labored to till the soil to plant and grow crops tillage
methods in much of the world are virtually unchanged from what they were centuries ago,
sometimes ancient tillage techniques are used because of custom, but more often is because of
limitations in equipment, money, knowledge, and environment in developed nations, tillage has
become highly mechanized and sophisticated process, the zenith in extensive tillage was
reached in about the 1960s when large heavy equipment prepared large clean fields devoid of
even fence row vegetation, all residues were mixed into the soil or previously burned, and many of the
operations could be done in one pass over the land, wood plowed, disk and smooth in one pass, fertilized
plant and spray pre-emergent herbicides in one pass, however this pinnacle of success was expensive
and energy costly because of compacted and eroded soil and polluting to the environment, technological
abilities often exceeded good reasoning, increased energy costs, concern about soil erosion losses,
and environmental concerns focused a new attention on our tillage practices, the concept of reduced
tillage quickly drew attention of many scientists and farmers, the reduced tillage and no tillage
practices are here to stay, but they are compromises like most choices dealing with natural systems,
now let's be sure that we know that no till is nothing new, I'm going to look here at the cover
pages and um where's the cover page it tore out so it's right right there tucked in further up and
this is copyrighted 1958 this is the 1990 edition so no till is nothing new I just wanted to let you
know that there's actually nothing really new in soil science there's the acceptance that we
down know that there's these well we knew there was these anaerobic cycles but we know what and
better understand their functions now and how to control them and make them work for us
less tillage reduces fuel costs and operation time however less tillage also increases problems of
weed control insect control and seedbed preparation heavier more rugged equipment is needed to plant
non-tilled soil field may appear to the farmer so in and this is a farm book from Dow Chemical
so let's not have any misconceptions there's actually
and it's showing the different types of we're not going to get into this too far
but here's here's deep wing subsoiler there what they do is called ripping a deep rip
and turning the subsoil over and they're flipping it and getting
and depleted so this guy here's got a single rip going
loosening up compacted soils breaking breaking hard pans right various calcic calcicated layers
in the soil to get percolation to occur so all sorts of things like that and seedbed preparation
and things like that for why you want to plow and why you wouldn't want to plow and then we
talk about that in our gardens versus and then we get into the micro environment that occurs
and then intervals in between doing a deep rip and why you'd you know dealing with certain soil issues
I mean there's huge areas of California that had hard pan and and then they planted eucalyptus
trees and they broke they broke the hard pan and and that destroyed the entire aquifer system
because all there was there was percolation would hit it and run off you'd have surface streams
but then it cracked it and it would it would percolate in and then the eucalyptus drink it all
too but that's just a whole nother concept of understanding soils and like there's a whole
lot of people who understand soil in a pot or or in a hole in the ground and or have an idea
of understanding of those conditions and there's like really this huge huge bigger understanding
and the more you understand about the whole picture the more you understand about that
microcosm that's in the small point of focus in the bigger picture right um I had some
I thought there was a picture of here it is
no-till seeding of corn in Indiana into a wheat cover
a wheat cover crop grown to protect the soil and retain leachable nutrients
a fluted cutter cuts a narrow strip of soil which is the total seedbed preparation fertilizer is
banded into the same operation soybeans growing and grains double no-till planting
soil conservation service so I'll show you those photos here
all right so you can see they're just they're planting right into the stubble of other stuff
right this ain't nothing new you can check that dude out this is like
late 40s or early 50s that guy out in the field check out his hat
he's wearing a fucking collar button shirt out farming
and this is nothing new I think even the guy in the tractor's got a fucking collar shirt on
I think even the guy in the tractor's got a fucking collar shirt on
hey all right blue collar white collar everyone wore a fucking collar shirt back in the day
I got I got a t-shirt collar
all right this one here is this heavy no-till drill is seeding dry land wheat
Clarkston watershed in northern Utah so we have like the hugest hugest well there there is the
Dakota's got some some probably are beating us now we had the largest dry land wheat production
in Utah forever and ever but it's all built over with big slab warehouse buildings now but
so here's this is you can see a big ass fucking tractor going and they literally just like in the
fall would go out and fucking hit that seed right into the stubble and uh over the winter it snow on
it and maybe sometimes it popped and landed in the snow and I've got like rye grass that just
perpetuates the same way and uh here's a neat one the guy around the corner is a fine artist
friend of mine so I know from from oil painting competitions and whatnot um he gets a lot of money
for his paintings he went to formal art school and stuff um he bought a piece of property
central southern Utah on the weaver uh no seaver on the seaver river and uh
he said that the property's previous owner passed away he bought it from the estate
it had the highest record in America for receiving
like USDA flood insurance assistance and so every year the guy never actually planted he just had
figured out a scam where he could just claim he lost his crop to flooding every fucking year and
the guys said I bought the property and there was like a there was a combine from the from the early
from the early 50s like sunk into the soil to its axles and the tires were all flat and this guy was
getting like two and a half million dollars a year from the fucking government for a lost crop
that had never been planted that's that's market for us that's why we pay taxes and can't have good
things besides combining the rest of the world's militaries to meet our budget but um the elevator
and what yeah hell that it's it's uh there's so many so many factors we look at it's gonna
like things are it's it's um people don't look at the big long term of economic effects for
instance of like Walmart closing down all the small mom and pop shops in every town
right and and then like everything else is expensive but and and that crap and that
wage becomes the standard across the nation right because like the government's the only
larger employer than Walmart I think and there's some good stuff they do but it also it's like wow
they could do a hell of a lot more they could pay a way better wage and people could have way better
spending capacity that actually drives the middle class drives our economy way more than anything
else and I would love to do I I've been it's really tough no one no one takes me seriously
when I have no money like the only people who take me serious are people who see me ski
and they know I'm a fucking ski bum um but I like I have never gotten Paul Stamney's to respond to me
and I would love to collaborate with him and his his technologies and my hemp that's read to dry
farm the desert and we could get his um fungal mats intertwined with my dry farm cannabis mats
in the desert to remediate oil wastelands here is there at Colorado, Utah, Northern New Mexico,
there's a shit ton of areas in California that need that kind of stuff too right
and um but when I'm struggling day to day and dealing with physical pain and trying to survive
and then given all this production I've put in for years now and I give away free feco to people
or whatever it is or I'm sitting here on a million dollars worth of fucking seeds that I don't really
have a an efficient proper distribution system um to get equitable return on my inputs
with silver people buy these little fucking silver coins and and so it'll just be like I got
15 pounds of silver and I'm just going to keep cycling through I'll make the coins to sell them
and buy more silver and whether the fluctuation crossed up and down there's this huge premium
like mark it up and double my my value you know and I have the cost of production and that's it
you know it's a write-off and um just do a couple of run days a week and take care of that business
when it happens automate stuff to speed it up as I can afford to and start with the cheapest in the
manual labor my physical capacities and knowledge and experience and I need to get a better caliper
that's for sure that's gonna be pretty cool so anyhow cool little lesson real quick there on
drive on uh here's adapt adapting to reduce tillage and part of the part of the stuff you
you keep telling over you end up getting um hard pan and um plow pan the more you till so that's
why I have those deep rippers go through and break the low the deep pan the deep compaction
and you can study soil compaction and its longevity even in areas that have deep soil
freeze and thaw compaction sticks around for a couple hundred years in um old like logging rail
beds and stuff have gone and done um it's not tensiometer that's the water there's
there's a device that you literally you fucking ram the thing into the ground
and it tells you how how dense the soil is and um you can you can read you can like if an old road
has been grown over and it's like a two track you're trying to find an old two track or something
like that and it's all grassland growing over there's probably going to be an area where the
grass doesn't grow it's going to be because it's compacted but but even if the subsurface
if the surface is thawed and you know the uh freeze thawed and and loosened up over the years
there's still going to be compaction lower in and you can find it with going along and taking a
transit with this thing and you'll find here that it's it's pretty amazing how even after getting
ripped and stuff there can still be a lot of compaction in an area for a long period of time
and that's also we we get higher compaction after we destroy the soil structure and but if we leave
it in a no-till and we compost cover over like that the fella in england does you can literally
walk on it because it creates this fungal mat that um doesn't really compress unless it's like
maybe just lifted up and tilled it but kind of neat walking through the forest when you start
to realize that that that fungal mat knows you're there as you're walking along and it's communicating
you break a stick or whatever it knows you're moving along and you're helping to decompose
and there's going to be more access to food busy pass and the next rain comes through
it's talking to the trees saying hey we got more food over there
here all right should we read a random page out of carlos castaneda oh this is epic
thursday april 12th 1962 we reached the high desert around the lava mountains in the late
afternoon in the distance the dark brown lava mountains looked almost sinister the sun was very
low on the horizon and shown on the western face of the solidified lava
tending its dark brownness with a dazzling array of yellow reflections i could not keep my eyes
away those peaks were truly mesmerizing by the end of the day the bottom slopes of the mountains were
in sight there was very little vegetation on the high desert all i could see were cacti and a kind
of tall grass that grew in tufts don juan stopped to rest he sat down carefully propped his food
gourds against a rock and said we were going to camp on that spot for the night he had picked a
relatively high place from where i stood i could see quite a distance away all around us food gourds
i've been trying to get bottle gourds to grow in mass and i only get one or two a year if i
really really want to make gourds into a container art form it would be so cool to have like a bottle
gourds dash right we you open your bottle gourds all decorated and stuff and you've got your tools
and your herb in it you have another smaller one for your drinking water or vice versa
a large one for your canteen and the smaller one for your for your medicine bag
from where i stood i could see quite a distance away all around us it was a cloudy day and the
twilight quickly enveloped the area i became involved in watching the speed with which the
crimson clouds on the west faded into a uniform thick dark gray don juan got up and went to the
bushes by some time he came back or by the time he came back the silhouette of the lava mountain
was turned to a dark mass he sat down next to me and called my attention to what seemed to be a
natural formation on the mountains towards the northeast it was a spot which had a color much
lighter than its surroundings and while the whole range of lava mountains looked uniformly dark
brown in the twilight the spot he was pointing at was actually yellowish or dark beige i could not
figure out what it could be i stared at it for a long time it seemed to be moving i fancied it
to be pulsating when i squinted my eyes it actually rippled as if the wind were moving it
look at it fixedly don juan commanded me at one moment after i had maintained my stare for quite
a while i felt that the whole range of mountains was moving towards me that feeling was accompanied
by an unusual agitation in the pit of my stomach the discomfort became so acute that i stood up
sit down don juan yelled but i was already on my feet from a new point of view the yellowish
formation was lower on the side of the mountains i sat down again without taking my eyes away the
formations shifted to a higher place and i stared at it for an instant and suddenly i arranged
everything into the correct perspective i realized that what i had been looking at was not in the
mountains at all but was really a piece of yellowish green cloth hanging from a tall cactus
in front of me i laughed out loud and explained to don juan that the twilight had helped create
an optical illusion he got up and walked to the place where the piece of cloth was hanging and
took it down and folded it and put it inside of his pouch what are you doing that for i asked
because this piece of cloth has power he said casually for a moment you were doing fine with it
and there was no way of knowing what may have happened if you had remained seated paradigm shifted
paradigm shifted
you ever been doing the best you've ever done in the zone doing your thing something that no one
else ever does and you're the best at it in the world because no one even thought about it and
they're looking at you laughing perspectives paradigms shift friday the 13th april 1962
friday the 13th april 1962 at the crack of dawn we headed for the mountains they were surprisingly
far away by midday we walked into one of the canyons there was some water and shallow pools
we sat to rest in the shade of a hanging cliff the mountains were clumps of the monumental lava flow
the solidified lava had weathered over the millennia into porous dark brown rock only a
few sturdy weeds grew between the rocks and the cracks looking up at the almost perpendicular walls
of the canyon i had a weird sensation that the pit of my stomach the walls were hundreds of feet high
and gave me the feeling that they were closing in on me the sun was almost overhead and slightly
towards the southwest stand up here don juan said and maneuvered my body until i was looking towards
the sun he told me to look fixedly at the mountain walls above me the sight was stupendous the
magnificent height the lava flow staggered my imagination i wondered i began to wonder what
volcanic upheaval it must have been i looked up and sat down in the sides of the canyon at various
times and became immersed in the richness of color in the rock wall there was effects of every color
conceivable hue there was patches of light and gray moss of lichen and every rock i looked right
above my head and noticed that the sunlight was producing the most exquisite reflections
when it hit the brilliant specks of the solidified lava i stared at an area in the
mountains where the sunlight had been reflected and the sun moved and the intensity diminished
and then it faded completely i looked across the canyon saw another area the same exquisite light
refraction i told don juan what was happening i then i spotted another area of light and another
in a different place and another until the whole canyon was blotched with big patches of light
i felt dizzy even if i closed my eyes i could not i could still see the brilliant lights and i held
my head in my hands and i tried to crawl into the hanging cliff that don juan grabbed my arm firmly
imperatively took me told me to look at the walls of the mountain and try to figure out spots of
heavy darkness in the midst of the fields of light i did not want to look because the glare bothered
my eyes i said that what was happening to me this is something we don't see this shit because we
wear sunglasses take them off next time you get out in the canyons and the sun i did not want to
look because the glare bothered my eyes i said that was what was happening to me was similar to
staring into the sunny street through a window and then seeing the window frame as a dark silhouette
everywhere else don juan shook his head from side to side began to chuckle he let go of my arm and
we sat down again under the hanging cliff i was jotting down my impressions of the surroundings
don one after a long silence suddenly spoke in a dramatic tone i have brought you here to teach
you one thing he said and paused you are going to learn not doing
we might as well talk about it because there is no other way for you to proceed
not doing has brought me to starting a small minute a micro event i'm not doing
sometimes you have to just not do to see things in a whole different light and that's what we're
going to learn about here i've brought you here to learn one teach you one thing he said and paused
you're going to learn not doing
they get it for the cat there we might as well talk about it because there's no other way for
you to proceed i thought you might catch on to not doing without me having to say anything i was wrong
what's going on i don't know what you're talking about don one it doesn't matter he said i'm going
to tell you about something that is very simple but very difficult to perform i am going to talk
to you about not doing in spite of the fact that there was there's no way to talk about it because
it is the body that does it he stared at me in glances and then said that i have had to pay the
utmost attention to what he was going to say i closed my notebook but to my amazement he insisted
that i should keep writing not doing is difficult and so powerful that you should not mention it he
went on not until you have stopped the world from doing it and then you should stop it from happening
on not until you have stopped the world only then can you talk about it freely
if that's what you want to do don one looked around and then pointed to a large rock
that rock over there is a rock because of doing he said we looked at each other and smiled
i waited for an explanation but he remained silent finally i had to say that i had not
understood what he meant that's doing he explained pardon me that's also doing what
are you talking about don juan doing is what makes that rock a rock and that bush a bush doing is
what makes you yourself and me myself i told him that his explanations did not explain anything
he laughed and scratched his temples that's the problem with talking it always makes one
confuse the issues if one starts talking about doing one always ends up talking about something
else it's better to just act take that rock for instance look at it look to look at it is doing
but to see it is not doing to look at it is doing to see it is not doing
the shit's like heavy fucking meditation stuff we're talking about here
i just confess that his words were not making sense oh yes they do he explained but you are
convinced that they don't because that is your doing that is the way you act towards me in the
world yeah we can like call this zen right fucking here and now
i didn't know zen when i read this when i was younger
i didn't know it's in i know it now this shit's serious then
he again pointed to the rock that rock is a rock because of all things you know how to do it
he said i repeat that rock is a rock because of all the things you know how to do to it
i call that a doing a man of knowledge for instance knows that the rock is a rock only
because of doing so if he doesn't want the rock to be a rock all he has to do is not doing see what
i mean i did not understand him at all he laughed and made another attempt to explain the world is
the world because you know the doing involved in making it so he said if you didn't know it's doing
the world would be different he examined me with curiosity and i stopped writing i just wanted to
listen to him he went on explaining that without the certain doing there wouldn't be nothing
familiar in the surroundings he leaned over and picked up a small rock between the thumb
and the index of his left hand and held it in front of my eyes this is a pebble because you
know the doing involved in making it into a pebble he said what are you saying i asked with a feeling
of bona fide confusion this is sativa because it's been called a sativa
this is sativa because it's been called a sativa
you know all the things that go into calling it a sativa
but truly when we smoke it and it doesn't do what a sativa does we know it it is not doing it is
being right and so is a rock truly a rock is there truly a mass to that what is the mass
is there something solid there when we kick it we feel it because of the illusion of
persistent illusion of reality that we agree upon exist and persist to move through in this meat
suit but what is it really and knowing it and understanding it and at a whole different level
we can look at it in terms of the grammatic philosophies that there is actually mineral mind
so we think about it in a completely different way than we do and for instance in combining
combining vivorous minerals and going through the processes of refining minerals and
then recombining them to create a an alloy understanding the mineral mind and how
the various reactions and what they want and what they think about where they'll go to
where they activate towards and what they repel from and understanding of the mineral mind
and what creates rock and why rock is is very different than all the things we go
to an understanding when things are just are right and that's the zen of it when things are just are
where'd the pebble go where'd the pebble go
that rock is the rock i did not understand i'm gonna see where's the call it
the world because you know that doing involved making it so he said if you didn't know it's
doing the world would be different he examined okay so take your dmt and you get to see the
other side of the different knowing um he examined me with curiosity i stopped writing i just wanted
to listen to him he went on explaining that without certain doing there would be nothing
familiar in the surroundings he leaned over and picked up a small rock between the thumb and
index of his left hand and held it in the front of his eyes this pebble this is a pebble because
you know of the doing involved in making the new pebble what are you saying i asked with the feeling
of bona fide confusion don juan smiled he seemed to be trying to hide in his curious delight i don't
know why you are so confused he said words are your predilection you should be in heaven
he gave me a mysterious look and raised his brows two or three times
then he pointed again to the small rock he was holding in front of my eyes i say that you are
making this into a pebble because you know the doing involved in it he said now in order to stop
the world you must stop doing you must he seemed to know that i still had not understood and smiled
shaking his head he then took a twig and pointed to the uneven edge of the pebble in case of this
little rock you were on the first thing which doing does is to shrink it to this size so the
proper thing to do which a warrior does if he wants to stop the world is to enlarge a little
rock or any other thing by not doing as above so below as below so above he stood up and placed the
pebble on the boulder and then asked me to come closer and examine it he told me to look at the
holes and the depressions in the pebble and try to pick out the minute detail in them he said that
if i could pick out the detail and the holes and the depressions would disappear
then i would understand what not doing meant this damn pebble is going to drive you crazy today he
said think about did i talk about last week a little piece of chocolate meditation right
and all the doing that became the pebble but if you hear that chocolate piece and stop the world
by examining all those things and then the stopping of the doing and it no longer was
chocolate was it became all those things instead of the doing this became the chocolate
deep deep understanding stopped the world
when you stop the world you see it through the magic lenses
i must have had a look at the world man on my face he looked at me and laughed
uproariously then he pretended to get angry with the pebble and hit it two or three times with his
hat i urged him to clarify his point i argued that it was possible for him to explain anything
he wanted to if he made an effort he gave me a sly glance and shook his head as if the situation
was helpless sure i can help explain anything he said but could you understand it i was taken back
insinuation doing makes you separate the pebble from the larger boulder he continued but if you
want to learn not doing let's say that you have to join them he pointed to this small shadow
that the pebble cast on the boulder and said that it was not a shadow but a glue which bound them
together he then turned around and walked away saying that he was coming back to check on me later
left him with shadow as a glue binding them together separate them
you can literally pull the pebble from the boulder but the shadow stays bound
i stared at the pebble for a long time i could not focus my attention on the minute detail on
the holes and the depressions but the shadow that the pebble cast on the boulder became
the most interesting point don juan was right it was like a glue it moved it shifted and i had the
impression it was being squeezed from underneath the pebble if you ever really truly examine shadow
there's light bends and shatters and reflects and scatters and and so so there's deep shadow
and there's there's there's there's illuminated shadow and there's there's reflection within
shadow right and there's shadow within shadow if you look at those they're not necessarily just
less light too sometimes there's i've shown this in here where there's there's north light light
and and you can see the different temperature of light on the different sides if i didn't have
these lights going that that puts a different view or color temperature to it right so there's a whole
there is truly when you start to study a shadow one of the one of my art masters used to tell me
this all the time is like i i zoom out to the zoom out and try and create landscape and the feeling
of walking in the woods and like bro you need to like slow down and focus into a square inch of
that landscape you're looking at and zoom into the minute details and focus on painting those
as well and um you see it you see in the shadow where is that at
when don juan returned i related to him what i had observed about the shadow
that's a good beginning he said a warrior can tell all kinds of things from the shadow
he then suggested that i should take the pebble and bury it somewhere why i asked you've been
watching it for a long time he said it has something for you now it has something of you now
the warrior always tries to affect the force of doing by changing it into not doing doing would
have to leave the pebble lying around because it is merely a small rock not doing would be to
proceed with that pebble as if it was something far beyond a mere rock in this case that pebble
has soaked in you for a long time now and it is you and as such you cannot leave it lying around
but must bury it if you would have personal power however not the doing would be to change that
pebble into a power object voltum weirs freaking horticorpses oh my goodness how's that for a cross
reference i think i think i think i think in in um western judeo-christianity we might refer to it as a
holy relic can i do that now your life is not tight enough to do that if you would see you
would know that your heavy concern has changed that pebble into something quite unappealing
therefore the best thing you can do is to dig a hole and bury it and let the earth absorb its
heaviness it's all this true don juan to say yes or no to your questions is doing
but since you are learning not doing i have to tell you that it really doesn't matter whether
or not all this is true it's just a mindfuck then
um it is here that a warrior it is it is here that a warrior has a point of advantage over
the average man an average man cares that things are either true or false but the warrior doesn't
an average man proceeds in a specific way with things he knows are true in a different way with
things he knows are not true and if things he are said to be true he acts and believes in what he
does but if things are said to be untrue he doesn't care to act or he doesn't believe in
what he does a warrior on the other hand acts in both instances if things are said to be true he
would act in order to do doing if things are said to be untrue he still would act in order to do not
doing you see what i mean no i don't see what you mean at all
um in the hermetic principles and there there's a couple of a couple of different concepts he
just related there and it's um like the swing of the pendulum and and staying above the swing
of the pendulum and seeing how and really understanding the flow and instead of instead
i see a change in the financial systems coming on a global scale and this is something that happens
historically and so i reach out and i and having a warrior mindset and i've never really chased
wealth but i want to survive when things go to shit here um financially i want to be able to
maintain my home and grow my own food right at a bare minimum and i can't keep a job and so
so i i stopped doing and allowed the universe to bring to me the energy to do it and i'm
so i i stopped doing and allowed the universe to bring to me the information and the solution and
that is to to not try and hoard silver but to process it into a
something else i'm going to do something to make a non-doing and bring wealth by creating wealth
for other people so when i create these little coins i'm going to sell them at a markup of course
and in retail and small fractions i'm going to sell them at a higher markup and a larger
markup that people are going to buy them from me and sell them and resell them and mark them up and
they'll continue to exchange hands and and they'll be able to allow people if things ever do go to
shit where we have a direct barter money exchange process and anything otherwise people are going to
be able to give gifts with these things and they're going to be able to enlighten each other and bring
forth knowledge and understanding and instead of people just being this this you know here i'm
giving the hand up and understanding and allowing people to see that spin pendulum and stay above
the pendulum swing and the energy and understanding your own position and seeing they're really
different ways of doing life right i've always chased living over having but you got to have to
live and my buddy peg leg i don't talk about e.g. a whole lot i haven't talked about him a lot
i hadn't seen him in a while but e.g. is real inspiration he lost a leg in a ski accident
he had the super super hyperactive brains and we spent a long time i gave him i gave him two years
of daily medicine man work keeping him alive he was he was suicidal he he contracted hepatitis c
um when he lost his leg and blood transfusions and you know somebody made a mistake and didn't
check his pulse in his foot and the ski accident and they couldn't get a life flight and it was
eight hour ambulance drive to denver and his foot was dead by the time he got there
and they had no blood getting to it because the the bone had all crushed his knees he lost in the
blood transfusions in the surgery amputation he ended up getting hep c and in years later
when i lost my farm and my wife was going to shit and i was begging the universe to put me to where
i needed to be to survive and he it was the the i'd lost the tree service through crazy shit and
there it was the recession and like fuck nobody's doing what but he had such quality work he did
doing carpentry he had what little work there was available in the rich people's homes
and brought me on to be his legs and taught me super fine carpentry work
um and i was there giving him therapy sessions a couple hours a day
um but he's got a beautiful family children and employs a whole bunch of other people now right
and also inspires other young athletes who have lost limbs and he went on he was an exchange
x games snowmobile competitor and he managed you know the beginning of his trials when he first
lost his leg and he was for running the extreme ski competitions right um just living on a whole
different level of mental capacity and bringing forth and doing and and all these crazy interactions
that bring me forth to to be in here and now and my own i injured myself helping him but what can
i tell him like i'll make a prosthetic for the spine and he's wobbling around and above the knee
amputation um it's the creating right and and here we are now he gave me a hand up and and i can
go to him right now and get work if i needed it and felt my body could do it or we could find
something where i felt justified working for him that's where i left the last day
when i got the mris on my spine i saw my neck had been busted twice and and uh
so but the doing and the not doing and the swinging of the pendulum and seeing how the
sways of man and people um you know there there's there's people make big moves up above and and uh
you got some money to make some money but there's also ways like what was i saying they told me i
can't do this without a fucking 50 000 piece of equipment and i'm gonna i'm gonna do it all with
and i'm gonna i'm gonna do it all with with about well the press is still gonna be the
most expensive thing but i'm gonna get a harbor freight for us part of this too is my engine my
my ability to see a niche and so many people's meant to coin and it's exactly the same fucking
thing that everyone else has done the exact same fucking thing and the exact same thing and the
just like the seed business there's how do you stand out and that and and um where i don't have
the ability to test and i'm not showing up it functions with flower it's kind of hard for me to
show but i can show up at one fucking showing coin show and i can comment on a couple of people's
youtube videos and show show people what i got and mail a couple samples out and i'll have demand
for silver coin and i'm having a real a real die cut by a real coin die cutter that's been
in business for like 150 years it's done coins for the united states and stuff as well so
gonna be cool all right so we had our philosophy we had um we learned a whole bunch of shit here
you saw me break down like a fucking emotional bitch um reading about ishi and you want to see
what that is this is this is just some powerful shit when you really under you read this person's
story and how and another another one that's pretty powerful is um the um the iwanichi in
the valley of the yosemite in the in the uh indian wars of 1886 that's another pretty powerful one if
you read that and just understand and um manifest destiny shit now change happens and it's kind of
hard to change it um but like i was showing how different california was there was over 500
over 500 different um
languages in northern california alone before
europeans came in um and and part of it had to do with the harshness of the land
and the landscape and the ridges and the valleys and and and how you just didn't it wasn't safe to
travel it was also highly abundant with the foods they needed and and living in harmony on the land
so they didn't really need to trade a whole lot so there was like lingual groups but they had very
but they had very diverse dialects that would occur just one valley to the next and stuff
um i'll try reading some of this again that was just the fucking hard part where he really so it's
ishi last native american wild native american indian and he goes back and finds this he literally
he ended up living is like in in a fucking museum diorama life diorama and they set it up for
him it was it's crazy but he his sister was the last of his tribe and the last of any of the people
around him and she got washed downstream and uh he was desperate and alone and ended up walking
into town we'll do the prologue we'll call it a day after that story of ishi begins for us early
in the morning and the 29th day of august in the year of 1911 in the corral of a slaughterhouse
it begins with the sharp barking of dogs which roused the sleeping butchers
in the dawn light they saw a man at bay crouching against the floral fence ishi
they called off the dogs then in some considerable excitement they telephoned the sheriff in
oroville two or three miles away to say that they were holding a wild man and would he please come
and take him off their hands sheriff and deputies arrived shortly approached the corral with guns at
the ready the wild man made no move to resist capture quietly allowing himself to be handcuffed
the sheriff jb weber saw that the man was an indian and that he was at the limit of
exhaustion and fear he could learn nothing further since his prisoner understood no english
not knowing what to do with him he mentioned to the indian into the wagon with himself
and his deputies drove him to the county jail in oroville locked him in the jail cell for the
insane and there the sheriff weber reasoned while he tried to discover something more about the
captive he could at least protect him from the excite all curiosity of the townspeople
and the outsiders who were already pouring in for miles around to see the wild man the wild
man was emaciated to starvation his hair was burned off close to his head and he was naked
except for a ragged scrap of ancient covered wagon canvas which he wore around his shoulders
like a poncho he was a man in middle height and the long long bones painfully apparent were straight
strong and not heavy the skin color somewhat paler in tone than the full copper characteristic of
most indians the black eyes were wary and guarded now but were set wide in the broad face the mouth
mouth was generous and agreeable molded agreeably molded for the rest the indians extreme fatigue
fright heightened a sensitiveness in which he was always there while it masked the usual mobility
and expressiveness of the features it should be said that the sheriff's action and locking and
locking ishi up was neither stupid nor brutal given the circumstances until sheriff weber had
the unwanted measure of keeping them out by force people filled the jail to gaze through the bars at
his cell at the captive later ishi spoke with some diffidence of this his first contact with
white men he said that he was put up in a fine house where he was kindly treated
and fed while fed by a big chief that he would eat nothing and drink nothing during his first
days of captivity as she did not say such was the case nor did he allow himself to sleep at first
quite possibly it was a time with strain such strain and terror that suppressed all memory of it
or he may have felt that it was unkind to recall the suspicions which proved in the event groundless
for ishi expected in those first days to be put to death he knew of white men only and that they were
the murderers of his own people it was natural that he should expect once in their power
to be shot or hanged or killed by poisoning meanwhile local indians and half breeds as well
as mexicans and spaniards tried to talk to the prisoner and madal went to in spanish ishi listened
patiently but uncomprehendingly and when he spoke it was in a tongue which meant no more to the
indians than to the whites the story of capture of a wild indian became headline news in the local
valley paper and reached san francisco dailies informs more or less lurid and elaborated the
story of the san francisco call was accommodated by a picture the first of many to come later
in another newspaper story in maydow indian conway by name issued a statement in quotes that he had
conversed with the wild man and conway's moment of publicity was brief since the wild man understood
nothing of what he had said these accounts were read by professors kroger and waterman anthropologists
at the university of california and berkeley who were once alerted to the human drama actually
didn't say berkeley there um and the event to its possible importance and the more particularly
because it recalled to them an earlier episode on san nicholas island one of the channel islands of
the pacific ocean some 70 miles offshore from the santa barbara in 1835 padres of the mission
santa barbara transferred the san nicholas islands to the mainland in a few minutes after the boat
which was carrying the indians had put off from the island it was found that one baby had been
left behind it is not easy to land a boat on san nicholas and the captain decided against returning
for the baby the baby's mother just jumped overboard was last seen swimming toward the island
there's actually a whole fictional story based on that and the life of that woman
raising her child back on the island the channel islands with the kid
i can't remember the name that was uh but it totally describes the entire
life
style of the people and how she adapted by herself going back to the villages
half-hearted efforts were made to find her in subsequent weeks were unsuccessful it was
believed that she had drowned in the rough surf 1853 18 years later seal hunters in the channel
islands reported seeing a woman on san nicholas and a boatload of men from santa barbara went to
search for her they found her a last survivor of her driver baby as well as all her people who had
been removed to the mission had died she only lived a few months after her rescue and died
without anyone having been able to communicate with her leaving to posterity the skeletal outline
of her grim story and four words which somehow someone remembered from her lost language and
recorded as she said to them so it happens that these four words identify her language as having
been shoshonean related to indian languages of the los angeles area but not those of santa barbara
and so those people all died either um probably from sickness uh was the main thing and then um
like food stuffs they were living off the seafood and acorn stuffs right and then they were probably
like fried bread greased flour shit like that and their bodies couldn't even adjust the internal
bioflora another reason for the anthropologist particular interest in the wild men was that
three years earlier in 1908 some survivors surveyors working a few miles north of oroville
had surprised and routed a little band of indians after hearing of this incident waterman with two
guides had spent several weeks in an unsuccessful search for the indians the wild man of orville
might well have been one of them august 1931 1911 august 31st 1911 crowberson following telegram
sheriff butte county newspapers report capture of wild indian speaking language other tribes
totally unable to understand please confirm or deny by collect telegram and if story correct
hold the indian till arrival professor state university who will take charge and be responsible
matter important account aboriginal history the sheriff's office must have confined
confirmed the report promptly waterman took the train to orville the same day and
curber correctly guessed ishi's tribe and language was no tour de force of intuition
his guest was based on field work with indians all up and down california and they
knew that orville was adjacent to country which formerly belonged to the yana indians presumably
the strange indian would be a yana and he might even be from the southwestern tribe of yana
and believed to be extinct if this were true neither they nor anyone as so far as they knew
could speak his language but if there was a northern or central yana there were files of
expertly recorded vocabulary if he were a northern or central yana there were files of
expertly recorded vocabularies for those dialects from the two old yana but we called two old yana
but we called sam and tdmia called betty brown with a copy of batwe and tdmia's vocabularies
in his pocket waterman arrived in orville where he identified himself to sheriff weber and was
taken to visit the wild man waterman found a weary badgered indian sitting in a cell
wearing the butcher's apron he had been given at the slaughterhouse curiously making
what answers he could in his own language to a barrage of questions thrown at him in english
spanish and assorted indian from a miscellaneous set of visitors waterman sat down beside ishi
and with his phonetically transcribed list of northern and central yana words before him
began to read from it repeating each word pronouncing it as well as he knew how
ishi was attentive but unresponding until discouragingly far down the list waterman said
zucchini itch means yellow pine in the same time tapping the pine framework of the cot on which
they sat recognition lit up in the light indian's face and waterman said the magic word again and
ishi repeated it after him correcting his pronunciation and for the next moment the two
of them banged at the wood of the cot telling each other over and over so he me so he me so there's a
real life account of an actual first contact language barrier breaking that we've seen so
many times in in hollywood renditions and that's literally what happens right literally what
happens you get that first fucking word and you're just like we got it we got it we broke the barrier
i can we can communicate let's go for and and it's a process from there right and then like rosetta
stone thought of so fucking much when someone found that it's like oh oh we broke we break the
code we have we have and that was uh the beginning of the rest of this guy's life and and uh it's
great so he would have died had he not wandered in um he definitely would he just he couldn't
the game was gone his entire the lifestyle you know it takes more i saw an interesting one i wish
i could think of the guy's name brilliant rich american and in probably from 50s or 60s
holding the number two pencil and says there's no one man who can create this pencil and i say
there's no human being can raise a barn by himself right no one man and this is the law of odysseus
all right and we'll close with the law of odysseus and thanks for listening a little bit about issue
and it's the only shit that motivates me and why i do preservation runs and and um help out whoever
random people because you never know what what they have to give um to the world um so the law
with so the law of odysseus and so the greatest warrior ever known the the
the son the child of a god impervious death except for the one with the poison arrow
and and and the hill no so odysseus not achilles i'm sorry um i'm getting confused here the um
so the the he traveled he he survives the war
he's you know he travels travels all the world he survives all the trials right he's uh
he's lost so many men and he could not have made it through without the men
that went before him and and to uh to hades and um he makes it home and he finds that his greatest
possession in life has been hounded by all the suitors the whole time he's been gone and they've
they've depleted his stores you know the king has returned and then and he's returned as a
humble man right he's wearing shepherd's clothes and he comes comes quietly and sneaks in and sees
all this and and the one true servant right he he realizes it's like i'm i'm old now i'm still
strong i'm still badass but i cannot do this alone i cannot i cannot take back what is mine i cannot
i cannot i cannot take back what is mine i cannot possess my own existence by myself i need
i am the strongest warrior i've survived the greatest of trials but i still need the help
of my fellow man to make it into my own bed right um so this is the lava disease no one man has ever
raised a barn by himself and um the number two pencil no one man and this is similar to the
chocolate no one man can create a pencil by himself the number two pencil and do i have one
right here i don't but but so somebody had to cut the tree down right and that tree took a
took a chainsaw and the chainsaw took steel and the steel took a steel mill and the steel mill took
a miner right um the miner took an engineer and the engineer took a full officer and a mathematician
from thousands of years before to make it to where he got to where he was that day when he figured
out how to safely open the mine up to get the to get the ore out to create the steel to make the
chainsaw the the and the train and the truck or the the rails and the
the haul equipment that created it right and they get the wood but
um inside the inside the wood there's there's there's something we call a lead but it's
graphite just like the crucible from the burner i showed you there it has multiple uses but where
does it come from where is it mine how is it created and all the people that process it to
come together and and uh like all this stuff comes together because we all collaborate and we all
work together and and conspire to make a good thing but no and that that pencil comes together
there's rubber in there there's there's the brass on the ferrule that holds the eraser on the tip
right and there's the yellow paint and the pigment that goes into the yellow paint and the gold leaf
on that number two pencil that and and then there's the machinery that made the makes the
press that puts it together and there's the guy that has the finances that makes it happen but
he can't do it without the labor that does the work right and we it all has a value to it and
it's all just as worth the rest of it to make it available to us for trifles and put it and um
you know so hopefully you can see that a little bit different you've shifted your paradigm today
listening to a whole like like this whole big ass thing here i explained a huge like why is
the sale happening the way it is right so go to go to hardy gear check that out and you know
as soon as i'm on my feet here the sooner we'll have this more more and more available for everybody
appreciate y'all
go out in the world make was there any burning questions i have chats cruising by so fast
yeah not a whole lot of people hit the like button they just like listening
and in fact the guy that made the first lead list pencil produced white roof and paint and now
on the market solvent lit nice innovations part so part of that whole not doing thing though is i
was able to allow the universe to direct me into having everything come to me to get this whole
going thing started it's going to help so many people right hand up not handouts
yeah so so many extinct and it keeps happening people keep on extinguishing
so much knowledge and understanding that's one thing that's really awesome about this
is like like uh some of you might know i mean i learned how i like i love to make arrowheads it's
been a while arthritis doesn't help with it but i totally that was a whole lifelong process i mean
i learned how to do that and i came to utah and finally met a fellow out in the desert when i was
learning the inmate fire crew and he was an expert at it and he showed me the process but the crazy
thing is is the shit once once he showed me the actual motion instead of me you're trying to learn
it from somebody who didn't know and it was handed down visually it's handed down visually and showing
the motion right where i can read it through a book and someone trying to describe it who doesn't
know who tried to read it through a book that didn't work and this here explains a whole bunch
of stuff that he so the anthropologist ends up taking this guy back out into where he lived and
showing him how his lifestyle and i showed him his wiki up all the shit was still sitting there
his his arrowhead making kit was still tucked up in the tree he left it tucked up into
and so all of his tools were there and he showed him the whole process but the thing i learned
directly from ishii that's helped me indefinitely throughout my career of and if you're a glass
maker okay ishii is handing you knowledge ancient fucking knowledge right here if you're a glass
maker you chip glass and it bounces around and gets past your fucking protective lenses and you
got a chip of glass in your fucking eye don't try and pull it out you fucking take your head and you
open your eyeball up like this and you tilt it straight fucking down and you use physics and you
whack the back of your head and the mass of that has inertia and it pops out of your fucking eyeball
okay so that's how you get a chip of fucking broken glass out of your eyeball and learn from
the last native american wild indigenous human being through the professor the professor's wife
in the paradigm shift dude crazy man appreciate y'all head on out in the world make it a better
place the mitsui you was giving it to do it in you have a better understanding of that if you
watch this show what i mean the whole try to explain that to folks sometimes in paradigm
shift if you didn't change your view of the world right now and expand your mind
it might not be i know i talked some gibberish there there's definitely some like what the fuck
is all going on in this anyhow you might have to listen to it a couple of times
a lot of it is just the zen mind fuck to understand there is the fact is we create our
our reality where the thoughts and when you shift and you you get that big slap to the thought
process and you're just like well i don't know you see things from just like he he was seeing
that rag and was trying to perceive what the fuck it was in the distance but it was right there in
front of his face you know sometimes it's right there in front of your face peace out thanks
love y'all
