But in just a second early, and we're live now.
Yeah, cut out, come back in.
Oh, well, oh, well, oh, well.
All right, let's get this up and running.
Thank you all for joining.
There we go.
I've got a live feed on YouTube.
We've got people here in the room.
So I guess it's time to get going.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Welcome to Hota Herbs grow and tell our weekly cannabis cultivation club.
We start every Thursday at 9 p.m.
Eastern 6 p.m.
Pacific and we are produced recorded and simulcast by the future cannabis
project and available on YouTube slash fcp o2.
If you are new to the clubhouse room, make sure you click on the little
greenhouse and join the future cannabis project club.
If you're joining us from YouTube, make sure you subscribe to the future
cannabis project fcp o2 and fcp o3 channels as well as pound that like
button in the room for me.
I really appreciate that as well.
So thank you all for joining.
Let's go ahead and kick it off.
This is episode 61 tonight.
We are having a community night going to do a little Harvest Cup recap talk
about the past weekends activities and then we will jump into some other
stuff.
I mean there is a ton happening in the industry right now.
I know there's a whole bunch of people out at MJ BizCon right now actually.
And that is a party that goes on for days a whole bunch of the people that
actually were at the Harvest Cup with were heading straight.
There afterwards and they loaded on up after after the Harvest Cup and headed
on out to Vegas for the show and it's supposed to be a pretty wild time.
I have not been to MJ BizCon yet.
I almost went last year but due to covid and some other things.
I kind of backed out of my opportunity to join but you know it's I got an invite
to go help Moscow sell seeds actually last year at Vegas but I declined.
So maybe in future another opportunity will pop up for me to fly across the
country and go hang out at the largest cannabis event.
I think in the world really is definitely one of the largest events.
Somebody was telling me they had their pedometer on and they'd walked like 15
miles just in one day at the show.
So it's pretty crazy.
I can't imagine a cannabis show that big but that's because I haven't been there
and I understand it is complete chaos that about about 75 to 80 percent of it
is really all sorts of businesses that won't be there the following year.
All sorts of crazy ideas and contraptions and gadgets and other things that might
be going on.
But this past weekend was as I mentioned the Harvest Cup here in Massachusetts
Harvest Cup is a community started cannabis event and this year they kind of
followed suit on what the Emerald Cup had done and they did judging in categories
based on terpenes for many of the flower stuff and then they did there was a CBD
and of course edibles and some tinctures or solves and there was a bunch of
different categories every category imaginable but they did kind of follow
that trend that the Emerald Cup implemented this past year where they grouped the
flower into terpene dominant categories and then judge the flower based on those
terpene qualities, right?
So if it's a terpene limiting whatever the different categories were I think that's
six or seven different categories of terpene dominant terpenes, myrcene and of course
a few others.
Limonene is always because you know, you can't get away from it.
I believe there was a pinene there might even have been an osamine category but
I'm not too sure.
I did not enter any stuff in the cup.
I am not I don't do I don't do those.
I don't do contests.
I don't enter my flower and I don't judge.
I'm not I don't feel I have the right to judge others.
And so I don't I don't participate in any of those aspects of the event but the
event itself is really really a good time at the DCU Center in Worcester two-day
event and they really allow people to smoke outside of the event.
Don't harass anybody.
There's a cordoned off area that people can just go outside and smoke as often
as they want.
There's always people dabbing inside.
You see the dab rigs going off all day long.
So most people, you know, most of the time nobody says anything about that but
outside plenty of plenty of flower smoking and hash smoking and other things
going on and they really don't bother anybody.
It's wonderful to just stand out there right in the center of Worcester and just
puff away.
At the event and you know, there was a lot of people at flower on their tables.
I didn't see anybody get harassed for having flower out.
You know, you go to some of these events and you know, if you're a seed booth a
breeder you want to have flower on the booth.
That is a representation of the seeds that you're trying to set.
You know, it's one thing to give somebody a picture.
It's another thing to actually let them sniff the jar and understand what the
flower is, you know, what the expectation is what it's going to smell like what it
might taste like if you happen to get a sample and you know, professor P from
Dynasty genetics is always really good at this.
He tends to bring a bunch of wonderful samples with him that are specific to
the seeds that he's selling or at least some of the lineage of the seeds that
he's currently selling.
I think I told a story in the past about the first time I met him and spent time
with him where he took me through the lineage of the ghetto bird or ice heron
as it's called now with jars, you know, here's this is this and this is the
mother came from this and the father came from this and this is you know, the
cross that was used for this side of it.
So it was really really interesting to see and smell and taste even those
different pieces or those different cultivars that went into this lineage that
I was about to grow and that gave me a language to talk to him about as well
where I could say, yeah, you know, this really smelt a lot like this one or you
know, I'm really getting all of them or whatever it might be.
And so really really great to be able to do that.
And so it's nice when they don't harass you at the event.
These guys are not selling.
There's definitely people there selling but these guys are not selling cannabis
and or anything else other than seeds and t-shirts and sweatshirts, but the you
know to be able to have the jars on the table so that people can smell it.
You can have conversations about it is part of the sale.
It really is a big part of it and I've been to a lot of events where they don't
want you to have the weed on the tables and it really makes no sense.
They're afraid of the sense scared by the sensei.
But so that was so that was really good.
I really appreciated that as well.
The the fact that there were police there, but they really did not harass
anybody was wonderful though.
I got to catch up with a whole bunch of my friends and family from the industry,
especially now that I live here on Cape Cod.
I don't get to go hang out with all my Worcester friends as often as I used to.
I don't get to go to the hangout at the Summit Lounge, which is our local
consumption Lounge in Worcester.
I used to go there once a week and host a monthly grow and tell there.
The you know, so I missed everybody.
It was it was good to see everyone and just really nice to spend time with the
community.
I don't get out very often these days.
And so it was great to go sniff other people's jars and smoke other people's
weed.
I came home with a nice bag full of lots of different selections of nugs that I
traded with people over the weekend and it's I love smoking other people's
flower and sharing and having those conversations.
It really was fantastic getting to see everybody.
I didn't you know, out of all of the events.
I've been to this is probably I came home.
I think with the least amount of seeds ever, which is kind of strange for me.
Usually people are throwing seeds at me, but you know, I I'm actually kind of
thankful because I didn't pick up too many packs of seeds that I may not get to
anytime soon.
I did run into my buddy from five five five genetics who passed me a couple
packs and a couple of other folks were nice enough to grant me some genetics
CMS seed company gave me this really cool sounding purple apricot s1 which
sounds delicious and because you know, what could be better than a purple
apricot?
And then I also you know, one of one of my I had a whole bunch of fantastic
experiences at the at the cup to one of the highlights for me this weekend was
getting to chat with Ed Rosenthal again.
And I had met Ed originally in 2013 at hemp fest in Seattle.
And at the time I bought his, you know, marijuana's growers guide the
Oakster Dam University kind of textbook thing and that you know, got him to
sign it and I had a good conversation with him.
I wasn't growing at the time.
But it was good to talk about some of the grows I had done and some of my
hopes for future.
And so this was the first time I had gotten the chance to see him, you know,
nine years.
And he's definitely aging.
He's definitely he's definitely aging and so am I there's no doubt about it.
I definitely did not have any gray in my beard the last time I saw him and now
I have a full beard of gray.
So it was it was good to talk to him and I was honored.
He took some of my flower.
So the Venus blue which I grew which is the mosca seeds blueberry muffin crossed
with the raspberry boogie.
He you know, that was the jar out of the jars.
I brought I had the
Evergreen with me the gift of the gods from Boneyard feel-feel.
Mr.
Toad and I had Tyrek peak from my buddy eternal cultivars.
And then of course the Venus blue those four were the ones I had primarily with
me and that was the one he picked out.
That was the one he wanted to take home.
And so he took a bunch of nugs of that and smoke did and so when I saw him
the next morning and so that is definitely one of the highlights for me was not
just talking with that again and having a conversation with him, but you know,
just really the fact that he took some of my flower and smoked it and supposedly
enjoyed it.
He could have been lying to me.
I don't know but he seemed like he enjoyed it and why wouldn't he right?
Because it's beautiful.
It was beautiful delicious fresh.
Organic regeneratively grown cannabis.
And so what could be wrong with that?
So that was one of the highlights of the week for me weekend for me and I also
got two more of his books to kind of round out the collection.
One of them is called the garden saver and the other one is a ask Ed book, which
has a whole bunch of new tips and tricks and tricks and tricks and tricks and
stuff in there.
So I'm super excited to flip through those books and see what little nugget
golden nuggets.
I can pull out of there for for for growing my knowledge.
The other thing I got because I bought the two books was seeds from Ed.
So I got a 10 pack of his regular dark sage and you know, this is interesting.
I like the the age of these seeds is interesting.
So the package itself says Ed's homegrown seeds first established in 1954.
He was born in 44.
So did he start growing at 10?
Make his own seeds at 10.
These are questions.
I have to ask him the next time I see him are are the lineage on some of the
seeds that he used from 54 where they possibly passed down from some family
or some other older folks that he may have known over the years.
I don't know.
The strain is called dark sage.
It's a cross of Dark Star female and sage male Dark Star is a cross of the
Mazar I Sharif and purple cush sage AKA sativa Afghani genetic equilibrium.
S a G E sage is a cross of Big Sur Holy Weed and Afghan the effect blends with
heavy hitting relaxation effect of Dark Star with the creative uplifting clear
high of sage great for Fino hunting.
Ed's seed giveaway beta test 150 of 200.
So I these are seeds that I will definitely pop pretty soon just because
they're ads and I'm excited to see what they bring me.
I definitely have a whole bunch of other things lined up that I want to run.
I did also, you know, not at the Harvest Cup, but did get some brand new packs
from my buddy at Soul Rebel Soul Rebel.
So the zur berry and Afghan I see he sent me in the mail the other day.
Always love stuff from Soul Rebel.
If you haven't tried any of his stuff before you really should check him out.
He's an awesome New England breeder.
He's in Connecticut.
So he's actually over the border from us here at Mass, but really really cool
cat and has done some amazing work over the years.
Really really great stuff.
I grew I grew his poison most a while ago and it was really really amazing.
But definitely definitely want to check out Soul Rebel genetics as well.
So so that was one of the that was really really a fantastic thing that
happened this weekend was kind of just chatting with that a little bit and
you know, having him take my flower to me.
That's that's a highlight having having Ed take my flower and smoke it.
I you know, it doesn't really for me get much better than that.
I you know, Danny Danko.
I saw my buddy Danny.
I've known Danny for many years now.
He's always happy to take my flower and I was happy to pass Danny as well.
But Danny's had my flower a lot.
So it wasn't quite wasn't quite the same but I do love seeing Danny Danko.
I mean you want to talk about an amazing amazing human being and just one of
the most unbelievable advocates for this plant has been doing it for decades.
Danny Danko is an amazing guy.
Anybody who knows him will definitely agree and reiterate that as well.
He is truly truly a beautiful human.
I love hanging out with Danny.
He's just fun.
He's always happy.
He's a wonderful mood really really just positive guy and loves the plant
and loves the community really loves getting out and being with the
community.
What other highlights I got to hang out a bunch with my buddies DJ steady and
Lynn spin from who is Mary Palmer.
They've been on the show before as you know, crazy how how the stuff that's
been happening to the two of them most recently they are doing just fantastic
stuff.
Their CBD dog biscuits were at high times a few months back.
They've been winning.
This was actually the first I think the first event I've been to where they
actually did not take home a prize in edibles.
I was shocked that they didn't win some category this time.
This is probably a first they are the most winning couple in all of New
England as far as any types of contests and cups and things like that.
Their edibles their solves tinctures all the stuff that they've made over
the years their lemonades amazing.
That's really the whole Mary Palmer thing.
It just just truly amazing and and so they one of the odd that has been
happening is that DJ steady has been playing some amazing gigs with some
awesome folks like Wu Tang and he was, you know, he hosted an event this
weekend where we had onyx and he DJ'd and then he was one of the main hosts
as well as my friends from ideal craft cannabis and you know having onyx and
sticky fingers there at the puff down after the DCU.
It's like the small club 300 people packed in there.
We're all smoking away because it's cigar bar and it was just so much fun.
Oh my God.
That was just crazy good time a lot of different artists appeared and dish
did the show but we had a capped off with sticky fingers and onyx and chatted
with them a little bit after the show.
I know, you know, and so I buddies with their manager and so I did
chat with I mostly hung out with him actually and so I got you know got to
spend some time with him and talk with him and I saw Jimmy Kang who's also
a really big music and cannabis community person here in New England
and Massachusetts.
He does a podcast and has a bunch of as a radio show and a bunch of other
things going on really really amazing as a club and studio and all these
other things and Worcester as well.
So really really again another wonderful cat in the industry.
That was just an amazing event inspected deck from Wu Tang showed up at that
show and and so it was really just tremendous.
I really can't say enough about it probably the most fun after party of any
of the events that I've been to so far and really really just a great time.
Appreciate my hats are off to Linda and Steny for pulling that event off
because it was truly amazing and next year is supposed to be even better.
They're already planning for next year.
So I'm super excited already for that spend some time with the cryo cure folks
who are also at Steny and Lynn's booth this they had a shared booth their
Edibles were actually made using the cryo cure machine.
So it's really they had taken a bunch of candies and different things and
put them in the cryo freezer and it did some really really wild shit to those
products.
So like jelly rings, you know gummy rings put those in the cryo freezer and
they just puff up and they get hard like a rock like almost like a rock candy
type of a well not a rock candy like almost like pop rocks.
You don't get the pop but that consistency of the candy is really weird
really wild and amazing flavor.
They did another one that was like a marshmallow.
It looked like a s'mores and the marshmallow completely puffed up.
They had one that was like it looked like cotton candy after they were done
with it.
So they were doing all these really cool things with candies and Edibles with
the cryo cure machine for those that don't know it is a freeze dryer and my
friends Tommy and Elaine from Excelsior extract and the original, you know,
oh the original outcast they've been using the freeze dryer for years.
They've had a cryo cure machine for many years and they freeze their flour
both for sale for the flour itself, but also for all of their hash a lot of
their hash making and tincturing and stuff like that.
Some of the stuff they do they'll do some traditional water hash and things
like that.
But for the most part they really like the cryo cure machines and then doing
You know hash making off of the cryo cured flour because the heads just fall
off and another thing with the cryo cure machines when you run the flour through
it.
It's like it feels really bizarre.
The flour feels like a popcorn.
It's so white fluffy breaks up really weird.
But the flavor is amazing.
You get you preserve all the terpenes when you do this type of flash freezing.
They don't you know, they don't have time to gas off.
They don't have time to age and oxidate because you're freezing them right
there in time.
And so the flavor is really really quite bold really get a lot of the terpenes
and it is truly cured and dried, right?
There is no moisture content.
It is dry.
So really interesting stuff.
And so I was chatting with the guys from the cryo cure and we're going to get
them on the show.
They'll be on either next week or the week after I believe again.
There's a whole bunch of people at MJ biz comm this week.
So we'll try to get going either next week or the week after I'll try to get
them on but I really want to get the guys from cryo cure on so we can talk
about that machine.
It's super cool and they do they have been talking about releasing a less
expensive unit that is more focused on the small home grower or you know,
small batch Hashmaker.
So instead of the 20 or $30,000 machine, I think they have a much cheaper
machine that they're working on producing and putting out there.
So that's some exciting news as well for those that might be interested in
doing some cryo cure of their cannabis flower.
Other highlights from the weekend again, you know, obviously spending time
with Professor P from Dynasty going to seeing Jinx and Mary Jack getting
to hang out with Jinx and Mary Jack this weekend spent some time with the
two of them always characters always a good time, you know, and Jinx is
funny because he got every for those that follow him on Instagram and you
catch his booth.
He's got this little toilet bowl water squirter and he always tries to get
people to lift the lid and if you follow him, you know better because you've
seen it but for some reason every time I see he tries to get me like he thinks
I'm going to forget.
It's like yes, James every time you see me like I saw you two months ago at
Turptown and you tried to do this.
He's a character.
So it was good to hang out with those guys and all the other folks that I saw
this weekend a lot of folks, you know, a good amount of the my friends from
the region conference were there, you know, Ben, you know, Ben was on a couple
of episodes early on from Acadia family farms got to see Ben.
I got to hang out with a bunch as I mentioned a bunch of the folks from the
main region show who were down in mass for the conference or actually lived
down here and went to Maine for that and our good friend the chef actually came
home with a prize.
So really really super psyched for him to actually come home with a prize right
now.
So, you know the the green love organics chef is the man.
He makes an amazing aged Scottish whiskey sea salt caramel London.
Truly delicious truly sounded like a mouthful aged Scottish whiskey and sea
salt caramel.
Delicious.
So he won for this and it's about 15 milligrams for each of those but he he
took home the prize so super congratulations to him.
He's also an amazing grower.
His flower is top-notch super super super cultivator.
All right, so we are at the 30-minute Mark.
Go ahead and do a quick reset.
Take a drink of water do a quick reset of the room.
We are here and hota herbs grow and tell our weekly cannabis cultivation club.
We start every Thursday night at 9 p.m.
Eastern 6 p.m.
Pacific.
We are recorded simulcast and produced by the future cannabis project and
available on youtube.com slash fcp o2.
If you are new to the clubhouse room, make sure you click on that little
greenhouse and join the future cannabis project Club.
And if you're on the YouTube feed, make sure you pound that like button as
well as subscribe to all three of the future cannabis project channels the
future cannabis project fcp o2 and fcp o3, you know, sometimes we have
multiple channels going at the same time last night.
There was multiple channels at the same time.
Hey, Guerrero grows has been doing some giveaways.
He does an amazing show on the o3 channel.
There's always amazing things going on in lightens lightens show and the
David Marco shows on future cannabis project.
And you know, there's also some other amazing people out there on YouTube.
You can check out like our friend Chad Westport is hanging around on the
YouTube feed today who is on every cannabis channel in the universe.
If it's there, he's been on it.
He shows up on that smoke show.
He shows up on his own channel.
He shows up on future cannabis project channel.
He does his own thing.
Amazing stuff.
We love you Chad.
Thanks for being here brother.
Always good to see you and have you in the room.
Appreciate you.
So this is episode 61.
We are doing a community night.
So feel free to come on up and join us on the stage.
Let us know what you might be smoking on what you're growing on and what you
might be harvesting on, you know, we're coming into winter, but that doesn't
mean that people aren't still harvesting us indoor growers.
Just keep going.
We don't stop and I also wanted to you know, I want everybody to send
positive vibes to Buffalo for all the growers up there in Buffalo who are
going to be pounded by Lake effect snow for the next couple days and may lose
power.
So, you know, let's let's send those positive vibes to the growers in
Buffalo, New York that they do not lose power or during these crazy snowstorm
that's going on right now.
They're getting pounded with this amazing Lake effect snow and they're
supposed to get like four feet of snow in the next couple days.
Insane amounts of snow.
So I feel for everybody in the Buffalo area and I hope those growers don't
lose power.
So let's get to what am I smoking on tonight?
I don't know.
I am smoking a random nugget that I picked up this weekend.
I believe I believe these came from Mike the house husband and Stone Ninja.
I believe I got these nugs from them that I'm smoking on right now and super
Super dense and frosty stuff.
Really really heavily heavily tricot and just resonated super thick amazing
amazing stuff.
So I'm smoking on that even though I don't know what it is.
I'm enjoying it though.
And that's really all that matters.
And then I have I you know London's to speak of me being lazy, you know,
I'm really I'm falling off.
I haven't photographed my plants in two days.
Dude, I haven't photographed my plants in like a month.
I'm just getting boggled down and I'm forgetting to do the basics to day-to-day.
It's just like I'm trying to get a new routine in and it's just like things
are going crazy, but it's good.
It's a good thing.
But with rare exception, I that I miss any at all.
Let alone two in a row and it's not like I was away.
I'm here.
I just like look up and it's like, oh shit, the lights are out.
I'm not getting pictures today.
Did your wife have to check on you?
Like did she check on you this week?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, that's she's you know, she's seen me that's that might be
what it is.
I maybe I'm spending too much time with the wife and not enough time in the
garden.
I don't know that she would agree.
My wife has long referred to herself as the weed widow.
Especially since I started growing again.
She's definitely referred to herself as the weed widow and she's constantly
trying to pull me out of the basement with a rake.
And I love her for it.
So I do have the you know, the plants that are in flower.
So I do have the you know, the plants that are in flower are still going and
I need to check on them and see how they're doing.
But I've got the the Natty Bumbo, which is going and that is currently on
day.
We bring up my calendar here.
Today is the 17th.
So it's the Natty Bumbo is on day 75.
And obviously I haven't looked at it in two days, but I got to believe that
it's going to go 80 if not a few more.
It just doesn't look like it wants to finish.
It looks like she just wants to keep going and going and going.
So we'll see.
So she is still rolling along and I am in week 11 on that one.
So I think she's going to go 12.
I really do.
Then we've got the chow mein, which is on day 61.
I think this plant may be done.
I'm going to check it tomorrow.
We'll see how she's doing.
But I think this one's getting close to done.
If not, it should be done within the 65.
I believe.
I don't think this one's going to go long and I think the same thing with
the Valley Haze as well.
So chow mein is from City Slickers Genetics.
Natty Bumbo is from Rebel Grown.
Our good friend Dan.
And then Valley Haze is from our friend who just passed, Matt, Goat Monkey Seeds, XO Seeds.
And so that one is on day 51.
So getting there.
I do not think, even though it is a haze and it did have some very long leaf
morphology on the plant structure, I don't believe it's going to go really long.
There's not a ton of white hairs.
It seems to be starting to fatten a bit.
We'll see.
I don't know.
And of course not checking on it for two days is really sad.
I'm going to have to get in there early tomorrow morning because they're definitely going to be thirsty as well.
I did water them.
I just didn't take pictures yesterday.
So I'm just completely slacking.
This is very unlikely, unlike me to do and not have pictures to post.
So that's what's going on.
I've got those three are in flower and I still have not started the bed.
I plan on getting the bed going this weekend now that I am home.
As I mentioned last week, I didn't really want to get it started before leaving for the weekend
because I didn't want it to overflow into my tent.
So I am going to that is my project for the weekend is to finish my leaf blowing outside and get my bed,
indoor bed going and then pop some seeds.
Got to pop some seeds.
I think I'm going to start with a few autos actually.
I mentioned last week I have some autos from my friend with the garden without a name
and I'm going to give those a shot, see what they come up with.
Crazy wild man and we'll see how they grow out.
I'm interested to see what happens and I think some autos will be pretty good to get that bed established.
Do a quick cycle, see how they do, get some good living roots,
short life cycle on the plant and get another round going in the background
so that when those autos are done, I can replant that bed with some fresh plants.
That will be ready to go.
I'm looking at approaching it with that kind of bottomless pot approach
that they're using on a lot of beds now.
Instead of digging into the bed to plant the next plant, just putting them on top
and letting the plant roots just grow down into the bed.
Then when you chop the plant, you leave that pot in place, add the next one next to it
and then after that cycle, you can remove the older one.
This allows almost no disruption of the bed and the root systems.
It allows you to maintain a really undisturbed root zone,
which I think is important in a living soil environment.
You don't really want to be digging at it and cutting it up and things like that.
Sure, you can do chop and drops of your cover crop and mulch things into the ground a little bit,
but you really don't want to be digging down into the root systems if you can avoid it.
That's one of the advantages of having the living soil beds with cover crops
is to have those networks and root systems be there and living.
We'll see how that plays out.
I think by doing the autos is that first round in the soil themselves
and then the following rounds using a two-gallon pot or a three-gallon pot to get them started
and then basically just removing them from the pots and putting them right there on top of the bed.
The other thing would be to start doing some sex testing.
So, I don't know. London, have you used any of the sex testing services or anything like that before?
Hold on. You can't give me a line like that and expect me not to take it.
I'm not going to respond to that in the way I would typically.
But for today, I haven't. No, I have not.
I don't want to see you just grow the plant.
Yeah, because my whole thing was like if I only had...
because the two-by-four beds, you can only fit so many plants in the bed.
And if you get one that's a male, you have to kill it, chop it.
Then you've only got what? One plant in the bed?
And when I try to roll that in the flour, then I'm only going to have one plant.
And then if I put another plant, if I replace that plant that was a male with another plant,
then I'm going to have one plant that's older and the ages will be too far different.
So I've been thinking about starting to do some sex testing of the...
popping the seeds, getting the seedlings going, doing some sex testing of them ahead of time,
and then just obviously calling the males earlier,
then allowing them to grow out until they actually show sex around 60 days
because then they're too big at that point.
And in some cases way too big even to put on top of a bed inside of a tent.
They get just too tall.
So I...
Have you tried like starting them or running them at 12-12 until they show
and then bulking up your time into veg?
No, I haven't tried that before.
I find that you can get your smaller plants to show a little bit earlier,
but it does... it does like your plants won't grow as big
because of course you're not getting 16 to 18 hours of light, right?
Yeah.
But they do tend to show sex a little bit faster.
That was one thing that I noticed is I ran a bunch of...
I've been running a bunch of individual seeds through lately.
And that's just I'm trying to, you know, get a couple dozen out every other round to test a batch of seeds.
Right.
What's coming out of it.
So the best way to do this is, you know, you put three four in a pot
and yet you grow them out and you find one girl out of them.
But I find that that plants that I veg out for a long period of time,
like I can get them to like two feet without showing any sort of sex.
And then I got to wait three weeks for them to show sex after that.
Whereas if I start them at 12-12, by the time they're a foot tall, they've shown sex.
Right.
But that time is a little bit longer difference.
But that being said, you can pull them out and turn them,
put them straight on to the longer light spectrum and they'll grow out.
Like it's not like they won't flip fully into flower, like all the way.
Like just like an auto flower will start to show sex early,
but not be fully into its transition yet.
Very similar. So it's like you can do it pretty well.
I think it depends, man.
I don't know. I don't like spending more money.
And that's kind of my go-to is to avoid the expenditure.
And that being said, if you have multiple plants in the bed system like yours,
and it just so happens that you get a few extra females in your bed,
you know, you just let them grow, you know, like they'll just be smaller
because there'll be less room for them to take over.
Sure.
We did a tour recently of Collier Quinton.
He's kind of a, he's been breeding for about 25 years in Tixota Island
off of Vancouver, off the coast of Vancouver.
Kind of a fun little area where he's been growing at,
but we toured his farm and what he does is actually puts down,
when he's hunting, he puts down like eight seeds into a one-gallon pot
and just calls the shitties and calls the males and keeps them going.
So some of these one-gallon pots that grow through into the bed, right?
Got three, four, five plants in them, you know, they're just a little bit smaller.
They're like, still takes up the exact same amount of room as all the other plants.
Just a few more varieties in there.
So I don't, you know, it's such a puzzle.
I mean like it really depends on the person, the situation, what they want to do.
It can be fun to send that stuff in.
I was also thinking about actually learning how to do it.
Okay, can you actually do it at home?
Is it something that you can do?
Yeah, absolutely.
If you can do tissue culture, you can also do sex testing.
It's a hormone.
That's pretty cool.
Well, I mean you can do anything at home with enough get up and go,
but I didn't think it was like a practical teaching thing.
You know, like you got to get one of those hood vents or something or like a really...
Yeah, I'm not saying it's something that would be necessarily cheap or easy to accomplish.
Who said we like cheap and easy though?
We like hard and...
Easy is boring.
Hopefully not too expensive.
Yes, easy is boring.
But there are, there's definitely some companies out there that do teaching.
Canonomic, they're doing a testing class in Humboldt County for Dutch.
So Dutch Blooms is going to be, has a class coming up in January
where they're going to do a sex testing workshop.
That's fun.
And so I think that is an interesting option as well, right?
Being able to do that myself and, you know, pop a bunch of seeds and then test them out.
Grab the, lose the males and then pop the females in.
And you can, you know, you find out pretty early that, you know,
which ones are good and which ones aren't.
You don't have to wait that long before they'll, the hormones will show on the sex from my understanding.
I have a friend of mine that's, like I have a few friends of mine that have run some regular genetics over and over and over again
that are very familiar with, like it's the plant that they do, they've been breeding with it for a bit.
And they can tell males by the shape of the plant in the first two weeks.
It's nuts.
Like they're just that close with the plant.
And that's what it takes sometimes for some of these people.
But I think it's cool.
I would love to learn how to do something like that.
Even if I don't practical or I don't do it on a regular basis, it'd be very cool to kind of learn about it, you know, like,
and also know the intricacies on how it's done, you know.
Yeah, absolutely.
So if you are, if you happen to be in Cali and you're interested in learning how to do plant sex testing,
as I mentioned, Dutch Blooms is going to be doing a sex testing workshop January 28th and 29th in Garboville, California.
And it's being hosted by Kinomic Laboratories.
And you're going to have Kevin Jodry and Meade Jean.
And of course Dutch Blooms will be there.
But Kinomic is actually, they have a place in Maine as well.
And they teach tissue culture also.
Very cool.
Tissue culture is interesting.
I imagine that you need a pretty sterile environment, much like you would for culturing mushrooms and other things.
Absolutely.
But the fun part is that people don't all often get, is that actually all the tools you need to set up a fume hood,
like a vacuum fume hood, like just a really basic one, like you have them if you're growing weed and you have a carbon filter and an outtake fan.
You're good to go.
You just fucking plug that thing into a desk and put a thing around it and put it on the outtake and you're able to do it.
Don't put it in a sealed tight room though.
You know, don't pressurize yourself into a deadly situation.
But yeah, I think that's kind of one of those things.
One thing that cannabis has taught me and that kind of the culture around cannabis has taught me is that there's so many weirdly interrelated things,
whether it be technologies or skills or tasks or things like that that often relate.
We're looking at the cannabis space right now and people are looking at interesting technologies in other spaces to utilize in this space.
And it's just kind of fun and different.
It's very interesting.
Yeah, it's good stuff.
No one can identify the sex of a seed from its seed casing.
Sorry, there is somebody on the chat and you can argue it.
You can come to me.
You can chase me down.
You can swear at me.
You can do whatever you want.
I invite it.
I invite you to troll the hell out of me.
But if you think I'm ever going to be like, you can identify a seed, whether it be from seed, whether it's male or female, by looking at it in its shape, you're fucked.
Sorry.
I've heard that.
Bring it on, man.
I'll argue it.
I did a whole show on this with like three PhDs.
I will take this debate.
That's funny.
Three, not one, not two, but three PhDs.
Yes, there is a anecdotal thing that says that if you look at the shape of the seed, there is a slightly different shape.
There's like a dimpling around the butt end of it that make it a female as opposed to the male.
I also am dubious, I guess would be the word, dubious that that would be true, because if that was the case, I would have thought that we would all have been doing that all along.
I also have looked at a lot of seeds and to be honest with you, I couldn't tell the difference between any of them anywhere.
They're just too damn small.
I think it's one of those funny debates, you know, like it's one of those weird things that we often talk about.
It's like the throwing ice on the roots of your plants.
Yes.
I don't know if you should do that.
Yeah, yeah.
But that being said, I know a guy that's growing fucking weed in the tundra.
He has no choice.
And it freezes and it grows and it doesn't mold.
It doesn't fucking rot.
And actually, what he finds is that if he doesn't let it freeze with the seeds in it, the seeds won't have the the the strength to be able to withstand that type of cold.
He has to let the plant get that far into that challenging point to get there.
Isn't that like crazy?
Like they need to be triggered to do it.
Like garlic.
Yeah, it's weird, right?
Plants are fucking weird.
Plants are fucking weird.
Yeah, garlic, for those that don't know, if you're going to grow garlic, it needs to be overwintered.
So usually you're planting the garlic or you already have planted your garlic or you're planting it right now so that it can go over winter and actually catch some freeze or some frost.
That cold weather is actually what will trigger it to produce bulbs and garlic.
If you don't overwinter it, it will just grow similar to like chives.
A lot of onions do that, too.
You know what else is a neat one?
A lot of seeds do that, actually.
You have to freeze the seed for it to germinate, like poppy seeds mostly need to be frozen, which is kind of cool.
That's neat.
Part of their propagation nature, right, because that's what happens.
They drop their seeds in the fall and they lay dormant all winter until the spring.
All right.
Dr. Christ, how are you, sir?
How are things in the future in Aotearoa, New Zealand?
Really good.
Thank you there, Yoda.
Yeah, I was just back channeled to the mini PCR unit about the six testing.
Would you have a look at that set of equipment?
I will definitely take a look at it when I get an opportunity.
It's good as gold.
Yeah.
I have noticed that the YouTube will freeze if I flip.
Muting and unmuting and flipping between the web and the back channel here is a little difficult during the show, but I will definitely check it out after the show.
Yeah, don't do that.
So, yeah, October, September.
Last September 21, I had a Zoom meeting with the people from mini PCR.
I was wanting to purchase said equipment because here in Aotearoa, we use the old school method, which we've used for three seasons.
London, that's right.
Not one season, not two seasons, but three seasons.
That's right.
Taking out the little bum gimple on the bottom of the seeds.
And I may have mentioned that as legacy hemp farmers over here, we don't want to cultivate any male hemp flowers because, yes, we'll have to get rid of them also.
So we do due diligence and set to task looking for the perfectly spherical dimples in the oblong dimples indicate males.
I'm sorry, I can't.
I can't like it.
It doesn't.
You can't believe me, bro.
I'm not. I'm not telling you that.
I'm not.
I'm not.
There's there's there's there's a show because you can listen to people that are far more educated than us speak about this.
Because right now we're not we're not fit to argue with scientific fat for horticulture.
We're just not right.
Me and you are just dudes that like like plants.
But like we got to get love.
You got if you're going to if you're going to point out points and tell people to throw stuff away, doctor, you know, like if you're going to tell people to get rid of something.
I'm not saying throw it away.
I'm just saying put it in the maybe.
But yeah, but if you're going to tell people not to do something, you need to make sure that the information is as vetted as possible.
Right. So you got to get it from a doctor or got to get from someone who's tested it.
And there are people that have tested it and there are papers written on this.
And it's not how it works.
It's just how the next to the plant.
And unfortunately, unfortunately, there is work done on this stuff.
So we can't like we're not here to argue that stuff done.
I'm not I'm not here to argue either.
London, I'm just telling you human experiences down here and in the lesser, greater America, New Zealand and here in Aotearoa.
When we get a three kilogram bag of seeds and we have 15 students who are studying and sustainable primary productions, we have a few hours to spare looking for the possible females and possible males looking for the simple.
And it has been a seasoned trial here in Aotearoa through possibly decades.
I know I've experienced it for three seasons and the 90 percent strike rate of being feminized or female seeds was correct.
But yes, obviously, that's got nothing to do with you.
Have you have the DNA evidence documented and on paperwork and together?
Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
It is. Can you please send that?
And let's do a presentation on it to some doctors.
I would I've got people with PhDs that would love to take that data and have a look at it.
Like, seriously, I got like a dozen of them that I'll have a look at in the next five, 10 minutes.
But like bro science, you know, no, it's not bro science.
The fact is, is that we're not there yet.
Like I could be completely wrong.
These doctors could be completely wrong.
A matter of fact, a year ago was when we found out that we have the CBD receptor on the epidermal layer of our skin.
A year ago, it acted like up until a year ago, PhDs were saying that there's no way that you can ingest cannabinoids through your skin.
Right. So I'm not saying that that is impossible.
I'm just saying that that you got 14, 16 people that you're trying to do something that isn't I can't.
I could never support that in without seeing the proper paperwork, evidence and photos.
And, you know, like proper documentation over a year, it needs to be very, very, very substantially put together.
Otherwise, it's, you know, like it's just it's just observation.
Right. And we're we're observers.
And unfortunately, we're terrible observers as well, because we're very judgmental on how we look at things.
Like as a chef, we always tried to feed people really good food, but we would manipulate the fuck out of them because we go to that server and tell them 18 things to say to the guest before they got the food.
So that when they got the food, they had all these crazy expectations, things to look for, things to enjoy.
Right. But but that observational moment would totally affect how the food tasted.
Right. If you took the same food, give somebody without any inference whatsoever.
But it does. But but when we look at stuff and your average person goes out and looks at things, right, they see this.
They see this experience and they sit through that where we've got to be able to step back and go, hey, where's my where's my control group?
Right. What's it? What did I run a control group of straight seeds that I didn't vet out and run a group of vetted seeds that I did sex out?
And did I correlate them in the same way? Right. Because you have to run a control group.
You can't just do it and then then call it. Right.
OK, well, we definitely didn't run a control group. I believe all 15 of the students went through the same
selection of the non dimpled spherical dimples and then just put them in the possibly male pile.
Definitely not going to plant them. And then, like I said, all of the seeds that were in the.
Spherical button shaped dimple went into the female only.
We're going to plant these up. So, yeah. But anyway, that's exactly why I was looking into the mini PCI unit so that I can get it down on a X, Y, X, X level.
And my earlier questions earlier last year was whether or not it was going to be able to sex out hermaphroditical plants, having that Y chromosome.
And yeah, you can go on to the mini PCR. I like I said, I had a 15 minute explanation on how their PCR machine worked.
So if you follow the link, I'm more than happy to set you a time where they will discuss how the DNA machine and the how the unit in the machine works.
And also speaking to the tissue culture, I also put a post on just came out just yesterday, I think from Athena AG.
They've done a lovely I think it's $2,500 tissue culture box with everything needed for you to do your own tissue culture at home.
I sent you a back channeled link on that one as well.
They unveiled that at MJ BizCon.
Yeah, it was quite a nice unveiling. I got to watch the launch video here from Aotearoa, New Zealand.
Everything cannabis.
Do they have the whole everything too? That's super fucking cool.
It comes in a box with a hood on it. Yeah, my God box itself is looks like a toolbox.
I sent you it in your back channel London. You can look at it after the show if you don't want to drop in and drop out.
But yeah, it's got a lovely looking unit. Yeah, and I've designed it from the trowel.
I was what I'm laughing about this little gangster going into this little funny.
It's like, oh, check him out. I wonder what he's doing in that house.
And sure enough, yeah, he had the hugest underground grow.
And yeah, he said to prep his beach and sterilize his little glass things.
Anyway, I want no spoilers. It's a nice little.
For launch video. Yeah, and I pre because of the.
Again, it's embittering our cannabis culture and doing away with the bro science side of dimple shapes.
Yeah, I'm not I'm not 100 percent.
I am correct. Well, I'm explaining is that my life experiences on the 90 percent strike rate on directly spherical dimples on the bottoms of seeds is definitely a thing I have witnessed.
But also some seed seller.
He had a very large bag of seeds on display and some of them were very hearty looking with some nicer tiger stripes and some were a little bit less with that brown.
No tiger stripe feel. And my question was obviously, do you have as high a strike rate or does it show the strength in the DNA on the pale shaped seeds?
Why would you want to take a photo of a thousand seeds showing the 50 percent?
What we call a non mature seeds.
Have you guys had any information or testing done on what looks like to me to be immature seeds?
Anybody on that one? Without without seeing the picture, I can I can say that we actually got into this.
We had a really interesting discussion a while ago about this. And I think I think it was we were talking with Marcus and something that was like one of the lives or the unicorn covers.
I forget exactly where it was. But one of the points that we were bringing up was interesting thing about seeds is that there's actually like sativas, indica, different varieties, different varietals all have different shapes, striations and colors.
So there there are like your purple, your purple plants can develop a much darker color and seed because the higher, higher intensity of anthocyanins naturally carried in the plant.
But we can there are there are cultivars of seeds that are growing out in, you know, in several regions that are huge, like like I mean, big, like like weird, like you wouldn't you'd be like, that's not a cannabis.
I know I think I've seen those ones. There's the Chinese heap varietals. Yeah, they're four times the size of a normal seed. Yeah, they're Chinese.
So I think I think seed color. Now, that being said, an underdeveloped seed is underdeveloped seed and you shouldn't like, you know, you can check it by pinching them in pressure and giving them a good about a pressure.
That being said, I wonder, you know, like, because seed case, how the seed grows and how it looks is just as genetically individual as how the plant is grown and how it looks.
So, you know, for a variety to have, you know, a slightly more pale or younger seed doesn't or younger seed, a slightly more pale or or or less, you know, what's it called striations, those black, you know, no tiger stripes on them would have less of those.
Some some have more, you know, it's it's really interesting. I find it, though. One of the biggest things that happens is a lot of the larger producers and some of the some of the off key brands, they'll kind of ship out seeds with that are like under grown.
And I think that's a real problem in the space because then they just don't have the shelf on them. But yeah, without seeing them physically myself, I wouldn't be able to say for sure what exactly the issue is. And also, without touching them, I think is kind of a little bit of a factor too, because there can be viable seeds that are in those younger ages as well.
Yeah, so that was basically my question. It was a photo of what I believed to be the same chemovar and just the selection of the seeds for sale. Some of them look immature and I just would have thought that a photo shoot of what seems to me immature seeds next to their slightly more mature looking striped up seeds was a question mark that I laid to the to the grower, the breeder, and never got back to whether or not he'd done.
Comparative trials on his not yet striped seeds, because like you say, if you are mass producing thousands of seeds to market, and you're pollinating a branch or trees, when you're producing these seeds, some will be not yet viable.
And it just seemed weird that he had taken a photo of what looked like to me, all the way here on the southern hemisphere living in the future, possibly not quite mature yet seeds. So I just didn't want to, yeah. We don't plant those ones. That's what I'm saying down here.
I do, but just nobody should pay for them. I'm totally cool with keeping those and putting like eight in a pot and hoping one turns out totally fine with that. But yeah, people sell that and sell shit like that. It's fucked. It's just fucked.
All right. And so with that, we'll go ahead and do our halftime reset. So welcome, everybody. If you haven't already heard it, welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome to Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell, our weekly cannabis cultivation club. We are here every Thursday night, starting at 9pm Eastern, 6pm Pacific. Produced, simulcast, and recorded by the Future Cannabis Project and available on YouTube slash FCPO2.
If you are enjoying the show, make sure you join the Future Cannabis Project club here on Clubhouse by clicking on the little green house and joining the club. And if you are on YouTube, make sure you pound that like button as well as subscribe to all three channels, FCPO2, FCPO3, and the main Future Cannabis Project channel.
Tonight is episode 61. We're doing a community episode tonight. So feel free to come up on stage, let us know what you're smoking on, what you're growing on, what you might be harvesting on, and anything else that might be going on in your area.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the conversation, there was a lot of different things going on this past weekend and this week. We had a organic cup up in Michigan that happened. I know a bunch of people were up at that. My buddy Tom from Green Team Genetics was there as well as a bunch of other folks.
That sounded like a lot of fun up in Benton. And then there was a Gene Traders Cup in Virginia. And then this week, MJ BizCon. And the other thing that's happening at MJ BizCon is the Grow Off Championships.
They did a champion of champions for the Grow Off. They've been running the Grow Offs in each of the different states. We had the Grow Off team on here a few months back. And the Grow Off is a competition that has been happening all over the country in multiple states where everybody grows the same clone. And you can grow it any way you want.
And at the end, the competition is based on test results for cannabinoids and terpene content. And so everybody gets to grow the same plant. And then at the end, they measure the results.
And as we discussed on a different episode when we talked about data, even looking at the data, there was not any specific technique or style or lighting or whatever approach that tended to stand out and win any one of these categories more than the others.
Everything was all over the place. There was no, you couldn't just say, higher terpene content in all the organic growers or higher cannabinoid contents in the cocoa growers, things like that.
There was no, there was no bulking of results that would lean one way or another back to what you were talking about a little while ago, having actual data to prove or disprove the point.
Sam had gone through and put together a whole bunch of data based on Grow Off data, looking at all the different, you know, styles that people use, the different lights, the different techniques, and all those things and where they were in the country and all that type of stuff.
And there was really no, there was nothing that really stood out that said, yes, organic is going to give you the better terpene results every time. The championship for all the Grow Off winners, though, has been this week at MJ BizCon.
And so there's a whole bunch of fantastic stuff. If you go out to the Grow Off page, you can see all the different winners from all the different categories. And really, really just hats off to Sam, Samantha, and the incredible program that she runs for the Grow Off and all of the growers and clone makers and breeders who participated in that event this year.
So really, really cool stuff. I know my buddy Travis from Fat Cat Seeds is out there. He was the provider of the Massachusetts clones this year. The genetics came from Fat Cat Seeds this year from Massachusetts. And, you know, there's always different breeders in every state. Dark Horse Genetics didn't won. There's always something really, really good.
And so the Championship of Championships is happening in Vegas right now. And so definitely go check out the Grow Off page and see what's going on there. So that's super fun. Just on top of everything else that was already happening out there at MJ BizCon, I wanted to definitely give a shout out to my friend, Samantha, and the Grow Off crew for all the work they do.
We're coming up on the end of the year. So looking forward to next year's run of competitions now that they're through the Championship of Championships.
We had Wendy Kornberg on here a couple times. She's joined us. And Ben, as I mentioned, Ben Morgan from Acadia Family Farms. They are hosting their conference again in Sturbridge, Massachusetts, which will be in February.
And for those who are on Cape Cod, we have a Cape Cannabis Christmas party happening in the middle of December. So if you're here on the Cape in Massachusetts and you're interested in the Cannabis Christmas party at Ten Pin Alley Bowling here on the Cape in Orleans, definitely reach out to me. I'll make sure you get the information.
That's coming up in a couple of weeks. So that's about it from a conference standpoint or event standpoint that I'm aware of right now. Anything going on out your way, London?
London?
Out my way. Hmm. Well, let's see. There is a bit.
I'm actually planning on doing a few things at this point in time. But right now, one of the first main things I will point out is the Lyft coming up in January. So if you're going to be at Lyft, I'll come see you there.
If you're in the lower mainland in B.C., there is now a weekly book club where you can like hang out and like like do this, but in person. And they have DJ music and restaurants provide food. And there's some great stuff going on. So if you need that, let me know. Hit me up on the background. We'll get you an addition to the secret room.
My wife is killing me because I've left the door open. Give me one moment.
Shut up, London. You're going to wake the kids.
There we go. We're good. Can you hear me?
Yes, we can.
Are you still able to hear me now?
Yes, we can. We are good.
Excellent. Well, anyways, so as I was saying, so that happened. We just had the collector's cup yesterday. So I am exhausted and really in recovery mode, probably much like you were over the weekend.
After the show, so I'm kind of recovering from that right now. My body is a little bit tired. That night and Johnny B. was there and Johnny B. is doing that damn push up thing.
Yes.
So there I am with Marcus and Johnny B. and Johnny B. is like, oh, it's time for push ups, guys. So we're all fucking getting on the floor doing push ups.
And I'm like, I'm a dumb ass man, you know, like I really I grew up, I spent my time in boxing, like I really liked boxing growing up. But because I worked in the kitchen for so long, I also got kind of some shittier wrists.
So like when I do push ups, I can't do them flat handed. I have to do them knuckle ups like on my fists.
Oh, yeah.
So they're not great. But but on top of that, the first time I lost count. So I did like 32 probably I did like way too many push ups and I haven't done push ups for like five years.
So here I am doing 30 push ups. And then it's like even longer than that, honey. I don't think I've ever seen you do a push up.
She just gave me the fucking baddest thumbs up. That's hilarious.
So like I do these push ups because it's like it's Johnny B. The energy there is a good time. I got to do it. So I go for it. And I do way too many push ups.
And then, of course, I'm like in the corner doing one thing and I happen to be around Johnny B. and Johnny B's timer goes off for his push ups again.
He's like, OK, guess we're doing push ups again. I'm like, what? What about the other guys? You know, we're going to get the other guy.
Not even know we got to go. It's time. It's time to do the push ups. Let's go. I guess I'm getting on for doing the push ups.
Well, the second round of push ups. Hoda did not go as well as the first. I looked really cool the first time around.
It was fucking hurting the second time around. And man, I can't lift my arms above my head today.
I'll tell you what. I'm so embarrassed by this. It is actually awe inspiring.
But it was it was a lot of fun. And I loved like it gave a good energy burst.
Like it gave you a good kind of sense of mental clarity, like throughout a busy day when you're doing all these stuff and things.
So it's fun. But it's like the event was really cool. Like they had like there was first of all, like like a lot of weed.
And if you pay for your ticket, you just got to smoke a shit ton of weed, which is pretty fucking cool.
And then there was so many doing like rolling competitions. There's like ounces ground up for like for like trick joints and and speed rolling.
I wasn't allowed to enter the speed rolling competition because I would crush.
I would absolutely destroy. Yeah, no, doctor, I did not look like that. My arm definitely looked about that jelly, though.
It was just going sideways a little bit more. But yeah, so it was really cool.
They actually did a really neat event. And it's very awesome to see the space change.
You know, it's really developing forward. And like now there is a conference with 150 people in a room.
Jars covering the table. We get everywhere. Class everywhere. Art everywhere. Fucking firms everywhere.
It was just great time. So we did we did shoot that one and drop that video the other day.
So you can you can watch that. That was yesterday. But it was really good.
I got a question for you guys. And I would love I would love it if I could hear from some of the people down in the audience and if they could come up.
And I would love it if some of the people in future can with project spoke up in the chat because I read something really interesting today.
So in B.C., Canada, for the first time ever, get this, Hota, they hired a robot.
But tender. Robot, but tender, a robotic, but tender, you go in and you order like fucking McDonald's off one of those screens, but not not McDonald's off one of the screens.
It's a little mobile, but tender. And I love innovation. I think this is kind of neat and it's probably going to create more industry.
But man, I'm it concerns me. It concerns me a lot because one of the biggest things that we had discussion wise in the area over the summer.
I. That we had in the discussion wise in the unicorn cup area was we discussed we were discussing how legacy farms, how legacy dispensaries that switched over to legal went all the way through, did all the work to ensure that they could get it through and their employees get it through, have gone from 35 to less than 10 over 30 employees to less than 10 employees.
Right. It's an incredible drop. So now all of these dispensaries have gone from having 20 plus more living wages going out into their community that is being spent on groceries, that is getting spent on, you know, local economy, that's getting spent on housing, that's getting spent on on their car, on their tools, on their local neighbors, on everything is gone.
Sure. And now we have fucking dispensaries opening up dispensaries with fucking robots instead of goddamn dispensary clerks. So I don't know about you guys, but that pisses me off.
I don't really see that being a viable solution.
I think you fear the future. I think you are afraid of AI. You should not fear what you do not know. We are only here to help assist you and the human race.
Anyway, happy 420 here in Aotearoa. I'm three minutes late. So yeah, everybody blaze up. I'm blazing up. It's 420 here in Aotearoa, New Zealand. So blaze some chronic for your homies in Aotearoa, New Zealand.
London, you are correct. It's a little bit backwards to think that Elon Musk is going to be selling AI robots for $20,000 a unit knowing that a annual salary is about that. So as a, what would it be a owner of a business, you could see how you would pick a $20 AI robot over a $20 may not turn up to work.
Definitely going to have some sick days, may even get pregnant and called the maternity leave card. You know, all of these things that you have to weigh in and weigh out of your business. So yeah, AI is coming thick and fast and yeah, good blessings on us who have our fingers and feet back in the earth.
I'm going to blaze up knowing that Terminator is going to happen in America before Terminator happens to New Zealand. So I'm going to watch it in the future, in the past as it simultaneously happens to you.
My feeling is that it's not a viable solution and it's not going to last. The only robots you see here in the US tend to be not very useful and they're like, you know, cleaning the floor in supermarkets.
You know, they're not cashing people out at the register. You don't see people using robots at fast food joints, which pretty much everybody there is replaceable at a fast food restaurant, right? With robots, there's nothing that's going on at a McDonald's that couldn't be done by a robot.
Mostly is, really. Like, I mean, most of it's already done robotically.
The cooking portion of it, correct, right? But they still have humans running the machines.
Portioning of it too. Like, they literally just go and move a pan over to one spot. So I mean, it's really very minimal what the humans do at this point in time.
Yep, yep. But there's still, you don't have robots running the register, right? You don't have robots working.
In New Zealand, we have robots running the register. I will talk to the register. I will push the button and order a Big Mac and the robot will tell the chef to cook it for me. It is not a robot like you think, Jason, but it is definitely taking over the jobs here in New Zealand.
Again, I don't think it's a viable solution. I think it is a hype solution. It's not going to last. And in general, it's not like you would have, it would have to be in a controlled space because otherwise you would have people picking them up and stealing them off the streets like they do with the vending machines.
Yes, I did see a video of that. There was a delivery robot being beaten up by two little thug gangsters. They flipped it over and it looked very sad. I was waiting for his Terminator robot friends to come and eliminate the bullies, but no, the little robot was just left lying on the ground, tilted over like robot wars gone bad.
Right. So I don't necessarily see it as a real threat, to be honest with you. I mean, we've been hearing about robots taking our jobs for a long time and we're really still not seeing it as far as I can tell.
Joda, I did watch Elon Musk's launch of his new AI robot and he is pretty confident that he's going to take the AI that he's got in his car, fully automated car AI that's enabling to take in 75,000 data points per millisecond and he's going to put that into a robot.
And still can't handle a bird in the middle of the road. Self-driving cars, they're not here. They're a bunch of, again, more hype that is going nowhere. The whole self-driving thing was like a whole, it's a boondoggle in many cases and it's not ready. There's too much work that still needs to be done for that to happen.
But a year ago, two years ago, they were talking about the demise of the personal car and everybody was going to be using self-driving vehicles and there was going to be self-driving trucks all over the highways. Well, the reality is that has not happened and is still a very long time off.
So I really, again, I'm not, Elon Musk has got a lot of problems right now. His self-driving stuff is going to end up getting him sued more likely than it's going to ever get fully released.
Isn't that the word of the day, Joda?
Boondoggle?
Boondoggle. That's right.
That's a new one. I've never heard that before in my life.
You've never heard the word boondoggle?
Don't believe it's a word.
It is a word. It is absolutely a word. It may not be as well known in Canada, but boondoggle is a scam. It's a scam. It's usually a big investment in something that doesn't exist.
And to me, that's really what self-driving vehicles are. Most of the, a lot of those companies have gone out of business actually and a lot of the companies that were spending money on Uber have stepped away from it.
They're no longer spending money on it. I think Google's still working on it and there are still a couple of companies that are doing it, but a large portion of those companies actually got out of the self-driving car business.
But we're really not here to talk about self-driving cars. We're here to talk about weed.
That was one fucking hell of a segue, Joda.
You know, they have grow computers, right? There are machines that are doing cultivation for people.
I met a guy, gosh, four years ago who was trying to sell an AI or machine learning solution that would basically utilize large amounts of photographs to find deficiencies in plants within your garden and alert you to those issues before
they became a large scale problem.
And utilizing photos of deficiencies, they were training this engine to be able to run on large scale fields, fly the drones over a large scale field and would tell you where the problem spots were based on pictures and images.
They're gone.
They didn't get very far either.
There's a company here in Massachusetts that was selling a self-training unit.
It would actually kind of go back and forth and sweep the canopy and help with training.
It didn't go anywhere.
There is definitely room for automation in the business.
There's definitely a lot of automation that can take place.
You don't see a large facility hand watering usually.
Most cases they're using some type of a watering system.
So there's definitely places where automation has helped people do more with less people.
But that's something that's happening all the time.
That's not just specific to robots taking away our cannabis dispensary jobs.
And I think from my aspect, London, if you're going to provide a craft presentation, something that shows that you're putting care into the product,
and you're trying to present your products in a way that elevates them above the status quo,
you're going to need people who can educate your customers and speak with your customers and answer their questions and really cultivate an environment that people will enjoy the experience of going to, to differentiate yourself in the market.
If you go into a place that's got a couple robots running behind the dispensary and all you're doing is basically pushing buttons on a vending machine, chances are the weed probably isn't very good either.
And your experience isn't going to be very good.
And so most likely you would end up going someplace else if you cared.
So that's my two cents on the robotic vendors at a dispensary.
Might as well have self-smoking weed.
Like the volcano?
The robot smokes it for you too, right?
I could use, you know, it might not be a bad idea for my lungs if I had a robot smoking it for me.
If I could figure out a way to still get the THC and cannabinoids into my body.
Might be a good trade-off.
Let him have a couple carbon filters for his lungs before I get that.
Robot bud trimmers. I think it's the same thing, Brian, that Brian mentioned on here, right?
We see lots of people using trimming machines and you get lots of people, craft people, hand trim.
Most craft people don't use trimming machines. They do hand trimming.
You're not going to have a robot that's going to hand trim.
Actually, they are working on a robot that's doing hand trimming.
Seen that YouTube video as well.
Again, they can work on it, but...
They can work on it.
They can work on it. Absolutely. Absolutely.
And you would know his name is Edward, right? Edward Scissorhands.
Come on, Edward. Trim faster.
Yes, I'm trimming faster, master. Trimming faster, master.
I bet he would definitely move through some trim.
Especially the way that he can carve up a block of ice or a hedge.
That guy is moving.
Haircut?
Definitely somebody I would...
Even though there's some really, really large scissors, I would trust him to trim my butts.
Laser trimmers with sensors? Yeah, sure.
I don't...
We in New Zealand, the company that I work with...
You're breaking up on us, Doctor.
...our television network that they are working...
A company here that I work with, Rua Bioscience,
is working on photographic technology to help the cultivation of the cannabinoids.
Like you were saying previously, with plant growth, heat expressions, thermal cameras and the like.
They are testing said cameras.
I think the cameras are $36,000 each, which makes for expenditures far beyond the legacy farmer.
But yes, they are trying to go for automated cameras in their grow rooms.
To help predetermine any stresses.
Of course.
Anything that can help you get a jump.
And I don't want to say that those technologies couldn't work at some point in time in the future.
They're just not there.
They're not there in my mind anytime soon that it would cause people to be concerned about the industry.
I definitely saw the same video, I think, with the...
I think they were an Indian or Pakistani company with their thermal imaging drones flying over the large crops.
And speaking to that, we do have now in Aotearoa an invasive plant called Gorse.
It's actually a nitrogen fixer.
So it pulls the nitrogen out of the ground and puts it out of the air and puts it back into the ground.
So it's actually quite good for farmers.
But it spreads like wildfire here in Aotearoa.
It's an invasive weed that we brought over from Britain some while back.
But we have a drone company that started up that does weed glycophosphate of all wonderful things.
Spraying all over the Gorse up on hills and where tractors and farmers and men couldn't get logically for any financial gain.
It costs obviously a couple of thousands of dollars to get him to do it in several hours.
But it would take a man a week.
So, yeah, advancements in science and technology and drones and robots and all of these wonderful futuristic things.
But as we are legacy and compassionate and passionate farmers of the cannabis plant,
I'm sure our particular jobs will not be taken away by any form of AI and or robot.
Because we do like that human interaction.
So yeah, job less than one love.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And yeah, there's definitely there is lots of uses of drones, especially recently.
I know I've definitely seen the IPM drones and flying over crops.
There was a I remember looking at a story a number of years ago with a guy who was using the drones to hunt wild pigs that were invasive and causing problems in the farmers fields.
And just really hard.
You can't find them when you're like walking the property, but you can definitely track them from drone.
And they were this one guy was basically that was his service was that he would go in and utilize the drones to hunt down and find these wild pigs that were terrorizing people's farms.
So really, definitely some uses of that.
But again, you know, you're you're basically hiring somebody to operate the drone.
It's not like the drone is operating itself.
It needs somebody to operate it, somebody to program it, somebody to run it, somebody to prep it, recharge it, all those other things.
So you may not necessarily be losing people.
You might just be changing the jobs they're doing.
All right.
Let's do a final reset.
We've only got about 20 minutes left here in the room.
So I want to go ahead and do our final reset for the final quarter of the Grow and Tell.
So welcome, everybody, to Hoat Derb's Grow and Tell.
This has been Episode 61.
We are here in our weekly Cannabis Cultivation Club just like we are every Thursday night, starting at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific.
We are recorded, simulcast and produced by the Future Cannabis Project and available on YouTube slash FCPO2.
Make sure you join the Future Cannabis Project Club here on Clubhouse by clicking on the little green house and joining in.
Or if you're on the YouTube feed, make sure that you've pound that like button as well as subscribe to the Future Cannabis Project and FCPO2 and FCPO3 channels.
We want to thank everybody for joining us this week.
I really appreciate Drew and Ancillary, Gordo, DB, Ed, Orkin, Casey, Robert, Ross, Connor, Lance, Vyondy, Scott.
Connor won today because he was the first person in the room.
But Brian, Daddy and Scott, good to see you.
My Cape neighbor buddy, Brian420, Polly, be quick, be nimble, BananaFama, good to see you back.
We've got Portal Dreams here as well as a bunch of other folks like AllBurn2Gas, Ken Nells, Ross Tafarian and a bunch of others.
So thank you all for joining us this week.
As I mentioned, we'll be back next Thursday night starting at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific.
I'm not sure if next week will be the Crowd Cure guy or if it'll be the following week, but definitely look out for that episode in the near future.
So let's go ahead and wrap up.
Did that answer your question, London? I don't know if you had any other...
No, that was exactly what I wanted out of life. You gave it to me, baby. It was wonderful.
Well, they have made Robot 6 toys and they're for sale in Japan and they're looking pretty good.
I'm pretty sure some American men have some Japanese made wives that they like to cuddle up and spoon.
Robots are taking pretty much everybody's jobs. Let's face it. Robots are coming. Get it? Robots are coming?
Yeah. I don't know where to go with that one.
Wait, wait, wait. I got something. Just a second. I'm working on it. Just give me a second.
Come on, work. I have audio effects. Come on, work. I've got a badum-bum.
Fuck you, slow computer. I'm going to plug you in next time.
Damn it. I had a button. I had a button and I don't know where my button went.
Hello, London. Still clicking around the background.
I'm here. I'm sorry. I had a button and it got all fucked up.
It was the wrong one.
It was definitely the wrong button. I definitely clicked the wrong button, guys.
Next week, you have a fantastic show coming up on the Denk Hour, don't you?
Yeah. You know what else I have? I just forgot.
Kevin Jodry is on my show on Saturday.
Oh, hey. There we go.
On one of our shows on Saturday. He's with Ron Harrington on the Breeders corner table thing.
We don't know if it's round yet, but it's definitely a table.
We're debating on a corner table or a round table. I don't know.
I prefer a hexagon table myself.
And then on Tuesday, you've got James F. White, the professor, Department of Plant Biology at Rutgers, to talk about Rhizophagy.
So it's been a very rhizophagic month for you.
If you want to come by and spend an hour of listening to me stumble over rhizophagy, if you want to come by for an hour of that, be here.
Be on Future Canvas Project on Tuesday at 5 p.m.
I got to double check with the doctor and make sure that he's able to do it.
I got to get back to work tomorrow. I took a day of just like my boobs hurt from the push-ups.
If you were here earlier in the show, you would have gotten it.
Yeah, so that's exciting. You got that coming up next week.
And Kevin Jodry on Saturday. Kevin is always entertaining. I love chatting with Kevin.
He's a super good guy to talk with.
So that should also be fun on the Breeders panel coming up.
Yeah, so I'm excited.
I mentioned I've got the bed I'll be starting on this weekend and picking out some seeds to pop and starting to get my cycle going again.
I've got a little pause, I think, coming in here where I will  other than those autos, I won't really have anything flowering soon.
In a couple of weeks, once these last three plants finish off.
I'm kind of looking forward to a little bit of a break, a little bit of a kind of a down time here.
I have almost nothing going on in my veg tent right now, which is actually really enjoyable for me right now.
It's a nice break.
I'm actually on  because I'm going to be doing some traveling over the next little while, I've got some things to do.
I'm on the shut down my tent type of thing, so I'm on my last run for a while.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm kind of excited to be able to not have to water 50 to 60 gallons a day.
Yeah.
Or sorry, liters a day.
It's one of those things, and then things get busy, and if you forget once, shit.
Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I have often said that I don't grow plants, I just haul water.
True facts, people. True facts.
Yes, the plants grow themselves, especially in my case because I do very little.
But for the most part, I'm just hauling water to keep them wet.
If you keep them wet and keep the lights on, they're going to grow.
What else?
That is really about all I had tonight.
I am, as I mentioned, I'm a bit still spent, still recovering from last week's events.
I smoked more weed on, I think, Saturday than I smoke in like three weeks.
It's obscene at these events.
Normally, I take a couple of, I've got like a small single serving size chillum,
and I'll take two or three, three or four bowl hits, bowl packs, and then every couple of hours.
I don't really smoke a lot of joints because it's a lot of, it's really a lot.
It's too much for one person in my opinion.
But I go to those events and I'm just smoking joints.
I'm not smoking my couple little bowl packs every two hours.
I'm like out there every hour smoking a big hooter.
I'm still, I can hear it in my voice.
I've been scratchy all week.
It definitely takes time to recover after those events.
I'm getting old.
Feeling my age when I got home on Sunday night.
Absolutely.
I was glad to be home.
I was like happy to sit in the car after standing all day.
Go to those events and you're on these fucking cement floors all day walking around.
My feet hurt.
My back hurt.
Definitely getting old.
So I feel you on the push-up challenge, man.
That stuff will catch up with you.
All right.
Anything to wrap up with tonight, London?
Any other cool things happening?
Yes, and at least I didn't hurt my boobs.
At least you didn't hurt your boobs.
That's right, Brian.
The one thing that I have to say and that I'll always say is connect, collaborate, grow, be with each other.
Help your whole community grow and develop.
There's a lot of places where it's not legal.
If it's not legal, be civilly disobedient.
If it is legal, be civil disobedient so that you can get lounges.
You don't get anywhere without a little bit of civil disobedience.
If there's one thing we learned here in Canada when it came to legalization is when cannabis is legal, it's not a pass to go ahead and do it.
It's a pass to sit at the table and design the industry you want.
Absolutely.
And design the community that you want.
We have a community and we have a culture.
So let's grow it and design it and share it.
I think the only way to do that is to invite as many people in as possible and show them what we are and who we are and see what happens from there.
So just go be friendly, share that doobie.
You don't necessarily have to pass it but you definitely do have to get out there and share that weed.
Yes, absolutely.
That's a good point.
One of the things I had multiple people come up to me this past weekend and ask whether I was going to start the grow-n-tell again at the Summit Lounge.
Because definitely people do miss getting together, sniffing each other's jars and smoking each other's weed and talking about cultivating together as a community in person.
And so my message to those folks who approached me this past weekend was go for it.
Do it.
You don't need me to get together with a bunch of other growers at a consumption lounge on a monthly basis.
I talked, I'm like, you know, there's four or five of you who used to come all the time.
Why don't one of you run it?
Take over.
Take it.
I'm not going to drive two hours each way for a two-hour in-person smoke session on a monthly basis.
Just not going to happen.
I'm not that motivated.
But there's no reason why the folks that live in that area can't take advantage of that consumption lounge, the Summit Lounge, and start the grow-n-tells back up there.
Call it a grow-n-tell if you want.
Come up with something new if you want.
But to London's point, you know, the grow-n-tells didn't exist until I started them.
I was like, I'd like to hang out with a bunch of growers.
I'm going to go ahead and start a monthly thing.
Put it on the calendar and get a bunch of growers together.
You need to do the same thing in your communities to start, again, help share, help spread the culture, help spread the information, help spread the seeds, help spread the knowledge.
And it's really, truly amazing to be able to get together with other people who love the plant like you do.
Especially when you're in places that are not legal or may have just come online.
I've said it many times on this show in the past.
Being a cannabis user during prohibition is isolating.
And so the only way to break that is to get out there and start meeting people.
Get out there in the community.
Meet others.
Inspire others to do the same, to get out there.
There's really nothing special about me as a grower.
I am a home cultivator.
I have never grown more than 20 plants at a time.
I don't have experience in a commercial, legal or non-legal setting.
I'm just a home grower and I like growing the plant.
I don't even really consider myself that good of a grower, to be honest with you.
I consider myself to be middle of the road.
I am not a great grower.
I am a lazy grower.
And the only reason that people know me is because I put myself out there.
It's not because I have some history of being a high times cup winner or I grew some large farm or I went to jail or any of this other stuff.
Not me.
The reason why people know me is because I put myself out there.
And that's it.
I'm not, again, I'm not an extremely talented grower.
I don't do things that are trend setting or set the bar higher.
I'm just following in the footsteps of many, many others.
I'm not coming up with new information.
I'm sharing the information that others have taught me.
But again, the reason why I have a following or is why people know me, the reason why the show is here is because
I was willing to put my face out there and to talk and to put myself up and open, be open to the experience of community and to encourage others to do the same.
So just like London said, you can create the community you want.
You have to create the community you want.
They're not going to create it for you.
So that is my two cents there.
And I do appreciate all of you spending your time listening to me rant and rage as a mediocre grower.
Every week on Thursday nights, starting at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific, broadcast, simulcast and produced by the Future Cannabis Project.
And available on YouTube slash FCPO2.
I did invite you up, Mr. Linnell, if you want to go ahead and click OK and join us up here on stage.
If not, that's fine as well.
We're going to get wrapped up here in a minute.
I see LS is in the room.
Good to see you, LS.
There is a gentleman who has a historic podcast in the industry.
If you don't know LS, you definitely need to check out Larry and his podcast.
He is a legend.
And it's good to see you, my friend, in the room.
I appreciate you being here and stepping away from your domain trading activities, which is normally where you are in a domain trading room.
Scott, how are you doing this week, sir?
I'm doing wonderful.
I understand you connected with my friend from the Patriots Helping Vets.
Yes, Tom. Hopefully I'm going to see him tomorrow.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
I got to see him on Saturday as well.
And he had a whole crew of people with him and a whole crowd of people around his booth.
So I hope he did well this week.
This weekend, raising funds and seeds and other things for vets.
He's an amazing guy.
And I'm looking forward to seeing him in a few weeks, actually.
I mentioned it. There's a Cape Cannabis event Christmas party coming up in Orleans on the 14th or the 15th, I think.
So reach out to me.
I'll make sure you get that email as well and get you into that capecannabisorg.group that meets monthly here on the Cape.
Sounds good.
Yeah, they meet in a different spot every month as well.
They have different people hosting it.
And we're back at Ten Pin Alley in Orleans in a couple weeks.
So definitely come see us and I'll get to hang out with you as well.
And we'll sniff each other's jars and smoke each other's weed.
Sounds good.
That's what I did all weekend.
Yeah, sounds like you had quite the time up there.
Yes, I did. I had a blast.
I think that if you want to put a picture in your head of me last weekend, just picture of a guy with his nose in a jar.
Did the nose get all sticky?
Yes, it did.
And that was all I was doing all day was sniffing people's jars.
It was fantastic.
I love it. I love it.
That was great.
It's so much fun to share.
Did you find anything that stuck out of everything?
There was one specific thing that I smoked, which was this blue haze from Hemlock Farms.
These two brothers who I met this weekend, amazing, fun guys.
We had a blast hanging out.
Super cool.
Completely organic approach.
They're organic certified in the whole deal, producing amazing organic cannabis here in Massachusetts.
This blue haze was so resinous.
I walked halfway across the parking garage to my car.
By the time I got there, I had to cut the tip off of it.
It was just dripping resin.
Oh, yes.
Oh, man, it was good.
I believe they said it was a Blue Dream cross of some sort, but it was called Blue Haze.
Out of everything I smoked this weekend, that definitely stood out above and beyond.
Tasted great.
I also tasted a really, really good cherry.
I can't remember exactly what kind it was from Herring Chokers.
One of my favorite breeders' names in New England.
These guys are amazing.
Herring Chokers.
That's the name of their breeding company.
They grow some amazing flower also.
I've got some seeds from them last year.
I need to go ahead and pop those.
I ran into those guys and hung out with them a bit this weekend as well.
The big message that I kept every time I saw them and would pass them at the convention and everything, it was like, make weed piney again.
We had a fantastic conversation around piney.
Yes, I do miss that myself.
Yes, yes.
The evergreen that I grew has a nice mild pine to it.
We were talking about that.
Piney is an amazing terpene.
Piney is something that I love.
I absolutely love it.
The old Northern Lights that I used to grow, the old NL5 had a really, really good-
Yes, I remember that one.
Had a really, really good Pacific Northwest pine type of scent and smell and taste and flavor and effect even.
Anybody's ever heard of forest bathing?
Forest bathing is basically going out into deep old wood forest and just breathing.
The effect of being out in old forest, especially old pine, is extremely relaxing and rejuvenating.
A lot of that has to do with the presence of piney and the terpenes that are coming off of those old wood forests that you're breathing in and that you're a part of in these areas.
There's also just an amazing fungally dominant environment that you're in when you're in these old school wood forests.
I bet that also has some effect on you as well.
In general, a large portion of the effect from forest bathing has to do with piney.
Piney is amazing.
We need piney and weed again.
It is a component that we, for some reason, was bred out, I want pine back.
That was my conversation with Herring Jokers this weekend.
Make weed piney again.
I think that went out with a skunk.
Yeah, absolutely.
I do like a skunk, but I would go after the pine every day if I had to choose.
What about you, London? What would you choose, pine or skunk?
Pine.
No, I can't pick.
How about a piney, earthy skunk?
Yeah, there you go.
Smash them together. Let's make it happen.
I'm a big fan of pine, so that was fun.
Those guys are cool.
Those two things, I think, are the main things that stood out to me.
I did also smoke a really tasty moonbow from my friend, Samantha Sensei.
She's out in Fitchburg, Massachusetts.
She's also growing some crazy fire out there.
Really, really impressive.
She invited me, actually, to go out there on Sunday and check out the grow, because they're getting ready to chop.
The room is just full of these beautiful, full, swelled colas.
It's just gorgeous looking at the pictures from her page.
I'm going to have to make an appointment to go see them in a couple months, at least for their next chop.
Go check out the grow.
They're doing some really, really, really nice stuff there.
I was really impressed with that moonbow that she gave me.
I'd say those are my top three for the weekend, Scott.
Sounds good.
Yep.
Other than that, again, it was just super fun to connect with people and see what they're growing and sniff their jars.
Just spend time reconnecting with the community.
Like my new people, yes.
Reconnecting with people, seeing people in person.
I think Harvest Cup last year, I might have even still been wearing a mask.
It was good to see people's faces, to see people smile.
Great time, great time.
You having a good week, sir?
I can't complain.
It's been a decent so far.
Excellent, excellent.
Got cold here on the Cape though, finally.
Yeah, I love it.
I can breathe again.
Yeah.
Got a bit crisp real quick.
It's wonderful.
I love it.
I do enjoy the winters.
I'm glad to not be in the snow belt anymore.
I mentioned Buffalo getting pounded this coming, this next couple days up from lake effect snow.
I used to live in Worcester, in the Worcester area, and then I was like in the snow belt.
And we used to just get pounded every year.
The town I lived in, Northbridge, in Whitensville, was usually like one of the top accumulation numbers in the state.
So I'm glad to be away from that.
We don't get as much snow here on the Cape.
We don't get snow on the Cape.
I got a little bit, yes, last year.
A little bit.
If you want to call that snow.
Yeah, more of a flurry.
A dusting.
Anything below six inches.
It's up there.
Anything below six inches in New England is a dusting.
Oh yeah, that was good.
That last hit hit me nice.
All right, so, all right.
Anything, what are you smoking on tonight, Scott?
I just picked up some acacia berry gelato.
Ooh.
From my friend, he's a caregiver.
It's very good.
Best sativa dominant train I've had in a long time.
Very nice.
Very nice.
I've been smoking indica for like, seems like for years.
But can't seem to find a good sativa around here.
Yeah, I tend to stay, to steer more towards the indicas in general.
The indica effects as opposed to the sativa-like effects.
The sativa-like effects get me a bit jittery sometimes.
And so I tend to stay there.
But I will bring you some of the Venus blue because I think that has a lot of
has some sativa-like effect to it.
So I'll definitely bring you some of that when I see you in a couple weeks.
Very nice.
Awesome. Awesome.
All right.
And you haven't popped any more seeds since we spoke last, right?
No, I'm in the middle of trying to reset up and figure out what.
I will be growing some hardened soil seeds.
Oh, very nice.
I got some Malawi-Wawe I think it's called.
Yeah.
Something, Wawza actually is the name of it.
Awesome.
It's supposed to be a good strain from Malawi cross to,
I don't really remember the genetics right now, but it had Malawi in it.
So I was very interested.
It should be. It should be tasty.
I grew a, it was Malawi crossed with a Nigerian haze.
Which was an African haze from Top Dog seeds.
And that was really, that was really good.
That Malawi was nice.
Yeah. I love Top Dog seeds.
I grew their star cookies. I loved it.
Yep. Yep.
Money Mike and JJ, they do good work.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think with that, we're going to go ahead and wrap it up for the night.
It is getting late here on the East coast.
And as I mentioned, I'm still recovering.
So it's definitely time to pull the cord here at the Grow and Tell.
So I thank you all for joining us this week.
Thank you for coming up on stage, both Dacta and Scott.
Don't worry, Dacta, I am not offended.
You are always welcome back here, my friend.
Regardless of whether you talk about sex robots or hemp.
You're welcome to join us every week.
And we appreciate you, my friend.
But we will be back next Thursday night at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific.
Available simulcast produced and recorded by the Future Cannabis Project.
And available on YouTube slash FCPO2 as well as here on Clubhouse.
We will catch you next Thursday night.
Thank you everybody for joining.
London, sir, I am going to shut down the feed.
It is all yours.
Thank you and have a wonderful evening and a great week.
