All right, and we are live on a different channel FCP to welcome everyone
I don't know how many of you were just
Watching the hash show, but I was telling these guys that at the end of it
We were talking about glass, which was a nice segue into this conversation, which is a conversation about glass and some history
Some family trees I guess and I was hoping you guys could kind of go into that stuff. So I'm gonna
Mute Brad and Katie who are actually live in the same actually
Brad I'm gonna mute you again, but how why don't you take it away?
kind of
Give us some context of the conversation
Well continuing on I guess from our last one with Giovanni and and Lewis Wilson
I
was
With this year being Bob's 50th
I wanted to sort of like showcase some some students or people have learned through from him through the years and
Sort of just get some some behind the scenes and old stories sort of see where people are at
From from his teachings and from learning from them and stuff
Yeah, and then we could hear about cannabis and in Kansas as well, you know
And and Katie is gonna be doing some live
Glass blowing while we're talking. So maybe Katie's just so you can get started with that
Why don't you give us some context of what you're about to do?
Well, I've got some
like chillin mouth
chillin mouth pieces like already
prepped up so what I'm gonna do today is
Just kind of like spin up the last
Couple of wigwag balls and stack those and kind of like finish up the chillin
so like y'all will get to see like, you know, some wig wagging some shaping and
Like some bull pushing, you know
Just kind of finishing up some chillums and I'll make a marble too for it so you guys can see that
I like to put a little like implosion marbles on them
so I'll make one of those and throw that on there but
It's pretty much like the last half of the chillum pretty much since I've already got
that
Ready to go
It's like on the Food Network show where they like put a lasagna in oven a and then immediately pull another one out of oven
B to show what it likes you don't have to sit there for an hour and a half watching the lasagna bake. So
So you can get started just do your thing and I think it'd be good to have Brad
Brett you're I love the concept of apprentice kind of master like passing down the skills
So why don't we back it up with Brad and you can talk about your journey?
Hal knows it better than I do so he can chime in but let's start with you. Nice to meet you
Nice to meet you doctor
Yeah, what's what's your story?
um, I had
I've been
Kind of into horticulture and growing a lot of things in my younger years and
then when I moved on from that I really wanted to
I'd really been fascinated by glassblowing and lamp working in general and
That sort of like drove me on this sort of path in this journey to where I am today
But you know, I didn't really want to talk about myself today I'm not sure one that really showcased you and other people
Can you tell us what it was like and what
What drew you to lamp working and how you and Bob cross path? I in the can you hear me? All right?
In the early I can't hear myself in the
In the early
90s
Well, I started to see you know, nice pieces. I live in Kansas and about
90 91 92 I started to see some nicer pieces
circulate as you know dead shows were going around or whatnot and
Yeah, I was always intrigued and I had just
Dropped out of art school and I was looking for a
Visual art to be involved in but I didn't think of doing it yet
I was just interested in buying some and reselling it and just bringing nicer glass around to the Midwest
I started to take notice there was a bunch of really
cool stuff being done and it was just like kind of like every trip to another few shows trying to get closer to
getting firsthand Bob pieces or his apprentices and
Yeah, just slowly kind of working my way closer to meeting them and I'd say like
90
94 95 actually spending, you know
$1,000 at a time and to be flipping those pieces that my main goal I think at the time was just to buy more concert tickets
but
but
But yeah, the love was there and it was like buying jewels every single time, you know
you know, it's just unbelievable and
and then when Jerry died in 95 my wife and I thought let's
Let's move to Eugene because I didn't know what the concert scene was gonna be like
I wanted to be closer to where the glass was and still just thinking as a buyer at that point
And a big fan, you know, it's big fan
Cameron Towers stuff and Brian Padilla there
So so nice and and they were like
you know just to get to go over to Bob's and and spend some time picking through stuff and getting to know them as a
Customer really and then one day it just occurred to me like I should be doing this myself
and
So I was already there and Eugene when this the switch happened in my head, you know, I need to ask Bob
So I asked him I think I took some drawings over there. I was trying to prove to him
I was some kind of artist or something. I'm like, hey, look at these drawings. Look you should let me blow glass or something
you know, I don't think he had space that first when I first asked him and
He's like, oh, yeah, we don't really have room right now and he took my you know
Request under consideration and I think about was only took about five or six months
he called me back and said he had room and I
was
44 years old so half my life ago. I'm 48 now
Wow
Yeah, so how would it work like that?
Would he take on certain people at a time or a certain amount or we had the room?
Yeah, so that was those
97 so he had already had a bunch of people already passed through there, you know
Like I said, Brian Padilla Cameron Tower Brian sister Vaughn. Yeah
Bob that room
Travis Wigger and Brad tenor and all those guys and
David Willis and all those guys had already gone through
so I those were like the upperclassmen, you know, and and I felt like just this little freshman and you know to be honest I
didn't come to the table with a
Bunch of cash for Bob or anything. It was super generous to even let me
You know get on the torch and try but we had a real connection over the music in both deadheads and I
Could sit and watch him in the mornings and
You know your Peter you're interested in the whole apprenticeship thing and Bob style was very much watch me do my thing
You know if it wasn't so much a question and answer it wasn't super verbal unless he was, you know
Volunteering some information, but it wasn't me asking him a lot of questions. It was just watching through the morning
He'd have this little black and white cathode ray TV right there watching like prices, right or something
Well boy glass and I'd be like Bob. How can you watch TV and blow a glass? He's like I'll talk to me in 20 years
That sure is sure as shit I put on YouTube now and well a little glass
Yeah, that's what that's actually what Lewis Wilson had talked about was when he was in Disney World
There'd be four or five different guys lamp working and everybody would have a different TV of something going on with soap operas and
Yeah, cuz there's a lot of waiting, you know, right, you know, wait wait wait
So it was kind of this. Uh, I
Think he my particular apprenticeship and I have no idea how he taught the other
students
They could all have I'm sure have a different story
but uh, I was a discouraged to use any brand new tubes or brand new pieces of color because that cost money and
Why he won I got to use the trays of broken stuff from the previous apprentices mostly
Picking through little pieces and kind of Humpty Dumpty things
together and
But that led to a whole set of skills. I think was invaluable later
But there's probably all these little treasures in there and stuff to come across
Those really cool. Yeah
and
And I think Bob and Marie are from the Midwest originally and and so I had my they're kind of jive with my
Midwestern sensibilities and it was really easy easy fit. They're so nice
They were super nice. I always thought so generous that any shows that we ever saw them out the boss and there's be food and
Accessibility to check out any pieces and it was amazing such a great experience
100% yeah, I was one of them and I never could have thought how the industry would have exploded to where it is today
Or the dark, you know the movement itself
Yeah, he had something right there was always this magical little thing and
It was just just waiting take off sort of sort of idea
Yeah, I could have never guessed there'd be you know, several color companies and
Multi million dollar trade shows and you know, just like, you know a real vibrant scene and who could have you know?
I foreshadowed the social media and glass how they kind of married and
Yeah, just I always thought of is that an underground thing
I mean, I I think I paid somebody $100 to get Bob's number
Even though I'm sure it was listed if I would have gone around and stepped on his toes
It was like that back then it was like a nut, you know
Like a 90s pot deals like get to know your guy so I can get closer to the glass or whatnot, you know
So, what do you like what's it like in Kansas what's it been like there for you
It's really nice it's been
Kansans are great people and it's a great place the cost of living super low and even though you know cannabis is
Still illegal it's been decriminalized in the municipal area here in Lawrence and it's a car
It's a college town and and yeah, I love it. I left Eugene
Glenwood in the end of 98 and came back here and haven't thought of moving. It's been awesome
You know, there's been a lot of really good glassblowers that kind of have come out of the area and some have moved back and
You know Josh vineyard and Adam reads and the cowboy and
Cowboy is incredible. Yeah
All right, those other guys down
And quite a few
I
See Katie's starting to twist up this
This piece here
Yeah, Katie, what are you
Explain what you're doing there. Oh, I had that larger piece of tube
That you guys might have seen me like step away for a second and go get it out of the kiln and then I busted
Off a smaller piece off of that and then I took that smaller piece and I've narrowed it down
To about the same size
And now I'm just going and moving down the blowtube and
Putting little
little kick ease in there
wigwag kick ease and then once I get enough kicks
I'll have to turn that this like stick into a ball and
Which will then get put on
The chillum the bottom part of the chillum that I showed you guys I already had ready in the kiln
That is basically that for now so I'm about to do two of these
Because one ball wouldn't wouldn't be enough glass
to get the
Because one ball wouldn't wouldn't be enough glass
So I'll do two wigwag balls
and that'll be cool too because then the people watching can see like
You know being calm Oh process of putting
two
sections together
And shaping them
So we're almost there a few more few more kicks
Sorry Brad I muted you while you weren't talking so if you wanted to say something and say
Yeah, that's that's just fine. I've been paying attention to that
Yeah, it's looking good Katie. Yeah super even
Yes, this line work process she's doing is
Not what
We I learned at Bob's really it was more about just the overall structure of the
Hole pipe and
I learned some feeling I don't know if you guys are yeah, you guys are obviously
familiar with Bob stuff, but when I
When I left
You know I wanted to make sure that I wasn't just
Copying everything I had seen in Oregon at the time and you know the early
late 90s and early 2000s is kind of like
This line work design became kind of a hip thing and now I think it's considered like old old again
Maybe even kind of
People thought maybe it even run its
Run its welcome out and kind of got old-fashioned, but I think we're trying to put new life in it
There's a bunch of people that are doing it. I'm not sure if it's a good idea
I'm not sure if it's a good idea to do it, but I think it's a good idea
But yeah, we could talk
some genres of glass and even
Look, you know Peter last time we talked during the mic check you'd asked me about other people's
Glass and that you had caught me kind of on a unprepared
But I have a list of people. I've been appreciating lately if you want to get around to that at some point
I
Yeah, so she's she's wiggling she stretched it all out narrow and it's wiggling it back and forth
and then she's gonna compress it all back into one section and
it's it's a lot like it's a really akin sometimes to almost like
how they
Stripe even like candy, you know, you can think of a pepper a peppermint candy has a spiral on both sides of red lines
It's really like a spiral
A peppermint candy has a spiral on both sides of red lines and it's real similar to
the process you get I could see a lot in in
Watching the food channel give me ideas what to do in my glass
Yeah, I've always seen the line work stuff is a language in a sense
and each artist can kind of use the patterns to speak with it and
Express themselves in different ways
I'm
Fascinated by it. I love it. I love the line work
Me too. It allows you to for me. I kind of math green. It's like
You know, everything's a lot at a number
So as long as you can kind of quantify each step then the variations are endless because if you're like, okay
I do doing X Y and Z with 15 stripes
All you need to vary it is X Y & Z with 20 stripes or or do it with five stripes and
Turning the axis five degrees each time. It's just endless
Endless amount of variation I think left to be explored
So I think when it kind of went out of line work went out of style for a little bit
I think just maybe because of over saturation of everybody doing the same thing
It had left a lot to be explored really
So I think diving back into it and trying to find the areas that hadn't been touched
I think it's kind of the passion at this point
Yeah, I love it. It's like a
Tattooing the glass or something. There's like this this whole other where you can do the pieces all connected like a sleeve
You know and the whole thing works and flows
I learned a lot of about it from Jay Lee and Marcel
When I spend a little bit of time in Eugene, I wish I always wish I'd gotten to spend more time there
But when I did I was able to scoop up a little bit of knowledge. I was really fortunate. That's awesome
Yeah, Jay Lee blew my mind that guy was
Yeah, he's amazing. I'm pretty I'm pretty sure he I'm pretty sure he invented the like basic ball that I
Use and turned around in different ways. I think he's the first one I saw the to do it like
That so yeah, I stand on the shoulders of mighty giants for sure
yeah, but he was inspired by by the Laotians who make their own tubing in Germany and Laotia and
they do a lot of in Colmo and a lot of this reversal and it's called a
God I can't think of it right
You know, I sit here in the we sit here in our Heidi hole in Kansas
I really don't go to that. I haven't gone to the trade shows and everything. So a lot of the vocabulary
Escapes me too. I don't I don't know any of the proper names for much of what I'm doing
I don't get out much but I remember
I remember Jay Lee talking about being inspired by the Laotians and then as I've looked into it further
It's like they made their own glass, you know, and they were very
all about that line work tubing and
Incorporating it back into itself
Absolutely
Yeah, so here she now now she's got it all
Able to fit in one flame. So instead of that long bar, it's it's one hollow bubble
And she's just kind of slowly come letting it contract and then expand it each time. It gets a little more brown
I
Like
This last he just sometimes if you
Have a really bad really bad echo right now. Okay. Thank you
I like to plenty up on this last step too because sometimes when I try to heat this entire ball
it wants to kind of like pinch on the
softer colors or
You know kind of undo your pretty pattern that you just spent like 20 minutes doing so all like
Even though it's nearly a ball right now. I'll still do like this last
Plenty love heat
Give it one last pup and now that it's more
Circular more spherical now I can give it one last seat where I get the entire thing
Hot and really like even it out, you know
Yeah, then right now there she's focusing on the termination which would be the center point of that
Spiral so you get really delicate kind of pulling just a hairs with the glass off at the end
Make sure the lines touch and you know how I was looking at your work. You've got really great terminations. Everything's super clean and
Yeah, you know all about that yeah, I was real fortunate I didn't
When the original Eugene glass school was still open
I got to take a two-day class with Bob, but and I learned a whole hell lot those two days
It was absolutely amazing, but the most I've learned is from the students themselves
through the years I learned from
Mark Lanny
David Willis and
Yeah, do you Brian Padilla
Right before
Kovat hit all right, right. So, um, so you you worked with David and
Brian yeah
I learned from them. Yeah, just oh sweet took some workshops with them and stuff. Yeah. Oh
Gosh, I learned so much from David because he had he had graduated from Bob's or whatever you want to say
He had let you are, you know left and gone to pill truck. I think and then came back
Over like it was about the second half of the other circuit Katie's ball there real quick
beautiful
Yeah, see she says
Yeah, that looks amazing
So they want to say about David Willis. Yeah, he was he had so much skill and I
Would be working furiously at something and he would just pass by and like adjust my flame or like move my elbow
I was so much he taught me basically I was riding the
Bike carlisle so close that the flame that was riding its way close
You know, I taught me the like push my arm. I he probably doesn't remember but I mean
Always making sure I had the right distance out and they just try to emulate what those guys were doing
Yeah, Brian Brian and Brian Padilla was the first
Reversals that I ever saw and I was I hadn't even actually started I hadn't started going glass yet
But I remember being in Travis's
House buying a case of Bob apprentice pieces and Brian Brian had I think just
And how you'll you'll know how special this is because it's it was real rudimentary, but it was just like
Going from the soft glass idea of it's all this clear most clear
maybe like to rip of one red line on each hemisphere, but then
Spinning it up and inverting it and then stacking one with a blue line
And so I think I remember this bubbler was just kind of not even
Healed into a flat wall, but just a bubble and a bubble on a bubble and each one was its own
Reversal stack section and that's the first time that's the first first pipe that I can remember
That's kind of like the basis of what I do
I'm really stacking these little sections still to this day at going off of that one Brian bubbler
Next time I see him I really gotta think
Yeah glasses glass and I think the hot shop gets inspired by lamp working and lamp working
It's a little bit of a back and forth a little dance
you know
yeah, so after after my apprenticeship and move to
Lawrence and
The local soft glass blowers where the guys kind enough to give us a space to set up the lamp working it with it
So there's always there's always been that you know the fusion of the two communities here at least here in town, yeah
All right, so Brad you're all as Alton Brown is to
Iron chef you're gonna narrate what we're seeing here right now
Okay, absolutely
so
Looks like she's gonna split off a shorter piece of prep work off that larger piece
So she's gonna prep this blow tube
She's giving it a clean edge edge so it can accept some of the color tubing by Ben. That's my business partner Ben
You should check out his stuff
bet Ben cap in
We'll get around to that
So here she's
Okay, so yeah that longer piece of tubing so it's kind of like food food prep again
I'm sorry, I keep going back to the kitchen
But if you you make a big batch then you can don't have to keep making it over go over again
She made a big batch of line work and she's gonna take a small piece off of it
So, yeah, she's healed that on there and I'm assuming she's gonna
go down about three inches or so and
Fire cut that off
Getting it straight there sometimes holding it vertically like she is right there gives you a better sense of straightness than holding it horizontally
There you go. And then now she's gonna separate that off the larger piece and get it a no more manageable size
Yeah, absolutely and for those who are just seeing this stuff for the first time it's propane and oxygen the
Propane is the fuel of the oxygens the accelerant and can sharpen or loosen the flame with the
addition or subtraction of the oxygen
They do make these nice filters where we'd be able to see through the yellow light
We've just been lazy about ordering that we need to do the clip. That's a good clip
Yeah, those diddy clips are nice. Super nice. Shut up. Did he clip shout out to diddy clips? Yeah, I
I've been meaning to get him and obviously it failed. There we go
so now she's she's gonna trim it up take the front end off that and
So right there it's all straight lines
She wants to turn it into a more
See, it's a little tapered. I I'm assuming she's gonna
Thicken it up a little bit and try to get it all the one consistent diameter before
Twisting it back and forth and that's just so she can gauge
each
Twist to make it exactly the same as the other so she can set up a repeating pattern
Yeah
I'm so my eyes squint even though it's through the video screen because I'm so I'm so used to that yellow light being the
Yeah, Peter, how about your glass experience do you've ever been on the torch or or been in a glass shop or
Action, that's not true
Once I took like a beginner glassblowing class and we we just made like little goldfish
That's awesome
But I was telling Gemma who's my six-year-old about what we're gonna talk about today
And I said, I'll I'll give you a little bit of a tour of my glass
That's great
Yeah, I've got four daughters, but only one of them really wants to
They're like gosh I've seen it my whole life is not interesting
Gemma's the resident artist
That's awesome. You said she's a resident artist. Yeah, she's a resident artist
That's awesome, you said she's six
That's a cute age
Yeah, my my girls are
Almost 22 16 16 12 and 9
So frankly there have been some questions do you guys see this one absolutely
Lab okay, do we use lab grade glass the shape soft glass?
Yeah, absolutely. It's it borosilicate is exactly what they use for scientific
Instruments because of its resilience to heat and because of it I would assume
Expansion and contraction rates so it can to end its inert so it's gonna
You know be your best for containing chemical reactions
Yes, definitely lab grade and that's what makes it safe to smoke out of anything trapped in there is
It should be trapped and in the silicate and completely inert all the metals that make the color
They shouldn't be gassing off or anything because it's all trapped in the the silicate so
Yes, it's a hard glass because it's really hard to make
No, it's called. I think it's just called hard glass
No, it's called. I think it's just called hard hard glass and soft glass. I think because of the
The boron maybe in the borosilicate and that makes it yeah that makes it the more resilient
And it also gives it a property where it contracts differently when it's hot so not only not only its property when it's cold
But when it's hot it wants to gather and as all the glass blowers out there will know
You know it's soft glass if you want to ball something up
You really have to put a paddle on it and bring it back into a ball
where
Lamp working or a silicate you just need to spin it right and it'll gather itself
And I think that's the as far as I've been told that could somebody please correct me if I'm wrong
But I think that's because of the boron that's that's in there
Yeah, and Peter I know you guys get into the nitty-gritty chemistry of
the soil and
Yeah, I'd love for I love some experts to get on there and tell me that I'm wrong and contract
Correct the chat doesn't hold back when they think people yes
I appreciate that I appreciate that I bet Giovanni could answer some questions if we can get him on again. That's not my story
Yeah, he popped in on our last mic check
Only if he wears the speedo
Oh boy, I've seen a couple of those photos. I'm like good. Yeah, okay
That's European how did how do you all meet Katie? How did you and Katie me? Okay, so let's see in
2015 thanks Katie's are she keeps records because it's a little hazy for me
2015 2015 my business partner Ben Kappen and I we had been
giving I
Had worked in let's go back just a hair
since moving back from my
apprenticeship with Bob moving to Lawrence
I'd been either working at Free State Glass or working in my own garage
And then I had spent many years just kind of in my in the man cave
And I wanted to teach again and not just not apprenticeships, but like less lessons beginning lessons
I thought I'd if I could cultivate more of a
Community thing that that would be more fulfilling and so I thought I don't want to just invite people over to my house
I need another location
So my business partner Ben and I thought oh well
We'll start renting this back room of this coffee house
And well, it's big enough for four stations or something and we'll give classes back there
But I took off so fast
That like almost within two or three months. We're like oh we need a real
location
And and we had found a found a spot over on the east side of town Lawrence and
Katie was in our one of our first round of lessons in fact
We were still getting the place prepped and we wanted to give the lesson so we took her out to Vince
Ben's house right Katie
Yeah, and and we did soft glass and and borrow that day. She got one of those good lessons
Yeah, because we have a bed and has the soft glass hooked up at his house
So she got one of those one-of-a-kind
Experiences just jam-packed a day full of both disciplines and she was pretty much hooked and yeah
Yeah, she just had the dedication and I thought oh, you know I at the time
I think was 2000 you have 15 and and so I thought oh if I if I give her a little extra
Training maybe she could give me a leg up a hand and yeah, we worked together for like that
Like after a year or so she started to help me prep and that lasts for about a year or so
And then you know every artist needs to take off and go their own way
So but but actually after that she moved about 20 feet closer to me
I think her station was across the across the way and now she just sits right here to my left
Been there five years or so now
That's crazy
The learning never stops
But yeah Bob's to go back to Bob's thing it was really nice the
The other apprentices they they probably don't even remember how much they helped there because they would just drop in for a second and look
At me go. Why are you doing it that way?
No, like the long way. I was like, well, this is exactly the way Bob showed me and they're like
Like he's showing you the long way
On purpose
So, yeah, yeah like Cameron Tower one day came in and saw me struggle making this ribbon cane
and he just grabbed it out of my hands and like got it so hot and just like read one of the punnies down his
leg
Did the thing that was taken be like an hour in like five seconds and I'm like, oh, you know and and
I think Bobby his son one time but Bob showed me how to make silver white the color
Yeah, you know spraying the silver. He was making me fold this formula this
radiator
Pattern a little taking little bits of formula infusing them and folding them back and forth kind of a mr. Miyagi paint the fence thing
and
You know Bobby came in and was like, what are you doing? I was like, this is what your dad told me to do
And he's like, okay I see what I see what's going on here
They showed me how to do it fast, but he's like don't do it this way till you've done it his way three times
Or whatever. It was a it was a lot of that stuff and and I appreciate it so much now
I at the time I didn't understand but the fundamentals are fundamentals
Yeah, once you got them, I mean it's it's it's it's tough to
Commit to it, but then once you got them, you'll never forget it and it's easy to skip over them
I think you can get some pretty good rewards out of out of leaping past them and your stuff can look
Really good, but kind of lack a few small things
It's it's really easy to kind of forget that to go back and get that small thing. Yeah
Yeah, because when I learned from from Dave I learned from Mark Lamy first and then I learned from Dave
and and Mark was teaching a cup class at a Eugene classical then and
You know, so I started to really move into making things that weren't cannabis related at all really for a long time
and
It was a very interesting to go to go in that direction and see that this whole other world of
things that
That weren't in
The cannabis related world but then for all these years later for it to come spilling back it's like
It's like a blessing to this like looked at all this other art because now you know you can
Sort of help me to try to find my own voice at some point might find it someday
Yeah, I get it I guess that's that that's the constant search of any artist I think in any discipline
Yeah, you know I've just I've been lucky to have been taught by and learned from some amazing people
Who made me or helped me look at the glass like I'll never look at it ever again
I mean the most amazing stuff I've ever seen
and
Even going into like the fine art world and seeing things in Polchak and the other art schools and stuff
And there's a lot to be said for all of it really sort of like pull it all together and see for yourself
I think it was Robert Mickelson was saying it in 2007 like don't even look at glass look at like
You know other stuff in the museum that isn't glass like just try to wrap your head around how any of this stuff is made
You know in the craft world and stuff and make it really well
Absolutely I think I sometimes I go to clothes for color schemes all like you know
Right now my favorite is like retro 80s windbreakers
Seem to have good color schemes that I like
those kinds of things
Oh, yeah, so here Katie's
Just finished putting each little kick or each wigwag, I think it's where you
Make the line turn in one direction and then kick it back the other direction
So she's got it zigzagging down and now she's slowly pushing it back together with
Trying not to unrotate or over kick or under kick any of the lines so that all the peaks and troughs of the line
Are you feeling the pressure right now? Okay?
Now she's a pro
She's in the zone exactly
And how can speak to this I think the zone thing is a lot. There's a lot to that
There's a Zen to the glass blowing
There's there's a lot of patience and waiting in parts, and you have to be
patient and
You know you have to be patient and you have to be patient and you have to be patient and you have to be
I guess you don't have to be I guess there's a million ways to skin the cat
But I mean I I seem to Zen out right right then and there's a transformation of matter going on that you feel with your
fingertips and you know there's probably some mathematical thing that's going on is it's going from liquid to solid back and forth that you
you feel that tension and you're you know you're
Your brains picking up that up on some on some level it feels magical. I think to me it really is
Definitely stops time
Absolutely it's a day. It's addicting. I could have never like I really thought at the beginning
I'm learning this, but it was cool because I was just I think I was more interested in the the subculture as a whole package
More than just the glass itself. I just still thought of myself as an illiterate
I was just I was just I was just I was just I was just
I was just I was just I was just I was just I was just
Just the glass itself
I just still thought of myself as an illustrator just doing this glass thing for the for the meantime
And I had no idea how I was gonna shape
every facet of my my life
So it's so intense
Yeah, there's so many little quotes and different things though that I'll remember from people, but then I just take it as
Guide for for other aspects of life and other ways to carry on
Bob Bob and Marie were so open and sharing I feel like it's
kind of my my duty to keep sharing and teaching some somewhat and
had a few students come through the the doors over the years and
That's always a joy. It's who's watching somebody else's career like really take off and and they become successful and independent
Yeah
You know, it was just like it was like Bob kind of created this
This place where if you weren't geared for office life if you were geared for artist life
They just made such a bigger umbrella for artists to be able to you know with the modest investment and
some amount of discipline
You you could enjoy this shelter of a of an umbrella of this cool, you know art form it's just so amazing what it's become
Well, and it's crazy too because of the level of scientific glasswaters we did have in the country at one point
I mean it was we did have it in schools and it was in a lot of
Universities at one point because scientists had to know how to make their own
vessels and
Containers and those sorts of things at that time
So it's sort of like I think some old schoolers I've talked to had said that
Like they were just waiting for it to sort of take off, you know people from the 70s and stuff
Like they knew at some point it would
Catch up with with some generation and they would run with it, you know, right? Well, I know I know that right
well
if we think about the short history of of even just the the way the soft glass movement
Got to an independent studio stage. I mean you think about it in all the centuries past it took teams of people
People just to keep the fire going people to work the work bellows people that are just
Prepping this part of that part of the you know, the main make effort. It was teams of people
We live in town with a guy. His name is Vernon Brecka
He's one of the guys that took
Soft glass in the in the 60s and 70s and kind of seeded the university scene
And he's one of the guys that took the soft glass movement
And he's one of the senior guys here in town
And so we owe a lot to those guys just giving the thought out that glass blowing could be an independent thing
Where an artist didn't need a team?
You maybe one assistant or or even, you know solo soft glass blowing my business partner Ben here
Kevin he can blow soft glass all on his own with hooks and you know different different things to
To help him where there's not an assistant and that kind of melding with the scientific
Melding with the scientific
Community it was almost. Yeah, you're right inevitable that I guess they could they could foresee that it was gonna happen
Yeah, that's a lovely story. I think that's awesome
Yeah, I mean, I don't know. It's um, what did bob say one of his quotes? He said ones was uh,
Uh purpose is discovered by accident or something
That's awesome, that's a good one
Bob if you're watching we need that on a on a bumper sticker bob
Yeah, we're hoping you know to to highlight some other um apprentices
This year, so please anybody contact peter and uh, maybe bob too by the end of the year
Because it is his 50th. So we do want to we do want to celebrate it all
absolutely
absolutely, i've been um
I want to shout out some other artists right now
I've been looking at their stuff so much for inspiration. Uh, yeah, one of the best, uh line workers out there
Cameron burns just every picture he puts up
I'm florida at what I see
and uh
Brandon
Stop stop with cameron. Give me one second. Let me uh, oh he wants no arcadia
Let me uh, absolutely
Share
Just so people can see what you're talking about. Oh, yes
Thank you. Peter
There you go
just
Ridiculous, look at this cup this white cup in the center. That's the last one
That I was just um, yeah
He's a master
This is out of this world clean and just I mean it's one it's so perfect
Yeah, he's the crusher
He's a crusher and I
You know, I I think before I had I haven't even met him face to face
but I had sent some prep work to him that he
Shaped into a piece a collab and when he sent it back to me and when I got it in my hands
I learned a whole new
level of of how
Thick a finished piece a finished piece of that caliber really should be I think I was I think before
That before I got in touch with him
I think my stuff maybe was a bit thin and and uh
When I held what he had reshaped of mine and I looked at it and I was like, oh, yeah, this is
This is really the real deal. So cameron if you're
Cameron if you're listening, uh, thanks a ton, man
This one the irony behind this one is amazing
Sorry, what what'd you say go to the shard photo next to it
Yeah, right there those are broken pieces
Of sections that he's now turning into photos that are framed. I think he poured that in a resin resin block
Yeah, he pours it into resin but then it's like a framed thing that you can then hang on the wall or it's 3d, you know
It's incredible incredible use of the material
yeah, just just every
Everything I see that he does is that takes so much care and they're they're so sexy like the yeah right there
Oh my god the lines. Oh, yeah, those are nice most people just throw that stuff out
There's like this guy's keeping it and making like dolly like stuff. This is incredible
Absolutely
Yeah, look at that that's
Sad that's so amazing. That's so much work. Oh my god, that's so much fun
Yeah, yeah
That's great
All right
All right
Who's next?
Okay, let's see. Um somebody that doesn't do line work. I was I was looking lately as brandon martin
Yeah, this one. Yeah, it's like the sculpting going on and the amount of different techniques applied for different textures
It's just like levels and levels above it's almost like uh
Almost like an anime, um graphic art. Oh, yeah. See there you go
Look how slick and uh, just that to get all these
Color shadings out of one or two
Colors shows like a mastery of atmosphere that that slug to the upper right. Oh, yeah. That one's really good. That's really good
Yeah this piece there
Just yeah to get all the coloring
In there. I'm not sure of all those techniques, but I mean it would that
Wow
That's that's amazing
And those little figures in there. Yep
Super unique and i'm yeah, i'm just in love with this guy's stuff. It's I keep going back to it every day just to
just to get inspired and my work looks nothing like it, but i'm just
So glad that he's taking it there. Look at these ones that are like half mechs
Like oh, yeah
Let's see. Yeah. Look at those guys. They're riding those beasts. I'm not even sure of all that. Yeah, what?
Yeah, it's just oh my god, that's incredible what's going on at the bottom there I can't even tell if he's metal, you know, he's
Electroplating or I can't even tell everything. It's just
Yeah, just like bronze right cast bronze
I think he might be electroforming onto the glass
That is out of this world, but I could be I could be wrong. He could be sculpting those on the side. I don't know
Yeah, what do you think of those peter I like them
We got uh from the peanut gallery
You know ryan fit. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Let's let's go see his page. Thanks. Thanks. Chris. Nice
Good good. Uh good tip. Yeah, let's hear from the chat. Let's hear from the chat about who we should go
Review i'd love that game
Yeah, I mean
Obviously world-class look at that stuff. It's like uber clean
Sheesh
I'm, not even sure. Yeah, like again, i'm so in the dark about some of these processes
I'm assuming there's some there's some resist. There's some sand blasting. There's some cold work cutting but I couldn't
I couldn't tell you in what?
What order what process is so beautiful?
So many practices have been opened up in the last few years, especially cold working and it's just taking off
Yeah, just like it's just been waiting. That's the same thing
It's just been waiting for people just machine perfect, but with without the loss of the any soul
Yeah, and here here here's his uh collabs with evil empire
Oh, no, and I got really nervous
Yeah, that stuff's awesome
Yeah, jay jay makes these I think this is the evil. Yeah. Yeah makes these up in illinois. He's just
the top shelf, uh lathe worker out there. Look at this stuff just so much thought into every
Oh, yeah, it's really evolving. It's really changing
And and peter he this guy the the guy that shaped this uh, ryan fitt looks like he did the
the artwork on the surface and
and jay at evil
he I think he has like a machine too that I think he's like
Measuring the draw of the piece with the water in it after it's done and then giving it like a rating of how it
Chugs and I mean it's all down to the the science of of the use, you know as a user
you know, it's got this kind of rating I think that's ingenious for one and and uh,
Just awesome as a collector and and as a buyer to have that out there as a product that is a smoke smoker
You're just going to get the best you're going to get the best. Uh
Hit or whatnot
The future is now
Oh, hey, let's let's not ignore katie katie's gone back to have putting one of those that ball one of those balls onto the
mouthpiece
so the already prepped mouthpiece now has the
Top of it. Okay
And so yeah, um explaining to the the people at home you can get the section that you're adding on
So hot that it adheres itself
Onto the colder section without you having to do too much quote-unquote welding, you know
There there's kind of a contraction and expansion process of pumping it in and out that you could do
It's naturally welding itself on then you could do a minimal amount of actually hitting the seal between the the two
just in the process of shaping it just
you know
Attaches itself
And with line work, that's really important to not get anything
Too soupy that you're the lines move because you want you know, you want them to be just so so I think
in line work a lot at least for me and
Other line workers are going to get on the chat and tell me i'm wrong but um
I have I have to work from the colder end like as soon as I see something
Looking good the way it is. I try to cool it off so that it kind of sets up
That way and then I need to move on down the piece
And then and then just uh, do you see this comment this was for a while ago
Oh sweet awesome, yeah, we met uh, I think that was the paul stankard. Um
Paul stankard here and we got to actually see a lot of paul stankard's. Um, uh soft glass, uh
paperweights
And it was out of this world. Look at paul stankard if you got a chance
And he's a soft glass artist. He makes out of this world paperweights. He has for 30 40 years now
katie
Hawaii sustainable says he likes your style
Has that has skills love watching artists make art live
Daniel coil
Let's hit that up
He's representing this whole other like sort of uh coming from the salem community college
uh crew of kids and uh
He's phenomenal sculptor
And this kid's big and big in the scene. Is these a great one?
Okay, there's a daniel coil who looks like he's a professional horse jumper just look at coil
Yeah, just look at coil. I don't think it's daniel
Uh coil condenser coil condenser, that's what it is a coil condenser
I forgot you guys are watching what i'm doing right now
Yeah, but he's another great kid who uh
Young came on the scene and he really crushed it right away
I remember in my in the beginning of my oh, yeah. Look at that
Yeah, amazing, yeah, that is gorgeous look at the color change around the
Kind of the the internal banger hanger. Oh, yeah, probably. Yeah, that's beautiful
So again, i'm not even sure what i'm looking at as far as the application of that pattern on there
Yeah, so these guys are so well rounded yeah, they do a little bit of everything look at that that's
Yeah, this is rye glass is amazing. He's an amazing, uh sculpt like a carver, but he's using cold worker
So he's that's all cold work that he's doing on there
Yeah, absolutely incredible. It's just just
Masterful
Yeah out of this world
I you know, I think in the beginning of the in the movement like way early it definitely was like
Felt like more competition. I feel like more that these
guys get out there and push the
ceiling and
Expand it every less and less does does more adding more glassblowers seem like competition at all just seems like this
Freedom yeah this freedom this this this lifting of the ceiling to where that it's just going out in so many directions that it
You know, it's like everybody it takes all of us together to kind of
Keep this thing going and keep it cool. And it yeah, I don't I don't never feel like any other glassblowers are
Really a competition anymore. It seems like just this expanding universe
Everyone's got a handle on their avenue and and I want to see them take it
It's really good to be to at least know about and learn about the tiny little part of and a lot of fun
Yeah, let's see
Do we have any other bob people who can pop up like uh, yeah, well they have
Let's let's go to Cameron's pitch Cameron tower. Yeah, let's go to Cameron's pitch
Yeah, let's go to Cameron's pitch. Yeah, let's go to Cameron's pitch
Yeah, well the hammering stuff let's let's go to Cameron's pitch Cameron tower
Cameron we can show uh, stan we got stan. Yes
Yeah, yeah, brad tenor and mark. Let's let's let's go on in time. Let's go to Cameron's pitch Cameron tower
Cameron burns or Cameron tower tower
So these were my heroes when I was just buying buying the glass these guys I
Was it human and Cameron in the beginning or what what's Cameron's instagram, I think it's just Cameron tower home tower studios
Yeah, let me look i'm bad at remembering that but if I just start looking it up here
Oh, it's c tower, right?
Yeah, oh it's c
Right, right, right. Okay. Sorry camera
Yeah, so like these guys. Oh, yeah
No, I I I only got to see them in small spurts because I was working in bob's bus
And they had already there wasn't oh my god. Yeah, look at that stuff
Very much that style of melting the lip of the bowl right into the stem
Like my my stems are a little bit down, but these guys
They like it gets so soup soupy and you can just see this nice. I love that line there
Anyway, I think I think Cameron
And someone again, correct me if i'm wrong
I think these guys like figured out the first fixed stem what bubbler and I called it a bubbler, you know
Figuring out what what do we call this thing?
So this word word that we all use and you know
Even across the whole cannabis thing we call it a bubbler without thinking about it, but pretty sure they got together
Said what do we name this thing?
Yeah
Yeah
Takes a village right right takes a village. Yeah. So yeah, these guys have been carrying the
Tradition that whole time and he's also a really experienced soft glass
Worker i'm pretty sure he worked at uh, the chihuly's, you know, the glass eye and and all that kind of stuff
All right up here in a pmw. Yeah classy baby and stuff
Mm-hmm. Yeah, so it was cameron and uh, let's see. What's what's brian's it's bp
It's like 94 b bp glass 94, let's take a look at that
Yeah, brian's awesome
He really uh closed a lot of loops for me and and answered a lot of questions, right? So
I think that's a little
And so yeah here brian, this is the first guy I think I saw sack stacking sections
and
Him and his sister both their stuff. So precise. I mean
yvonne's
Glass like every little twisty. It looks like she pulled out calipers and made them the exact same size even though I know
Yes, yeah
Yeah
And so yeah this this this um, like fold over technique that mark lammy used I think
I think brian was the one to kind of start doing that first
Gorgeous yeah, they're the rip apart how I saw some of this on your work, correct? Yeah some bow ties. Yeah. Yep
So I think brian calls them rip rip apart. It's just
yeah, just just uh
Those those vocabulary gets lost gets lost as we we uh
You know the 90s we didn't have social media. So it's like I moved to kansas
I just had to make up my own words. I wasn't calling them every weekend being like what you called that thing again
You know jay lee had like a language. He had almost 26 images. So it was almost like a full alphabet
Oh, really? Yeah, if you ever see if you ever see any of that stuff dm it to me. I'd love to
Keep a record of that and yeah, but that's awesome
Yeah, you know when our alien masters come and find us they're gonna be like wait, what is this stuff?
And
You know peter peter when in the beginning there I think there was only
12 or so kind of color rods at all that were stable enough to use all the time like just a
basic cobalt and a basic rust
And the ruby was still bubbly and they were still like trying to come up with a good white
So it's it's just amazing how fast it's
Grown, I think that's one of those beautiful things, but it's just uh
The the rate of expansion I think and then you know kind of pairing with the social media and how fast it's
It's it's grown once it attached itself to you know, it's an instagram or so, I guess
All right, yeah
Yeah, the colors are out of control now molten, uh molten
Can't say their name molten aurora
Yeah
Yeah, those guys out of this world greasy glass got the borough
Yeah, borough badge all that stuff. Yeah
Yeah, if anyone if anybody a color chemist is out there I need a magenta
Make a magenta color. Uh, what's that?
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, roger paramore. Oh, yeah, you use roger stuff too. That's awesome that you use it in in your line work
Yeah, yeah it it's uh
The softer palette helps me
Fill out the rest of the color schemes. I really like to I buy from all the try to buy from all the color companies
That's awesome. Yeah
So this is uh
Alex hardy who's in the chat right now sent this to me a while ago. I think he said this this is from the early 90s
uh
Alex if you want to say something about it in the chat
Look at this piece. That is a yeah 90s relic. Look at that. Awesome thing
That's amazing
And then we have a question of uh, uh, audrey had like long stuff
Oh, yeah, hey, um, oh yeah, I don't know how do you know anyone doing a long cigarette holders?
Uh, there was i've seen a few on insta recently, um
What katie's got she could probably cut down a little shorter and make something nice like that. Uh
Yeah, yeah d dm dm somebody and suggest it to them yeah nothing nobody comes up comes to mind
Uh, oh, here's this question from jolly can they lay soft glass on hard glass
And you you can but they're not gonna meld together one of them will destroy itself in the kiln
I was told is early fume snodgrass
I don't think so. I don't know. I don't know
But it could be
Music show parking lot. I think I think okay what's going on too is bob's name was synonymous
With all the pipes at that stage
If you were on the pipe if you were on the lot and you needed a good piece to smoke out of you didn't say
Hey, do you got a pipe?
You said hey, where's your snotty?
so that's the thing that
that's the thing that's affected how everybody thinks of it because
That was just the word for a cool glass pipe. It was he was there's no breaking away bob from
The the the starting of the whole culture. It was his name was the pipe. So you like oh you go
Yeah, it's a snotty. It's a travis, but you wouldn't say no. It's not a snotty. It's a travis you go. Yeah
Where's your snotty? Oh, it's right here. It's a travis. So it's the word snotty
Got put on all the pipes
To me at least from my point of view
That's how it was and so a lot of that information gets passed around and I think or if it came from someone that learned
over there
That word could be also down the line. So I think I don't think any of those mislabelings were
Intentional per se but but uh, but I don't know if that that looks like bob's especially about 94 or so. I don't think so
It happens
It happens. Yeah, so you see those those those bumper stickers. Thank bob for your snotty and that's what it's alluding to is
You know was like every pipe back then
I like to say thank bob for your for your job
Thanks, bob, that's a good one. Thank you, sir
Okay, here let's get back. Oh, yeah katie here she's so she's put those two sections together
and then like
Condensing them using that graphite marver on the top of her torch and then gravity you see how she's pointing up
And then she's going to point it down
So the glass is so liquid at that point, which you know, we're always working against gravity
So you got to when it's that hot you got to keep spinning
When it's that hot you got to keep spinning
Gravity is never going to stop pulling down
So she's setting it up this way and then in a couple seconds has to pour it back the other way
Otherwise too much of it all float in one direction. So there's you doing it again
Doing it again going back. So there's this opposite every time you condense something you need to baby puff it back out
Every time you pour it this way you need to pour it that way and I think I mean you don't have to
But I think that adds to an evenness and uh, and uh stress-free glass can remember a lot of stress
You want to get into stress-free?
So that lasts a long time
Almost ready to push the bowl she says
Your kate maybe we'll turn katie's mic
All right katie you ready to do some narration
Sure
All right
So i'm pretty much done shaping this at this point
i'm just gonna get the top of it like nice and round
And ready for a bull push and then it will have to go
Back in the kiln for just like a few minutes because i've been working this end
For so long that the mouthpiece has
Cooled down by now
So if I like try to push the bowl and I could risk like losing this whole piece
So but this is what we're looking at right now
So i've got two my little wiggies that you guys saw me spin up
And i'll be pushing the bowl. But while this is in the kiln I can make a marble. Um, hang on just one second
I'm just gonna go ahead and do it
What go ahead
That's another thing that's great about the borosilicate over the soft glass is that you need a you need a break
You can probably most likely get into a point where you can put it in the kiln for a bit and rest or work
That gather out, you know, it's go time and you're not done till the piece is done. And I think um
That would cause me some anxiety
so
Yeah, i'm really grateful to the borosilicate art form. I can kind of bench it for a second and gather myself and
smoke a bowl or drink some water and
You know, you gotta really appreciate those guys trailblazing
If you see a complex soft glass piece a lot of it
You have to know how the clock is ticking for them the whole time
Timing is is even more of an important thing and
But if you kneeled for two days and stuff
absolutely
Takes too long to anneal it you gotta wait too long
I think someone asked a while ago about the long stems. Uh, hold on a second. Let me just
Katie can probably answer that like if they if you buy them like that or if you
make or I forget what the if the if whoever
posted that a while ago is
Still here if you can re-ask that question, uh, peter, I think I know what they're asking
Yeah. Yeah, I said so the blow tubes there are
um the the the thing she's holding on to
Come they that's like our maybe our one of our main tools is a long piece of glass to build everything off of
Those come in four four or five foot lengths and we break them down to you know
15 inches or so to to use yeah, I think that's what they're probably asking. Yeah store-bought factory-made
Yeah, so she's just using like a punty like you would in the hot shop or in a soft glass I think it's hollow
This hollow yes
Yeah, i'm just making a little
Thin bubble on the end of it
Oh, wait, sorry. Hold on katie. Yeah, let's go back to kate. All right katie say that all over again
I'm making a implosion marble for this chillum. So I just blew a little thin bubble out on the end of
This blow tube and then i've just got like kind of a neat little
Striking color. I forget what it's called. Unfortunately. Um
And i'm just putting little dots on here
and then once I get my dots done, I can heat it from the front and the marble will actually like
Flip like inside out basically and it will like stretch all of my
Dots out into these like long
tendrils
Kind of looks like a sea anemone
It should look really cool on the chillum
so
The front of it will start to kind of cave in
and
Because it's really thin
You got to puff that out
very thin
And then here it goes the glass goes inside
And then it's almost done and then i'll be able to take this off of the blow tube and put it on a punty and
then i'll be able to point it at my phone and
show you guys what all those little dots on top of the uh,
bubble I was just having uh became
And I sucked the air out of it because I don't want an air bubble in it
Cut this off the blow tube
And doing this marble has given my chillum and the kiln time to uh
Get hot again so I can come out and push the bowl and get her done
This is where we need our non-copyrighted background music
Ha ha
Let that cool for just a second because right now it just looks like a glowing ball to you guys
Chase yes, they live in lawrence. You guys are in lawrence, right? Kansas
kansas
I don't know if you guys can really see that. Uh, kind of
Yeah
Oh, yeah, there we go. Yeah, I wish my camera would focus
Here hold on brad
back to brad
A little marble on the chillum. It's a nice roll stop to keep it from rolling off the table and breaking
Okay
Yeah, shout out to ditty clips again, I guess we're gonna have to go get some ditty clips this is way too yellow to see
So just quickly can you guys because uh someone in the chat has some kind of
Criticisms of why we hold bob up. So can you guys kind of and let me show the first comment? It's a two-part
Uh, so I will have the balls to put the comment up. Uh, give me one second
Says no one has the balls to say it but bob snodgrass is sloppy as shit and seals are rough spent years in chem glass
And that shit don't fly or chem
Class, maybe I don't know scientific glass scientific glass world laboratory and then and then later on
mentioned, uh
Hold on wait, let's peter peter. Let's address this one at a time. Let's do this
Well, wait, no, no, but but the second part goes with it
So, yeah, so here glass pipes were being made before snag shop in germany and usa folks going way too much off crunchy ass lot
history from a bunch of heads that had no exposure to other glass cultures, so
Okay, I think I think there's some
Validity in what he's saying is there other people were blowing glass. No one said he invented. Um
pipe making
But he is responsible for bringing
The the fume pipes that he was making and merging that with the kind of
Circus atmosphere of selling it on the grateful dead lot merging the two cultures and what's made it cool
I mean sean much respect. I guess you've spent a lot of years in scientific glass and those seals wouldn't pass
Your scientific muster, but that's not what was going on at the time. I mean bad respect to cleanliness and all
Yeah, even i'm the first one to go. Oh, yeah, that doesn't look like bob
I sometimes you can ask my wife I call him wobbly bob because sometimes this stuff's really melty and all over the place
But that wasn't really the point
um
It wasn't he wasn't trying to make a scientific
specifically
Accurate piece a lot of those at that time just had no soul. So I mean you can't really understate how he took
The art of it and merged it with a culture and what it became today
None of the other guys that you're talking up did that and you have it with all your extensive scientific knowledge
Where's the art movement that you kicked off?
Just saying I mean would it be kind of the equivalent of like a very well classically trained
Musician being like the grateful dead like yeah, they can strum some chords and yeah, you know
You can't say that because grateful dead. We're all uh,
We're all expert musicians coming from the field with each field that they studied in
I mean and and we're so well versed. I mean jerry garcia was so well versed in jazz
And so much other music that most people don't even pick up on the fact that that's what he's playing
in his jams
he's playing old blues and
Music from the past and making it new today
But people don't
You know can't hear that and stuff
but but I but I get I get what I get what sean was saying, but I I don't I think if
People are putting bob up there saying hey, he makes the perfect pipe. I don't think that's ever what anyone has ever said
You know, I don't I don't think that's really the point but I but I understand the sentiment of his comment. I mean, I get it
you know
Yeah, I think that there's something to be said for discipline and for for fundamentals
But there's also you know people have said that funky always sells over form
You know for some reason something perfectly shaped and perfectly
You know symmetrical
Nobody wants to touch it because they think they're going to break it or something
But something funky and something that seems to fit into their life
Um seems to be a little easier or something or more acceptable. I don't know
um
But i'm definitely seeing those two ideas of funky overformed
Well, and here's something coming at it from the other side, which is there's no feeling in a scientific piece
Well, I said there's the art in the soul too
There's the art in the soul and there's a lot of scientific work that that has has feeling it's not that there's it's not that
That one excludes the other i'm just saying at the time that we're talking about what bob did versus what the other people were doing
There
There wasn't enough
art artistry in the scientific
Part that I had seen that's not what turned me on. So I mean
To sean again. I'm just you know from my point of view. Yeah, it wasn't all bob. But yeah, I see what he's saying
I'm sure
Or or maybe a better example would be like if a hyper realist
Suddenly saw a van gogh painting
And was like the fuck is this?
Exactly this guy doesn't know how to yeah paints. What are all these brushstrokes?
And also boris. Iligot is still so young. I mean, I think it just reached 100 years old a few years ago
and uh
at the time, you know, like someone said in the chat or other people, I mean stuff was kind of
basic and and uh,
sort of like
I don't know. Um
Formless in a sense back then and uh,
It seems like by the end of the 70s into the 80s people had started moving
With the material in a different way or at least it started being used, you know
Outside of laboratories and that sort of sense, right?
And we haven't even said anything about bob's particular style yet
Even too about the about the fuming and then trapping it with clear like that's revolutionary
Yeah, it's just that argument doesn't hold water because it was
A special thing at a special time and they're just undeniable of the nexus of the two. It's really
I mean
And then then to go on with it all and be so open and share it and then to see people like yourself
And all the other apprentices all these years later all have their own style
Their own mastery with the material themselves
Yes, yeah, I guess a real beautiful thing to me
I I think peter you hit it on the head when you were talking about other disciplines
I could see how if someone's a very technical guitar player, they might look at another guitar player as sloppy
But then the rest of the world might hear that sloppiness and be like god the soul in that and it really
It's a very different kind of thing. I think it's a very different kind of thing
Sloppy
That's that's what's great about art is there's no one can say any one person is the best it's all you know
Beauty and the eye of the beholder and subjective and etc
Yeah, yeah because scientific world if those seals break you could kill someone so I mean it's totally understandable why
You want that stuff to be so precise? Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, absolutely
Uh, okay. Yeah katie you pushed that bowl and did you put the marble on I didn't see
I did not yet. Oh, that's your next step
Okay, yeah fantastic
I'm like really anal about the killing of it now
especially on those end steps because you know, that's when it's gonna happen every time like
Don't want to break this shit in front of
However, many people are watching. I don't know. I can't see I can't see my phone screen. It's too dark
I think there are about a hundred people tuned in right now across facebook and youtube and
It's a happy little no, I I like I mean
well, that went out of focus, but um
It for me it's important like I love that you guys heard a criticism and then you could give kind of a
Cogent thoughtful response and you know that that's what I always hope for is like not that everybody is like rah-rah
and whatever the topic is but
You know like there is disagreement or there are people who are like I don't get why that's a big deal or whatever
And it's like well from my perspective. Here's kind of
Why this guy was important historically
Yeah, that was well said rad
We look up to
Because can you guys kind of talk like I feel like Giovanni did come from that, uh technical world and
You know, it's like everybody's meeting in this central place, which is like functional art right or glass
And uh, it's interesting to see people coming from very different places
Yeah at some points or you could only learn laboratory work you can only learn scientific work to learn this stuff, you know
at some points in history, so
I I think there's going to be a
an explosion in in europe as
I i've just talked to some germans recently and and there's a
It's growing so fast over there now, too. So I think the the borosilicate
Well, you know we have to be thankful that americans kind of smoke weed in the amounts that they do it's not very un-european
I think to just pack a whole bowl and just smoke it all to your head, you know
so
so
that's going to maybe take a while smoking culture itself changes, you know, but people want to move away from spliffs and
Smoke big bowls of flour or extract or whatever. So as that spreads then inevitably the glass
will follow
um
You know as far as the functional
uh accessories
Okay, someone just sent me a picture of their jerome baker piece nice
It's not so sweet because it's broken and they wanted to ask if you guys thought it was fixable so let me just uh
Cue it up
I'm going as fast as I can
Peter this is one of the most uh oft things that I get dm'd is is hey, is this fixable? It's
So generally what's kind of the the
You know, how do you evaluate let me pull this one up, but how do you evaluate? Uh
Kind of whether it's salvageable
Um, well i'm i'm guessing if they're going to show you a jerome baker it might be a bong and so
yeah, the the tools to be able to hold something and then
Fixed. Yeah
Yeah, that makes toast but um
You know that
You could essentially take that top tube and turn it into a steam roller, but I don't think you could make it into a bong again
um without uh
Without a lot more work than it would take to just build a new one
It's like evaluating whether you can salvage a car basically and it's like, you know
I just take the check and buy a new one 100% and that's when uh sentimentality is going to come into it if someone's like hey
Look this I got this on my wedding
It's it's my wife and I we smoke out of it every new year's. It's a ritual
We're so emotional about this piece being broken
I will go the extra mile at that point and try to frankenstein it back and again
Then that's what takes me back to those first weeks at bob's where I wasn't allowed to touch anything, but the broken pieces
So I could just kind of humpty dumpty it all
back together as well as I can and i'll get you know, if it's sentimental then I think uh,
Then it just comes down to cost how much you're gonna
Pay me to fix the thing unless I made it unless I made it if I made it
Um, and it and it broke because of some construction flaw that i've made i'll i'll just fix it for free
Nice katie, that was that was nice katie. Thanks
So actually one of the things I want to talk about is color because katie when I first saw your stuff
I was like it just all your color makes me happy
So
Can you talk about kind of your color like
Palette I guess or
I mean
When I first started
Go ahead when I first started blowing glass. I kind of like was just like working with like what I had like
so I was working with brad and I would do like draw like make some like tubing for him and
So he let me use a lot of his color so I had access to like
A very large palette but then on top of that like that was his color, you know
and
As far as my own color goes I didn't have that much money. So I just bought a big Tupperware box of scraps
From another guy that worked at our shop. And so like my color schemes kind of come from just like
Working with what you've got and like finding a way to just like make it look good. Um
Now I can afford to buy my own color which is tight but um
I don't know if it sounds weird to say but like I try not to put like
too much
Thought into it like I do I do drawings. So
that's where you like draw each stripe of color on a
blank and then you coat it in clear and then you pull it down and that doesn't make as much tubing as other methods of
of making lines tubing and that's I think that gives me the freedom to like
Fuck around and find out for lack of better words a lot with my color schemes. Um
I do like to do
You know the thing where it's like one color on one side one color on the like or one color scheme on one side
Yeah, you can kind of like see it in those ones. Thanks. Yeah, but um, you know, I just kind of like
Take every color I have make and line them up on my bench and make a giant rainbow out of them
and then just start taking chunks
of the rainbow and
Throwing them together and seeing if it works or not
And if it's cool, then it's cool. And if it's not then it's not like i'm not gonna do another draw on tomorrow
Type of thing, you know
It's a long stem there's your audrey hepburn, uh
Keep going
Yeah, they uh
They get long
Yeah, I just feel happy when I look at these colors
Thanks, man
Yeah, I like pink. I like purple a lot. I like shit that I feel like some glassblowers think is like not great
Glass and then I like to use it
Like borobar and things like that
I know there are plenty of people that like borobar, but I feel like I don't see it used in
Like line work a lot. I feel like people that like it kind of like sculpt with it more and
That's why I like to draw on too because it doesn't matter if all of my rods that i'm using are the same diameter
Whatever or if they're squares like the borobars I could just kind of use whatever is
Sitting around and whatever I think looks cool and put it in there. I've got
You know one color scheme that has like four different color companies
stuff in it
But I just kind of you know
Get that fade, you know
So can you guys talk about I mean we touched on it a little bit and I the chat was talking about it
but kind of like what
You have various parts of a glass market. You have the
You know manufactured pieces, you know, which now is moving more to china, right?
so
you had some, you know bong makers that did mass but
Now that stuff's moving to china. So the price is going down
Then on the extreme other side you have all of you guys who are like the bespoke craftsmen
And people are loving what you're doing
And then some of you are selling stuff for you know
A twenty thousand dollar piece others are selling it more everyman prices of a couple hundred bucks or 50 or 100 bucks
So, can you kind of just see what?
from each of your perspective
What you've seen in the market in general and where you see it going
And and who's supporting which parts of the market yeah, how are you going to hit that first?
I have no idea. Um
I don't know. I I
One of the first line workers that I met was jay bridgeland in uh
oakland california
He's at the crucible at that point. It was a multi-disciplinary
Disciplinary like little school that would teach people like burning man stuff and
And fire tossing and lamp working and metal work and all this crazy stuff
It's probably still there the crucible look up great place
and uh jay bridgeland
had just gotten back from learning from
Cesare and he taught me a whole bunch of stuff about line work
But he also taught me about marketing and was like saying always have three products basically one that you're always selling
you're you're uh
Then two or three products basically that you can always be selling
and one product that is like your esoteric or your
Special thing that you're always working on off to the side that you can try to sell
in other higher end markets
um
So depending on how you work
You know, you could literally break it up into that and try to hit those targeted markets like you're talking about
um
I myself haven't hit any high-end markets at all. I've always been a
You know someone making affordable pieces
Just to sell them for what I can
um
And I just I see it as uh
An opportunity for anybody who has that ability to go into those markets
I would wish them, uh, you know all the best
And the best of luck to do it and stuff
Absolutely
I think that I think peter there's a there's a dynamic going on
too, I think with the rise of the
social media and and artists being able to maybe
Directly sell their pipes. I think
Um, even with the amount of glassblowers there are it seems to me like the shops are very hungry
So I think a lot of times to keep a brick and mortar place open. They have to sell
a certain amount of
China glass to the population that doesn't care whether it's chinese or american, but on the other hand
I think now more than ever the collecting
Public is very aware of whether it's american. I'll get hit that up in the dm when people's ordering a piece
They want to make sure i'm using all american-made glass. So I think uh
The the buying public is really informed. I think that's super encouraging. It seems to me that um, they know the difference
um
I think some of those shops like I said have to sell those things to keep the doors open because the profit margins
extreme
but uh
Yeah
Yeah, I just i'm
I'm not anti
that glass because I it fills a certain niche but I could I could see that
that it's good to encourage the preference to buy from american artists and
american
Manufacturers as far as us that are wholesaling the you know pieces
Buying bulk color so I try to get american supplies on that and and then again, you know, i'm manufacturing this here. So
um
yeah, the import market is changing a lot of things and I
I don't work on a lathe. I think a lot of um
Lathe work right now is I think that's where we're seeing a lot of the importing is their scientific
um pipe making is cat
Catching up might not be the right word, but their their knockoffs are getting more ubiquitous. They're more everywhere. So
That is rough
But I mean
Well, I was just gonna say so I mean it seems like instagram's been amazing. I mean because it's such a visual medium
that for you all of you guys to just I mean
All the people who are like that's amazing. I want it and you're like I could sell it to you
I could make it for you, right?
and then also kind of the
You know everywhere else in retail physical retail is getting decimated where it's kind of e-commerce
are you seeing the same thing in the
physical head shops versus the online head shops
I don't go into the physical shops much anymore
I I don't know
Two of the stores I see uh, the witch doctor and and uh,
the
Bellingham
Gathering class Bellingham designs
um
Those stores are doing great. They're in business. They have all sorts, you know, they've come out of the pandemic pretty well
And um, they've got great support from their local community and people keeping them going
They're supporting artists in that area as well. So it all sort of like kind of pulling back into itself
I think it
I peter I think it has to be that the rate of expansion of the cannabis market itself is outpacing
The rate of expansion on the glassblowers. I just think it still feels healthy
Still feels healthy it
You know early
15 years ago. I was thinking gosh is the bottom going to drop out and there's way more glassblowers now and it just still doesn't seem
I mean shops are hitting me up all the time that I have to say no to so they must be hungry
for more
Product I just think that we're just living in a really blessed golden golden age of those expansion rates being different
And different states opening up to
You know to wreck to recreational markets it definitely changes has been changing the game for a lot of people
And I think it's opened up a lot of the ability for you know bigger
conventions
Your champs trade shows are in different states now and they're just not in vegas. So
And speaking of kind of apprentices and the next wave of apprentices, uh, brad, do you see that one kind of like
Bringing people in who want to learn the craft. Uh, let me make that bigger
There we go
Oh beginner can get the experience
Yeah, absolutely. Um, i'm sure this paradigm goes across the country
but um, we offer like a beginning crash course here at illuminated glass and um,
Katie teaches the beginner classes you come on in and get a lesson from katie. We do a small flat fee
It's like between 150 and 200 bucks and you get
Three hours of uh hands-on training. I think katie you want to describe what you do
Yeah, um
So the first thing that we do in like your very first class is we just learn how to make um,
mushroom marbles like little clear
Uh marbles that have like little mushrooms in them. Um
we spend usually the first like
Could be anywhere from like 20 to 30 minutes of class. Just the student learning what it feels like
To see and feel that glass go from a solid to a liquid and just kind of learn how to wipe
Some glass away and take it off into your tank jar
I'm sure you guys could hear and see me doing that while I was making that show on um
Since that's you know a really important skill to have you always are going to use wiping to get from point a to point b
You know, um, and you know, we try not to overload them in the first class
so the first class is just uh mushroom marbles and depending on how
Fast someone picks it up. They might leave with only one or they might leave with with five. Um
but yeah, uh
Thank you. It's like three hours and uh
If they're really killing it, you know, sometimes you get someone in there and they just like get it, you know
Uh, then we might learn like some laticino cane which is like a solid piece of glass with a little like ribbon
Going through it if they're like really
You know, I can tell that they they got the mushroom marble down and like sometimes
We'll throw that second lesson in there
But for the most part it's enough for people just to come in
And try a marble and that that can usually tell them whether or not this is for them or not
you know
It's fun though, I like to see people get excited, you know
Oh, oh so but I but I do want to say
To that
You don't have to pick it up naturally
To get it
I've i've seen people also get there through just perseverance that maybe didn't that it wasn't natural for them on day one
So just just you know, we'll push those along that get it naturally, but don't be discouraged if it doesn't
Come to you naturally i've seen people get really good that just couldn't get it the first week. So
Where was katie on that spectrum
Was she a natural
I I have a hard time remembering the beginning. I don't remember either
Yeah, I made some light. I mean, I don't know like I think a few uh,
Quite a few times i'd have to grab the piece out of her hands and be like like, uh, you know, not like that
But but that was just part of the apprenticeship I I give her a much harder
I hold her to a higher standard than the rest of the kids that are in the shop
Yeah, I um, I cried a lot. I don't know like
She'll be like showing me and i'll be like well if you like it, you know
Brad check this out. What do you think and he'd be like, well, you know, and it would be wonky like, you know
In in his defense it wasn't like he was shitting on me
It was bad, but I was still proud and i'd be like check this out. He'd be like, yeah, you like it and then i'd be like
Oh
And then i'd have to go fix it
Uh
Yeah, it's a little different level with apprenticeships I think mostly the other students that
Kind of learned by osmosis by being in the shop. I I just try to be straight encouraging
but uh, you know katie, I didn't give her an extra hard time because I knew she was gonna
You know
She'd end up promoting, you know
the better she is that the more it was going to promote my way of teaching and I knew she was gonna
you know, like I hang my hat sometimes on the fact that I learned at bobs and
I knew that was just kind of going to go on down the line. And so I just wanted to make sure she she really got
full
You know 100 that I had. It's not like you were like me or anything
No, of course not like you'd always be like i'm so i'm so sorry but like
Do you want me to do you want me to say this or not? And I was like fucking say it
Tell me what it means like i'm not trying to have anything sugar-coated like I need to hear this, you know
Which I didn't get at at bobs that that wasn't his style of teaching. It was never a critique
You know, he would say when you did good like a good good job
but it was more like bringing your finished pipe in later to to his wife marie to
She would uh, like grab the piece
Out of the case it kind of like look
Look away and like let her fingers run over it like feeling the bowl feeling the stem feeling the welds and she'd be like, oh
You know a little bit wrinkly in the bowl
Maybe I could feel the edge of your carb and she'd kind of give it the physical
One over before looking at it and then they would price it by putting these
rubber bands on it like a yellow rubber band that might have meant ten dollars and then
Adding a red rubber band onto the stem might have been another increment of money or whatever
And so i'd let her price it and then that was the only kind of feedback that I got
Because bob was more like if you want to understand just keep keep watching
And uh, which is great. I love that way, but I think i'm a little more verbal maybe just because I can't stop talking but
Same it's a little more of a verbal communication over here at this shop
so here's a
Material question greg. Greg lives in hawaii where you have the black
Lava rock so kind of different materials you could use
Is that?
I would think
Not pipe. Well, I mean you could add I mean
It would have to be refined. I think there was a lot of I mean
Lava rocks got the salt and granite and all that stuff besides the silicate so you you could maybe
Extract silicate out of there. I don't know. Maybe another chemist would would know but I think that would be a long arduous process
it's not like um
Finding actual volcanic glass, which is obsidian
And then that that could be worked perhaps
But not like pipe glass again. It doesn't have the bore on it
Oh carved it like a stone
You can take this glass peter there's a glass called moldavite you can look it up
M o l d
Iva moldavite that came from a
Asteroid and it hit in russia
And it still has the texture of the impact on it. And that is the same
Just happens to be almost the same coefficient as the borosilicate so you can actually add outer space glass into this glass
That stuff's really cool
And then here I don't know if there was an auto correct, uh auto correct on this
But what was the technical name for the glass you can I don't know bad or bend or blow?
blow
With versus the glass you can only use for low temp pipes. Has that been covered?
How can a consumer sell?
So yeah, so soft glass pipes
um
Are mostly for show that you can use them two or three times and then they might start cracking around the bowl hole because it's
Made out of soda lime glass, which is the same
stuff that's you know, your
food jar and you're drinking glass and
and stuff it
I don't see a lot of that out there on the on the market because it costs a lot to run those shots
Dab was the word not bad
Oh, so so he's talking about quartz then
Oh, oh he's talking about high heat glass I thought he said low heat glass
The high heat glass is quartz. Yeah, that's uh crystal
Yeah, you need a fucking hot torch to build quartz, yeah, yeah that's that's that's stiffer than what we are working
Iron silica and titanium, right? Right, right. Oh, that makes sense
Yeah, a lot of the colors we get are oxides. So maybe we could get you might be able to get a
Some kind of colored glass out of that I don't know enough about the chemistry
But yeah, the the colors are very similar to glazes
you know, you're going to get your rusts off of the
Different colors the way they break down. So iron oxide or titanium oxide titanium would be white just like in a paint you would get
From oil paints. So there's a thread that runs through pigments glazes glass
with the metal oxides
And then chad is bringing the heat with the questions he has not one but two questions
All right. So I think this gets to like you guys are selling direct
Instagram's a great tool for that
But then just developing relationships with shops and sorry i'm yelling but I can uh, actually no, no, that's that's
That's great. Peter and uh chad the um
Just call and make an appointment and take your glass in those buyers
Like I said right now, I think they're all hungry for a product
so, um call your local shop everyone should
Again, I don't want to speak for everyone but support your local shops
Yeah, I mean take your stuff down there those people want they'll help get your name out there and
And most of those people are really knowledgeable buyers and yeah, let's support those
You know, I mean before it's before social media. It was only the shops keeping us
Alive, so I think it's important to
You know pay respects and and help the shops out as well
Yep, yep, don't forget about them
Yeah, definitely
And they're willing they're willing they want to see your stuff call and call and ask for the buyer
be polite and on time and
take a good case of stuff down and
Be prepared
And be flexible
Be flexible, but be prepared when you when you open your case and they say hey, what do you want for that?
Don't go. Um, I don't know
Like just have just have a price point and they'll tell you if that's too much or not
And have a price point and then have a contingency plan
So if they if they say no to your price point, no, know how far back you can go before you're like, oh
That's just not worth my money
but uh, yeah, just you know be on time and
And you know just like any relationship you want to
You're going to get out what you put in
But yeah, that's important. Yeah, do you guys live by this motto?
Yeah, that's awesome
Yeah, unfortunately, yeah my my family will tell you unfortunately
It's addictive
Yeah, it's a long road until you run out of gas
So, why don't why don't we uh, kind of home stretch it absolutely is uh,
Katie where are we on the uh on the torch? Are we done? Oh, um, I mean the chillin was done
I can take it off. My phone was about to die. So ah you're charging i'm in the front room of our studio
Charging, yeah, she's chilling
Like can people walk in and buy stuff like oh like you guys make last cool like they they do
Yeah
They they do. I mean, we don't really advertise it like that. Um
You know, we don't I if you go to the shops you pay the sales tax
And that's important on the on retail and if you go through
Online then they're you know, they're paying the paypal fees and stuff like that. I think that's a really important thing
Online then they're you know, they're paying the paypal fees and stuff like that. I think
Uh, I just want to make sure that that's not our main mode of business. I'm not trying to you know, loop the the tax loophole
but um
Yeah, it's more of a I think because there's other other artists here that it's a little distracting to have customers coming in all the
time so it's it's
More just i'd rather you get a hold of me on on instagram
but
if you're a local if you're a local and you've been by before before then
You know come on down I guess
And actually an important question is you guys are the next state over from oklahoma which is like
the mecca of weed right like of sensible
You know everybody from california who grows is moving to oklahoma, but I don't think kansas
Is on the same path. So can you just quickly touch on?
On
Kansas we were the last state we were the last state I think to
legalize alcohol
So I think 17 years after prohibition ended kansas was still a dry state
I may have my number wrong, but it was more than 10 years
So if that goes to show anything, you know, we might be the last deaf and state to
To cross the line. Yeah, so, you know why oklahoma's close
God, I hope it changes peter. It's just been the hardest thing to I love kansas. I love living here
um
I can't move any further south because it's just too hot for me
And uh, but I love what they're doing down there. I so wish that that happens for kansas
And I hope we're feeling the pressure of colorado right there
Missouri at least having great medical card and caregiver opportunities right there
You know, it's really 40 minutes right there and it's it's legal
Excuse me, uh medical at least and with a with a really wide-ranging, uh,
Uh caregiver policy, so it's it's really close and like you said
oklahoma down south
So I we're beset on all sides and I feel if the kansas legislature
Just wakes up to the amount of money that's bleeding out of here as people spend the money in other states that just they
Wisen up and realize we can pay for
You know the you know loop it back to education like colorado did let's fund some some really good programs with that
It's we're spending it anyway
You know, thank you. Yeah, that's all here think of the children
Oh god
But yeah, we're waiting with bated breath
but uh, you know, i'm not
Or most people are i'm not holding my breath because I just know how kansas is you can't even have a petition here
Uh, but petitions are not legally binding in kansas
So it doesn't matter how many signatures you get that just puts nothing on the ballot
That's the way ours. That's the way our state runs and that's an unfortunate thing that a lot of people don't understand
So voters can't push something onto a ballot
No, you have to directly have a uh representative bring something up for you. Yeah
Yep, there's just no way with citizens have the least amount of uh,
Of power here
And of all these socially conservative reps, is there a less socially conservative rep? Uh,
Um, I don't in the assembly or I know i'm hoping I don't i'm not intimate with everybody that's doing it because i've given up already
Yeah
But that keeps us so renegade we might be the last outlaw glassblowers in the nation then at that point too
Cow kansas needs the devil's lettuce. Yeah, absolutely
Oh boy, yeah, you need uh, you need to get a super pack together
Yeah, hey, I you know, we need people that are more organized and have done it before to come here and help us do this
thing
And I really this is a cry out somebody god, please help us
but um
But yeah, i'm waiting. It'll be nice
Yeah, uh
Maybe there's a stoner in the chat who's currently sitting on their couch eating doritos who will get up off that couch and
Come to kansas and make shit happen
Absolutely, absolutely, but then that explosion will be really great and that'll be that'll be super fun and i'm looking forward to it
Hopefully i'm i'm not in my 60s when that happens
Yeah, you laugh you laugh but it could be true
But but again in the 90s, I thought for sure it would never even happen at all so
You know here we are, you know, I would have never looked forward to this. It was zero tolerance one seat at jail
And oklahoma where it's so awesome now was one seat at jail and they really looked for that seat. I mean if they pulled you over
You're gonna get the get put through the ringer oklahoma was the worst state to drive through
I've always avoided the panhandle trying to get to
You know, you know, I
Texas or whatnot, so
There's hope it's only a matter of time
So katie are any of those, uh, chillins done that you can yeah, let's see that one up
Let's see that puppy like how long do they stay in the product?
You can oh, did you finish it take it off the glows even put it in?
I'll pull it pull it out then they can at least see the finished thing
It's warm. So the colors will be a little dull
but uh
Here she goes so the colors become more vibrant as they uh cool down
Absolutely 100. Oh, this is so much more vibrant. We got the in studio audience
Yes
Well, here let me go to all right katie. We are now live with the kitty mic
This is the quiet mic
All right, she can't hear us though
So where did my movement is like reversed in this camera
Hold the other ear plug up which I think has your mic on it
Whoops there we go
All my movement is reversed on this camera so I keep accidentally taking it out of the camera
I wish you could see that
better
but
And the colors will get more vibrant, um when it cools down at least the greens will like right now they look very like mossy
like almost like
Army green color, but when they cool down
It'll be like here's some of the tubing cooled down
The green will be like much
brighter
than
What it looks like right now
Yeah
That's awesome people are people are approving in the chat of uh
And see when brad said, uh glass has memory
That line work shows that you know, every movement every twist everything she did to it when she put it back in
It's all still there showing
You know that memory that movement in the glass and stuff. That's what I love about line work, too
Uh, what hold on brad, all right go for it
Go for it brad, I said just I was saying thank you to lobster bush
bro, seriously some of my
Affordable
She says what does that even mean like I don't know I feel like that's relative to however
Much money someone makes. Yes
What hold on brad hold on wait back to the brad mic
i've been watching
i've been watching uh
Let's see one second. I've been watching katie from the beginning and as her prices
have increased along with the quality of her work and
For the amount of time that she puts we're basically still katie and I still basically charging by the hour and I think peter we had
Mentioned this during our mic check one with daguerre
um
That we're still basically charging by the hour. So if you're interested in that amount of detail
Um, there's no hype price that's been added on to our our stuff
We're really just make it twenty dollars an hour still trying to just get it done
so I think yes, and that for what you get it is still affordable if you just if you want to
You know if you can only spend this sixty dollars on something you maybe might not be able to
To get one but I mean if you're willing to to start at a hundred dollars
And move forward I think you're getting a real good bang for your buck as as far as her glass goes and
Yeah, I think they're really affordable. In fact, I sometimes I prod her to up her prices
But don't do that before you send me those chillums
Yeah, yeah, absolutely you're locked in yeah, she said yeah
Excellent
Thanks again. Yeah. Hey, this has been really nice. Thank thank you guys for uh,
This has been really nice. I want to thank you guys both for for doing this and I hope um
We could do more glass episodes. I'd love to review other people's
Stuff I get so inspired. I want to hear what the because I like exactly
I think the concept is to get a bunch of guys like you
Bringing people on and just learn like having them tell their stories
It's like tag it forward like who's next like one of the people you guys mentioned like let's bring them on and
you know you have kind of thematically like I think you talked about the snodgrass school because there's like
something around them right now the 50th anniversary, but
Then like going in the the giovanni direction of like here's here's a total here's someone not even doing
You know pipes and bongs. They're doing
Some other type of glass and they've never
Made a pipe in their life. I don't know but what?
um peter i'd be i'd be katie and I would be remiss to not mention the other owner of this shop and my
My partner ben capin. He's a wonderful sculptor and taught me how to blow
Soft glass and I wonder maybe could take one second and pull up his his page. Yeah. What is it?
ben capin k-a-p-p-e-n
I see him followed by
And then katie's got a piece of his there. He just finished look at this sherlock
So yeah, he's he works both disciplines. He works both the soft glass
And the borosilicate you can see that in a lot of his work. There's he does traditional shapes and and he also sculpts
Just effortlessly sculpts i've been trying to get get him to sign up for that netflix show that blown away show that mike shelba was on
So if there's some kind of
Forum or something maybe we could all prod ben to uh to to sign up for for blown away. Oh, yeah, here we go
so you can see in some of these the sculpting going on and
yeah
And he's just really good with the
Torch and atmosphere and getting the colors to strike just the just right and
All this homemade tubing. None of it's really. Um
Yeah, so some of this double layer tubing that you see will be
one or two colors on top of a
Third one and and where a lot of people buy their store-bought, you know transition colors like this. He's he's uh, doing it all himself
Oh, yeah, I really like that piece. Yeah
Is this like the couples pipe like you're doing it all by yourself?
Yeah, I think it's like the couples pipe. Yeah, I think it's like the
Is this like the couples pipe like you can smoke it at the same time? It looks like it doesn't it? Yeah
Fight for that hit
It's like the uh, the double toilet in the bathroom so you can you can drop juices together
Anyway, yeah the piece pipe motif and then he's he does a lot of sculpting and and uh,
Also, like I said, it's really good. Uh soft glass and he taught me how to uh
Blow soft glass i'll be a forever indebted to
There we go. Thanks. I appreciate you bringing that up
Is there an insurance like if someone has an expensive collection of glass pipes?
I I'm, pretty sure people insure their higher end pipes. Yeah, I bet I bet they do if you bought a
you know, if you've spent 10 racks on something you might want to put it in a hard case and get an appraiser and
I mean, you know what you paid for it. You want to insure it for that much?
Yeah, I insure them when I send them in the mail
I insure them for full value when they go off in the mail. So
Yep. Yes. And a while ago someone asked like if you guys are direct ship, you know drop shipping to people
What percentage of your pieces break?
I have never had a pipe break in the mail ever
Ever
Yep, and that's 20 20 some years of sending it in the mail and uh, yeah, you just um,
Wrap it really good and make sure that doesn't move around in the box anyone that's listening
It's the main thing is shifting in the box
I'm, thinking like the like katie you had those pieces with the super long necks and i'm just like whoa
You could drop kick you could drop kick the box after she packs it and it would not break
Yeah
I'm a very anxious person. So I make sure that
That is wrapped up damn. Well, hella packing peanuts
hella bubble wrap and
Knock on wood ain't had one arrived broken yet. So
What hold on brad, all right go again when I insure them i'm mostly insuring against theft
It's not for the breakage because they've never broken
It's uh, i've only had one package ever even go go missing
But I was glad that I had the insurance when it did
And so I continue to do so
All right. All right. Thank you. Got it. Yeah. All right box two. You can double box. That's always a good one
Well with that, uh, I spent significant hours sitting on an uncomfortable stool stool on a hot garage today so, uh
I'm gonna go outside maybe
Thank you guys so much
Thanks guys. And yeah, well, but essentially let's like I do want to get this going and have a recurring
Yeah, uh peter i'll i'll just uh email you like and maybe like a short short list of people we can both reach out to
And see and then how how you two
Let's get yeah i've been trying people just it's just people with their time
You know and finding the right time but there are definitely a lot of people interested. Yeah, that's awesome
Well, just we just have to link up with them at the right time. So well, we're we're at your service at any time
So you guys just let us know
Okay
Yeah, I will end it with a happy comment from mr. Chad westport great artistry everyone
Thank you for sharing your work
Yeah
We will call it
Thanks everyone. Thank you. Thank you
Thanks everyone. Thank you guys
