Hello everybody, hope you're all doing well today. We have a breeder's round
table so we should have a fun one. Hey Doc, how's it going?
Market Hall, where the flower market hall is, where all the, you know, where all the home,
excuse me, where all the mom and pop cultivators, the bulk of them, were at,
man. So I spent a lot of time over there at the Humboldt County neighborhood,
Mendocino, hung out with those folks. And it's cool, man. You know, as bad, as
brutal as the year has been for a lot of us, to see community come together on
all levels and really to get to see a lot of my friends, brothers and sisters
that I don't get to see real often, to get to go hug their necks and smoke
flour with them and, you know, share and see and experience. It's really, really
cool and a real epiphany for me yesterday of how far this thing has
come, London. It kind of, you know, good and bad, all sides of it, was I was
standing there and I'm literally smoking a joint with Sergio's partner Marco and
on one side of me, plants, clones are being sold, and on the other side of me,
seeds are being cloned and me and that scientist are smoking weed together. You
got an outlaw with a real scientist smoking weed together and clones and
seeds being sold and it's all freaking legal, man. And it was cool, man. I mean,
that's the part that I dug out of it more than anything. So anyway, man, it was a
cool event. It was a brutally wet day for everybody yesterday. It literally just
rained all damn day. The bulk of the events were outside, a lot of the venue
was outside. So you were subjected to the cold, wet wind. The music was thumping. The
food was really freaking good. The stuff that I had in the fire was, well, of
course, what it is. It's Northern California fire, so it's all fires. Anyway,
cool day, brother. Cool day. It's good to hear you had a good day there, Doc. Yeah,
it's definitely, it's interesting to hear your perspective. Did you, were you
there on Saturday by chance? I didn't get to get down on Saturday. I wish I
had. It's a hike, man. It's five hours or five and a half hours to get down to the
event from where I'm at. I rolled down with my nursery partner and he drove the
whole way, which was cool because Hendricks is young. He got us down there
and got us back. It's changed a lot. There's so much security and so much
getting through it to get into it where back in the day, over 20 years ago, but
back in the day in the late, in the eighties and the nineties, this event was
a private event and it was held outside, outside mother nature and stuff. And
there wasn't, you know, 10,000 people there. It was just a bunch of breeders
and growers and stuff. And it's like where it's moved to now to see it and
the amount of security and the whole nine yards to get into it. It's, you
know, it's a little daunting for the average human being. If you're not
prepared to deal with that kind of stuff, it's a little daunting. But on the
high side, I'm standing on a conference right now. Can you touch this in for me?
I stand next door to a, you know, are standing outside with my buddy and
we're smoking a joint. I'm literally, we got a cop standing next to me, man,
you know, and just talking to him and he looks at me, goes, man, that smells
good. You know, it's like, Hey man, you want something on? I'm just laughing
about where it's all come to. But I'm, you know, I'm an old man and I'm a
probably not be the guy's dad, man, which is okay. It's just, it's standing
there next to him while he's in uniform smoking a fatty with a buddy of mine
and having a conversation with him again. Another moment in time has
changed where 20 years ago, you know, we'd have been in a fistfight or he'd
been trying to put handcuffs on, you know, which is, it's just cool to see
how it's kind of come brother. Just kind of cool to see how it's come full
circle. So anyway,
did you happen to see any of the shit that went down on Saturday?
I didn't Trevor. I wasn't there Saturday. I'm not sure what happened
on Saturday.
This would be more like on the gram, um, on Instagram, but yeah, no. Uh, so I
got stopped on my way in. Uh, well not really on my way in. Like I pulled up,
um, with significantly less cannabis than I used to roll into the, uh, event
with and myself, Edgar ghost, a whole number of cats, uh, the ranch, um, uh,
Pacific Northwest roots, Kaya, a whole bam, a whole bunch of us all kind of
like walked in, got in around the same time, converged in the same spot and
just were like hanging out and everybody was giving hugs saying, Hey, showing
each other what we're doing. And, uh, I, I opened up, well, asked to look at,
uh, a bag of some of the Panama red crosses that he had made that I had
hooked him up with some of the seeds on it. And so like, I was just showing him
some herb I had grown from seeds that he had given me. Um, he was looking at the
Finos. I was telling him and describing them the difference in each different
one of them and like what had happened over the growth season. And I wasn't
like giving him any of the herb or like he wasn't taking any of it. He was just
like going through each one and looking at each nug and a, uh, department of
cannabis control officer showed up officer white flashed his badge and
demanded that I throw my entire box of head stash medical cannabis, um, into
his trash bag and that if I refuse to do so, I would have to go and like talk to
the cops or something. And so, yeah, we, we argued for a long time and they lost
eventually, but it definitely, so like, I, like, I agree with you, we've come
incredibly far and the openness and people smoking and the different, like
being able to like get together and have different sort of like people with
different backgrounds is like definitely unique and different and cool. But fuck
if it didn't just kill the vibe on Saturday.
And wow, bro, dude. And honestly, Trevor, I walked up and I saw all the signs on
the buildings, you know, put your joint out here. Don't smoke inside. But by
three o'clock yesterday afternoon, man, everybody was blazing in the fucking
buildings. It was just like a coming out of a fricking Cypress hill concert, man.
The smoke was down to the middle of the room and a couple of the buildings, you
know what I mean? So from what you guys didn't do it on Saturday to where the
fucking thing in, when we rolled out of there at seven o'clock or seven 30 last
night, man, it was full on blaze last night. And I spoke with that cop standing
outside. He didn't say shit to me. He just stood there with me and laugh and
talk while I smoked next to him for 10 minutes, you know, and just that's a
bummer though, bro. That'd piss me the fuck off, man. You handled yourself better
than I would have, sir. I applaud you for your being able to try and talk some
sense into that idiot. But anyway, man.
Yeah, it was crazy, but it was literally the weird thing is, is that like it was
13 or more, uh, department of cannabis control officers, including, and this is
the part that people like should definitely know and sort of like
understand the final boss lady that I had to deal with was Tabitha Chavez. And,
um, I had like, when I was interacting with her, I kept on being like, damn,
this person looks very familiar. Why do I like know this face? And, but I was
also like dealing with a whole bunch of fucking crazy ass cops who were, or, you
know, wannabe cops telling me that I had to throw away my herb. And so I was a
little distracted, but, um, eventually, um, the next morning I like put two and
two together and realized who she was. She is literally the number one head
enforcement officer in CDFA. She is the chief of the enforcement division for the
entire state of California. And she was personally on site overseeing enforcement
at the Emerald cup, just to send a message to everyone there. And I think that
message was one first and foremost, to all the people who are going there and
having a good time. Fuck you were in charge. You're going to follow our rules
now. And two to the event coordinators who, you know, we're trying to make a
message of the event about saving small farms and their message to the event
coordinators were fuck you. We're going to come down with the hardest enforcement
that we can possibly come. We'll have the top enforcement agent personally
overseeing enforcement, cracking down on people and being a shithead. That's,
that's what the DCC decided to do with the ego or the Emerald cups this, this
fucking, uh, year. And it sucks. And yeah. And also just real quick, uh,
because I mentioned the ego clash, total different vibe, a hundred percent inverse
invite only not a commercial event, people coming together and doing what
we've done forever. Just great. And I want to like, you know, put them
rather what the Emerald used to be, man. Now the, the ego, at least the ego
clash is honest by the title, man. You know what I mean? And that's exactly what
this event was. It was, was a by invitation only.
I got a question. I haven't been there since 2015. Um, but do you, I mean, is
there even a medicating area like for medical patients or is it since 64 past?
It's just legal smoke wherever. Like, cause I remember, you know, you used to
have your medical card, you have to get in, uh, have your medical card seen to
get into like pretty much the main event. Um, so how, how was it kind of that
aspect?
Uh, that's changed. So now you can just 21 and over, like you just get to come
and, um, there's not a like specific like space. And so part of that is kind
of a problem because instead of having a clearly defined, like, okay, here's
your safe zone where you can go and do classic medical shit. Um, because like
the issue there is as a California patient, I'm allowed to have more than
an ounce at a single time. So there were vendors that were specifically
telling people to get their recs and to buy medical because they would be able
to exceed the one ounce limit. And unfortunately there wasn't like a clear
formalized delineation of what was medical and what wasn't medical. And the,
the feeling of the, um, the fucking DCC was if you add more than an ounce,
that's not personal. And they were going to try and confiscate it. And like,
they took away people's like, um, Pacific cultivators had his personal,
um, prop two 15 compliant medical grow that he had just on display just to show
people like, Hey, you can grow a medical. The first day they asked him to take it
down. He refused the second day they came back. And basically from what I got
gathered from the post that he made, they threatened to take his license and
give him like real DCC penalties simply for displaying two 15 herb and not, not
exchanging it. Just showing, saying like, here's two 15 herb that I grew on my two
15 compliant garden on my property. And like, they want to erase the history and
the memory of two 15 and what we did and where we came from and give us this new
thing in replace of it. And so that really, really sucks.
Hey, check it out. I was there and, uh, you know, I was one talking shit, but,
uh, but, uh, at the end of the day, I, you know, I own two legal farms, you know,
I come from the shit and I own two legal farms, no investors. I made a deal with my
boys. You helped me build out the first one. I'll get you. I'll get you guys your
own farm. And that's what I did. And, uh, at the end of the day, I've been in these
guys' boardrooms. I've talked to them. These motherfuckers basically will, you
know, have said they have to make all the old names disappear in order for them to
succeed. And that's the bottom line. And what they're doing is using their, they're
using, cause you know, just like us, you know, we're a small group, uh, we're a small
group here. You know, they're a small group of rich cats. They're using each other's
resources all throughout the country, sharing each other's resources. What we need to
do as stoner owners, if we want to stay in the game, I'm, I'm in the game. I'm still
fighting for everybody from the inside and everybody that knows me knows that, you know,
um, what everybody in our world needs to do is, you know, check the fucking egos and get
to working together and sharing our fucking resources and keeping it from them. And at
the end of the day, legal weed's going to push, no matter what, it's going to move.
It's going forward. It's going to keep getting bigger and more, more guys from the
shit are going to keep getting X'd out unless everybody learns and figures out if we
don't share resources and help each other, like they're doing with each other, it's
going to be 90% their game, 10% our game. And that's the bottom line. And I'm rooted in
this shit right now. Deep inside. I know all of them. I know all their little bullshit.
They got a 10 year plan. Their 10 year plan is coming to fruition pretty soon. You know,
at that 10 year plan is when they want all legacy growers out of the industry. You know
what I mean? That's their, that's their goal. That's, that's their thing. You know, just,
just like Walmart did. Walmart moves to a small town. They, their first goal is bankrupt
every fucking business in that town, then raise the prices when they're all gone. So
unless, unless real stoner owners start working together and trying to help each other
and elevate each other, it is going to die. I'm telling you that right now, it's going to
fucking die. Now the ego clash was a class fucking act. I give it out to Brandon and the
third gen farm. Good fucking show that I don't go to many of these things. And that's
probably one of the best ones I've ever been to as far as quality and just performance
and the South smooth. It was going. But other than that, you know, I just want to give my,
my two cents and fuck the police over there. You already know that, you know, how I feel
about that. So, um, y'all have a good night. I got to cut out, out of here. I got to go a
couple of meetings, but uh, yeah, fuck the police, fuck these corporate cats and share
resources and rep each other. You know what I'm saying? And carve out our own lane or
else these guys are going to carve out 90% of the lane and leave us a fucking curbside to
stand on. Y'all have a good night. Thanks for holding it down.
G peace.
Word, man. Thank you. Thank you for saying everything you just said on point.
Yeah. Big up goes, Hey everybody. This is a, this is chemo. I was one of the lead
organizers for a ego clash and a super proud of the event that we all put together there
on the, on the vineyard and uh, you know, been getting a lot of praise. So I appreciate
that ghost. Um, we digitized the judging system this year. So everybody voted on a
phone or iPad and probably had one of the most, the most accurate and fair hash
competition, uh, ever, ever, ever had. And it was very down home on the, uh, vineyard
there. So hope everybody enjoyed it just as much as we did.
What was that?
Oh, ego was a blast, man. That was, that was dope. Thanks for putting that together with
Brandon gangster.
Right on Edgar. And uh, I'm glad they didn't take you, take you guys a weed at the, uh,
cup. When I seen that video, I was pissed.
Yeah. I'm glad they didn't take Trevor's weed, especially after they showing my dumb
ass. That would have made me feel real fucking bad.
But yeah, no, I definitely, I wanted to comment on the Emerald cup without bashing it.
You know, like, uh, as we all know, the Emerald cup is not what, you know, the two 15
era, you know, when I was getting there and I was getting the lay lay of, uh, you know,
where everything was and I got to the back where the, where, you know, the, the other
stage and art was, and I saw all those empty paddocks, uh, you know, cattle paddocks in
the back that we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were, we were
paddocks in the back that we used to have slammed full of two 15, uh, brands and
organizations. And it was just kind of a physical representation of, you know, who's not
at the, at the table that was represented there.
You know, it was great.
It was a, you know, it's like a reunion and seeing all kinds of people that, you know,
you only see maybe once or twice a year and stay up on social media.
So the, the reunion party was, is good.
But my synopsis is that it was kind of like all the flowers and Emerald cup had a baby
and, uh, you know, and that's, that's what, that's what we have left.
And I'm grateful that it was there as an event that, but, uh, you know, the, the
politics and, uh, I get a lot of criticism cause I have alcohol at my private industry
events yet there's, you know, large beer gardens.
And, uh, I thought it was also interesting that you couldn't pay cash for alcohol, but
you can pay cash for, for weed.
And, uh, the fact that both in one spot, you know, just shows when you have a lot of
Canadian money, you can pretty much do whatever you want at an event.
Yeah, no, I definitely want to echo some of that.
Like I don't, I'm not trying to throw shade at the Emerald cup and I really do
appreciate the, um, opportunity to meet up with old homies.
Like it was great seeing like, you know, the fact that we all converged in that
moment and we're all just doing what we've always instinctively sort of just done when
we come to these events felt great.
Um, and then it was just a wake up call of how, how much things have changed.
And, uh, you know, that's, that's just the reality that we're living in now.
And I think that Emerald cup was as much a target of all of this as, um, you know, I
was, um, they were trying to fuck with all of us, the people who come together and
like to share and show each other our homegrown, but they were also trying to fuck
with the cup and make it so that these events aren't any fun to go to.
I mean, uh, I kind of felt like a low class citizen, but, uh, I got, you know, I
got wind that they weren't just doing it to, you know, us and Trev, you know, this
quote unquote small guys, they were doing it to people like Chris compound.
I got wind of that.
They had Chris literally throw a bag of a pound of weeds, throw it away.
And you know, Chris, he's kind of like, he has a, you know, Parkinson's or
something to my knowledge.
He's a little shaky.
You know, he's already, you can see the man is already, you know, having a hard
time and they're giving him a even harder time having them dispose of his medicine.
And it was just a, it was a shit show to say the least, but we don't let that ruin
the fun.
We still got hella baked and, you know, parlayed with whoever we did.
And it was a blast.
Ego clash was dope.
Super gangster, just like last time.
Uh, shout out Brandon.
That was cool.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
And the, um, what you were mentioning earlier, Kimo about like, you know, there
was a visual representation in the sparsity of the booths.
That was a bit of the bummer, you know, I'll probably be down in LA when the, the
actual, um, cup of happens, you know, later.
Well next year, but that, yeah, like it'll be interesting to see how many booths come
and whether or not the whole, all the seed breeders come out again, because that was
the thing that I noticed the most was there was about five, maybe six breeders
that, that I noticed just walking through.
Um, they had all the lines, but it was, it was definitely different from the years
where it used to be the event to come to, to get together and everybody dropped all
their lines, like 15, 16, 17 were some really, really special years.
You're kind of jarred.
Hey, Lucas, you're kind of breaking up, man.
Um, maybe, uh, I know you drive a lot of the times when we first start.
Um, but if you get into a better spot.
So yeah, um, I'll real quickly just reset the room.
Um, we've, uh, yeah, we're doing a recap on the ego clash and the Emerald cup.
Um, Peter is in transit, uh, driving back down to LA from the, uh, Emerald cup
weekend festivities and, um, yeah, for anybody who hasn't followed me or looked
looked at Instagram, um, there was a really heavy law, uh, not law enforcement
there, their state agents, but they're actually a department of cannabis
control enforcement agents were heavily enforcing the Emerald cup and we're
stopping people from sharing, showing, or basically engaging in non-commercial.
Uh, friendship and they had to put an end to that.
So, uh, that was, that was kind of lame.
Um, the ego clash was really great.
The Swedes seed swaggle.
Um, lots of people were there trading genetics.
Uh, yeah, that, that was really cool.
I made it really, really late to the seed swaggle, probably like basically
by the time things were closing down, but it was good to see flying lion research.
He's got a lot of really dope gear out there.
Um, Mace was there, a whole bunch of cats were there.
And so it was, it was good to see that there are still events and opportunities
for us to come together and do things as we used to do them.
I just wish I had more time and had, had focused all my energy to
making it to the clash on Friday.
I want to know what I got to do to get one of them blue weed hats.
Those knuckleheads are wearing Trevor.
What do we got to do?
Get one of those hats.
Those guys are wearing, uh, we can get you a nice, we need your last name.
So we can embroider it on the back apparently.
And, uh, we'll, we'll get you hooked up.
I'm looking at it, but they're all spiffy.
They all matched up.
They had dirt.
Like I got all the little blue hats and they're matching green jackets and shit.
It's like, man, a bunch of tough fucking people.
Man.
Like I love it.
But that post of yours, Trevor, I'm sorry.
I popped that post of yours, Trevor, in the top there.
If anybody wants to go check that out to see the video, it's pretty, pretty.
Yeah.
And so on my Instagram, there's definitely, there's a bunch of dumb
memes, but there's also like some good documentation of what happened and,
you know, shout out to Masonic shout out to, uh, Bollywood BAM.
And, uh, you know, what's good.
Like those cats, the whole group, everybody started immediately
documenting filming and like, you know how it is, everybody pulled out
their cameras and started recording.
And the whole crew stayed with me throughout the whole time.
And even when they like, cause they do these like weird cop things
and they tried to like isolate me.
The homie stayed close and yeah.
It's just, it's one of those things where I largely, because I had a group
of people and because I was not worried about dealing with Santa Rosa
cops over some cannabis, I was able to call their bluff, but like they just
flexed on an intimidated a whole bunch of other cats and convinced them to
throw their shit in the bag when, you know, like flexing on compound
Chris is completely fucked up.
The fact that we've got patients, medical patients with 100% valid,
legitimate medical reasons to have as much cannabis as they want to have on
them in the state of California are being forced to throw their cannabis
into a bag or have to deal with cops is fucking bullshit.
Like I, I had the pleasure of meeting Chris and the idea that a fucking
government official is going to go and fuck with him at that event in that way.
Is literally everything we fought to stop.
Hey guys, it'd be okay if I chimed in for a moment.
Yes.
Yes.
Welcome.
Um, thank you for, for hopping up.
No, I appreciate it.
Uh, my name is John.
I'm a, obviously a cops for cannabis.
I've, uh, I'm currently a law enforcement officer, uh, done
several years in SWAT, done military and not a single moment in my life.
Have I not spent advocating, uh, at least in a positive light
speaking wise, uh, about cannabis.
Um, you know, when, when it comes to enforcement, uh, never, never been okay
with that level of enforcement when I got on the job in, uh, 2005, obviously
it was still illegal in New York and it was just something that wasn't
comfortable enforcing, uh, always engaged in conversation with, uh, fellow
coworkers and so on in regards to this.
And I really, I'm sorry, you experienced what you did.
I took a look at the videos that you, that you posted and I can say with some
level of certainty that they exactly what you said, they were these, these
people that want to be cops, uh, and not to say that this opinion isn't upheld
in the law enforcement community, legitimate cops who, who, who feel this
way, but this seems like people who just didn't make it and, and they have a
particular mindset that, uh, you know, taught a few handheld tactics wise, and
they approach these people and everything's about intimidation and, uh, and,
and, and, and getting their way.
But when it comes to, uh, what you guys were mentioning when it comes to, uh,
people sharing information and that needs to be done in this community, I think it,
uh, it's very important when it comes to something like this, that, uh, there is
an approach to trying to get, uh, law enforcement on this side and that's,
that's, that's what I'm trying to do.
Obviously I have a two prong approach that it's medicinal.
You have people who face these traumas, uh, on a regular basis when it comes to
first responders, firefighters, EMTs, paramedics, uh, cops, and there's a,
there's a practical, good medical use for this.
But the other aspect to it that even though these things, uh, the narrative
and, uh, you know, the stigma will take time to get people over it.
I feel, I feel it could be fast tracked if you get the law enforcement community
to understand that this shit is okay.
And one of the great ways to combosh people's, uh, negative narrative is that
it's within the law enforcement community.
You have advocacy.
You have people who can, uh, utilize and do utilize it and have healed from it.
And they have conversations in their locker rooms and so on.
And so that these people who have this wrong stigma go out to these events
that you guys are attending and they're having conversations with people.
I forget the gentleman who was before standing next to a cop smoking,
having a regular conversation.
We need more of that and less of what you're experiencing, Trevor.
I think a great way of doing that is building relationships with actual
solid law enforcement.
I don't have any experience with, um, uh, cannabis control boards.
We don't have that here in New York.
Uh, sounds like a very shitty entity, uh, to establish.
Um, but, uh, yeah, man, that's, that's, that's my take in regards to, uh, you
know, my opinion about who these people are, where they're actually coming from
and what needs to be done in regards to law enforcement.
Um, I don't, I don't take it personally.
Ghosts.
When you say fuck the police, bro.
I get it.
Uh, I, man, big deal, homie.
We've been playing cat and mouse for a long time, you know, all in fun.
Oh, good.
No, it's all good.
I get, I get people have, uh, to have their, their, their experiences
and I don't get in the way of that.
In Washington, they converted the liquor board into an enforcement
into an enforcement squad.
These, these boys carry guns.
Well, that's what they do when they have something that they want to enforce.
And the police department says, fuck you.
And in so many words, they're being used as a tool up here.
You know, my page is documented.
You know, everybody in the state knows they're coming to my farm every other week.
I got four farms across the street.
I asked them, Hey, how many times have these fucking guys come to your farm?
The dude looks at me and goes, I've been here five years.
I ain't never been here once.
I said, so they've been over two dozen times for my fucking farm and never once
leave and go across the street.
That's pretty fucking nice.
Yeah.
That's that's that's a typical tactic.
Growers out of the industry though is what's terrible about it.
And that's disgusting.
You know what I mean?
Yes.
I mean, I, I served my country.
I mean, I fought, you know, I was in the Navy, you know, I mean, I served my
country, right to be here shortages of assholes with money and legal weed.
That is a fact I'm knee deep in it.
And, you know, and I love legal weed, you know, because I, I
believe there's hope for it.
You know, and I believe we have to work with law enforcement at that, at that
point, you know, we have to work with businessmen, but you know, when I came
up, when, when, when, when I came out of the woods, I ain't seen more fucking
crooks than I've seen in legal weed.
I mean, the, the, the world has been built on dirty fucking businessmen and
lobbyists and politicians being paid.
And I'm seeing it because I, you know, I'm denying the offers, you know what I
mean?
So, you know, I mean, I know what the fuck's going down there.
I'm right in the middle of it and it's what it is.
And it's a terrible thing that, you know, they're using cops, you know, as, as, as,
you know, weapons against us, you know what I mean?
I mean, that's just what it is, you know, and, and they might not be cops, but the
liquor board here carries guns and can arrest you.
Yeah.
That's, that's, that's enough.
I mean, listen, the, the, the, the title is irrelevant at that point.
If they have the ability to take your freedoms away and they're tasked with it,
with an authoritative position and they're carrying guns and therefore have
half the power of God on the side of their hip.
Yeah.
That, that's, that's, that's definitely, you can call that cops.
You can call that law enforcement for sure.
They do have a, a manpower shortage at this point.
You know, they came to my farm so many times that we became friends, you know what
I mean?
You know, I mean, I mean, if I, if I was doing something wrong, I wouldn't be
talking shit, you know what I'm saying?
I'd be quiet as a mouse, like I've been my whole life.
But at this point I'm fully legal and, you know, and, and, and people need to know
what's what, what this industry is being built on.
And, and, you know, what's being done.
And like I said, they got a 10 year plan.
And if, if, if, if, if it's allowed to happen, you know, it's basically Walmart
week and every, you know, how many moonshiners you guys remember?
I mean, name them, start naming them.
You know what I'm saying?
There we go.
My uncle Bob.
I think that Washington was, was pretty unique too, because, uh, old, you know,
Jay was brave enough to, uh, to go back on, you know, the original legislation
essentially, and it kind of shows like how crooked, um, I wouldn't say how
crooked, but like how maybe capitalistic, or I mean it is crooked, but anyway, I'm
not gonna explain what it is, but, um, you know, like the, like they, they closed
home growing right about the time that, that Oregon's, um, you know, like market
was, um, collapsing and re stabilizing, you know, because the prices got so
expensive, um, you know, like after legalization in Oregon, um, and the
prices really weren't worth it.
What you were trying to get, because everybody was really trying to get their
flower to Portland, trying to get their flower to Portland and the price kept
going up higher and higher and everybody realized like, why, why am I going to the
dispensary when I've gone to my buddy who grows it way better and the market
collapsed and the home grow and the medical market kind of, uh, stabilized,
um, you know, the prices from spiking.
And if you watch it at that same time, Jay looked down South and was like, Ooh,
man, I don't want that.
And, uh, he closed down home grow, which was kind of odd because it was legal in
the beginning and, and then all of them slowly started to, or will all of them,
the, the, the, uh, tier threes and, um, you know, the, you know, the government
there, uh, started to come after all of the medical growth, you know, and it was
so blatantly obvious because as soon as like, you know, like people like fat
Panda and, uh, you know, like, uh, like blue roots started lobbying, you know, the
state, like, Hey, you know, like you should only be a medical grower.
You know, like if you're, you know, like a tier three or larger or a certain
square footage or larger, then they closed down all of the licenses.
And then it like a week later said, Oh, Hey, by the way, if you're a medical
grow, you know, now, now you need to apply to be like a tier three.
They couldn't do it.
It was impossible.
So then they got trapped down at a system and then all of these guys were suddenly
illegal and now Washington's going around, like I was saying, just cleaning
up all the old medical growers.
And really what it was was, you know, these medical guys, you know, they got
in like Winthrop, Colville, Spokane, you know, they, they have, you know, like
customer bases that are huge.
And, you know, the thing in, you know, these big, you know, like, you know,
like company meetings is just, you know, this like price tag on top of that patient.
Tell our own too.
They also said made it to where, and all, most of the corporate dudes on the stores.
Yeah, no, totally.
But I mean, you know, they looked at, you know, like, you know, like every, you
know, like customer and said, you know, you know, this like customer's worth, you
know, set amount of money per year.
And once they like, kind of like tapped out, they're like, well, crap, where do we
get more people?
And they looked over like, oh, wow, look at the medical market.
All these medical growers have huge, you know, really, really passionate customer
bases that spend more than the average, you know, rec market.
How do we get that?
And they started going after it.
And the sad reality is like you're saying goes, you know, they're, you know, they're
swapping out.
Now, patients are forced to swap out good quality medicine, I think, you know, grown
by good people who actually have, you know, these issues and can relate and actually
need, you know, the medicine for like Walmarts.
And it's blatantly obvious if you look at kind of like what's happening, I think, you
know, and Washington, just a great example, like I kind of explained, like Jay's
a lot in one thing.
Ground Washington, the proving ground in Washington, you can survive in any state
were taxed at 37 percent.
And then you add every every county's tax on top of that.
It brings it up to 50 percent almost out the door.
It's 48 percent, I believe, in most cities out the door tax.
We are the highest state in the union, and this is also I mean, you can look at it from
like Colorado, Oregon, Washington, those three states are all further along in the
the process. But like there's been a massive concentration and like each one of them has
had their sort of like market maturation and it all follows and is part of a corporate
strategy that's being pursued.
And what goes to outlined like there's a this isn't happening state after state out of
coincidence. This is a business model that's being implemented.
And yeah, we're just seeing it play out in California now.
And we're a little bit behind the curve of Oklahoma next.
Oklahoma will be the next one.
Very true.
Just so that's exactly kind of the point that I've been trying to make for the past couple
weeks, I'm like, you know, like I've seen this before, guys, like California is just kind
of behind the curve.
And and I think getting it harsher because a lot more people in California are rooted
kind of in their position.
So. I don't know how to say exactly what I'm saying, but it it causes a bigger wave, I
guess. California is a bigger beast.
I mean, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, we got so many like literally we can fit all of your state into some of our towns.
California can break their back and reverse it, though.
Yeah, I mean, California's it's got huge metropolitan areas and population centers,
but it also has this vast interior of like California is fucking huge and very
underdeveloped in all the areas we grow weed in.
Like unless you're growing indoor, if you're growing out in California, you're probably
out in the middle of fucking nowhere and have been doing this for a long fucking time.
And the decentralization of how things exist in the state of California make it so that
like, you know, this whole regulatory thing has been a more efficient way of implementing
a form of prohibition, but it's still dealing with a massive, ungovernable force.
And the idea that they're going to be able to just completely eliminate shit like this,
like, you know, me going to the Emerald Cup with a bag of like maybe a half a fucking
pound of a bunch of untrimmed branches on like it was literally branches that I put
into a bag.
I know like that that was the threat to commercial operators like anybody I was going to
hand some fucking untrimmed herb to was going to be like, well, now I don't have to get
that cookies.
I've died.
But yeah, so I mean, we're just it's going to take longer to do it in California is my
point, I guess, but it's going to happen and there's so much more to it.
Like it's such a huge.
You know, it's going to there's big ass stories that I hear are going to be coming down that
are going to make the whole Phylos thing look like nothing and make all the corporate
scandals that we've seen so far look kind of like child's play.
But like the the moves that people are making in California are big moves and they're
predatory moves and they're designed towards controlling the future of this.
What will be one of the largest cannabis markets, unless, of course, the regulators just
fuck it all up first?
Look at I mean, when you talk about things, you know, things like coming, I actually
always bring this up, like look at Florida, like right now, like even the feds are like,
hey, everyone, Burnett said this to us, like he rigged your state's rules and like fucked
you all like literally verbatim when when when the fucking undercover like fed
you fucking asked like Tim or I think his name was like Tim Burnett or his last his
last name like Burnett. That's all I know.
When he asked him, hey, like, you know, aren't you worried that you're going to like keep
out a large portion of the state?
And his words were fuck them.
I'm like, wow.
And like people like read this like it's in articles and stuff and they still walk into
truly even buy his weed, I'm like, wow, like, holy shit, this is insane.
And, you know, the feds can't do anything because it's not a federally regulated market.
So it's up to the state. But the state doesn't give a shit because somehow they've
probably making money. It's not tax.
I don't know how to make money, but it's probably like the right people in the right
places. But it just blows my mind, you know, like here's the feds telling everybody like,
hey, guys, here's here's all this crooked shit happening.
And, you know, kind of like nothing's happened.
But I think it'll be one of those things that will be like this is going to boil over
until it blows up, you know, and becomes a really big thing.
Yeah, no, I mean, there's Atalanta is a an example in California where there's been a
lot of corruption and that's something that goes hand in hand with this shit like.
Creating regulatory systems that give insane amounts of power to very few bureaucrats or
politicians is a recipe for disaster.
And when you decentralize it down to the like local level across the state, you're just
increasing the number of points where you can have potential corruption.
And you're also like regulatory capture at like a state or a federal level requires a
lot, a lot, a lot of money.
The ability for, you know, somebody to come into like desert, whatever, hot springs or
whatever it is down south where they have almost no commerce and revenue and provide
a million dollar opportunity to the local, you know, in terms of tax revenue to the
local officials, they then become able to influence local government in a way that they
couldn't do at a federal or state level.
And so and yeah, we're going to see that shit continue to play out across, you know,
different states and different counties.
This shows the importance, though, moving forward that people from the cannabis
industry, the ones that have fought for this, that have worked their whole lives to be
able to get this plant to a legal status, that we need to start putting individuals
like ourselves into some of these positions at the state level.
So that way, if we are going to have to be regulated or at least regulated by ourselves
and that there's people that actually are standing up for us instead of just, you know,
being a victim of a regulatory body, just trying to kick on people and actually saying,
hey, these are the things that we would like to see done.
And the only way to do that is to represent ourselves within some of those positions.
Yeah, I mean, you'd be amazed at how many good people who are actually cool stoners
work throughout the government bureaucracy, like I've met a lot of these different
people and had to do different state working groups.
And like I'm not referring to Tabitha Chavez, because it's very clear Tabitha doesn't
smoke, but like a lot of the other cats do and are.
Are down and cool, but they get put into like the thing about being a bureaucrat is that
the rules are the rules and as cool as they may be, they have to typically
follow the rules.
And so it just limits the range of possibility.
And while they're super cool in their private lives, in their professional lives,
they've got to administer the regulations as they're written and they're written in a
fucked up way and they're written in a fucked up way because people with money
influence the way that they're written.
And so, you know, we're in a situation where we need to.
Definitely.
Be organized and like, you know, it's always required a grassroots effort from our part
because we don't have the capital that's needed to really engage in the sort of
regulatory capture or agency capture that happens when, you know, big corporate like
pharmaceutical companies like essentially have captured the FDA, things like that.
It's like we don't have that type of resources, but we've got a lot of people power and
people power helps like having 10 people with me made it for a different outcome.
And like, while I could have fought it and had to deal with the police, who knows what
the outcome would have been there.
But like having a whole bunch of other people standing with me that whole time was one of
the reasons that determine the outcome.
And, you know, we're in this situation where like the assumption should just be that
corporate cannabis is going to run roughshod and do what it's going to do because that's
how the regulations are set up and that's how markets operate.
Like a lot of this stuff has a lot of built in inertia and you can look at different
industries and different like agricultural commodities throughout history and the way
that they've developed in the markets of like I have like operated.
You can look at the way we switch from prohibition to an alcohol to the post prohibition
era. Like all of these are good examples and we can see what's going to happen in
cannabis. But the thing that's not determined there is the outcome that's going to be
like influenced by our actions.
And so that's the thing that's most important.
People like Ghost being in these boardroom meetings, being involved and being engaged
in the licensed arena is important.
We need to support the legacy brands and the farmers and the OGs who literally, Ghost OG
if anybody doesn't know who we're talking to, we're talking to Ghost OG.
So like we got to be OGs and support every one of them that's operating on the licensed
side. We have to build our grassroots power and lobby local governments and develop ways
of engaging state officials and bureaucracies and work on state like working groups like
I've had to do or have done and stay engaged so that, you know, that's the part that's
going to influence things for the better.
The other part's all fucked and bad.
Dude, 100 percent, I think this is what's both of you hit damn good points.
I think this is what's saved Oregon's medical and I think rec system from staying at a lower
level besides the culture.
But like the the.
The. The cannabis.
I like commission and then it's sub committees are all staffed by medical patients, people
like Doc Knox, the sheet of Dawson farmers throughout the state and medical growers and
such. And and they're really what's kind of.
Giving all of the like all of the information to the lawmakers, almost everything that's kind
of happening change wise is coming from them.
And that's, I think, stopping a lot of the big kind of like takeovers that you see in in some of
these other states.
But, yeah, definitely, you know, like within your states, we would be like advocating for
public grant or like public grant social equity and patient access and framework groups.
And that's really the big one is having just a group to work on the framework itself and make
sure that it is equitable for everybody, not just the access to who's producing it.
But definitely huge.
This needs to be a thing in every state.
I think it should be kind of like a kind of like a note, like a mixture between medical
patients, growers and medical professionals.
It's massive.
Yeah, so I'll reset the room again.
Were the topics Ego Clash and Emerald Cup recap.
Check out Instagram if you haven't seen how things went down.
Sun Grown Meds, my page has a lot about my experiences at the two events.
And but Scott, I see that you've come up.
Would you like to join the conversation?
Oh, yes, thank you very much.
I appreciate the time.
I just wanted to speak real quickly on the conversation about the company here in Florida,
Truly, who you were speaking of.
That was actually the founder's husband that was caught influencing what we'll call the
politician to steer those original 13 licenses into their favor.
And.
Those licenses cost, I think it was about one hundred and seventy five thousand, two
hundred thousand dollars, they're going for 50 million dollars now and truly just sold
the harvest license here in Florida for fifty five million dollars in a medical only
state. So it was definitely set up to influence to work in their favor.
I worked for them for a year when I first entered into the industry and kind of got a
feel for it on the dispensary side and on the patient side.
And worked as a bud tender there for a while, and that led to my cannabis coaching
business. But right now, if you go into any one of those dispensaries, just just be kind
to those employees there.
They are going through it.
This is their busiest time of the year here.
So thank you for the time.
It's it's actually.
You're good. Oh, I was going to say, you know, it's kind of odd, I mean, a lot of people,
unless you're from there or have a transient or like a.
Winner of the server.
Yeah. Or, you know, somebody there that you could claim some sort of residency, you
can't really go into the dispensaries, but it would be, I think, I think kind of
mind blowing, at least true leaves because I part time there.
So I have my medical card there and God forbid if I ever need something, I'll go into
like one of these places, move mainly.
But. True leave is, I think, one of the most mind blowing because it is it is as white
labeled Walmart as you can get, like when you walk in, you like, you know, there's no
menu, you're not given any information on strains.
These bartenders don't even really know what they have.
And they're normally just pulling back a drawer and whatever kind of like rolls like
towards them, they grab and they're like, this is what we have.
And like it's mind blowing, like the like disconnect, especially coming from a place
like Oregon and and then working at a dispensary like Oregon, like Coast Cannabis, when
we were so medically connected with our patients and our flower and our growers and
everything. And to go there was like.
What the. Yeah, excuse my English, but yeah, like, whoa.
And so but kind of on like what Scott was saying, I linked an article a little while
back. You know, if anybody read it, it's a it's a it's an interesting, really good
synopsis on what's kind of happened there.
And it definitely was kind of like a snatch and grab.
And you can see these like quotes from from from like Burnett.
It's insane. Like the greed, like, you know, like it says stuff like, you know, like we
didn't even know how to grow the plant.
We just knew that we had to get in the ship and that's it.
And like a blue, you know, like a blows my mind, like they know what this industry is
about to be so much and the crazy things that they're willing to do for it.
It's it is exactly what we all think it is.
It's crazy. Yeah, so that being the the reality of business in this day and age, I
remember you guys were saying that the Eagle Clash was pretty epic this year and that's
pretty cool to hear. It sounds like.
A private event, almost invite only, maybe you might be able to sneak your way in, not
sneak, but, you know, get the the nod in.
But I could be wrong.
But, you know, like that seems like private parties, private adult cannabis parties are
going to be more of the future as opposed to some of these, quote unquote, trade events
or even legacy events.
But, you know, I really think we as a community can even, you know, move forward with
these private events because I can remember that's how it was like that's how the
Emerald Cup was like.
I remember going to the one area one to one and, you know, that's just kind of how it
was. It was just if you knew you knew and it was a party and I don't know what you guys
think. I think the private private property adult, you know, cannabis parties are going
to be a thing of the future or is that even going to be regulated, you think?
I mean, it has to be just like the Eagle Clash is unique in terms of being a very well
run. You know, Kimo was on here, very well run, very well organized.
Legit operation, like it feels like a cannabis competition on a big scale, it feels.
It feels like it's on a big scale just, I guess, because you see literally.
Everybody who's like, you know, made a name either in the hash game, the seed game or
the flower game and that like are recognizable within the community, at least, you know,
for me, I was feeling amongst a bunch of people where there was familiar faces and
that's really great.
And it's it's nice to have an event that's not, you know, it's not focused on commerce.
It's not about whether or not you've got money and what you can buy and, you know, all
that nonsense.
It's really much more.
Just seeing friends.
And so that's really cool.
The other thing about it that I'd say there are ways like, you know, you there are invites
and people have their their plus one.
So make lots of friends with people in the industry in NorCal and you hopefully will
get an invite or a plus one and get to experience it because it was this year and last
year were both very, very top notch events.
Overall, like no complaints for me from my experience going to them.
And I think that there needs to just be a lot more of that, you know, like the Emerald
Cup needs to and these other sort of events need to become conduits to private events
and opportunities for us to meet up and come together sort of outside of at least here
in California, outside of DCC regulated commercial events, because they're very clearly
trying to kill what was a very, very cool, special thing that we had going on.
Yeah, Emerald Cup was special, I've been to four of them, they're awesome.
2017 being the last one I went to and it was a it was a nice, nice one for sure.
I'm curious, Trevor, did you get to try much of the concentrate there or were you just
kind of a observer up at the Eagle Clash?
Sorry, mostly an observer, yeah, I I'm not the biggest dabber in the world, I do most of
my concentrates in joints, so I'm not, you know, I could chime in a little bit.
I went to Eagle Clash, you know, pre-COVID the day the year before COVID and I was a
judge and I there was a lot of dabs, probably more than 30 dabs and I got in probably
halfway before I was like, this is enough.
And I kind of called in my partner, had him tap in and then he's he was he had enough
after two dabs, so I had to go right back in there and go through the gauntlet.
So this time around, I was, you know, I was fine with just doing my seed swag, I was not
looking forward to judging or being a judge or anything of that sort, I could have, you
know, a lot of those hashmakers are really good friends of mine and some of them even
went as far as entering my strains, you know, now that I can mention that and I'm sure
they wouldn't have had no problem with me, you know, helping them out with their
selection or whatever.
But all in all, Brandon did try to set it up so that there wasn't any of that.
But I kind of seen, you know, everything just kind of happens like it does.
And this year, I actually seen them display every entry like in the viewing area and
people, visitors, spectators were able to just go and smell it.
And I seen people even dig in those jars.
So like that is super fucking cool to me.
Nowhere ever do you get to go and just pick up all the entries, let alone maybe triumph,
because that's what I was seeing, because it's so it's like an honor system.
It's like we all know each other here.
No one's gonna grab your jar.
No one's gonna custody the jar.
We'll, we'll take what we need to take.
And that's it.
And it won't bother nobody.
So as far as partaking in the concentrate, I made sure to take a bunch home with me.
I'll be home in about an hour.
I just I've been on this long trek from NorCal.
I've been in the car all day.
I've been on the on this call since you guys started on the on the on the road.
And yeah, ego clash is dope.
I do partake in the in the in the in the hash.
I love hash.
Hash is my middle name.
But yeah, Trev, you need to dab in on some dabs.
I don't think I've seen Trev dig in on some dabs like that before.
But yeah, I love dabs.
So thank you so much.
That's a good feedback, bro.
So what seemed to be the most dominant expressions in the hash this year, terp wise or strain
wise?
Rainbow belts.
Rainbow belts is the wave right now.
And that's from archive.
That's a z-terp that you that you're all these hash dudes are trying to chase, including
myself.
I'm totally with it.
I love me some rainbow belts, rainbow belts, honey banana.
And of course, all this stuff we've seen before, you know, the the melons, the papayas, the
fruits.
But right now, the the the sought after terp, the chase terp is for sure the rain of the
rainbow belts.
Thanks for that.
Any haze hash out there that was kind of standing?
Nah, I did see haze flower, though.
This is the this year I literally go to the cup and people are handing me haze varieties.
And that's that's cool.
It's nice to see, you know, people gambling on some haze crosses.
And I only say gamble because Lord knows it's not the most sought after weed for the
average person.
It's more of a destination than a place that people pass by and want.
Yeah, I agree.
The haze flower isn't my favorite, but haze hash can be pretty psychedelic when done properly.
I need to get in on some of that.
I've actually have had a haze BHO that was really gnarly and it got me really familiar
with haze terps.
But I've yet to have haze solventless, which is, you know, I might have to take that into
my own hands and do it.
I have some Cuban black haze Wilson back crosses that I'd imagine put some numbers on the table.
Yes, a small sample of haze flowers, but no haze concentrates.
You breaking up a little, Boone?
I'm in the middle of a windstorm out here, so my audio and Wi-Fi.
Yeah, it's crazy.
All NorCal right now is torrential downpour and serious wind.
But if I could touch on ego a little bit more since that what we're talking about, there's
tons of hash, tons of people.
This is where you shine the most.
You see who's in your face.
There's no hiding behind the camera.
The hash is in your face.
The seed during your face, the weed is in your face.
There's a flower competition.
The people are in your face.
So you get to get a grasp of who's actually a good person beyond the product itself.
This is where this is.
This is the zone.
And I like it.
This is the meat of everything that we look at.
I like it there.
I thrive there.
I totally appreciate Eagle Clash.
As far as Emerald is concerned, I have tons of buddies at Emerald.
It's dope.
I like it.
But just all the fanfare, the glitting glamour, I could live without that.
Yeah, the ego definitely.
If you were looking to get seeds too, Cap was at the Emerald Cup.
So that was cool to see Cap out there.
Seed Junkies, Compound, Humboldt Seed Company.
I mean, I don't know.
I'm sure I'm forgetting somebody, but I think that was like...
As far as major breeders are concerned, I think...
Well, major to somebody, not to somebody else.
You get the point.
As far as big breeders were concerned, Cap, Seed Junkie, Chris Compound were the big three
as far as I'm concerned.
And this year, clones were hot.
Because I was talking to Cap, and I've been going to shows for close to four years now,
hitting it all over the United States, even Europe a couple times.
And I'm friends with Cap, and we're just talking to each other.
He's like, clones are the hype now.
And I'm like, well, you know what to do next time.
Bring that Mack with you.
And so just keep your eyes out.
I have a feeling Cap is going to do some Caps cut at any next major event, which is kind
of monumental.
He's yet to ever do this.
Yeah, I noticed that there was a lot of...
Everybody I saw walking around had their finest bags and their different clones that they
were getting.
And presumably, I wasn't there shopping, so I didn't even go and take the time to stand
in line.
What were the clones people were swooping and hoarding this year?
Urkel.
Everybody wanted that Urkel.
The Urkel sold out.
And I'm over here thinking in my head, didn't freaking Trevor just give out thousands of
purple Urkel S188s to you kids?
I'm just like, it's funny how things work, but it's cool.
I'm not being a hater just a little bit.
It's there, guys.
You're just not looking hard enough.
There's nothing new about Urkel.
But I guess because it's more convenient.
But come on, guys.
Lord knows you might get a surprise with it.
Because last season that I went to Emerald, I grabbed every single cut.
And some of them looked like they had the bug that had to get rid of those.
I went this season to Emerald, I bought nothing.
I didn't buy not one clone.
I just went and supported with Capulator real quick, dropped a couple hundred dollars a
cap just because he's somebody that I support.
I seen OG Cushman, tapped in with him.
Seen Skunk Tech.
Just tapped in with the guys that I really like.
I'm not too big on spending $1,000 on a seed junkie cut because that's what it was costing.
I'm already invested in some seed junkie stock.
I'll focus on other things.
Man, that wedding pie, first place from 365 Farms, man.
I'm smoking on it right now.
That shit was fire.
It's fire, dude.
They deserve that win all the way.
Just great stuff.
The ego clash was fantastic.
The whole vibe, culture, everybody coming together.
It was just such a good vibe.
Definitely.
Definitely.
It was just such the two kind of present microcosms.
The vibe up at the ego clash and a personal event invite only verse the DCC vibe.
Well, guys, that doesn't seem to be a very good factor.
I'm not a DCC.
You're breaking up, Mace.
It sounds like you're peacing out.
I am.
You guys have a great night.
Word.
Thank you, man.
Thanks for coming on.
It was great seeing you.
Good times.
Can you guys hear me?
Yes, Peter.
We can.
Central California.
The Prius is going 82 right now up the hill.
Anyway, I got Tom in the car with me.
He was just regaling me with stories of his porn industry days.
Then I was like, oh, shit, they're doing the roundtable.
When we jumped in, it was all the sadness of regulated markets conversations.
At the Emerald Cup, Trevor, when you had your nose in people's jars, who had some stuff
that you were just like, this is amazing.
Did you smoke the stuff Bodhi had?
I did not, no.
Really, the herb that I got there was...
I'm totally blanking.
I suck at names.
That's one of the worst things about me.
You were smoking on it, that Donnie burger.
I was about to bring that up.
John's Donnie burger was delicious.
That's what we smoked right before we got in the Prius this morning.
Tom, if you wanted to pack a bowl of that right now, I would not complain.
That was awesome.
That was really good.
I got two nugs from Kaya.
I got an I think it was called Icy Mac and I think a Coffee F8.
I could be wrong on the specific details there, but both of them are just absolutely incredible nugs.
I believe they were grown out by Green Source Gardens.
Just phenomenal nugs.
Anybody who has the chance to get with anything that Pacific Northwest Roots does, really, really good stuff.
Smelled a bunch of different bags that he had in addition to the two nugs he gave me.
Everything was just fire.
What else?
Did you try what Jackson brought?
I wasn't there at that point anymore.
I didn't see anybody who showed up on day two.
90% of day one got fucked.
I just bumped into who I bumped into doing one or two passes through the event.
What did you want to bring?
What were you bringing?
What would I have smoked that I've been able to smoke in?
This is something that they need to understand and get with.
Breeders grow out lots of different phenos and have a lot of the same.
I had probably 10 different phenos of the Chem D hash plant.
I had several of the Pina hash plant.
I had about 10 of the TKM10.
I had 50 of them that I would have liked to have shown people.
I was scaling it back and got the representative diversity in the population.
I would have had those phenos.
Then there was a whole bunch of Wilson things that we grew out.
There was the more landrace-y Panama Red crosses that he made.
Some Northern Lights 5 Willie Nelson crosses that he made.
Those were really interesting and unique.
They were very leafy and pretty ironic.
That was the thing that set him off.
I wasn't even giving them to him.
He was going through each of those phenoses.
I would expect anybody who came through would be able to do it.
Just look at the range of variation in this population.
That's what I was hoping to be able to do with you and the rest of the people I would be able to meet with.
We could smoke reasonable amounts of all of these in a normal way that wasn't weird or anything.
It's almost like we need to put together an event where you can do exactly that.
I know.
It's baffling.
I haven't been post.
For context, the last cup I had been to was 2017.
I hadn't been to one since regulations had gone into place.
I hadn't really been paying attention.
A number of people talked about how after Prop 64 went into effect and the cup was held in 2018,
they started doing shit like this.
The ego clash is a good one.
Holding private invite-only events around these types of events is a good idea.
Yes, that's what I want to do next year.
A bit of an activist approach and start writing our politicians and filing complaints against these guys.
It's not just a matter of enforcement.
Every law enforcement officer, every agent of the state is given discretion.
They have discretionary power to apply laws.
These guys were clearly just overzealous, super excited to lay down the law with no basis or foundation,
even within the spirit of the law.
It was a fucking joke.
I really want to file some Freedom of Information Request Act
to figure out the names of all the officers involved in the incident and write a campaign.
There are laws on the book and then there's how they are enforced.
So many times, the laws on the book aren't as bad as the application of the law by the enforcers.
That's something that I do believe we have the power to change.
But if we remain silent and we don't bring it to the attention of politicians and policymakers
about the disconnect between their intent and the application,
nothing's going to change for us on the ground.
We're going to continue to keep running off against this type of bullshit.
I really think that we need to raise awareness around these kinds of incidents.
I don't believe that this was the intent of the law.
That's why I spent the rest of the time, after the whole thing was diffused,
I started getting in the ear of both the event organizer and the BCC people
and started saying, this is your fault.
This isn't our fault.
You have no right to come here and give us shit when you haven't made it clear
what you're willing to tolerate and what you're not.
You better have some justification for what you're not willing to tolerate.
Because there was nothing that was going on in that circle of friends
that was even within their purview.
We aren't licensed cannabis culprits.
This wasn't a matter of licensed jurisdiction.
This was personal abuse.
It's baffling to me that these dickheads can just shit all over us
and shit all over a cultural event and come to one with zero sensitivity to the context.
And so the next day, after this whole shit went down,
we were marked.
I was in one of the halls and the homie, Ital, gave me a hat with some seeds in it.
With some packages of seeds in it.
And the Cedar Lee, him, came up to me
and handed me and was telling me a story about some giant pumpkin seeds
and showing me pictures of pumpkin seeds.
This is a fucking farmer's event.
What we're doing is we're talking sharp stories
and connecting and laying down the foundation for what eventually becomes heritage.
And in the middle of showing me pumpkin seeds,
I got approached by the event coordinator and Officer White
about asking me what I was doing and telling me that it can't go on.
And so I pulled Tim up.
I told him to get out of my face first because I wasn't doing anything wrong.
Then I pulled Tim out and I chased him down.
And I was like, you really want to know what the fuck we were doing?
I showed them the pumpkin seeds and I showed them pictures.
And I was like, here's some context for you.
Why don't you guys understand that before you run around acting like overzealous punks.
And those actions that they're taking do nothing to stop diversion
or any of the so-called claims and the intent of the laws that they were abusing were designed for.
So I really would love to see our community unite behind a voice
and try to leverage bringing awareness to those that have the power to change.
Hazard reported ahead.
One of the things I really like that Brandon talked about
is the small craft growers banding together to get their foothold in the space
against these huge corporations with no respect for our culture.
And I think that's super duper important and I'm really glad he brought it up.
And hopefully that continues forward.
It's funny because what you said in the beginning was kind of what I was thinking as it was happening.
I was like, whichever officer first came up to Trevor,
it's like that person doesn't really give a shit.
And I was like, can't you just look the other way?
It's like the meter maid who's writing a ticket for someone's car
and that person comes out and is like bitching about it.
Neither of them is having fun.
The meter maid is certainly not enjoying the moment.
And the person who's getting the ticket for like being 16 minutes
or like a minute past when their meter expired.
And they wouldn't just back down and they so easily could have.
It's all kind of new to them I feel and the discretion aspect.
A lot of people with the authority don't utilize discretion
and they don't realize they have that option I feel.
Yeah, I think a very good example of that was back in the day
there was this dude who used to always grow herb where I grew up
and he would either get arrested by the cops or get ripped off
because everybody in town knew he was growing herb.
And one year he got ripped off and the people who had like robbed him,
they took a U-Haul out in this like backwoods area where I live.
And I got stopped on a bridge by two sheriff's deputies,
an older one and a younger one.
And I had been puffing tough like fully.
This was a Cheech and Chong moment where I had been like driving late at night
on a fucking backwoods road and get stopped by these two cops
and realize when they throw their fucking spotlight on me
that it's like cops in the middle of this bridge.
I roll down my windows, fucking smoke pillows out.
They start questioning me about where I'm going, what I'm doing.
And it's very clear very quickly that I live out there
and that I'm a local and that I'm fucking smoking herb on my way home.
The older deputy after doing the questioning asked if I knew who robbed
the dude who got robbed.
And I said no.
And he asked me if like I find out or know anything to give him a call.
And he let me go.
And the younger sheriff's deputy was sitting there completely baffled
and couldn't understand why they just let me go even though it was a very clear DUI.
And the sheriff's deputy who was older was exercising discretion
because he knew that if they were going to catch whoever it was,
they were probably going to have to rely on people in the community
as opposed to alienating everybody and treating somebody
who's just getting high going home at like fucking two in the morning
on a fucking dirt road like a criminal for doing what they do.
Instead, he let me go.
And I don't know what ended up happening with the people who arrested
or who fucking robbed dude.
That's the type of discretion that comes with like learning this kind of stuff.
And maybe they will get better.
But as of right now, like there are ways of dealing with this
in an organized, concerted fashion.
Hybrid technology, Hybe has been on my in the comments
and responding to some of this stuff.
And he made just very, very strong, solid points that are honestly,
you know, had I really wanted to push the issue,
I could have and perhaps should have.
And in the future, if we want to make it so that these spaces
get regulated in a way that's different,
then we're going to have to do this.
And that means that we're going to have to get our medical recommendations.
We're going to have to go to these events.
We're going to have to exercise our rights under the Compassionate Use Act.
We're going to have to demand that these, the DCC, like Bam said,
the only reason like they only deal with licensees
and only have jurisdiction over licensees.
So to the extent that they had any jurisdiction over what was going on,
it was because the premises of the event was a licensed cannabis event.
And so the activity that happened on it has to conform with their rules.
However, the event also has a carve out for medical use.
And it's very clear and people were indicating that you could exceed
the one ounce purchasing limit by having your medical recommendation with you.
So our medical rights are still in effect.
They haven't been obviated by 215 or excuse me,
by fucking Prop 64.
So as a result, we need to go with recommendations,
exercise our rights when they come and try to enforce as they tried to do with me,
refuse to comply with them and refuse to throw your cannabis into their bag.
They are then given an option.
They can either escalate by going to the cops or do what they did with me.
If I had chosen not to go with the dude and just put the stuff in the car
and be done with it and bring my ounce in,
I could have chosen to go down the road route of dealing with the cops.
And then the cops would be forced to either arrest me or make some determination
as to my medical, like whether or not my medical claims were legit.
They could arrest me if they wanted.
They could confiscate my herb if they wanted.
And I could then fight it through the court system.
It's through that process that we will defend our rights
and establish the case law that allows us to do this stuff.
I think that if you, if you had refused,
most likely what would have happened is the cops might've gotten there
and they probably would have fucking just asked you to leave.
That's probably all they would have been able to legally do
is ask you to leave the premises completely.
And I'm so glad that I didn't have to go.
I'm so glad that I didn't get interacted,
or that situation didn't happen with me while I was there.
Because when it comes to people who have authority,
but not like, they're not officers, they're police officers.
They have no authority to arrest or do anything.
And they try to confiscate my herb.
I would have told them to go fuck themselves
and probably walked right away.
And it's been like, you know, because what are they going to do
if you try to walk away, touch you, grab you?
So I'm really glad because I have an issue with, yeah,
people who have limited authority trying to flex and do that kind of thing.
And yeah, I feel for each other.
I saw that post happening and I'm like, oh my fucking God.
And I know multiple people who got, they got harassed.
They got, you know, a lot of them, they didn't get told to,
you know, put their weed in a bag or whatever,
and they were taken away, but they were told to put their shit away
or whatever. And even that is a bummer.
But yeah, someone coming in with a bag and being like,
here, throw your stuff in there.
It's like, who the fuck are you?
Like, that's not a badge.
Like, I don't respect your little, you know,
Bureau of Cannabis Control, like authority at all.
I would have, yeah, man, I fucking feel for you, dude.
And I think you handled it well.
And, you know, I think your, your suggestion of, yeah,
having a medical recommendation and really kind of just
asserting our rights as citizens even and medical patients
to be able to kind of move things forward
in a better way for the community.
We did tell them to call the cops when they threatened
to call the cops.
But it was an empty bullshit press that they're just using
to scare us. And they got called out on their own BS
because when it came down to, oh, we're going to call the cops.
And then we're like, okay, go ahead.
They phoned us.
Yeah, they probably know, knew that it would just open up
a whole fucking can of bullshit that they don't want to have
to deal with. And it would be this huge, like, you know,
they're, they're fucking doing their shitty jobs
that they probably aren't super stoked on.
I'm sure that most of the people there,
there's probably a few people there who got their rocks off
by, by going around and playing fucking cop.
But yeah, they're like, oh, fuck.
Okay, so now we're going to get the cops,
the cops might come and just be like, yeah,
there's nothing you can do.
And then they're not really in charge.
The, the BCC isn't really even in charge.
They can't tell people to leave the Emerald Cup
unless the organizers were like, yeah, fucking,
they have to leave or whatever or security or something.
So if you did it calmly and escalated and were just like,
no, I'm not going to cooperate with you.
I don't think that even, yeah, I don't even think
they would kick you out of the venue or do anything.
And then they would just look like complete assholes
and basically have their balls cut off
and be not wanting to do stuff with, you know,
like going around and doing whatever they were doing
as far as enforcement goes.
Or, or they'd have to force Tim Blake
to come over and do the asshole.
And you know, he'd be like,
I don't want to be the asshole.
I think the consensus here, guys,
and the thing that separates the people
who put their shit in the bag or,
or listen to these, these kind of as control board cops
is that they're not really in charge.
They're not really in charge.
And so the thing that separates these,
these kind of as control board cops
and the people who, you know,
stand their ground is, is,
is basically it's confidence and knowledge.
And that's what it, what it comes down to.
Bam, I couldn't have worded it better
when it comes to, you know,
discretion is a very important thing
to incorporate with enforcing the law.
And you would absolutely be mind blown
if I told you that not just the majority,
but the vast majority of people
do not know what they're doing.
The vast majority of people
do not know how to implement that.
And that's either because they have a lack
of experience and knowledge
or they have insecurities.
If they're lacking that experience
and knowledge and don't know how to,
how to use discretion,
they're going to stand by what they've read,
what they were taught.
And they're saying, Nope, Nope, Nope.
This is the line.
You're on this side of it.
You shouldn't be.
You come with me or you're giving that shit up.
You're not going to have security with yourself.
If you get educated on something,
if I'm coming to a situation
and I'm trying to enforce something
and you're saying, No,
this is actually this much
and this is my medical marijuana card.
Then it takes some self-esteem to stand there
and be like, You know what?
You're right.
And to have a combination of that
within the law enforcement community,
I can tell you being a trainer
in probably the biggest police academy
in this nation,
everybody who is coming on this job today
is lacking that.
The police and community relations today,
obviously, is at a major strain.
And there's a lack of support
from the public as well as,
you know, the cities and the brass.
And so people don't really want
to take this job.
So who you see taking it
is inexperienced people,
young people,
people who probably would have been
denied years ago.
And that's who's coming up the ranks.
And enforcing this law
and not implementing
the all-powerful and important discretion.
And this is what you're
toe-to-toe with,
with this Cannabis Control Board.
They tried getting the police department
last year to enforce
COVID mandates.
And I was put on that task force.
And this was not happening.
It was comical to us.
And the city got a wind of it.
And so they implemented
the Sheriff's Department
and they're forcing,
you know, the amount of people
who are closing businesses
and businesses shouldn't be open.
And that's what I see
that they're doing here as well.
They're grabbing these people
who are very, very young,
who have been denied police jobs
or a mix of the two.
And they're giving them
a level of power and enforcement.
And they're going in.
And I think that you're right.
I think the majority of them
do get their rocks off.
And they have beliefs.
They believe this shit is bad.
They believe that when it's wrong,
they were going to spit off
a whole bunch of shit.
And they're going to be wrong
in the things that they are saying.
But they believe it.
And that's what gives them
what they believe,
their power to stand in that position
and speak to people.
So the major difference
between you standing your ground
and somebody not standing their ground
is understanding that picture
and knowing that you are standing
in the right.
You didn't show up
with an illegal amount.
You know you're at a sanctioned spot.
You have the proper whatever.
You know where you are.
And you continue to stand your ground
and educate people.
And eventually,
they're going to have a decision to make.
And you saw the decision that they made.
Nobody got locked up.
So I have a question for you.
So like in these types of situations,
like yesterday,
we were dealing with both
Tabitha and White.
And they heard us
loud and clear.
And I'm convinced
that they knew
that we were not talking
out of our asses.
But instead of
acquiescing and acknowledging
the facts that we were spitting,
they just tried to find
every reason
to fight us.
Like, it made no sense to me.
It just became this grudge.
And they were fixated
on winning.
And in their world,
in their world,
winning was not
conceding anything.
That's the combination
of authority and insecurities.
Please shed some light on how
how we can handle that.
Like, you know,
there are some of us
that are down for the fight.
Like, I'm not scared of shit.
Handcuffs, take me down to the station.
I can't wait to get on the stand
and talk to the judge.
But that's not your average person.
And I think it's important
that we like sort of create
awareness and tools
for people to interact.
And thank you for speaking about
community relations.
Like, it always puzzles me.
Like, as a farmer,
I've never liked cops
because of the shit
that I have to deal with.
But that's not the position
that I want to be in, you know?
If policy lined up
and made sense on the outside,
but the application of the law
didn't seem unjust,
what beef would I have with the cops?
No, I completely understand
your position.
And listen,
I think the vast majority
there's many variables
that create this
this strain in the relationship
between the police and community.
But the vast majority
that goes on the backs
of the cops,
it goes on the departments,
the training,
the education,
as well as the individuals
themselves who are out there
facing the public
and having these conversations
and interactions with people.
It's rarely a good day
when the police get involved.
It's different with,
you know, I mean,
you got EMTs
and firefighters that show up
and you could be aiding anybody
from something severe
to something minor.
And cops do show up
into situations
and make things better.
But when it comes to these
communities that have these strains,
that is not the interpretation.
And the vast majority of the time
it's not the case.
They're showing up,
somebody's probably
going to get locked up,
somebody's going to get a ticket
or something like that.
And so in my
personal, probably biased opinion,
given my position
and stuff like that,
I am all for people
standing their ground.
And I can only speak for myself
with everything that I just mentioned.
I come into this game
and I didn't have all these securities.
I didn't have a job
and I spoke with people poorly.
And I'm not ashamed to say
that I've been put in my place.
And I've learned shit.
I've learned that
even if somebody is wrong,
if you come sideways at someone,
it doesn't matter
what they did wrong.
If you don't come with respect,
this is about to get fucking ugly.
And that's the number one thing
that law enforcement
really needs to have
to the best of their ability
and try to keep in an equation,
as long as the situation
allows it, right?
If you come with respect
and if you don't do that,
it's not going to be rectified
in a good way.
So if you encounter people like this,
I love the way you guys spoke
about how you handled it,
that you stood your ground
and you didn't give in
and you're not taking my shit.
I'm not going to give it to you anyway.
If you want to have it,
you have to take it from me.
And if you're going to take it from me,
you're going to have to lock me up.
And that comes with confidence
in your position.
And if you say that tactfully,
depending on the situation
and what it is,
odds are it's going to separate
with somebody with a tail
tucked between their legs.
And it's probably going to be
those trying to enforce
what they're trying to enforce.
If people feel the need
to tell people to go fuck themselves,
I'm not telling anybody
that they can't do that.
I'm just saying
I don't think that's going
to de-escalate,
which is probably the effort here, right?
And now we're getting
into a back and forth
with heightened emotions.
And reasonably so.
If cops are talking to you
a certain way
or treating you a certain way
and they're standing off
and they're conversing
with themselves
and they hear you
and they're like,
this guy sounds like
he knows what he's talking about
and they're coming in
and they're trying
a different angle,
that's frustrating.
And if somebody loses their cool,
I wouldn't blame them.
So my advice would be
to try not to.
And continue to do
what was just done.
And at the end of the day,
they're going to be walking off
looking for another individual
with less confidence
and knowledge.
Yeah, no,
that is a great point.
And I think that like,
one, you express
a lot of things
that I wish obviously
all cops had
this as a starting point.
Trevor, can you talk up
a little bit?
Sorry, yes.
I wish all police officers
had a similar orientation
and just like
self-reflection
in how
community relations
and like how,
you know,
yeah,
incredibly well said.
And so thank you
for sharing all of that.
But I also think that
it's a very interesting thing
where
I'm not like,
dealing with the cops
was fine with me
and when it was,
or you know,
these DCC agents.
Back to the mic.
Sorry, yeah.
Dealing with the DCC agents
was fine,
but I got like,
I remember when they put me,
she tried to like,
corral me
and get me away from everybody
and put me like,
back against the wall.
And I remember
how much more calm I felt
having my back against the wall
where I could see
how many of them
there actually were
and where they were.
But like,
I was calm throughout it.
Wasn't too worked up.
Some other folks with me
were very worked up.
There was definitely
the FTP sentiment expressed.
There was also
two good arguments
that were essentially,
like,
the back and forth
continued to revolve
around these two things.
And
you know what's good
deserves a lot of credit.
He was very
animated
and engaged with them
and I think his sort of like,
rah-rah-rah
attitude
put them
a little bit
back on their heels.
But he made a very simple
argument
which was,
and regardless
of whether or not
it's true,
it makes,
he said it's been effective
for him in other
circumstances
and
they were
clearly befuddled
by the argument
that this is
zero THC
smokeable hemp.
Prove that it isn't.
They had no response.
They kept getting
like,
more and more frustrated
and the fact that he was
being very
aggressive in the way
that he was saying it
and saying that like,
prove it,
prove it.
And they couldn't prove it
and they had no response.
I think honestly
that may be
the future
of
like,
how to make these arguments.
As a dedicated
215
sort of person,
I was,
you know,
my logic
and my brain
has always
gone to
my
215
I will take
an affirmative defense
all the way to trial
sort of
approach
and
yeah,
as Bam said,
they were bluffing
about calling the cops.
They didn't want to get
the cops involved.
They didn't want the cops
to come over
and not do anything
which probably
would have been
the worst case scenario
for them
because it would have
revealed
just how hollow
their threats were
or worst case scenario
like someone else
said I might have
gotten escorted out.
Like,
you know,
it's not really like
the cops.
As one of my friends said,
we got a wook
with a half elbow
of untrimmed
fucking weed here.
Like,
I think the Santa Rosa police
are more concerned
with other shit.
100%.
The,
if the cops
came over there
and
looked at them
or looked at you
and took a totality
of circumstances
and said,
he's not breaking
any laws
and we're not,
we're not here
for any civil shit.
We're not here
for any petty shit.
We're here for law
and if he didn't break it,
he didn't do anything wrong
and that would completely
deflate their position
which you would think,
oh,
it wouldn't be a big deal.
Let's take a walk
around the corner
and find somebody else
but they're walking
in packs
and there's certain people
over there with their chests
out with experience.
And you've been doing this
for like three years
and you have a bunch of people
that you're surrounded by
that have been doing it
for four months
and you completely
lose clout with everybody
in a situation like that.
So,
that is such a great point
and the,
what was insane
is the
absolute head
of the chief
for enforcement
across the entire state
was the last person
that I interacted with.
So like,
they escalated
all the way up
the chain of command
to the like,
the police
and the police
and the police
and the police
to the like,
the literal
final boss person.
That is mind-boggling.
She did look like King Cobra.
Oh my God.
Curious,
out of,
I guess like everything
submitted
and I apologize
if this was already asked,
I was kind of late
you know,
in early
in the morning
and I'm
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I'm not
I was talking about
cryptomobiling
earlier
but
what was the
I guess the theme
of the genetics
I guess
that was kind of going around
this year
and was there anything
like
super unique
that maybe
didn't,
you know,
win
or get a highlight
that somebody noted
or was like
like hoping
that got spotted out
I guess.
Yeah,
it's all
ITAL Foundation
blessed me
with
some Black Appi seeds
Which is something I've been like looking for forever. They weren't for they weren't for sale. They weren't
Anything that was like on display at anybody's booth
Can you guys hear me
Yeah, I
Said some of the best stuff that I found there was just generosity of friends
It was nothing that I saw on display or at anybody's booth or that was for sale
Different people came and blessed me with so many nice gems
I think the one that I was most excited about was receiving the black affie seeds from my towel
their foundational for so many people's favorite varieties and
He only had a few left, but he handed him over with like with so much love
It was a big blessing to me and
To me like I got on IG earlier and I heard a lot of people
bitching about
Enforcement and BCC and how the Emerald Cup sucks
No
To me the Emerald Cup is about us as a community getting together and doing cool shit
and if we're seed swapping and we are furthering the genetics and furthering the culture and
Just taking that time out of our daily lives to like link up and get together
Yeah, no, I mean we definitely hit on that but the as much well one I
Fully
100% like it was lame and stuff and I wish I didn't have to put the box in the car and could have just handed
They are about to people and shared and shown people what I was up to
so that part was a bummer but like
it wasn't a waste of time like it was great to see everybody that I saw and
Like yeah, we still managed like we did what we do and
So it was worth it, I definitely think the
The
scale at ego clash and the
Freedom with which people are able to do it at invite only because like all we're talking about is sharing seeds
Like I can you want to come over and meet up with me in Sacramento?
Anytime anybody like let's link up and I got seeds like it ain't no thing. I can give people cannabis seeds
I have a lot of them and we can share them. It's 2021. That's not a fucking crime
but these people are
Like oh man, it's crazy like Tabitha
Specifically comes from like a recycling background. So it's just like
these people have no context and no frame of reference for
the industry that they're regulating and the activities that they're regulating and the
insane complexity that is involved because
There's the public health and safety code which is outside of their jurisdiction and then there's the fucking the
The commercial code basically and that's all the shit that they have to deal with and so
They don't understand the
rules and regulations that they're having to deal with and the community that they're interacting with and
So yeah, it's it's one of those things where?
In
Till other people like I don't feel bad about my experience
I feel really bad for everybody else who had their shit in that bag and that just really fucking pisses me off that they
straight up jacked people shit based off of
fucking lie in an intimidation tactic strong-arming them say put it in the bag or we're gonna call the cops and
The reality was they weren't gonna call the fucking cops
What's crazy, I mean I've seen I've watched a
lot of like
gene traders, you know on their little kind of IG and stuff and it seems like that's kind of what but
us is
You know a community is gonna like fall into and unfortunately
Because yeah a lot with legalization and regulation, you know, it's just gonna come down to a lot of
Stupid stuff like Trevor
Had to endure
So yeah, unfortunately, I think we're gonna have to go more towards
privatized events and
Do stuff like that, which is a little disheartening because man back in 2014 and 2015 that that was like
Emerald Cup was the place to be it was you know, super fun
it was great to meet up with a bunch of people from the internet and
Hang out smoking trade seeds show each other flower
Talk about you know stuff you're doing
so
Damn, that's a bummer
Yeah, I was there one of them ears are two of those years with Lucas and it was it was the funnest time
He'd show up you'd meet all the people you can talk until you bring your best herb
Seeds you can give away to anybody and you didn't feel like it was anything other than that
Like there was no one watching over your shoulder. At least you didn't notice it blatantly
You were able to meet all kinds of new people
That were from around the country all just love plant
It's like I met so many people that I've spoken to online in
2014 when I had my booth there
It was just crazy how many it was like I didn't stop talking for eight hours
Just people coming up to talk to me and say hello. It was great man. Those kind of times are gone
It's it's kind of disappointing
This is the first Emerald Cup and I've been able to attend and I know it sounds like it used to be fucking away
more happening back in the day
I still had a blast and I still was able to meet and link with a whole bunch of people that you know
I've been talking to for
For months if not years and finally getting to meet them face to face and there was you know
Many more people that I didn't get to just because it was
You know so much going on
But so I mean just coming in from a fresh perspective of someone who's wanted to go and I'm sure
If I went to years past in the Emerald Cup, I would have been like, you know, this was whack or
but I mean coming in fresh to it it was a
I had a great time and was able to connect with a lot of people like you were saying Anthony, so
You know, it's a it was a bummer to see stuff like, you know, I didn't see anything in person happen
But you know
There was the talk of the town like people getting their freaking shit taken away or threatened to have it taken away
So yeah, that's a that's a bummer for sure
and I'm glad I didn't see that happening because it probably would have changed my perspective on things a
Little bit or a lot of it
So I think that it still has like there's still you know
Good times we had some stuff to be, you know shared and exchanged
but it's definitely like now you got to be like looking over your shoulder and that's
That probably pretty shitty if you've been going to this thing for years and years and it used to be a completely different vibe
I'm just used to hitting festivals up and doing that kind of doing shady shit back in the day
Anyways, so for me that was like that was like normal standard operating procedure
but yeah for for all these cats out here who have been going to the Emerald Cup since it started and
Having it be super lax and I'm sure it blew major
Prop 215 was definitely the golden years of Cali. That's for sure
Definitely yeah. Yeah, I caught that tail ends of those and it's different it's way different
Yeah, 215 was definitely
It was
great off throughout
The Emerald Cup once it got a lot bigger and was down in Santa Rosa
You know I had it was a different vibe and a different beast
And I'm sure some of the older heads who were at the 101
area 101
Probably felt that that was you know a big change but
Really I feel like these days it's
It's one of the things where
These events like I'm gonna go to the next one. We have to keep on going
You know
using these
opportunities where we all come together to meet in these events and outside of these events at the time same time and like if you're
Really not down with supporting it and going inside
But are in the area. It's worth it to take that opportunity just to come
Because you know it ends relatively early and meet up with people
Trevor did you ever make it down?
And then he went to that other
Area 101 was it was almost like all
La it was like LA lit like all kind of shiny LA brand. Did you make it down there?
Um, I did walk through and I did notice that yes, it is very much thematic
So you go through the organic granola?
Area you go through the LA glitz area and then there's kind of the like
the
Corporate trade show sort of like rando, you know miscellaneous over here, you know
That's definitely
I
Think one there was I saw one clip
But yeah
It it was interesting I I definitely also think that part of this is um
The DCC is very much trying to
Divide traditional elements from commercial elements and trying to drive a wedge through different parts of the community and
you know the fact that they're rolling up on compound Chris or Chris from compound is like
They were just being dicks and
Enforcing heavily on everybody and they want to make sure that everybody who has a license and has skin in the game
Knows what's up? And the fact that they fucking took his shit or they went to another
Pacific
Cultivators or I'm sorry. I suck at people's names
But I believe that's his name he definitely commented on one of my posts and talked about how they threatened to take
Literally take away his license not just his
Like you can't be here at this event
displaying and selling cannabis
But they literally threatened his cultivation license over the fact that he displayed
215 cannabis in a display case
Not not selling no commerce simply showing it and that's an overreach
Yeah, he said that he just I'm gonna try and pull it up he said that he just post like had a
jar on his
Display on his
Booth that was his personal
215 that he grew and they came through and wanted to
The first day they wanted him to take it down and then the second day
They threatened his license if he okay here it is
Who are you talking about? Again? It's spring Spring Creek farms. No, like
Pacific cultivation. Okay, so happened to another person too. They didn't threaten his license
I don't think but they fucking busted his balls hard and we're trying to kick him like
They wanted to basically shut down his booth if he kept his flower out
Yeah, yeah, it's fucking crazy. Okay, so
Here it is
They shark eyed me on two occasions yesterday for 15 minutes at a time for displaying my personal
215 compliant product that I grow in a location on my property. That is a hundred percent acceptable to the DCC
However today I was entered
Instructed that if I did not take the display product down
I would be fined my license confiscated and forced to leave the event. I guess that was their way of initiating voluntary compliance
That's fucking insane
like
The fact that you can't even show
somebody what 215 cannabis looks like
is insane
They shut down the Puffco booth because Puffco allowed somebody to do a dab on their reg and
They made everybody in the craft farmers
Put away their products, but nothing to be on display
That's wild. I remember in
2017
you know
Bring your own product and have like the Rosin tech crew show you how to press your product
Then you can go over to in somewhere else and go use your product like it's wild
You know
I'm very grateful that we have trade shows and we can communicate with like-minded people and there's like-minded people who are able to stand
Their ground like mad respect to everybody, but it's definitely a trip to see
Where's that right now and any like word from like Tim or Emerald Cup on like that type of enforcement on?
You know medical stuff at a cannabis event like kind of like the California cannabis event for the past decade plus I
Have not heard from Tim I did Ray reached out to me
And she works with the with the cup
But that yeah, I haven't heard from from Tim directly or from anybody like direct like
higher up
but
Yeah, it was it's definitely a bummer and it should done changed
The blues my
Work for the Emerald Cup who helped us to diffuse the situation was definitely on our side and
Was doing his best to navigate and mitigate the drama that was coming from PCC
I don't think that the Emerald Cup had any idea that that was gonna go down the way it did I
Got a genuine sense that James was blindsided by it
Thanks for that BAM appreciate it. I would I would like to think that was the way for sure respect. It's good to know that
yeah, I definitely felt like he was like very helpful and
Doing what he like he did everything he could to make it so the
Situation went away and that I didn't have to walk out without like take my box out
but
They made it like, you know, we were not dealing with reasonable people
We were dealing with people who were going around and doing everything they could to try and
fucking
Shut people down
Particularly people who are trying to rep 215
Hearing like Brandon and Russ kind of perspective of you know, they just had the Cowboy Cup and they basically had
exactly what the Emerald Cup was and
You know that's coming from a Midwest state where you know
Used to you know, ten years ago. You would not think
Oklahoma and cannabis like you think like that's the Bible Belt and you know
they probably hate it and to hear how progressive they are towards it and then to hear how
Ass backwards California is going just blows my mind
the person who wrote their regulations lived in California in the Golden Era and
Definitely knew what was up and wrote those regulations so that they
They would help facilitate, you know at least a couple more years and props to everybody who's been able to
make that
That transition and pop off some more years in Oklahoma. Shout out to Adam Santa Cruz
Adam
Brandon like all all sorts of cats have made that that shift out to Oklahoma and
props to everyone
Oh
That yeah, that person was like Johnson
No, that's normal sap in is the one that was involved with writing that with the state
So hope Johnson was also in
the discussion like
Blake Blake Johnson Blake Johnson. Yeah, he hit me up before the laws were written and
Told me what was about to happen and he made it very clear what was gonna happen in
Oklahoma in the preceding five years and
everything he said has
Come to fruition and I told people six months before the laws passed or before the regulations changed in
Oklahoma that things were going to change and
Oklahoma was going to go from being one of the worst places in the country for cannabis to one of the best places for
Cannabis and tried to start sending people out there back then
Oklahoma is so incredibly loose
So the last year's Cowboy Cup was held at a
Location that was an old mall that had closed down and it was pretty much open consumption the whole entire time
I
Literally could smell the inside of the building probably I don't know
It's the back half of a malls parking lot
So, I mean I wasn't anywhere close to the entrance and I was able to smell that far out
So that was very interesting for me because the cops were just openly
Walking that area and they didn't care what anybody was doing
and you know, I was always told, you know to stay out of Oklahoma no matter what just to
Just to be able to stay out of the state if you're coming through to one of the bordering states
It would be potentially bad if you got caught with the seed in your seat or something of that nature. So
the transparency
From law enforcement has been very clear here that they have bigger fish to fry and they don't really care what you do
as long as you're not, you know openly abusing it and chonging out your car at like
Intersections and stuff and just kind of like rubbing it in their face what you're doing. So it's nice to see that
And it sucks to see what's going on in California. I would never imagine that
And
See that's that's that's another reason why I'm trying to do what I'm trying to do because that right there
I have a problem with I have a problem with them or us or
Police having an opinion that if somebody is smoking on the street and it's in front of them, but that's disrespectful
That is no more disrespectful than somebody having a cigarette out in public
And I know that there's a lot of places New York's one of them, California
They've implemented a lot of restrictions with cigarettes, but it's still to the point where it's like it's socially accepted and it's not seen as
Disrespectful and if they're doing anything wrong by being in the wrong place. It's a simple conversation
Hey, listen, you you have to step a little further away from this door and and and to get to that place with cannabis
Where a cop will come over be like, oh, yeah, that smells like a pretty awesome
Flower right there, bro. What do you got? Listen?
You can't be this close to this building. This is a
Cancer hospital. This is a freaking I don't know nursery. Whatever the case may be it becomes a casual conversation
Not something that is interpreted as disrespectful. So if you have
You know first responders in law enforcement community that can access this thing that will change the stigma from the inside out
If I could hop in here on this guys, this is Ryan with canna culture what's up y'all how are you?
Yeah, man, I just heard something and cops I don't mean to be disrespectful in my response
But it looks like you're a police officer trying to make a difference in you know cannabis awareness and
We do it all the time and and we found that you know
One of the things that is a problem is that people don't understand
the scientific relationship between cannabis and the human body and
So like you made a statement that made me want to hop in here. You said that
Consuming cannabis or lighting a joint or something like that should be
No, no less disrespectful than lighting a cigarette
Well, that's actually that that's a toxic perspective in and of its own right?
because
Cannabis contains a magical component called cannabinoid
Which is a part of the endocannabinoid system and when we were in school
We got taught about all the different systems in our body
We got taught about the pulmonary system and how arteries and veins and arterioles and venules
Push, you know blood in a certain cycle through you know
The heart even though it was never gonna fucking do anything for us to know that they taught us about
How you know oxygen comes in through the respiratory system and then is exchanged
you know through through your blood and then converts into co2 as in
You know an exit product and all that, you know, all these different systems
Okay were discussed but they ripped out the chapter that would have allowed
everybody including police officers to
Not even make the mistake of comparing smoking or consuming
Cannabis to something that like literally one of them causes one of the number one causes of cancer and the other one
Is the number one holistic healer of cancer, you know the deficiency of the endocannabinoid system is really what is
Causing the majority of disease as we see it
Which is why a lot of different people react to cannabis as the cure the cure for cancer the cure for depression the cure
for
Epileptic seizures or seizures or things like that the cure for glaucoma the cure for
No, okay when when you are thirsty and
You drink water
Then dehydration is not considered a disease
Okay, and you are not curing a disease by drinking water. You have a system that is deficient
It's called dehydration when you're you know down with a lot of dehydration
Okay, and because the endocannabinoid system through deficiency
Does not immediately react via death the way hunger or thirst
Does okay or even like, you know 22 to the skull? Okay
People don't react to the endocannabinoid system
They don't react to the endocannabinoid system because they're not aware of it
You know 22 to the skull, okay
People don't acknowledge the fact that it is the plant of the divine
It was a plant that was created it has three different
components
cannabinoids terpenes and
Flavonoids, okay, and the endocannabinoid system needs all three of those things. Well
Flavonoids and terpenes exist in a natural sense in all different fucking things
We can get them from other things, but the only way that we can put
Cannabinoids which by the way, there's hundreds of them. Not just THC. Not just CBD our
Body needs all of them hundreds of them
Okay, I can't even fucking name 20 of them, but there are hundreds of them
Okay, and it's so ass backwards when people think that there is anything criminal
Can you imagine and I'm not trying to signal you out cops. I'm just trying to help with the education here
Can you imagine if someone equated drinking a glass of water as no more?
disrespectful than drinking a
Shot or a glass of beer?
Okay, one of them is poisonous to the body and has caused
Multi-generational, you know trauma
and
Significantly decrease the quality of life for human beings as a whole, you know, right and what's that?
You're preaching to the choir
But what would you say to the cop
Because you'd have to say whatever you're saying
So what would be the point you'd make to the cop if you're walking down the street with a joint?
Well, dude, honestly, man, you know right now
It's not safe to walk down the street with the joint and then allow that to be the entry point of conversation
I'll make that clear. We we
succeed in communicating with police officers
primarily when they are hired at our cannabis events and
They opt in to working them, you know
You know one of the ways around this
disjunction between police officers and the cannabis industry has been
You know selective inclusion and so by allowing
law enforcement to
You know make sure that people that support the cannabis industry
Can elect to be a part of that industry from a security perspective?
You know being able to cordially sit at a table with police officers
We had an event just recently the hempy Halloween in st. Petersburg
We had a police a couple off-duty police officers that we
Hired we have to by law. It's a medical state and
Long story short by the end of the night. They were taking handfuls of
Cannabis home with them
Handfuls of cannabis home with them that were less than 0.3%
THC
Because they felt a hundred percent confident by the end of the night
That their bodies were going to suffer and that some of the physical things that they're dealing with
Are because of endocannabinoid deficiency and that's where I focus I focus on the education of the endocannabinoid system
And how everybody's deficient if they don't consume this stuff on a regular daily basis
and I and I end usually by saying that everybody has an endocannabinoid system and
Whether you want to consume Delta 9 or not
You can still put in a bunch of cannabinoids in your system that your police officer
Or that's in charge or your lieutenant that's gonna drug test
You is not going to penalize you for having that component in your body
So when they're testing for you know cannabis
In the police they're looking for Delta 9 THC. That's it. That's all they're looking for
They don't care if you're consuming cannabis
They care that a specific version of THC in the plant is in your body
And so yeah
that's my recommendation start with the endocannabinoid system as an education piece and
then connect with people that whether they like it or not they have one and
If they if they can accept the fact that they have an endocannabinoid system like a respiratory a pulmonary system within minutes
You can start to see their brain spinning and it's it's a powerful thing, man
I'm just gonna be real we've seen a lot of conversion
But the issue is is culturally of course, you know, if anybody in the room knows me like we're a really heady brand
We've been session for years and like it was a huge move. That was like extremely
Uncomfortable for me who has been you know, I've been arrested for possession and you know, I've been through it
I've you know, I'm a stoner. I sound like I look like and I live the stoner lifestyle
So I have dealt with you know, police officers fucking with me
You know stealing my weed repotting it clearly geeking out that they're gonna smoke it later like that shit's irk me
So to take the step, I think you're in the direction of trying to repair and it's so fucking hard
But it's so important and it's not just with
Cannabis as a group. There's there's so many other groups in the world that are
Desperately in need of repairing their relationship with
police because
Getting rid of police is not the solution guys like this this world would be fucked if we didn't have someone to call
When shit was hitting the fan, so clearly we can't deregulate
We can't get rid of police officers who keep the bad guys from looting and polluting. We just got it
Hey Ryan, right real quick just to kind of keep it back and focused on
The discussion about like, you know
Interacting with the police and just also discussing these issues as they pertain to cannabis
You know just to be clear. I don't think anybody is
meaning to say that cannabis and tobacco are similar in terms of the
Health effects or the physiological effects. I think it's just social norms that we're being referred to and like it's
Beaks volumes to just how incredibly backwards our social norms are that everything you just said is true
and
that
we still have these backwards social norms where
tobacco's socially acceptable and
I know all kinds of people who will smoke cigarettes and or be in the presence of cigarette smoke and
I mean, so I did a lot of politics locally and
All of the older opposition people who wanted to ban cannabis would immediately run out of the building and light up their cigarettes and
That irony was never lost on me
But that's you know, they didn't they thought that we smelled disgusting because we smelled like cannabis
we thought they smelled terrible because they smelled like cigarettes and
They thought that it was disrespectful for us to smell like cannabis and
Had no
compunction about smelling like tobacco and thought that that was just normative and you know, I think that was all that was being referred to and
so yeah, but it 100% Trevor and that's simply the
The comparison that was trying to be made the social norm and and and Ryan no, I didn't take anything disrespectful. I
Consider myself educated on a handful of things right there and and and I love what you're doing in regards to
trying to you know, just just correct that wrong with
Regardless of your experiences your negative experiences and stuff like that
It's that's a that's a testimony to your character that you're standing in a position to try to rectify this
this relationship and you know and doing the same thing that I'm trying to do from a different perspective and
I'm gonna get what you on the back channel man, because I'm curious what your experiences have been
what your approaches were and
Yeah, and I'll pick your brain on that stuff. But yeah, it was simply just a comparison of how it's so acceptable
So acceptable and not taken as disrespect
But then you have people who are smoking weed and the police officers interpretation is that's disrespectful that needs to change
That needs to change that the impression that they have
Needs to be changed and I think a good approach from the inside is when people have access to the stuff and they're
Realizing the practical use and how good it can make their lives and how fast
It can fast forward their healing process along with other things
It's not the end-all be-all
But if people just get the fuck out of their way first respond this way and allow them to have access to this
so that they can they can it can it can aid in their healing process along with anything else that I
Mean a cop with Crohn's disease
Cannot access
medical cannabis that a regular civilian can and get it from a doctor like all of that is ludicrous to me and and and so
if you if you opened up those doors and you have people in front of a desk and in the locker room and that roll
Call and then patrol cars and and at holiday parties talking about how their cannabis has helped them
I feel like that's gonna raise a lot of eyebrows within the law enforcement community like
Maybe I have the wrong impression of this and that's basically all I was trying to say
big
Ups dude big ups. Yeah, man
Yeah, that's really like
That happened granted I live in a very small community and everybody kind of knows everybody but like
There were law enforcement officials whose
perspectives changed or softened over the years because they had family members oftentimes who
Really, you know went from
completely
super super zealous
prohibitionist
to then flipping and being actually open to cannabis after it helped somebody in their life with an
actual ailment and
those sorts of stories are
There are a lot more common and you'd be you know, I mean none of us here but
They often granted cops, sorry
most cops
oftentimes are in that minority or in that subset of the population that doesn't recognize any
Medical belief and when they see just undeniable evidence in front of their face. It really can have a huge impact
Yeah, the other thing that we've done is we've just made sure that you know
Police officers on the site for our events have access to
the laboratory testing results that prove the content of
whatever's being consumed being Delta 8 Delta 10 or
You know having less than 0.3 percent of dry weight THC
And offering those products to the police officers for free
Almost always at the beginning of the night like everybody or everybody but one police officer says no and
Then usually by the end of the night
They're hoarding a goodie bag of cannabis products after the event went smoothly and they realize that
You know, they're they're actually dealing with legal stuff
So just putting it in their face and educating them giving them QR code scanning access to you know
Those lab results and you know
There's one or two guys in the group that are trying to say I don't know about this and then
There's gonna be another guy in the group. That's gonna be like just scan the code. It's right there
And so there's been a we've seen that which is that like it?
removing the belief that they need to believe what it is that you the person who holds cannabis is saying and
providing access to
Actual references right on the spot and giving them stuff for free it those those three things
I think it was Peter asked what were the things specifically that we did and and those three things have been very successful for us
That sounds incredible to me man appreciate that
Yeah, man, are we allowed to talk about what everyone's smoking on in here or is it only about the ego clash in the Emerald Cup?
I
Mean that's definitely within the realm of discussion, but we're you know trying to stay on topic
but we oftentimes meander
Windward citrus by Binsky, Florida out here
I
Don't know at this point I've gone through
four joints since we started
Well, I'm on my fourth excuse me
It was
some Bodhi
One of the stashes I think it was
I
think it was
Some Bodhi
One of the stashes I think it was Lando stash or one of the one of Bodhi stash crosses with some
Donnie burger rosin
And
Then to chem D
Hash plant joints and this third one. I don't know what it is. I think probably some Donnie burger
I
Got from John at the cup. So that's that's what I smoked on just since we started
But it would be Donnie burger
I
Think the whole
kind of evolution of
GMO and Han Solo and the Donnie burger. I haven't tried the Donnie burger personally, I think but I have tried the
Han Solo and like GMO and Han Solo I had from
Lion Tree and
Man, you know Aaron's a fantastic
like gardener down there and
That was I slept on it. I'm not gonna lie for like a while and then I finally was like, alright, I'm gonna try it and
That was definitely like game-changing for me I was like, holy shit, this is incredible like I'm
I felt stupid for sleeping on it. So I can't imagine what the Donnie burgers like
Peter what did you get gifted that you're excited to smoke once you're home and can enjoy the super duper high?
More of the Donnie first
I don't know. I wrote I
Can't I I had that my sharpie with me everything cuz like a lot of times I'll go to events and I'll just
Stick stuff in bags and I won't remember what was water who gave it to me
There's I would say starting with Jackson stuff that the Bodie stuff was I don't know what it was and I didn't get it
I mean we smoked it, but I don't have any more but uh
It was super super smooth I was not in a salty way, but it's kind of like
When you're thirsty and instead of water you drink just like a light beer. It was like
refreshing but
Little flavorful I guess more flavorful than water
Yeah, that Donnie burger from John just cuz I got some of that too and I'm smoking it right now
It's really good. And I can only imagine Han Solo burger or whatever Han Solo from a
Lion tree would have been like super super cron everything he grows is incredible. I miss him
I miss him so much. I miss him so much. I miss him so much
Like super super cron everything he grows is incredible I miss bumping into him
he was obviously not around this weekend, but
We used to always
Then we missed each other
Yeah that that fucking terrorist produces some of the greatest cannabis I've ever tasted in my fucking life
I'm like and like and I hope the seriousness is like coming through because
That like incredible cannabis like I can't speak enough
and
And and I think it has like something to do with you know, the cultivator to of course, you know
the spirit of the cultivator
100% but the entire situation, you know, the cultivator the terrorist the strains. It's just an incredible
Situation if anyone's ever in Oregon, I highly recommend snagging some lion tree you green also in Oregon a day
They did a Donnie burger also
Fantastic job to if you know, if anybody's looking to try it and they're swinging through Oregon
I also can recommend you green to great cultivator
And you know skunk master flex needs
props on that one for breeding it and
yeah, he's he's taken the GMO which is
It's got a lot of great characteristics
It's developed a little bit of a blue dream hate club
Sort of vibe going to it these days
but um, I think a lot of that just has to do with the fact that it's been
Grown a lot kind of overdone
but it also has the drawback as from a cultivation perspective of having a really long flowering time and
The Donnie burger has a nice shorter flower time
Still got that really gnarly garlic
onion
like just halitosis funk and
I've smoked several phenos of it now and each one of them hits and
I
Also tried the the rosin just now and also like it took something that I wasn't really liking the
The phone call
Peter the rosin was Donnie burger to that. I have I have some Donnie burger rosin and
It's from Landhammer farms and
It also has like
it took the turps from a joint that I wasn't too interested in the the flower herb and just
Totally overwhelmed it with GMO garlic funk. That was quite pleasant and it hits hits hard
The
Halitosis, I'm so glad you hit because I get such a unique note within the GMO and it's one that like
I feel like you either love or you you do not like and like
When you do like it you almost it's kind of I feel like like crave it in some sense. It's kind of weird
I don't know how to explain it. Like you have like seen people just kind of like go crazy for it
Yeah, it's fucking disgusting
I've been around
Like the Donnie burgers not as intense but being around large
Quantities of it is fucking gross it
When it when it's in full flower and it's right near the end and it's got that like
Nasty halitosis thing going it just feels like you're being breathed on it's not good
Yeah
Oh, no, you're good brother go ahead. Oh, I just gonna say
For those that don't know what halitosis is
It's like a really bad like I guess like a world
You know like infection you probably smelled it maybe like, you know
Like older people when you get kind of like close to them and they haven't had like really good like dental care
And there's like whoa, like what is that smell in the area? That's
You've smelled
Halitosis to me. I'm like, oh, I'm gonna go to the dentist. I'm gonna go to the dentist
Halitosis before
Yeah, I was gonna say my wife does not let me trim it up when
When it's ready because it just absolutely
fumigates the house and she hates it but
Man, it is
Something special that's for sure. I
Wanted to bring something up about something that happened in the cup to somebody at a booth
My friend came from Texas
he made the official grinder for the Emerald Cup years ago and
Self pipes and things
He was working at his booth by himself and people
Decided to put a pile of weed on or you know
put a few buds on his table and people kept coming by and adding to it and
The
Authorities came there and basically stripped him of his privileges and threw him out of the cup and
He spent ten thousand dollars on a booth. They put him in the shittiest part of
The building nobody saw he was even there. It took me five hours to find him on Saturday
But yeah, he's super bummed
On his way back to Texas
That really sucks
Yeah
Do you have his contact information or like have him get in touch with me?
I'm not that I can do anything to make him whole just you know, it would be nice to know everybody who
has had problems and kind of like get together share stories and
experiences and try and sort of document the way that he's
sort of document the way that they interacted with us and the ways that they
They harmed people because like I I
Experienced zero harm like I couldn't sue them
If I were to like try and sue them the damages would get it would get thrown out on its face because I have no
Damages had they stolen my or actually taken my herb then I potentially could have a lawsuit against them
And anybody whose stuff was in that trash bag you like those are damages and you could sue
Whether or not you would win or whether or not it's worth it
I can't say but like you could at least claim some harms. I can't sounds like he could claim some harms
based off of the fact that he was out ten thousand dollars and then discharged on
The basis that was you know
Should not the consequence of
That action worst case scenario
Should be oh this cannabis needs to be put in the bag and even that's lame and stupid
But like that should have been the absolute worst case scenario
Result not costing somebody tens of thousands others to know or you know, however much and a fucking wasted trip to California
Yeah
Trevor yeah, he was so bummed out. He he went over to their one-on-one
tent and
you know, he had a
You know handful of pipes and a couple grinders sitting on the table and the DCC saw him in there and basically
Cut his wristband and told me he could never come back
Yeah, I
Yeah, that sucks, I'm sorry to hear that man
Were there any other occurrences besides the one you were talking about Trevor?
There were a lot of
isolated events
With actual vendors. I don't know of that much there. I think I heard
Somebody I don't want to say their name because I believe they are
associated with the licensed retailer
Or not retailer licensed, whatever
I
think they got fucked with for supposedly inciting a
Or attempting to incite an illegal hash bar because they had
Too much hash in their possession
And it by too much. It was like 15 grams or something
Then another person who also had same amount of hash I guess came out of the lake
came out of somewhere and made some comment about
SoCal Terps and
the cops rolled up on him and
They like dude had fucking like guavas from SoCal in his cooler
In his cooler and he also had some hash but he was talking about the fucking guavas and
Because that's what he was handing out
he had a bunch of fucking guavas to share with people and he was calling him SoCal Terps because guavas are fucking hella tasty and
Terpy, you know, so like he was just making a joke and the dudes fucking rolled up on him
They didn't take any of his shit, but they fucked with him
On just like that kind of level making him show them that he had fucking guavas
and
I I heard of a couple other booths having incidents and then just yeah lots and lots of people people I've known who
For years have been like seed traders MK ultra
Different folks like that got fucked with Tino's genetics got fucked with the dude that walks around dressed up like a pizza
Chef he they fucked with him took his shit
Mr. C
Mr. C's homie. He fucking donated seeds and like supports things
Auctions and stuff like that. I heard that they got some of their seeds jacked
So definitely a lot of individuals who were isolated and alone
Got like swooped up on and just had their shit jacked
Yeah, that's ridiculous. I mean like
You know where it's going. Hopefully we can correct it somehow
Yeah, I mean the law in the book it's not a good one
Mucha love cannabis family. Oh that sounds terrible to get jacked up on what's the plan if I wanted to go to this in?
The future and not get jacked up on or why do these people get messed with I kind of just joined in the last couple
minutes, but
That's just sucks for the cannabis family for people get rolled up on like that
um, I mean like one don't like take a box full of weed and I guess is
part of the way not to get fucked with
That's
You know part of why they fucked with me
But that's bullshit cuz like I used to like roll up in there with like five times as much or
the idea that that was
out of line
You know, it certainly wasn't from my perspective or from what I've done and it was scaled back considerably like
unconsciously
But like don't bring a fuck ton of herb if you do bring more than an ounce make sure that you have a
valid medical recommendation within the state of California
be prepared to have to assert your medical rights if they challenge you and try to force you to
You know relinquish your cannabis refuse to do so they'll threaten to bring the cops
It at least in my experience was an empty threat
Don't exchange
packaged goods in a
public thoroughfare where they can easily see you because that's that's also
Like my shit
they couldn't say that my shit was like commerce or like like it was
untrimmed herb in fucking turkey bags and just a bunch of different samples to show people like it was
Fucking dumb it was not like
Here's some herb that I'm gonna give you
That's like competing with cookies or these other branded packaged things. It was like
obscure silly shit that I like, you know, not necessarily something that any
consumers gonna buy
Did Jackson end up competing this year
It kind of from what I'm gathering from Peter it sounds like he just kind of dropped into
Yeah, this wasn't the competition. This is the ball that the harvest ball. So this was
like
Get together. Um, I'm like an excuse to like
Yeah, I feel like like let's hold this date that we used to always do this thing on
Gotcha
Yeah, so the competition I think happens in like
Early next year like March May sometime period like that. I could be wrong on my date but around then
Trevor I know
You know, what's good has been jumping into the audience. I think you just signed up for club us
I don't know if he's still in here. But if you see him in the audience, I told him to try to raise his hand but
I don't know what name he has on clubhouse though
Yeah, totally I'll bring him up and
You know, what's good was super awesome
he was very solid on the position that
0% THC high CBD smokable hemp is
It's the wave of the future
it's 215 for
This new hemp world that we live in and I gotta say like
Tabitha's
Facial expression when he said that to her and when she tried to come up with a response was pretty priceless
like that
There were three moments that stood out the most it was that moment
when she looked at BAM's lanyard and said that's not even the
The this year's judging lanyard as if like that fucking mattered for anything and
When she said to me
We're here to protect the licensed operators and I responded by saying so you're here to protect
cookies and connected from my from me and
Me being my bag of untrimmed weed like get fucking real like her facial expression
At all three of those interactions was priceless
Worth the cost of admission definitely
My biggest thing was when I realized that my pelican case full of weed was right below all of you guys
Having that conversation and I tried to subtly come over there and move my pelican case out of the way as like that
BCC guy he had a big huge trash can I'm in trash bag
With stuff dripping out of the bottom onto my pelican is
Yeah, officer white definitely sucks and is not a very courteous dude, you know just basic courtesy breath I
Must say it with both of you masked up if you were to wear one of their hats
You could have definitely been one with your jacket
Dude that shit was hilarious and my home fucking trolled me the night before
Fucking thing. Yeah
In real time my homie was like you look like a cop at the ego clash and then fucking the next day
I'm surrounded by a fucking gang of fools who are dressed exactly the same and I just yeah, I
Couldn't yeah, I make fun of myself. Oh
Dude your memes have me dying. It was great
Yeah, shout out to everybody who captured those images and keep them coming anybody who's listening
it was there and
Got some of those images. I know there's one that I haven't tracked down yet. That's fucking incredible
It's lit. It's the moment dude flashes his badge and
Mesa's face is like right there next to the badge and he just like gives it the stink face
And that was a very very good moment
Sergio you were at
Sorry, I just realized Sergio was in the audience, but I just
While we're waiting Peter go ahead Peter
I don't think Sergio made it up to the stage
Peter go ahead Peter. I don't think Sergio made it up to the stage
What flavors did Jackson bless you with Peter
I'm trying to remember it was
Literally the last joint we rolled at the second night and we're all so high I it was definitely like
Something
It was something in like the strawberry or I don't know but it was delicious
And then he gave me a bunch of seeds
So, I mean it's all it's all in my backpack in the back of the Prius
Yeah, don't sleep on those seeds those are straight gold I
I know he was putting up some strawberry flavors
For different auctions a while ago. So that's pretty cool. I assume that it's probably in the same sort of like
gene pool or
Relatives and cool that you got to try something. I can't remember. I think it was something that bog did but
that he was working with but it sounded really cool and I
Remember those auctions and doing some of those logistics
Yes, speaking of other fun things
The best
But yeah, I'm bummed I didn't make it there on Sunday to see Jackson or Bodie I
Just yeah
Nelson was also there on on Sunday and it it's possible rust and Nelson may
drop in at some point as well tonight, but um
Yeah, it was
Go ahead Peter
Now I was gonna say it was it was a trippy surreal thing to meet a lot of people in person who I feel like
I've hung out with
online many times like know well and like I would consider them all friends and it's like
This is actually the first time we're ever meeting in person like with Brandon. Oh
Yeah, and it's like you guys like pick up where you left off like last time you talked you're just like oh, hey
What's up? Oh, yeah. This is what we were talking about, you know two weeks ago or whatever, you know
It's it's super cool
Yeah
Meeting Russell for the first time was really cool
and then sharing that, you know, I was completely out of my element on the panel, but
It was great just to kick it with the four of those dudes
Well, the three of those dudes and me so the four of us this science breakdown
Yeah, like I mean, I've got nothing to contribute to that discussion
props to all the soil scientists out there
but like, you know, I was down to sit and listen and it was a great time smoking with those cats and
Yeah, like it's like you said one of those things where you've known each other for years
You're finally even if you like now to a certain extent where we're a bunch of us and put our faces out there
It's still a trip to like be in the flesh standing next to somebody because you've got no like
Context and oh, yeah
100% and it's just like you're like wow
You're like wow, you're my cool internet buddy that I you know actually get to meet in person
Yeah, totally that that was really cool and I had no idea Brandon was gonna be there
So seeing Brandon was really cool and honestly
Brandon pulled up and it was like the moment he pulled up
handed me a fucking t-shirt and a pack of seeds, but like a t-shirt and
And
fucking dude rolled up and was like DCC blah blah blah and it was like
literally the second I
like
Talked yeah. Yeah
He was there the entire time like there were like about four maybe five homies
That were there the entire like from start to beginning and like everybody else was like solid
And like people only like fell off once they saw that it was like fully like we had it handled but like
fucking
That goes to show, you know, I was standing up as a community to back each other up
You know what we have as a power as a community together, you know
compared to being
Just by yourself. So I felt like that was a cool example of just a sense of community
for sure
Yeah, good friends like every one of those guys is a very good friend and I appreciate them for the fact that
they were is like down for the like set as I was like I wasn't about to give up my box and
Because I wasn't gonna give up my box. They were a hundred percent like okay, this is
This is what we're doing now. So
everybody who
Like, you know, that's I attribute that to being the main difference like granted
I probably just would have been kicked out but like
Everybody else got fucked with and got their shit jacked largely because they just didn't have that
That group of people drawing attention to the situation and helping them out
Tell me
Tell us more about the I guess
Clash Cup was that a judging event and had a whole kind of
Competition behind it is I mean, it's the ego cup, you know, yeah, the ego clash is a really unique event
it's invite only I
Like
I'm not a dapper. I don't smoke a lot of hash. I I smoke it in joint. So I'm not really in
That world but
Tons like the best of the best of the hash world in
particularly in California, but really around the world are coming together and
I
would say that like there's the ego clash and there's legends and those seem to be the two like
events that are keeping it the most like
authentic and true to
Something of like we're gonna compete and we're gonna have somebody who comes out as a winner, but we're gonna
Like do it within the community. We're not gonna do it as this huge commercial event and
we're just going to have very high standards and oh, yeah follow the fucking rules and
that's like
Those rules and those standards are the thing that makes the event what it is, so I appreciate it on that level
Brandon has a lot of they've got a lot of rules about the the hash competition
So if you're entered in the competition and you're participating in the competition you come with your plus one
you
go in
Go in the lake hash smoking arena you
do your thing and
You don't
You don't tap out or you know, you can tap out for your partner
but like you're supposed to go in there and smoke a fucking hash and
Have all the trial the samples
judge them fairly and
Then everything's tabu this year was digital. So they tabulated all the results and evaluated everything and
There's not a lot of fucking distractions and a lot of people who aren't involved in that competition in that space
They keep it very clear and like cleaned out and like get the fuck out of here if you're not involved in this
So I went I said hello to my people that I knew in there and I bounced out and went to the seed swaggle
Which is where I get down
There's also a flower competition and like a flower zone. So if you're like entered in that you're over in that zone as well and
Up at the seed swaggle. It's just
You know bunch of people getting together and sharing and swapping seeds, you know, that's
That's the man. Sounds like my type. Yeah
Yeah, I remember
Back in
2014 and 2015 it was
It was turp hogs and third gem fam, man
they took all three categories of everything from that involved hash and
they
Think it was 2015 that
They're like, yeah, we're retiring from doing the Emerald Cup because we're gonna let some other people try it this
It was kind of funny
Yeah, no, they definitely had their run and like it's cool to see the Brandon's like
He's transitioned and is doing something that
You know
Every year I get that plus one or I get that actual invite, you know, hit me up. Yeah
That's one of those things we're all keep going because it's event it's an event that
Even, you know, I don't need to dab and do the whole hash thing to experience and appreciate
what's going on there and how they're doing that and
Going get down with like what I'm about. I'm you know, just like I can get in with rust and those cats talking about
You know soil science. I'll fucking get down with that
Oh, yeah, that's awesome. Yeah, so just huge props to everybody who put that on and
Unfortunately, I don't know who won I know
Sean none your business or none you biz
He's a homie on Instagram. He did well. I don't know
I don't know who won. I don't know who won
He's a homie on Instagram he did well
I don't know exactly where he placed but I saw him the next day at the cup and he was really stoked on how
Well, he turned out. I think he was in the top three
and
he put the turps in front of my nose and I was like damn like it was
It was some saucy loud Z something. I don't know exactly what it was. But like Edgar said
That rainbow
Fucking can't think right rainbow belts rainbow belts exactly from archive
That that shits rocking saw lots of that up there just in general
going around I
Just got home from Northern California, I'm back home Compton, California home sweet home
Glad you made it safe, man
Yeah, our driver only fell asleep once so we're good
You almost home Peter
He said he wasn't asleep and he was just resting his eyes real quick
Yeah, we're about an hour outside LA
For sure, I actually Peter it was I was with Jerome
I just dropped Jerome off at his house at the drive an extra hour to drop him off, but I'm home now
So you got it?
You got to teach him how the the raised hand functioning
But that's because he kept being like he kept texting me while I'm driving being like I'm in the room
Make me a moderator. I was like just raise your hand
Jesus that guy he's seen me. I'm all like hey guys
I'm on Clubhouse and then he just downloads the app and throws it on the on the audio in the car Jerome's a fool
I love him
He's
Somebody
Busting into your guys's a rental car, right?
Yeah, dude
When we when we gave you all this stuff like it was the window was busted the whole time
We we turn around we look at the car. We're like, ah great
fucking windows crashed and
They didn't take anything. I think I put all my stuff in the trunk out of really nice pipe in the back
I had a bunch of packs that I bought from Capulet er
I had a bunch of my packs out of my nice backpack and
They cracked the window open, but I I'm I think the car had an auto theft device because the trunk was
Untampered with or maybe it just made too much noise and somebody noticed so they weren't able to take my stuff
Thank God because I would have been
Really bummed but uh, you know
Everything turned out fine, you know, that was Tabitha an officer white bro, man
You know what? It's it's funny that you say that but uh, I wouldn't be surprised if these guys, you know
Got their their last laugh, you know
Word yeah, you know they they wanted those turps and then a Gabe
Raider nation actually told me that Sunday he had stepped into the you know
Ga through GA and that someone like pulled him to the side or like like they just made it really
Obvious that they took a picture of him like of his face and I'm like wait what he's like
Yeah, man, like it was really weird and I'm just like but just be careful, you know
Yeah, so I know oh
So no Eric Branseter who just came up on stage was there as well. We got to interview him live on
FCP on
Saturday I think no was it Sunday? I don't remember one of the two days. Did you what did you experience there?
Did you have a moment say I oh
Yeah
Make it Saturday my kids 18th birthday was on
Saturday
Sunday I don't mind those less crowds and less lines and I don't mind that it rains
There's plenty of warm places now compared to years before but the funny
Talking about
And trying to come oh, you know, they're you know people try to pick things apart and I'm like
Well, it wasn't the Emerald Cup. It was the Harvest Ball and
Essentially, it was a brand new event. That's really
You know in that capacity hasn't been done sure
There's a lot of similar attributes and the things that you know, we're very similar to the cup
But there also weren't you know, the times are much different the small farms initiative booths were really important to have and things like that
There's also been a lot of other
events kind of dick riding the cup and fucking things up in some ways with making it's harder for people to travel with the
You know MJ bizcon right up on it one year and Hall of Flowers up on it this year and things like that
So in a lot of ways a lot of the it seems, you know
the bigger companies so to speak were
We're in Hall of Flowers and a lot of the smaller farms were at the Harvest Ball, which was awesome
and you know, I also see a lot of people kind of picking apart the whole burner aspect or the
cookies
Dome or whatever and I don't know if people just forget or whatever
But when the Emerald Cup was first started at Santa Rosa six or seven years ago, you know
Burner used to run his own booth. He was standing behind the table by himself a lot of times with you know, nothing fancy
That's for sure
So I don't know to see somebody come up and be able to sponsor the event and you know
whatever the event is in some cases, it's a good time for the community to get back together and
for me, I had an awesome time and saw a lot of cool people and and
There's a lot of people
I wish I could have said hello to that
I didn't get a chance to and I probably missed quite a few people on Saturday, but all in all for me
It was a good time and I think what the car is getting broke into unfortunately
that's a rough part of northern, you know in Northern California in general and most of the events at the Santa Rosa fairgrounds whether it's the
Emerald Cups or Harvest Balls or whatever. They have cars get end up getting broken into and that part definitely sucks, too. But
You know, I mean there's always negative shit that people want to bring up or talk about sometimes
I always am interested and see a lot of those comments, but personally
like I said, I was happy as a clam and I spent lots of money with as many vendors as I could and
Like I said, it was good to see a lot of people and I'm smoking good today
What did you like smoking there? What it were? What food stuff did you smoke?
Well, like I said, I'm a big fan of the small farm initiative area
So I was over at those booths and you know, like Jason Gellman from Ridgeline Farms has been growing
fantastic cannabis for many years and has won the Emerald Cup back-to-back and so I mean a lot of times
It's good to chop it up with those guys and catch up and also get some
some of the cannabis and so his Green Lantern cross with the runs which he calls the Lance was really good and
There was another
You know small farm heritage Mendocino Kyle
I've been a fan of and friends for a long time and and
work with these people in my previous career of greenhouses and stuff and so
Navelli had a lot of good stuff from farm, you know
Vital vital distro had a nice Gary Payton, you know
It was just like I said $20 aids and a lot of small farms and a lot of love that went into the cannabis
so it was pretty easy for me this year to stand in line and and
Get a little something from as many people as I could
Yeah, I agree Eric I did have more fun than the not fun that's for sure
Yeah, yeah also, sorry, sorry
No, no
You know, we all we always have expectations
You know what?
What what it was like the year before or what you know?
We did the years before and who we saw and things like that
So I get that there's some kind of a you know, mental measurement that we put on our you know
Expectations of some of these events but again like a lot of people I see there
Certain things about the Emerald Cup is like well, it wasn't the Emerald Cup. It was the Harvest Ball and
And yeah, by the way
Masonic or Edgar or whatever? I'm a big fan
I didn't get to meet you in person, but we have a lot of mutual friends and I just wanted to say
Hello, even though I didn't get a chance to yesterday
I'll see you sooner than later
Yeah, no and I I've tried to also stress I mean, I don't know if you saw my post about all the shit that went
down
Eric but uh
Yeah
I mean, you know, we've been getting beat up for years. I mean, this is nothing new in some ways
But yeah, I didn't hear your take on it
Yeah, no fully and I don't I've tried to stress like, you know, it's
The nuance gets lost to a certain extent but I think a
Lot of the things that you really like heightened are things that I'm trying to also
Like communicate to people because I think that this was an assault on the Emerald Cup
I think it was an attack not only on the like
It makes a perfect sense for a bunch of flunkies who are you know
Mid-level bureaucrats to go and be overzealous and shitty and fuck up people's good time
That's not something that like is out of the ordinary and it's perfectly understandable and we can handle that
but like
the fact that Tabitha
Chavez was there and she's literally the highest enforcement agent in the state
like after her we're talking about like
The head of CDFA type people up the food chain sort of thing
The fact that she was on the ground and was the person that they were escalating to
Was part of them sending a message that enforcement action was them sending a message
None of that was by chance that was all just as much an attempt by the DCC
to fuck with the organizers as it was the event goers and
Also to create this false division and you know
I will take I've played into this a little but like she straight-up said I'm here to protect the licensed
Operators and my like cheeky response was oh you're here to protect cookies and connected from me
And the only reason I say it is because my bag is fucking goofy. It's untrimmed
turkey bag like, you know, we're not the same is
you know the reality here and
I'm not a threat to them and
The the DCC is trying to create this division
That's what they were trying to do. They were trying to pit
licensee against non licensee
64 against 215
Say pretending like 215 just can't even be mentioned or put on display like that was all them
Doing a coordinated attack on all of us and so fuck them not fuck the cup
It killed the vibe and it wasn't like it it sucked but like for me just in that moment
But um
You know like I was super stoked to see everybody that I ended up getting to see and I wish I would have been there
On Sunday, you know and I intend to go
When the actual cup is held because this was not the cup like you pointed out this there wasn't a competition
It wasn't nearly the size and scale
This was a different thing and it
the DCC
Intentionally set out to fuck it up. I
Agree, I mean, there's no question from what I've saw and heard from people and you and you know, bam and whatnot
Yeah, I mean they were definitely out to fuck around with people in general and that's the way it's been
You know what? I mean?
Like the enforcement
Has come a long way at some of these events and undercover and things like that in general have always occurred
And I think we've always known that we're taking a risk when we put you know
No matter where we're going in California no matter if we're licensed or unlicensed when we
Carry around large amounts of cannabis in our backpack. There could be a consequence to it and who knows what that could be. I mean
You know and I think that's the nature of us
Sometimes we know like some of us roll like that and that's the way it goes and you know
Hopefully we can get ourselves out of the situation the 215 cards
Were kind of like a jet get out of jail free card in some of those situations and maybe it was in this case
Too because they were giving out
Medical cards or you could get your medical card on site while you were in
In the in the fairgrounds there so that you could buy more than one ounce of cannabis
You could go by eight or whatever
And so I mean the cup had it seem or the harvest ball seems to had it set up appropriately
But like you said, I think that you know them coming in trying to shake people down was just another
Instance of people, you know, like there's a lot of stories
I'm sure they hear about the Emerald Cup and what's happened in Santa Rosa or up in the Emerald Triangle and the people that they might
Run into or who knows the stories, but I'm sure they can be wild because we've all
You know enjoyed a lot of different
Versions of these events over the course of time and some have been wilder than others and and I think that you know, we've all
Somewhat, you know found loopholes push the envelope and done our thing
And I think we're just gonna keep continuing to do that to some extent because these events are never gonna be how we want them
to be
the event organizers are always gonna try to get it right, but it's never gonna be perfect and
We're all just gonna have to you know
Watch our asses a little bit sometimes because just like back in the day if you went to Grateful Dead shows
You never knew who was you know under cover and people slinging shit and doing things and so, you know
I think it's clear now that this kind of set of precedents that anytime there's a cannabis event. Don't be surprised
There was some you know, somebody trying to shake some shit down
Yeah, no and apparently I didn't go in 18 and or I don't know if
1819 didn't go either of those years. So I haven't been post 64. This was my first time back and
Yeah, it's it's different and it just it also, you know, like this is one of those things where
prop 64 and
215 and post like how the case law gets determined and settled between these two different
Like legal frameworks hasn't been decided and
It's gonna be
Through this process that we you know come to a
Firm sort of case law like it took about five to ten years
For them to come up with some sort of case law framework for dealing with cannabis or for 215
And it's gonna take another
Five to ten for them to come up with case law to sort of like resolve these two
different frameworks and
You know the more we push the better and not just push like don't be stupid
that's the other thing like pushing is not like and I'll
Raise my hand and like I may have been that stupid person and I certainly
Would not have been the test case like if they like
Took me to court like I may have won but it was not a good test case
When angel Raish and I the other person's name always escapes me
When those Supreme Court cases went up before the Supreme Court those were intentional test cases
though the people were specifically selected to go and challenge the
legitimacy of
federal supremacy and
It wasn't just a dumbass bringing a box weed into
an event like myself
So, you know
We need to be strategic in how we challenge things and hopefully get the case law of precedence
set in ways that are beneficial to all of us so that we can have these events and
Not have these problems happen and it's just the law of the land and
DCC can't fuck with people
Yeah, you know where the next place to get shit done or
this is a joke and it's kind of allegedly or something like that, but a
Hemp convention is a great place
But it reminds me a hemp con that used to happen at the Cow Palace in California
Where it was like a nice booth with boutique stuff another booth
Maybe just had kind of jars and some cool shit and whatever and then the next booth was just black and yellow toast with packs
And that's how those hemp conventions are especially like I went to one in Texas and the cops are standing around and everybody's walking around with
black and yellow toast jars of weed seeds all this stuff and it just looks like
Cannabis because everybody's trying to do smokeable flower and everybody's out in front of the trade show
Smoking joints and stuff like that. And so with Ray real cannabis, it was super easy to blend in
let's put it that way and and and it was kind of eye-opening to see all that stuff and how that's moving along and how
Regulators or even the cops had to adjust to seeing people carrying around stuff like, you know, and and maybe I you know
maybe I wasn't the only one with some real joint zombie or whatever, but
it was crazy and so
to see where we're stuck with cannabis and what they can do with hemp and and
And all this stuff is just it really blows my mind and I get there's a psychoactive
component to it, but man the money behind all of it is really the the
The craziest factor I guess you could say
And to the smokeable hemp part, you know, a lot of those people don't want to smoke ditch weed
And so that's their you know alternative or whatever and the one thing that I do like about it
I don't know why I'm getting on this topic
But it might because kind of how you judge cannabis and things like that a lot of people were talking about
You know how we look at cannabis from THC perspective and how you look at smokeable flowers through
Terpenes and they use the phyto facts and stuff like that. And so I thought that was a pretty cool way of you know
they
You know look at their hemp at smokeable flowers
Qualitative being that it you know has a diverse amount of terpenes because you can't go it has a lot of CBD or has a lot
of THC
That doesn't even play into the equation
The hemp craft market is
Exploding right now on the hemp cups last night or I guess it was a
you know this last
couple days they had the taste of
Texas hemp cup and I gotta plug my my boy
The honesty farms they won
best
hemp and
Highest CBD, but I mean if you looked at his page
He's selling
Wholesale before the crops even gone
It's like almost like you know impossible to get on his list at this point and you're right, you know
there's this whole section of like connoisseurs that is a
figured out that you know, they can make
Shittier weed better or you know, they can just replace it
with a
really really good hemp because of the
You know chemical like profiles and it's it's nuts cuz like his stuff you go to his page
It it looks better than I would argue like 75 if not
85% of the markets
You know hot
Like cannabis, it's it's really incredible and there's a lot of these hemp farmers
Throughout the country that are doing this right now, too
It's it's pretty cool and like hemp are you know, the whole like CBD like Ross and like craze is like coming around
You know, which is cool. Yeah
I'm Scott a big future
People want to get down and if it's illegal, that's the one way to do it. I mean
Thanks
Eric about that not being like the Emerald Cup competition because I was really curious like I was trying to look for
Winners or like who what was entered, you know, so it's just kind of like a trade show with
Speakers and there was no competition. I appreciate the clarification
Yeah, no, a lot of people are confused by that and I get it really what ended up happening
and it's kind of it's not maybe the actual story but it's what I know of the story because I I am a judge and
I'm kind of tight with everybody but I things change so much I could be off a little bit
But the way I interpret things is that Tim's always gotten a lot of shit for having the Emerald Cup
and in December just because a lot of people in certain years haven't been able to dry and cure and maybe get their
herb done in time and especially as we get into legalization people have to get COAs, so
Excuse me. It became very
For everybody to enter like they used to back in the 215 days and even with it in the 215 days
It was rainy and you know a lot of times it was like why not have this the you know
The beginning of the spring and so, you know that definitely weighs heavy on them
And so as COVID ended up hitting they were like, okay. We're not doing an in-person event
Let's do the cup, but we're gonna do it a little bit later
And so they did it in the springtime and so we never really had that much time with our samples
Even though we normally had a lot of in-person meetings all of our meetings were over on zoom
And so we had the first meeting in person at the last meeting in person
To get our samples and then to decide the winners and so all that was great and everything
But they still wanted to try to maybe have something in the spring and so it you know instead of saying, okay
We're bailing Northern California and we're just gonna go to SoCal to hold a different event or we're bailing Santa Rosa and everything's gonna be
in Sacramento at the
State you know state fairgrounds or something like that because a lot of ideas have been thrown out there
This year they came to the conclusion that they were gonna have what this was called the harvest ball
Which was very reminiscent of the cup because it had the music and had the vendors and had the food it had the community
It's really what you know
mostly what it was about and then just didn't have the
competition and so without the competition and Hall of Flowers and all these other things the price of
Cannabis where people are with their budgets and all this shit, you know
There wasn't a lot of you know, it wasn't as big as it normally would have been but again
It was a brand new event a whole new idea and you know
They gave out a lot of free boosts, especially for that small farms initiative thing
And so now the idea is to have the cups still coming up in the springtime
And so they haven't even decided on all the judges yet. I think they start taking entries in the next week or two
So people can start entering and it's not such a hurry up hurry up
Process because when we were starting to judge the flowers the entries were but you know, we were down to the wire and so sometimes
In years before we only had a week to judge a couple hundred entries
Well, normally we needed three or four weeks to do it
so I think it gives it a little bit better of a chance for it to be a
Fair contest in the essence of the judges having more time and everybody having ample time to be able to enter not bitch
Well put
And you know the other thing I wanted to mention real quick because I'm gonna leave in a second but
Or I'm gonna step outside. So it's gonna be right and we'll be kind of loud. I won't be able to speak
I'll listen a little bit but in the area 101 lounge area
Which I thought was really cool this year because it was hot and up off the ground
You could have a flash flood and you wouldn't get wet
But in the back you can PTR
If you haven't already and on my profile pic is the is that picture of pioneers the cannabis?
Pioneers and I just thought that was the coolest poster or
Board that they made up with all these people on there and I just it was a nice
Reflection of all the people that have worked so hard and a lot of them are still here
Actually, there's plenty of them. They were gone, but I even you know wanted to shout out Jeff Jones
I'm with him on the Friday every week with Oaks
You're damn and he was in the room a little ice still in the room down there
But yeah, it's pretty awesome to see and to be in that room with all the different people that walk in and out of there
including
some of the people that are in this stage right now, but a lot of a lot of pioneering efforts were in the in the
In the vibes of that whole area
Not just the area 101 but the entire Santa Rosa Fairground. Let's do it
They agree it was really it's great to see there's
Incredible people walking around at these events at Rosenthal's out there, you know, I was just like skimming or scanning the
The legends poster and Ed's walking around at these events. He's very
recognizable
Robert Clark I got to meet Robert Clark
it was a highlight of my weekend for sure to be able to meet somebody who I've
You know, I've tried to read every word he's published over his
well his
you know career basically writing the book on cannabis and
So yeah, it was it's great to be able to
Be in contact with people who have experienced and participated in the long history of cannabis from
long before
215 during the you know, the worst days of prohibition all the way through it and many of whom were
Absolutely, you know
Seminal to getting 215
past and
Creating the different, you know case law or different freedoms that we had because you know, Jeff Jeff Jones. I remember
the stories I grew up
hanging out with Jim squatter and so
Squatter was somebody who I always looked up to
Somebody who really honestly was the person I thought of when they gave me the option between giving them my cannabis and
Having them call the cops. It was like a pretty easy decision there
Just on everything. I've been taught by squatter like always escalate to the cops make them call the cops and
See what they're gonna do
So it's because of legends and pioneers like that that we can do this stuff. I
think to talk on kind of like Eric's points about how to go forward with like
competitions and like judging
One of I think or at least a really good standard of a cup is the cultivation
Classic
they
Put out
the samples for I believe it's like
the minimum of 30 days to the judges, but I think it it goes almost all the way to
60 or 90 and that gives them like a
Plentiful of time to dig through, you know, 10 strains try them it you know, like different you like points
So it'd be really cool to see
See like a spring
Cup
Kind of in
California somewhere that would allow a lot of the outdoor guys to get that stuff like cured up and then to the judges
So they can kind of like sit on it and like really really work through it
and hopefully they're given that time like that like 30 to like 60 day time to kind of really really
See how it maybe have even evolves
Yeah, I
Think judging, you know, these things is like something that should be talked about, you know, even more because I feel like there's a lot of like
Ways that we can
you know like maybe I can prove on it and
People that we can give it to that might even be like really good like blind like judges that yeah
They might not be like breeders or growers, but they might be like a medical patient
That you know might be able to hey like here's like something really unique that I noticed like the whole whole
Plethora of ways that you can go with like judging or ways to judge
Yeah, cannabis
pretty cool
There's been some interesting events that have occurred for judging. I like the cultivation classic
I was never a judge, but I spoke at that event like the second one I think or something and really cool
And then Kevin Jodry used to have the Golden Tarp Awards and he used to categorize things by just floral
gas fruit and earth and
That was the four categories basically and then you judged that day of the event
And so you got there in the morning
The judges were sequestered off to a different room or building and they judged all day and by the end of the event
They came back with the results and so it's it's tough
You know a lot of these times you're judging a lot of stuff at once and so the more time you have on the medical
Side would be really, you know
Definitely important. The funny thing is is a lot of the the hard part for me where it gets confused not confusing
But your mind, you know, usually when we're judging things at least for the Emerald Cup, it's for that year
You know everything in 2021 gets judged in 2021
And last year everything is getting subsequently judged the second year
So a lot of people's July debts are gonna be judged, you know this, you know coming spring
So to speak or you know around March
and so the the the the packaging and storing and the process in order to
Keep those entries or whatever. However, they got to deal with it with compliance and things
I don't think you can just keep three ounces on your shelf anymore in your house and then throw it in metric and you
know what I mean like
The whole being able to preserve and put in quality entries by the farmer themselves is also
Kind of compromised in California to an extent
Yeah, no the logistics now with the COA's and just like I mean I remember back in the day we used to be able to
get
$2550 maybe $100 for your lab tests and now it's
The pricing's just exorbitant the wait time the logistics all of it is a nightmare and I can only imagine
what it's like doing an event like I
Remember some of those later years like
2015 and I mean
The fire came through in Calaveras and I lost all my all my crop
but I still had plenty of herb from the previous year and I
Don't I think they increased or changed the rules after that year
but a number of people did this where if you entered an ounce of or whatever four ounces of flour, which like
Didn't really matter that much
You could get a judges pass or an entry pass and all the stuff that came with it and
it was way cheaper and way more worth it to do that than to just buy tickets and
There were a fuck ton of entries that year and a bunch of people ended up getting
Knocked for pesticides and different things and there was a ton of controversy and like you said everybody had
Every single year people bitched and complained and now we look back on those years as the golden or not necessary
Myself, I look at him as the golden years
But yeah
Yeah, it was great. Like I mean there was a time when we had
every major breeder that I look up to and have grown their gear and just really like
people that I
aspire to
Like be amongst their company and
They were all there and we all kicked it and we all had an amazing time for like five years and it was great
And
No, no, I had things have just changed and that's not like well, that's life
Maybe that was just those spectacular moments in history where everybody came together at once
it's hard to have a
Wedding or a fucking birthday party or anything anymore to get everybody you want in one place
You know the way traveling is and in different states and and people now have kids and all this different shit
that's what I mean like if we go into these events with the
expectations of the stories that we've had and what we've been through we might get let down if we don't really look at it as
just the present and a new opportunity and you know, sometimes this is
The best that we can get in the midst of the shit that's going on whether it's the event
organizers or the fairgrounds or
COVID or whatever the fuck's going on like
Some of this shit isn't
We were never set up for success
Cannabis was never we were never handed like here go ahead and do what you want. We had to make our way and
You know, it's still the case today
But I
Think that I think that you're right like some of those times or were those golden moments and I mean
a lot of those moments will happen again and who knows where it'll be or what will happen the cannabis always brings us all together
It's almost like these cyclical events or these storms, you know
Like every however many years or there's these eclipses and those there's gonna you know
the next perfect storm will happen again and
You know, you know it'll happen so we just kind of look forward to that
Do either of you have like a single
individual memory of like a previous cup or
Experience that you could recollect that that it would be synonymous of what your ideal experience of what the cup
Should be in the future
Well
My
Mind's really simple the coastal seeds booth from
2015 to
2017 was fucking incredible like all
everybody came through and cycled through and it was a great place to be and
like yeah, I
Would agree on that one actually I had my own booth going on and so I'd have to break away to come over to your
Guys, we had our little greenhouse lounge going on and I would say though
I don't know how about looking at the future part
But the most memorable part of the cup to me and what really made the Emerald Cup
You know
I think close to my heart right now really resonates was the hookah sessions in the area 101 that Frenchie can only used to put
on those were like
dude
Well, we have the opportunity I guess somebody that's probably been to just a few cups is Jeff if you have a moment to tell
Us about a moment in time that is relative for you. I would love to
Well, I I attended a lot of cups
I never was a judge and what I loved about all of the cups as I saw them emerging from a very small group of
dedicated growers that were mainly focused outside into the crossroads of bringing it into a
Metropolitan environment and having it emerge into now
something that I think makes the centerpiece of Northern California and kind of sets the place for our Napa County to be in
Sonoma because of what's happened in Santa Rosa and
Yeah, I mean there's going to be a lot of discussion and a lot of focus of how we could do it better
I think as soon as we started to get it organized the opinion started to come out about how it was not being done correctly
So there's always going to be
Some kind of casted shade on it
what I think I liked about Tim is that he did it in a way that
tried to bring people together and share the respect for the plant and
What I remember about the cup is pre 2012 pre 2013
Where there was a lot of camaraderie there was a lot of open-air discussion. There was a separation factor
you had to have your card or recommendation present to step into the 215 area and
I liken it back to the discussion about the anti-vax and vaccination discussion
That's happening today where I had to train people into becoming
doctor recommended
and there was a whole slew of people that argued with me to the end of day about why they would never get a doctor's
Recommendation to have this plant be a sacrament to them
But that was the path and the journey that we were on to get
Legitimized long enough to get us to this place. We're at now
we're reemerging to an industry that I
Think it's gonna only become more legitimate and that we have to fight with regulators to become less
Burdensome with the things that we do at trade shows and more
Interwoven into what we want it to be because they are not defining what we're doing
they're trying to grapple with us as we define those points of interest and
Gosh, maybe hemp
With Trump de-scheduling it did the best thing possibly for the cannabis industry when you look down the road a decade
Because we're going to argue now with regulators that these guys are selling over-the-counter stuff at these trade shows
You can't tell the difference. It's being taken to states where you can't now
Convict somebody because it looks like hemp and it isn't you have to test it and it's just it gets very convoluted very quickly
And we're going to use that as a way to lessen our taxes make it more domestic
Ability as they start to think about how we're being
Also down scheduled because we didn't have the discussion about de-scheduling cannabis the stuff that we like to play with in our gardens mainly
until we de-scheduled hemp and had that percolate into the farm shed in 2018 2019 and
Wow, what what the cup has done in the last few years has had to grapple with these regulations the regulators being present
Legitimacy, I mean the first time that I tried to go after they regulated sales and the pinch point of having to go find the
Stuff go to somebody that may be a manufacturer
We didn't have a retail license and then go over to the retail counter where they were being sold at and then wait in a different
Line to try to get the stuff that you already were pretty much guaranteed you were going to buy
Wow
But I looked at that as growing pains about how they were trying to pinch the the regulatory factor into effect
Have a marketplace that was as we all know a Wild West environment, which I kind of liked
It makes me feel like we came from a place that was not controlled, you know
Like we would look at in Mother Nature
But in the era that we're in now is we want to become a commodity that's over-the-counter and we have a hope of being shipped
Domestically and internationally we got to have our track and trace system in place. Maybe we don't have to use metric
Maybe we can come up with something better
Blockchain or something that's private that could work just as well as what's being put in place there
But I think we have to look at those things for us to get
Survival into place what I don't like about our state regulations in California specifically
so we don't allow the little person to have a
better than level playing field to the big person that can absorb a lot of regulatory cost and
That we need to remove some of the taxes
Specifically the cultivation tax
Because a grower shouldn't have to pay anything but being regulated and having to deal with the burden of conforming to those regulatory burdens
Thank you for all of that Jeff and just for any like some background
You have a lot a lot of experience with engaging both, you know
local state and federal authorities and
Having to
Develop
You've always been engaged no matter
What has happened and how you've had to navigate your involvement in the medical cannabis and the broader?
cannabis world and
If you can speak to some of those early days, I I only know pieces and I know
You know some parts but I don't want to get the any details wrong here, so if you could give us some of your
Biographical background because it's a hell of a story. Well, I moved to California in the mid 90s
So I got into California 94 with Debbie Goldsberry inviting me into her at the time advocacy group cannabis action network
So I high-tailed it and a bus ride from South Dakota to Berkeley at the time
it was actually Oakland, but we soon moved to Berkeley and
Was involved with her group long enough to get engaged with what was happening in the medical cannabis
Movement at the time with Dennis and once I got to know Dennis
I implemented what he was doing in Oakland and used him as a lobbying anchor to get endorsement of prop
215 as one of the first cities in the state before even San Francisco endorsed it because
Our city was forward-leaning and that soon became the mechanism in Oakland of what we did to try to compete with San Francisco as they
Started to regulate and move forward and adopt policies that were post the prop 215 passing
So we implemented working groups different mechanisms to try to regulate when I got sued with Dennis and others with the federal civil
litigated lawsuit 98
My city developed a mechanism to dorm me an officer much like they would give an Oakland police officer the ability to sell crack on
the street
They exempted me from all civil and in criminal liability locally from possessing dispensing cultivating
Manufacturing cannabis because I was given that contractor status with the city
It didn't work in the federal courts
but is really the true mechanism of what was mentioned in the Ogden memo and
That actually has some history because we
used the court system to educate the public the press the local public officials and
actually the Department of Justice because when Ogden wrote his memo in
2008 which then became the Cole memo because Ogden quit his job after writing a memo within about 30 days
The history I just shook my head and I said I know this guy whose name so familiar and I went and pulled out my huge
filing cabinet full of civil case
Documents and of course his name was all over him because he was the DOJ civil litigant
Chief in command that put his name on all of my civil litigated papers
So as we were fighting it with our civil attorneys Rob Raich and a whole team of attorneys including Gerald Allman and
Randy Barnett
They had him filing the the affidavits in the court
Memorandums and the filings and the briefs so he had to read it all because his name was on it
And so I think part of what you said Trevor and others is we have to continue with the struggle is always there because if
We don't push we don't define what that new space is
They're going to define it more
Conservatively than what we would want and I'm slightly surprised coming from the dark age or we were we're just selling cannabis was getting you chased
Getting you raided and shot at by the local police
You know, most the old-school people all have criminal convictions because that was just the status quo
You didn't put your name on a business card. Let alone open up a business storefront doing this business you hid and
Nowadays, it's a branding issue and hold market awareness and just whether or not you're going to be part of an MSO chain
So I'm I'm kind of both
Delighted but also pushed off because I'm not necessarily part of the corporatization as much as that
I like some corporate involvement, but I wish that we had
Done a little bit of different mechanism with the discussion on equity
I'm amazed because if you look at the history around equity
civil rights struggle
It really didn't exist in the history past about five years when Oakland put it on the map
And it quickly became a viral issue within the whole black lives matter and the whole
Discussion about what cities need to do and give back equity
That caught a viral fire that I didn't see coming because when it was happening in my city government hall
Which I was attending the city meeting is going I can't believe this
you're talking about giving people that are, you know convicted of drug dealing or manufacturing the first level, right and
Think that it's going to happen anywhere outside of Oakland. It's just pie in the sky
I could see Oakland doing it because Oakland's done a lot of things in my history that I didn't think would ever happen
Just because we asked and pressured them into doing it
But how quickly it became something that San Francisco LA West Hollywood and a lot of other major cities and now states have
Implemented in the language around our issue and now it's around other issues
so, you know, you never know where the the butterfly you
cut out there a little and but
You were finishing you never know where the butterfly effect is going to take us and oh, yeah
that was okay that was pretty much in in the sense that I I'm still I
like the aspect of what we get out of pressing and
Doing different things at different levels because I never thought what I was going to do was going to be super successful
But I felt like all of us in tandem continuing to press and now looking at regulators identify and educate
When I went and visited one of the local extraction labs here in Oakland
One of the gentlemen that built his own extraction facility for one of the larger groups here
Had to educate the regulators about what they were trying to regulate because they had no idea what they were doing
He simply didn't know how dangerous it was the concerns the different equipment that was involved some of the non flammable
substances versus the others that were used in cooling and and movement for the extraction process and
I feel like that's what we're kind of at the whole time is that we're trying to make sure that they don't do things incorrectly
Yeah, no, that's really been I
Wasn't you know, I've been growing cannabis since I was 16
and
We were off the grid out
Deep deep deep not really too concerned with what was going on. We fought our battles. I mean
Robert Galapagos I
Had one of the early 215 fights out in Calaveras Tony Sarah defended him
Then
Bear Dykin got arrested
for cultivation I was staying we were living at his house at the time when the raid happened and
He ended up getting
Essentially diversion to alternative therapy and alternative therapy turned out to be massage
so he got sentenced to massage therapy in
1999 and the next year
Was the first year we all just returned back to growing full Sun outdoor full term and
that really
From then on things changed and if you were out in the backwoods dirt road
Rural parts of the county and you weren't getting complained on by your neighbors
You were able to grow and it eventually expanded to the 99 plant sort of like
lenience and
a lot of that was
Like we won our battles. We defined what the space was
It was decided and determined that local juries weren't going to convict people and there wasn't going to be real punishment
Oh Robert Galapagos
Island we all called him
he ended up getting sentenced to community service community service ended up being time in
The community garden at the local hippie commune, so it's like
Nobody did anything. They wouldn't have done anyways when they got sentenced. So there was no punishment for
Getting sentenced for breaking cannabis laws anymore. There was just a lot of hassle and headache
But after they realized that we weren't getting punished and didn't care
They stopped enforcing against us and we had 15 years of being able to do our own thing
and so that's why we have to you know, we're in a new sort of space and we have to
Constantly push and define and shape what that space is going to be
otherwise like like Jeff said they will define it for us and it's not going to be and
well well defined and I think you have to also look at what Oakland did in the early days when we in
1998 set the Oakland possession and cultivation limits, you know, I I got them to accept a hundred and forty four plant count and
6 in a patient's home if we could validate that they had a right to their medicine through their recommended doctor
You know how we got to that number
We brought in a federal patient that circulated the half a pound of cannabis that was processed in that tin with joints
rolled up and
showed it to everybody in the City Council and said you're going to
Deprive our city residents of the same factor what they might do in their home
and we worked out the math in front of them in the city meeting and said this is what you got to a lot roughly and
that was existing in the city of Oakland until the summer of
2001 when the Supreme Court ruled against me in the civil case and the city government created what was that then half
policy of the 72 plants and
the 1.5 pounds
To 3 pounds because the the 6 pounds was if you were growing outside is really a smaller limit if you were growing indoors
But that you're correct
I had to ask for the moon to then get backwards pushed when the court cases came down that were not necessarily
supportive of what we were really trying to run in the sense of a
medical cannabis at the time sales and support service
Yeah, and the outcome also from that
federal civil suit was that you were barred from operating a
Dispensary and you shifted the business or what not the business so much as well
It was our operative correct
We shifted into the identification model that became kind of the DMV stop for everybody in the early days to get a card that was
Identifying you legitimately to have a right to use it before we had a state program
But so was when at Shaw in Marin who successfully ran her business post that civil
injunction because I kind of jumped on the grenade and got all the attention from the courts the press because I was on a
Big Street in Oakland and kind of attracted the tension in the news crews to what I was doing
She stayed open
until those
Latent DEA letters and in a civil actual injunctive case against her landlord for forfeiture
Triggered her to have to move out and shutter her business
So she then went back to court
And filed relief before the same judge judge Breyer
Who is the brother of Stephen Breyer the Supreme Court justice and got him to amend our?
initial civil injunctive case in
2015 to allow us to meet the state standards if we don't violate state law and are regulated the
Civil case really doesn't exist to him
So in some sense, I was limited because of the civil injunctive case for gosh 15 to 20 years
But now that we've moved our history forward and the current regulations meet different criteria
Even though we haven't changed a single thing federally
I'm kind of not necessarily immune
But they have amended the injunction to change that status
I just haven't gotten anything really happening
But when it Shaw has reopened since then and is located get this in the same
Location that she had to stipulate under that federal civil infraction court case of forfeiture that she would never be renting again
From the landlord she was able to get the court to allow her to re-rent the place because it was not being rented in
The landlord was fine with it
So history does support us a little bit in some sense because that was a very unique situation for Fairfax
California that's in Marin. She's one of the only active dispensary still in Marin
Yeah, I remember some of that and also God it would be so
So awesome to get BPG back the original location like that
that was a unique space and
I believe they already built a building there and I probably Jim
Yeah, Jim Callahan rest in peace
Did we lose you Jeff
chemo we you jumped on and
You helped to organize the ego clash
shifting gears here is
Is
London messaged me and mentioned that you're trying to work on bringing up a
One of the winners of the ego clash. Yeah, I was just sending a couple links to the room out on Instagram
I'm not sure which one of them which one of them has a clubhouse
So third a lot of them didn't know what it was. So we'll see we'll see if anybody pops up here. But um, yeah
Put a lot of work into it
I mean everyone that's involved is very much like a
Kind of a co-op event like third gen family farms and friends and friends of friends all show up
about 48 hours
prior and help set up a
Really, you know in the last grant with true grassroots events
Yeah, no, you guys did a great job on that level and
We have been you know talking about it and talking about how private events allow the opportunity
That aren't afforded because of DC regulators DCC regulators and the way
They restrict other events and that sucks
But yeah, it would be be great to know
Even if we aren't able to bring up some of the people just to get a recap of some of the winners and
anything you want to say and add to the discussion about the events because really we're
We're trying to recap the events but we've we've had the unique opportunity of having Jeff up here and
Eric and just going down memory lane as well of you know where we've been where we are
Where we are and where we're going, you know
Yeah, most definitely
You know events were a lot of what you know built this industry back in the 215 era
I mean, that's where the networking and and the the original collaborations, you know
Originated, you know back when we could just throw out handfuls of weed and
Concentrates and t-shirts and it didn't really matter
I only saw one time where they were throwing out some t-shirts
Emerald Cup I had a really great time
Enjoyed it enjoyed the after party at the flamingo last night. It was definitely vibe for reunion of sorts
But yeah, you know the events will never be
Exactly the way they were
Once upon a time, you know look looking out at those back empty cow paddocks
They used to be full of all our friends and family, you know kind of shows how it's been
concentrated down
Into a different form there at the Emerald Cup, but I've been throwing events all year
Sure, including you go clash. I believe I've done
22
events this year
I've a marketing events company with the owner of guild extracts Brad Robinson Bradley Robinson and
Roberts, excuse me, Robertson and we've been throwing a cannabis yacht parties and
also a
industry industry social concert series with
Qbert DJ Qbert
Los Roca so, you know, I've been
Doing as much as I can on my my end of creating
That same kind of vibe and community that we once had and it's it's it's a lot of work definitely with
No, it's not. It's not a highly profitable
Any events really unless you're throwing huge music festivals are not profitable. They're just for you know networking and
Marketing purposes. That's why I do
Can you talk about some of the turps and flavors that you've noticed this year and kind of trends from years past
Specifically at the Eagle Clash or just in general
Well, I mean this is the first one we had in two years
2019 was the first year I got involved mainly on
security and online registrations
Kind of extended that into the digital judging this year
only the top five
Were announced at the Eagle Clash
I can pull the list up right now and I can at least go the full list is going to be
Published by Brandon at third gen at some point, but I can recap the first the top five without getting in trouble here
in the hash
Non-pressed. So it was all solving this this year. The HO was eliminated from the competition just to
Just narrow it down a little bit to you know, what we concentrate on in this this little section of a
of high-end concentrate so that top five hash if
Competitors number one was Helios hash or some
underdogs unknown from
from the state of Maine
they also took the single source award, so
Never been to the clash before and they came and took two awards
second place hash
Hash sift was yeti melts, which was literally a mom-and-pop breeders
single source
And came in came in third was dammit Bobby
Who definitely has a pretty pretty strong following. I think he he won as well last year
And the Rossin category number one was splash solventless and they're out of Sonoma County
second second in the Rossin class was West Coast alchemy and
Third in the Rossin class was processed professor sift
All of which have a pretty strong following in the legacy concentrate market and for flower
Number one was 365 canna farms. He's won
first place flower in the US and Barcelona before
number two was weeds the people and
The three was a you know fucking synonymous growers squints with foreign genetics
And those were the top three in each class
Awesome thank you for sharing that and you know
congratulations to everybody who won it's
incredibly tough competition there, so
Big shout out to everyone. Oh
Yeah, the points were really tight within
All three classes. I mean like really tight and then I mean even being there. I mean there were everything there was straight fire
Yeah, it's a couple of the jars and
Certainly not not all of them. I don't know where they placed but
Definitely some incredible turps on everything like I put in front of me
Thank you, I just got a phone call. I'm like two minutes from home with a
Gas light on telling me my gas tank is empty
All the
You're coming in and out Eric, oh
I was just saying
Appreciate the conversation
Always man, I really appreciate you. Thanks for coming on and
Giving like perspective from somebody who's a longtime judge and knows
the people involved and like, you know where they're coming from because there are people who are
You know
Assuming that things are the worst and I don't I personally didn't assume the worst from the event. I felt that
DCC sucks and that's that's the man. Well, you went through some shit. Most people couldn't handle them
You know, let's say handled properly
Everything and with the people that were around you like man, I couldn't have been I
Don't know
I just seems to me like it was a bunch of educated people that were up against a bunch of dicks that were trying
to you know
Do their thing basically, but nevertheless man
Big ups to you and much respect to everybody and Jeff and I do a room
With for Oakster down called plant talk on Fridays at 420. So anybody want to join us? We'd love to have people in the conversation
Yeah, yeah
I'm gonna have to make some of these because it's I
Don't know if we've ever met in person there's a good chance we have Jeff but I know that we've had a lot of
You know
mutual acquaintances friends and like
shared proximity and just a huge amount of respect for you and everything you've done over the years for
For what we're about and what we're doing. I
Had early ideas of this becoming at this level of the safe space that we've kind of created and sorry
I dropped off my Wi-Fi system here
Let me go and I'm putting my kids to bed. So I kind of have to drop away myself
But thanks for the open discussion today and I I share the concern about regulation and
about how they need to respect some of those levels and I think we are a few potential cases away from
Getting some kind of defined points about what they can do what they can't do right now
It doesn't seem to be that they have much purvey over seeds individually or over hemp products and things that are derived from them
So we kind of have to be cautious about that but also use it against them, you know that they're not
Able to do much with that
I wanted to mention I ran into Tim just
30 minutes ago and told him about the room and he wanted to tell you guys that it was just a
disgusting overreach of power on the DCC's behalf
Does not condone their behavior and hopefully we can resolve this in the future
But he supports all you guys and wanted to say that. Thank you
and by the way
PTR I put on there. That's Eddie Alvarez
The assistant mayor of Santa Rosa and me smoking a giant blunt that was enormous. It was wonderful
That's awesome and also convey the similar sentiment were like
It sucks that he had to go through that and let him know that you know, at least for me and I'm sure everyone
here that we're so
with and
Yeah, hope that we're able to
See him in California in the future and that we can have events in ways that don't actually screw people over
Yeah, it was disappointing but you know, it is what it is and we move on and hopefully we can come together and you know
create some kind of forum to
communicate with the Department of Cannabis Control on a
Different level, you know, I think what Jeff was saying a lot about getting court precedences
Here, you know, it's almost like you have to you know
Take it all the way and let the cops get involved and just that judge
Get in front of that judge and then get these cases moving forward. So
We can get some sort of precedent on what's acceptable and what isn't
Yep, yeah, and you know being smart like
They've shown their hand and if this is how they're going to behave in these situations. They've really created it like
I by no means was a good test case in this scenario, but
I mean, I know me my 215 and I'm
like
I'm very very very confident that
12 jurors of my or you know a jury of my peers in
Sonoma County is not going to put me in jail or do anything
To create a real sanction against what I did and that's like a jury
I don't even think cops are gonna do it at this point, you know
Like Santa Rosa PD has a lot more to deal with than my fucking untrimmed herb
Could could I ask a synopsis of what happened I came into the room late
I know there were some problems with regulators
But what did they do exactly and what kind of problems were different at this cup specifically for this event?
so
Granted this is my first cup since
Regulations I didn't go to the
2018 or 19
Emerald cups, but what happened was I was let through with my box of what was it was basically
About a half a pound of herb in about four or five bags
They were branches that were untrimmed of a bunch of different
Finos
Varieties flavors of things that I was really just there to show and mostly to show like the range of
variation within you know the Finos and
So I get in I
Bump into a number of different people we immediately start exchanging, you know, just small like here's a nug
Here's like a pack of seeds whatever and we're talking we're like sharing different stuff and
All of that happens kind of without incident and then
This one dude steps up
he shows me his bag and another friend steps up and asks to see a
specific bag of herb that it was seeds of his that I had grown and
So he's going through him and looking at him and I'm explaining each one of the different Finos and blah blah blah blah blah
the DCC
enforcement officer puts his badge in my face and says put your bag in the trash or
the box in the trash or work in the lake deal with the cops and he just keeps repeating that as like his mantra like
throw it away or we're dealing with the cops and
I was like, no, that's no. I'm not throwing my box away. I told him I was going to a booth
He said that I had too much
unregulated illegal cannabis at a
Licensed regulated the event and that by having it I was in violation of the law
I told him that it was my personal medical stash that I wasn't giving it to anybody. I was simply showing it to them and
Then he just continued his mantra I
continued to say no eventually he demanded we go to the booth and I went over and
You know went by Peters booth and it's like look I was gonna sit here
Do media stuff talk on camera smoke herb show people herb. This is my personal head stash
It's medical
It's none of this is under your purview and
Eventually they brought in tab of
Tabitha Chavez who is literally the the absolute head of enforcement in the state and
we had the same go-round and interestingly hemp has been brought up and
the
smokable
THC lists hemp
Argument was made by
somebody who goes by the name of you know, what's good on Instagram and
There they had zero
Response they could not they had no
Answer to that question when I said medical medical medical. They said cop cop cop and I said fine
and that's just like how the dance went basically and
So then yeah
Eventually instead of when it finally came down to it and I said
Like it's gonna like call the cops over like you're not taking my box. I am they called over the
event compliance coordinator
Whose name has escaped me
And he he handled it. My name was James
James yeah, and James handled it like at first he like
Tried to help explain it away and help me just keep my box and get them to go away
When it became very clear that they were not gonna budge until he walked me out of the event
he walked me out and was profusely apologetic and
Just was like this is bullshit, and I'm sorry and you know like
That that's how it all went down and my position is that
like even if it was a lot of cannabis
I'm more than willing to take a half a pound of cannabis with me anywhere in the state of California and
test 215 laws
Thank you so much for providing that feedback and I agree with you
I think that we should have some legal limits of transport pebbles trivets are provided the transport levels above a pound
so
Under medical use without concern and if you were exhibiting it and you weren't selling it
We've now allowed them to have the burden of proof that you just have to have it
I mean we are talking about now something that's legal and
The regulations are starting to shift when they first passed the law you couldn't give it away now
You can give it away and we're maybe giving it away with a tax
Benefit down the road so the businesses get some kind of a rebate
But we're also allowing samples to be now given away without having any taxes or burdens related to them
So, I mean we I think we just have to keep pressing that the individual rights and medical patients still exist
And maybe organize a little bit around that as we have in the past
Thanks, Trevor
Yeah
You know, I jumped in this room listen to Trevor's story
Which you know unfortunate and I support him through what?
Going through but I had a friend that came out from Texas
He felt pipes he's got the official grinder for them look up
and
You know, he's running a big booth by himself
people came up, you know cited about the
pipes and stuff and someone set down a
couple grams that we eat on the table and people kept coming by and there was a crowd and
You know people thought in their heads. Oh, this is the donation for whatever and the pile kept getting bigger
And then the DCC came by and said you're displaying marijuana. You have to vacate
This booth space and leave the house
So he was ejected just for having it displayed I gotcha and was he warned first
No, no warning. He didn't even know the weed was there
and
They alerted to the fact that there was weed there and he's like, oh there's weed there and
Yeah, it wasn't his
People just put it there
Yeah, I wonder whether it's worth it for us to like take the time and then like
Draft up the series of events and our perspective on why things took the turns that they did because at the same time
These are like newly deputized
people and as much as they were up truths and like idiotic and just
Consistently trying to argue
That we were in the wrong rather than seeing that we were being innocent I
Think characterizing some of that behavior and linking the patterns in the behavior
To the negative outcomes and then putting that on somebody like Tabitha's desk and then CCing
her superiors there's got to be some level of accountability and
While some of the peons that are like out there in the field
Harassing people
I
would like to believe that somewhere in the chain of command that there is somebody who cares about outcomes and
understands the difference between
Written law and
applied law and
Would hope that we could find a partner that would like to find solutions
To some of these issues because I
It's hard for me to believe that
They want to be assholes like that much maybe maybe I still have like some some faith in humanity
And you can see also like in their behavior
That like they were scared. They were in uncharted waters. They didn't know
They didn't know what the fuck they were doing dude and essentially what wound up happening
Was they tried to scare you with cops?
We call their bluff
James was caught in the crossfire like what the fuck because his license was then on the line
Because they were that's what when they realized that they didn't have leverage to fucking squeeze us because we just didn't give a fuck
They needed to squeeze somebody and in that squeeze I think James got the squeeze in
The end because it wasn't that they wanted to speak to the license holder, which is the only jurisdiction that they actually have
And kudos to James for fucking
Holding it down and I think that Tabitha realized that
She was gonna fuck an innocent person in her in her quest to fucking be right
And I'm not saying that we weren't innocent but just I think that was the watershed moment for her where she's looking back down
Yeah
Sorry
Welcome Dutch. Just a quick question. I'm just wondering
Sorry, welcome Dutch Josh good to see you man
How's it going guys, yeah, I just popped in it's really interesting here and you're hearing the story I've obviously
Seen you guys posting about it. So
Sounds fucking silly traumatic and silly. I
Don't really know the details of all I just I've only been on for a few minutes
Yeah, honestly like could I
Welcome it
Comparatively like I think me it's fine and
Kind of like hearing Roberts story about his friend like
My story was like the good story the good outcome
and like yeah, it sucked like it was not cool, but like
Not not a big problem for me and I'm I
Like arguing with people so it was fine
I will say like just just to throw up a funny like
Side thing out there like I made it that joke on your meme
Like I think I said, you know like something about trying to argue logic with cops, you know
Or something like that, which is essentially futile. I
Also referenced that in a discussion with my lawyer today
Where our depositions and he like that that kind of comparison. So the sort of two-fer
Two-fer joke. Yeah. No, that one was perfect and it was exactly
That was like the internal dialogue of like trying to navigate that process and being like
Jesus fuck like okay, I'm gonna go to jail
Jesus fuck like okay, come on like we keep doing this dance person like
you're not gonna get a different outcome and
Yeah that um
It was I was fine with it I'm really like I'm bummed about what happened to Roberts friend
I think that everybody else who had stuff taken and kind of like Jeff you were asking about and
Some of the like my experience and some of these other examples, I know other people had
stuff like there was a lot of cannabis in that bag that
Confiscated cannabis and they took materials from
Compound Chris is the
Breeder behind compound genetics and he had a booth
he has a licensed booth, but he was walking around with a backpack of
like a
Product material and it was all like packaged up and all that stuff and he was giving out
small amounts to friends and to different people and
Chris is somebody who has Parkinson's he
like, you know, it's
the idea that they would go and
Target somebody who
One is like a paying booth person
so the whole conspiracy that like oh, it's like they're targeting the little guys and not the booth guys like
They're going after the booth guys, too
But they're going after a guy with Parkinson's for having a pound of cannabis in his backpack
I like you know, I don't give a shit
Anybody with Parkinson's in the state of California should get a free pass with a pound of weed and I don't give a fuck
if they hand it out a little bit here and there and
You know, so that's one example
They went after a bunch of people for seeds just for having seeds and for trading seeds
Which again, I don't think violates any rules like I can give people seeds
Even at a licensed event. I'm not like sure on all the details, but wait DCC acted on seed sales
They took seeds out of like not even sales like some of them may have been people who are selling seeds
But I knew people who were just there to like seed swap
Like that's all they wanted to do and they had their entire like these are seed collectors like older like
people who have very impressive seed collections going there to just
See friends and trade genetics that are like rare and sought-after and
And culture
Exactly MK ultra is somebody who I've known for years to have just like an incredible genetics
library because he's been collecting for years and
And
His he got hit and so his genetics all of his seeds got thrown out and he wasn't even like he's not a
Person with like packaging and like all that stuff. He's just a person with like either
Seeds that he's collected from somebody else who sold them years ago or whatever that he'll trade and swap
Or he's somebody who has random things that he's made with those types of seeds that he'll trade and swap
But none of this is like a commerce thing. Like he's not a seed seller on like that level
Yeah, and I mean he he somebody like that or perhaps like the seed
Avenue is a good Avenue to pursue because those people weren't engaging in commerce
and if it's just a bag of seeds that aren't like packaged up with a logo and all these different things and
They're being
Exchanged between two people. I don't know of any laws that prohibit
Our ability to do that in the state of California as far as I understand
There are none like basically what you have is is guys that are acting outside of their purview and what they're doing is it's newly
Acquired for a piece. So they're trying to expand that
And they're stretching
They're trying to stretch
to and put the test the limits of their power and
That's why holding them accountable and standing your ground is so important because the more people that allow them to exercise
That power wrongfully the more permanent it begins
More permanent it becomes
Yeah, just to like
Thinking about it in this in the moment though
there may be a in that bag of thrown away items may be a
Very solid test case and a harmed party because I wasn't harmed. I didn't lose any cannabis
I was just inconvenienced and I probably could have just walked away and stopped arguing with them at any time and had the exact same
outcome
But
Other people had their shit taken and the people who had their seeds taken who were just going there to engage in seed trading
and not in any commerce
may want to
get in touch with us or like pursue this and
Try and carve this out so that we can have seed trading at these events and that it is a divide agreed
Yeah, yeah, that's what we need. And so homies hit me up
I
Also wanted to bring up that
You know my friend. I know he's sexy left, but if you guys like
cool pipe
The very best grinder in the world
You know the pipe that he makes he's got a patent on it's a spoon
That you can put water in it takes about it two teaspoons of water. It's got two sections of perks and it's got a
Hash collector so it doesn't get the hash in your mouth when you're smoking a dirty pipe
He's got the most amazing pipe
So if you guys want to hit me up in the black back channel
Tell your friends about them tell people about these grinders are freaking amazing. I heard a story
about a kid
That was now a grower in the legal space and he's like second-generation
Grower and he grew up with that grinder. It says mo cup on it and
You know, he really you know
Had some cool stories about the grinder and you know, I mean this is legacy stuff
It might not be actual cannabis, but it's the tools we use to partake and you know
It's just really a shame. So anyone that wants to support him hit me up on the back channel
Trevor I send you the link you want to put it up there. You're welcome to it. So thank you guys
Awesome. Thank you Robert and I'll definitely hit you up man
Now the coolest thing I use a lot that we make there these walnut
joint holders that are what you know, they don't leak and they float and
You can put you know up to five joints depending on what size you get. They have sizes for blunts. They have what sizes for
You know just regular
King size joints, but you've got a lot of cool stuff. So check out his Instagram mama P
wholesome grinding company
But yeah, you know we just got to stick together and keep you know, you know pushing the line and getting these
situations resolved because
You know overall, you know people hear the stories. Oh, yeah, this demo cup sucks, you know
I don't even know how many grower friends I have in the triangle where I'm at that they're just like fuck the Emerald Cup
You know, we're not going to support it and see what happened. They fucked with you. So I'm never coming
I'm never supporting legal cannabis. You know, this has got to get changed. It's not cool
Yeah, no, they definitely want to they wanted to break it all down and divide us and set us against each other
So it's good for us to to come into these spaces and
Sorry
It's good for us to come into these spaces and really carve out these, you know
traditional medical rights in these areas
Push back against them make them
exercise discretion
Particularly in your friends instance so that he doesn't get
Thrown out just because other people dropped some nugs on his table and for medical users
So that they can do that so that they can
Make an exchange and you know, I I had many a friend who weren't state residents who came to
California and
Spent enough time here that they got their recommendations and when they were in, California
they had a valid recommendation and
would use 215 if they ever had any issues and like we need to continue to exercise that and
Make it so that people who come here have reciprocal medical rights
And yeah, just keep keep struggling. Thank you Jeff for your time like coming on
I appreciate it and I'm gonna try and do these Friday shows with you just to listen in and
here
You know, I love the history and everything that that we've done. So, thank you
Yeah, thank you so much
and I do hope you pop in with me and Eric and we have a bunch of people have come in and talk more or
Less about plants and discussion on Fridays after 420
Talk to you later. Have a good night
Awesome, yeah, and I have to jump off as well. I got to put some kids to bed as well. Should we call that a wrap?
Yeah, it makes sense
I think that was I think I think we dug deep into it. Anyways, I think it's time to call it a wrap guys
Thank you guys. Thank you. All is do you have any closing statements there Trevor?
You saying hi Alida
Yeah, so my material saying hi my closing statements are
Just
Yeah, you know
it
we got to fight to make these events awesome and not give them up and
Continue to expand new
opportunities to come together because
That's what this has always been about. So on that note, I got to go kick it with my kids
Take it easy everyone. Thank you so much and have a great rest of your week
Thanks Trevor, thanks Chase. Thanks Peter Johnny Robert and everybody on stage everybody in the audience everybody else
We appreciate it guys and don't forget to follow the club
Mama P's wholesome grinding company check it out on Instagram
Brand
So, yes, Oh Peters there hi Peter
Did you want to come on and say hi? I
Don't I don't think I can hear you right now. Can you hear me?
Good I
Can't hear you. I might have to sing my setting
can't change my settings I
My mic is coming through but I can't hear anything. Can I hear?
No, I can't hear shit
Yeah, my microphone is playing everything is working
But nothing is coming through for you
Not audio. Anyways, all right. Can you hear me now? Yes, I can hear you now amazing. I just switched my mic
No, I literally just walked in the door
All right, so we got some Georgia this is just from this bag some Georgia pie
Some coffee ice cream from Green Source Gardens
I don't know what all that is, but
This is some og kush from vital grown Brian Mullen
Some beach wedding
And then this one just says Jackson
But yeah, it's a it was something's I gotta ask him what it was
But it was something in the strawberry family and it was delicious
This says Sierra gelato
Some seeds
This is the
Tom was raving about this is oatmeal that he was raving about as if like I'd never eaten oatmeal before
He maybe come home so we brought it all the way up and he made me bring it all the way back so I hadn't tried
It yet. So I need to it's my breakfast tomorrow
Seeds
We have some
So these are the seeds Jackson gave me lime one
grape soda skunk that's the
mother and then cherry West
BC the back cross three BC three
So that's what those are
Do you are you able to get a close-up on like your top flower of the show?
Get like great shots
Well my touch so the Donnie burger and and you heard that's I other people were bringing it up, too
But that was a raised cannabis. That was John
Is awesome. Yeah, I'm gonna go back to that one
Is awesome
And I don't know which bag it's in
Not this one, but anyway, oh wait there it is so
Yes, I even marked it although you can't mistake the smell
That smells good too, but that is not the Donnie burger
Yeah, I don't know how well you're gonna see it what one
Bud is not gonna
Yeah, and it's like dark and anyway in the darkness of my garage it looks like a dark blob but
Yeah, now it was it Trevor hit it with the smell
Like the garlicky halitosis, but I like love I love that smell
And I remember smoking it in the past. So I was excited that he brought it back down
And like like so this act so Brandon Russ was like
That's the best-looking
Sun-grown I've ever seen like not recently but like that he's ever seen
And
So I thought that was pretty cool but uh
Anyway, I am
Seven hours in the Prius just getting back home and I'm gonna smoke that Donnie burger
Would you like to have actually what pipes do I have in here over there?
The wife is out of town right now, so why don't you smoke something and I'll smoke something and we'll
We'll close it out
We get like every time I get a fresh batch through and I get the dry done I like take the
All the trim because I do the whole thing dry and poured into the freezer and put it on like overnight
I put it on the extra extra extra cold super
Special freezing function and then just give it the lightest sifting. So it's always just the nicest tricones that I can muster
so I've got a little bit of that that I've been enjoying I had a
Harvest a while ago and it's ready
So actually I'm gonna go with a
Jackson's strawberry
Something
Yeah
It's not like a lemony
But like like grandma's lemon, you know like lemon candy that's been left out on you know
When you get when you like go to your grandma's
You know kitchen or a living room counter and there was that jar of lemon candies
That was like dried and old and probably in one lump in the middle of the jar, you know, I'm talking about
It's like it's got that kind of
Dried
not so nice like
But it's good like it's it's everything that I look for in like a lemon. It's not lemony
It's not like super on the lemon flavor. It's unique
Yeah, and I'm like slap happy right now
I I drove all the way up and all the way back and Tom
Well after we drove up Tom was like that wasn't so bad
I was like dude you sat in the passenger seat the entire time
My wife does that to me every fucking time we go for a drive somewhere it's like oh that was quick and easy
Yeah, it's like no
Pretty easy
Drive to like Kelowna for like a lunch thing. It's like a three-hour drive. Fuck you
Yeah, all right, so this is a yeah someone said dope freeborn hat I felt bad because
Well, no, I'm trying to think of I tell this no, I won't tell that story
anyway
Yeah, it's funny compared to Trevor's I mean everyone
Has experiences that totally suck and it just like ruined something in contrast
My
Experience was a lot of fun. So I basically just sat on my couch like for two straight days
And and people came over and rolled joints of what they had and we smoked and we drank and we had fun
we smoked them and
Shot the shit and
That was it was it was cool it would have been like the video quality could have been a little bit better
But I do the best you could do
They I so on day one
Day one the the video. I mean not the video that the ether the internet
For everything went down
So people who are doing sales registers that were dependent on like an internet connection to verify credit cards and send it back
That stuff went out
For me I was like
We have like a break I get to just chill and but but what I love doing I
I
Had what's-her-name? I think it's Emily from royal gold, but I was like go up. I I had I
Had all access video passes
So like I could go up
You know on the other side of the of the metal barriers to like technical
Technically like take photos of the bands playing and stuff. And so I I
Brought her up there
In front of everyone I was like just go live with your cell and just like
Steadicam the stage and we'll cut to you
and
I just thought it was cool to be like and now let's cut to the main stage
Yeah, and I obviously like ideally you'd be plugged into the soundboard so you guys could actually hear something besides cell phone audio
but it was like
It wasn't terrible like I mean when I've heard I've listened to come clubhouse conversations with worth audio
Abraham I do like the red cam and
Yes
We can afford low rates right now. So you got to tell me what your rates are and where you live
But now I mean so next I mean as
I went up I was kind of like how much effort do I feel like putting into this and I
And then I like packed my Pelican key. I literally broke all this shit down here and brought it up
But it'd be cool next year to have a couple
areas set up so like in area 101 which is kind of like what Tim Blake controls and where he brings all his people
Like if I set a camera up in there and
You know, it's just doing content from there and then also where we were just somewhere else whatever and then it's like
All right on like
You know coach number one. We got so-and-so talking to so-and-so
Let's cut to that and then it's like now like back to coach number two where Jackson's ruling a joint
I
Like a couple good zooming cameras to like and then it's like oh like like
you know so-and-so is getting on the main stage like
Trying to think I I don't know if there was music
I mean there there had to have been music on day two, but I mean it was pouring
So it must have been miserable out there
But I wasn't overly impressed with the day one
music
No, what's in your style?
It's okay. I mean it was what you heard it. Yeah, it was fine. It was good. Like I wasn't unhappy to listen to it
But like in the past a great reggae bands and
No, reggae no reggae at all not really at least not on day one, but uh
Anyway, I am back home
I'm gonna chill
What's I today's Monday so what do you have something tomorrow, right?
Bless you
Welcome to my world. Yeah. Yeah, actually
tomorrow's like the
Medium busy day Wednesday's always go fucking nuts
But Tuesday's we have the state of cannabis in the morning and then we have
The day in cower and that one's pretty cool. Did you watch the video of many at Forrest Farms?
If you get a minute, I will let like when was it posted in the past couple days? I posted it on Friday
He is so he has his his total mother library
His greenhouse his mother library is around 250 plants
So he's got like 250 unique cultivars that he's kept in brought together over the last 10 years
So he's and where where where is this legal operation?
It is it's in it's in southern Ontario. So in Canada, okay
Yeah, it's he's called Forrest Farms. So he's a craft
So he there are more like the cannabis that you'll see in his facility is the test facility
They're doing like a whole bunch of random tests and stuff like that
They've got all these very cultivars that he's collected over this time and there's a bunch of licensing stuff. So the anyways he's run
52 and they were at day 55 of flower
So we have 52 unique cultivars that were hunted like he's got cup winners and and all sorts of cool stuff in there
So it's a pretty cool video. So we have him coming in on the dank hour
I mean, he's one of the core guy in the dank hour, but he's gonna come in and
Like talk a little bit about his high
So it's kind of like for Tuesday's conversation people should watch that video as like
The the pre conversation homework. Yeah, I like the prequel
It would be helpful if you watch that video so you knew like when he starts talking about it what he's talking about. Yeah
Okay, and I said that I think I see that in the video so watch the video
And you're and you're telling me now and I'm telling you now and I'll probably mention it again more times
So people know to watch that with because it's actually like it's
Unfortunately video quality is as high quality as if I could like be on location, but it's pretty spectacular
It'll walk through a room with 52
Completely unique plants like they're like the ones right next to it is completely different than the other
And it's not like oh, you know, I threw a bunch of pheno hunts down for a pheno hunting session, right?
There's not like, you know, the relationship is like they're very unique. So it's very kind of cool to see you don't get a lot of
So does he in his library is it kind of like
Like does is he is he showing kind of what his tastes are like he has a consistency
or is he all over the place and
Well, I mean, he's got
250 so he's got a very large variety of stuff and some like weird
Some weirder things as well. Like I I have his list
He's got it
Twice
And he's like he's one of those guys like oh, yeah, you know, like you make a good friend with him
It's like oh, yeah
Pick what you want from the library and send me something your favorite thing and you can have what you'd like out of it
so I've been
Trying to I don't want to send him. I don't want to send babies right now because there's like a whole fucking
problem in the fact that
You see what's underwater for a while now it's starting to freeze so it's not going super great
Wait, what's not going super great? Well in the Fraser Valley, there's been some pretty major floods. Is that where he is?
Yeah, well, no, that's where I am
So there's not a lot of import or export of product right now like dairy shelves are kind not so thin but like bacon's really thin
Yeah, there's been a run-on you say bacon, yeah, we're only allowed to pick up 30 liters at the tank
Of gas at a time right now because there's not enough gas coming in and out of the area
It's like right but but did I hear bacon to like their limits on what how much bacon just went empty?
Everybody's right. There's a run on it. Right, right, right
Just completely gone. But he's that is that like Canadian bacon or real bacon? Oh, it's real bacon
Do you like Canadian bacon like the round bacon that they sometimes put on like a
Bacon cheese sandwich
You guys eat normal bacon strips, yes, yes smoked bacon like, you know proper
Canadians eat turkey bacon
Yeah, we eat meat
Oh
And Manny is also very Canadian so it's quite funny when we actually talk because
There's definitely some Canadian. I sound Canadian and I don't know where that comes from
So he's got I'm from Boston but people are always like are you Canadian
So it's the northern we
We're we're from the northern part of Canada
So he's got like the traditional start so I see he's all over the place so he's got root beer Don Khi butter
One two three
Yeah, he's got a little bit of everything. So it's definitely worthwhile check out
We'll get in and have lunch and then we'll start talking to him because he didn't want to be an I guess
he doesn't want to offend knows Thomas
He knows Jason really really like Thomas. It's not a gavel. I was going to say
One, two, three.
Yeah, he's got a little bit of everything.
So it's definitely worthwhile to check out.
We'll get in and he's actually gonna go through
the whole catalog of his 54 total Finos over the next year.
So we'll actually get, we get in the first, the only in.
If that's three minutes per Fino,
that's 150 minutes of him talking.
Yeah.
Tell him to get ready.
Yeah, well, there's only 60.
Well, we weren't, we didn't go through like everything
with a fine tooth comb, but I would like to,
if I can get out there and.
Wait, no, that may, sorry, I see Chad's,
I may have removed the Terrence and Phillip one,
cause I think it had been up there for a while
and I hadn't used it in a long time.
So I was like, and there were a lot of,
what's that on, the banners.
Oh, yeah.
I still have the Care Bears one.
And then I have my hidely ho Chatterinos
for anytime Chad does a show.
I can, I can, I can photo bomb this show.
Hidely ho Chatterinos.
And then I have my Statler and Waldorf for,
I think that that was for coot or, or crotchety,
crotchety, maybe when people are being crotchety
in the chat.
Oh, that's actually what this one is.
This one's for the chat where people get crotchety
and I'm like, just eat your Snickers bar.
There's, I haven't seen too much crotchety in it.
Who put, was this, who put this one up?
Oh, there's some, there's some weird stuff
that shows up on, I think it's Wednesday specifically.
Wednesdays, weird things show up or Thursdays.
Wednesdays or Thursdays.
One day out of the week, a lot of bugs and slugs
and chips show up.
I have my, my, my tech support ones where I'm like,
I like the, someone who's on is like, I can't figure it out.
I'm like, let me do it.
Like the only way I can show them is to like,
everybody sees it.
Like this is where you switch your microphone input.
And even just trying to get them to find where
the settings is always a pain in the ass.
Yeah, this was whenever I do shit
and the video quality is terrible.
We go in, it's, I call it eight bit.
That's because what's going on is eight bit.
Yeah, it makes sense.
Like, well, I got to go take care of the kid
and do the shit and the stuff.
Yeah, let's do it.
All right.
I will end.
You have to push end though.
It's your responsibility.
And the clubhouse is done, right?
Someone turned that room off?
I, yeah, no, I didn't.
Oh, really?
Yeah, until shortly afterwards when I realized that I'm like,
oh yeah, I got to leave.
So that, all right.
But you ended it like it's now ended, right?
Yeah, let me double check.
Yeah, it's definitely.
All right, while you do that, I'm going to close this out.
So have a good night, everyone.
Ah, nice, yes.
I love giving graphics.
Cause when people, people talk about so much random shit
and I'm always like, I have no idea what that looks like.
Or like most people probably don't know what that looks like.
So I'm like, I'll try to find it
and then put the image on.
Oh, you had Brandon Rust on
and he was trying to talk about like
how the water breaks down through the plant.
I'm like looking in the back,
trying to see if I could find like a graphic.
I hate it.
Cause he was trying to draw it.
I was like, I'm not going to find that.
That's not going to work.
I spent all three seconds on it.
I'm like, eh.
But yeah, anyways.
Yeah, the clubhouse room is definitely closed.
You have a great night.
I'll see you later, brother.
All right, see ya.
All right, bye everyone.
