let it sit for about, you know, a month to two.
And like the flavor profile just completely
like overnight changes and goes to like cookies and berries
like cookies and like, like almost a little bit
of that cookie cakeyness, but like it was really sweet
on the berry, leaves your mouth like really wet
which is nice.
I like that umaminess out of it.
That whole first toast in the morning
after a long night of sleeping is always a little bit
a little bit harder on the ass.
I had some, I had some lemon tree that really did that
after, after about a month
the flavors just changed drastically
came on super lemon, super citrus.
Yeah, I love it when they, they change up like that.
Well, anyways, we are live.
It is London in the garden.
As you all see, we had a late night last night.
We had a fun chat with, on the breeders round table.
I saw you in the, in the conversation there.
And I was excited to like you were down in the chat.
I saw a fair bit for yesterday's talk
with Ryan Lee and everybody.
So we have a fun chat today.
We are visiting your garden.
So as, as everybody knows, it's cannabis for breakfast.
We go big garden, a little garden to one plant
to hundreds of plants.
The idea is, is to connect the community
from large growers to small.
Cause I think it's important.
I think everybody's doing something special
whether you have like a little grow at home
that you're managing to a medium sized grow to like,
Hey, I've got fields of cannabis.
We're all in it for the same plant.
So I think it's cool that we can all connect
on the same way.
It's not like a lot of under industries where it's scales.
And it's just like, there's this huge disconnect.
Like you're either a professional industry person
or you're not related to it at all.
Like whiskey making and stuff like that.
There's not a lot of people like at home
whiskey making in Canada, where I can meet
like a lot of home growers.
So that's where it's fun.
So today I'm actually really excited about that.
This was steep.
Cause this is the first time we've met on camera
but we've been chatting for what?
Like two years now?
Oh, at least I would say, yeah.
Yeah. We, we admitted originally met on Facebook
and, and, and hit it off.
And we just got along really, really well.
Had a lot of the same desires of wanting to grow
like high class, high quality cannabis.
And so we've got to grow a little bit together.
So do you want to introduce yourself to everybody?
Say hello and kind of who you are and what you
what's your growth style and all that stuff.
Well, hello everybody.
My name is Steve.
I'm probably been growing maybe about six years now.
First few years struggling a lot.
I had met London online, gave me great advice.
Turned me around from struggling with one plant
to being able to manage a pretty nice size garden now.
And found that I love growing this plant
maybe more so than smoking this plant
which some may sound crazy, but that's kind of my story.
I'm always learning, always learning from London
and many, many other people.
So I'm more than happy to throw in my little bits
of advice and knowledge and hope it helps somebody.
I think it's funny.
Like we all have little say
there's like little things that we all find
in our own personal gardens that don't work anywhere else.
Yeah.
Like it's, there's always like, there's that mindfulness.
There's people that are like, this is my way
or the highway for growing.
And I think it's so much more diverse than that.
Like every subject, that's why like cannabis
is such this crazy rabbit hole.
Like last night, like this evening, even touching
we touched on kind of like feminized seed varieties
and newer stuff in the amount
of like hermaphroditic plants that you get.
Like cannabis is like a hermaphroditic plant.
Like it's got high tendency to that in general.
So it's kind of funny when you get into the conversation
and look at that and how diverse it is.
It's, there's so much to it
and there's so much more going on there than we know.
So what are you running right now?
Got a little frozen there.
The matrix has stolen you away for a moment.
Yeah, I had to shut off some noise there.
I had some equipment coming on.
Oh, the troubles of living
and working in a growth space, right?
Yeah.
So what have you been running over in your space?
Are you doing like a lot of mums
or are you running a lot from seed?
Are you exploring right now?
What's been growing in your garden?
We'll go for a tour of that in a little bit
and stay tuned everybody
because there is a secret surprise thing happening
during the show that could be very interesting
and fun for everyone to check out.
So we're gonna do that in a little bit
after your tour of your garden.
So stay tuned for that one.
But can you tell me a little bit
about kind of what you're using to amend
and feed your soil?
Are you going in beds right now?
We're gonna go for a tour of course.
But let's chat a little bit about your nitty gritty,
your style and kind of the things that,
the reasons why you might do some of the things
that you do when we talk about your garden beforehand.
That way when we're getting into it,
we can like really drill out the questions
and talk about what's going on there.
And as well as maybe some of the plants
that you've been running lately,
because you've had some beautiful genetics.
I've had the opportunity to see a lot of the flower
come out of your tent and it's nuts.
Absolutely fucking gorgeous.
And every single time it's like a ton better.
I'm like, how do you get better?
Like, it doesn't make sense.
Like it was already amazing
and then it got to really amazing.
So it's like, it's pretty epic.
So do you wanna chat about like kind of
where you've had the most success with plants
and kind of where, what varieties and breeds
you've been leaning on to find you most joy?
Sure.
Well, I run a single tent system, a 10 by 10 tent.
And I wanted everything to be contained into one space.
So I got everything set up over here inside of a tent.
And my first go around in there,
I did some gelato and some peanut butter bread
that didn't turn out so great.
It had mite trouble, man, I had all the issues,
you know, mildew, mold, West Nile virus,
who knows what else?
I think I had everything.
What about, so quick question though,
like where were you growing those from seed or from clone?
And did you get them from a local nursery?
All clone and local nursery?
Is it anyone, cause you're in California
and we actually have a lot of patrons
that are on California chat.
Is there anyone that would be popularly known?
You know, I really don't.
At that point in time, it was pretty much black market.
I didn't know anybody.
None of the local dispensaries dealt with clones.
So I met a guy, I met a guy online.
And got some clones from him and ran those,
which never did very well.
And then later on down the road,
I had gotten into touch with you and your class
and got a whole nother batch of clones
of my first run of peanut butter breath on my own.
And that one came out tremendously better.
I just followed your rules.
I followed your guidelines.
I followed your recommendations
and everything seemed to fall into place.
And I got a much better understanding
of growing in an enclosed environment.
Then I discovered genetics and I went out
and found some exotic genetics, dessert runs.
And semi-pheno hunted from clones,
several different clones
from different types of dessert runs.
I semi-pheno hunted to get a nice tint
of some really good stuff.
And I loved it.
I fell in love with it.
I studied it.
I had to come out and peek at it all the time.
I just love this plant.
And so I needed-
What was it?
So was there a specific runs that you had
really shown for you or was it them in general,
their performance as a whole?
Because I'm like, as you can see,
I'm notoriously bad for throwing plants away.
Like I always keep all my mums
and I keep them for too long.
And I'll keep it for a couple of years
and get three runs out of them.
And even then I'm like, I don't like you as much
as I like you.
You're both from the same variety
and you both have a relativity to you,
but I just, I can't, I don't wanna let go of either of you.
I always have challenges with it
and it begins to be a problem.
Cause now I'm like, you know, hunting through,
I've got, you know, the last two months
I've probably fired about 75 seeds into the ground.
So I've got a lot of stuff to dig through right now
and I'm not gonna be able to save all of it.
Right?
So was there some specific ones
and did you save some of those in mum
or are you still like just getting them regularly
off of your supplier?
Well, what really caught me man,
is I had one plant that almost had like a light blue bud
and it smelled like when you walked into a candy store,
just this beautiful, sweet aroma to it with a back of gas.
It just smelled so amazing to me.
And I just, I found myself,
I couldn't go in my tent without smelling that plant,
looking at that plant, touching that plant.
And I just said, I want a whole tent of this plant,
you know, so that kind of set me off as to
trying to get a whole tent of that plant.
And I'm pretty close to that now.
So we'll see what this one brings.
I'm hoping.
Nice.
We'll get in there in a second.
So that's what we're gonna go check out in a minute here.
That's it.
Right now is all exotic genetics dessert run.
Ooh, exciting.
And they've all been prior to hunted through clone
that you've tested them out, which is really good.
What are you running for amendment feeding
and what are you doing there?
I run a very simple setup.
I run FloraFlex full tilt schedule
with their bulky B additive.
And I run PowerSci, which is a silica.
And then I run an SLF 100, which is just as an enzyme
that helps break down the salts in the roots
and things like that to help for salt buildup.
That's pretty much it.
Super simple.
Sometimes it's easy to keep it simple,
especially depending on what you got going on in life.
I mean, we got a lot of the super organic guys
that do the beds and stuff like that.
I've been exploring that area and it's a lot of fun
with the gallon pots, but it's like, it's a lot of work
and there's a lot going on there and a lot of key factors.
Then I still use a base salt blend
as like just kind of during those periods of time
when you can really ramp up.
I think it's like super, super necessary.
No problem with it.
But anyways, let's get into it and check out the tech.
You wanna go?
Okay.
Yeah, you wanna go in there now?
So you know you can change your camera around
if that helps.
So if you see this settings button, it should,
and then you can go to your settings
and then there's a little camera
and then you should be able to,
there's a little pull down tab and it'll rotate for you,
make life a little bit easier.
God damn, it's cold in Canada today.
Christ sakes, my toes are freezing.
Beautiful.
Kind of get down on the level here.
Get you go big.
Just finding focus right now.
So you can find a nice steady spot to let it come to,
come up a little bit there with the image,
but it's coming through.
So you have, how many plants have you put into this space?
About the-
25 in this space.
25, and this is 10 by 10, did you say?
Yeah.
Nice, and those are looking like twos, two gallon pots?
These are three.
Well, they're listed as number three.
I won't say there's three gallons in there.
I definitely wouldn't call them three full gallons.
I think that's funny
because there is this inconsistency that happens there.
It's like, oh yeah, it's three gallons.
And it's like, sometimes they're not,
depending on your company, you get one gallon pots
and it's like, wow, okay, that's totally like two liters.
I like the two liter ones.
I'm just gonna say, I'll call that out right now.
So they're looking really consistent in shape, size,
structure.
And they're, how long have you been vegging these out for?
This is week three that I've had them.
And when I brought them here,
they were in still cubes at one week old.
Okay.
So they're about four weeks,
five weeks, somewhere in there.
That's a beautiful clean space too, eh?
Thank you, man.
That's very, very, very nice, which is really good.
I'm trying to get a good camera angle for you guys.
Can you do me a favor?
Pop your finger, hand in front of the lens for a second.
Like just block the whole lens with your hand a little bit
and then pull it away.
And sometimes I can just reset the lens
and it might come into focus a little bit better.
I think if you also get in a little bit closer
to those plants, it'll clear up the image a bit too.
But yeah, they're looking really nice.
So when are you gonna flip these into flour?
Well, I'm planning on hopefully a couple of weeks.
I'm gonna veg them out until they reach
about midpoint of my tent.
And then I will throw some nets over them,
get them spread out a little bit,
hopefully to give me a full canopy in this whole space
and then flip as soon as I can, actually.
I'd like to flip and get these done
before the heat of summer sets in.
So are you using the whole 10 by 10 square
or do you have a five, like a small square in the corner
that you're kind of like using?
That's it, I've got one square in the corner
that I've got all my equipment in
and then I'm using the other three, what I call quadrants,
three five by five spaces in here, each one under a light.
Oh, those are some nice looking lights.
What do you run in there?
Scorpion Diablos from HLG.
Those are some powerful, those are some kicking lights.
Yeah, right now they're on number one.
I can't turn them down any lower than they are right now.
Nice, so is that what you're running them at
at this point in time?
Yes.
Okay, so you'll max them out by the end of flour?
Yeah, I'll have them maxed out probably by week six,
going into week seven, they'll be at 100%.
Nice, and so are you, how are you watering?
Hands and knees by hand every night, yeah.
Hands and knees by hand every night, eh?
Have you tried setting up, like,
because you got 25 plants,
what are you watering, every three days right now?
Right now it's probably every three days, yeah.
Maybe not even that much on some still.
So you're doing probably on the three days,
25 plants, I'd probably say close to four liters a plant.
You're doing 100 liters every three days then,
probably, roundabout of water, eh?
Yes.
Okay. Yeah, that's pretty close.
So, like, do you have, do you use, like,
do you have a bit, like, what do you,
just bringing in with your hose and keeping it real simple?
Nope, I got right out here.
I got my...
Nice.
My reservoir that I'm just mix up and store water in.
Yep.
With all nutrients, and then I just transfer it
into my smaller bucket, carry it around,
and then just water with various...
Little bits and bobs,
because you know what might be super handy for you?
And it's like, it's actually a really cheap alternative.
You can get like a...
This is super convenient, because I just happen to be,
I just happen to be doing a thing right now.
Here, I'm just going to do this.
That's a glorious looking garden, brother.
One of these, and you could just,
you could just attach a hose to it.
And I mean, you could get one of these
that does like 800 gallons per hour.
It'll be strong enough to water your plants,
but it won't, like, it'll only cost like 30, 40 bucks.
It shouldn't be very expensive.
And then you get a hose and one of these wands,
and you can save your back a lot of, a lot of hell.
You can get, you know, six feet of length in there
and really get in deep and not even have to,
like, and you could not even have to bend over to do it,
because you can get in through your pipes
and stuff like that,
and make things a little bit easier for you.
And that can cost less than 50 bucks.
For moving a hundred liters every three days,
that's a lot of work.
It's a lot of work.
Yeah, it is.
Right, like, and that can,
yeah, your front camera is a little bit better quality.
Can you try your front camera,
front facing camera in your tent
and see if we could get a clear image
of the plants a little bit better?
It was a little bit cloudy last time.
Okay.
Husky just popped in and he said,
this front camera seems to be a lot clearer.
I'll try to get you.
Let's bring it up big.
Yeah.
Kind of, kind of the same.
It gets complex with all the light bouncing up and down
and around in these rooms too.
It doesn't make it any easier.
Yeah, it's coming in, coming through the same, same.
They are really even on your canopy size and shape.
They're really nice.
I've topped them once.
Topped them once.
You just did the initial topping, then you come in here.
Yep, I've topped them once
and I've taken nothing else off here.
Let's see here.
Yeah, I agree with you Husky.
It's the LED tech messing with the camera a little bit.
Ooh, that's pretty clear though.
Yeah, it's just trying to figure out
what the hell's going on with all the reflective light.
I've just done the one-
Okay, that's your main node there that you topped.
Yeah, I've just done that one topping
is all I've done on these.
And there, they are staying fairly, fairly level.
Fairly stout, yeah.
I mean, that's pretty nice.
Good consistency.
I mean, they're clearly you've picked out
a lot of even clones too that have grown out really well.
And they came in just a little cube.
So you transplanted those right off the bat
into the three gallon pots?
Yep.
No, actually they went into one gallons
for two and a half weeks.
Okay.
Make it easier.
Save the space.
Save the space, right?
Yeah, space is so valuable.
That's glorious.
What are you doing for pest prevention and security?
Because you've been talking, you've had a little bit,
you had your first couple, your first run,
you had a bout of mites
and you had a couple of challenges that went on there.
Man, like I've just got to say it again
and I'll say it probably once or twice more.
That is a gloriously clean space.
Thank you.
Like you're really keeping it really,
like you can see, like, I'm sorry, I've been chef.
So I have these weird eyes.
Like I can see on top of your ducting is clean,
like on top of things where people don't use,
like where I don't clean is clean.
Like it's quite nice.
It's very, very well taken care of.
Back in my corners are clean, man.
I keep everything.
All my fans are dusted off.
And that I think you asked about pest prevention.
So there you go.
My biggest number one thing
is when I first got into all this, I had problems.
So I went crazy to never have problems again.
I clean everything.
When I come home from the grocery store,
I wipe down the containers with alcohol.
I soak all my scissors in alcohol.
I constantly spray my tent and my garage
with the same things to prevent pests.
I have screens over all my doors
coming in and out of the garage.
And then every week I spray a product called Pure Crop One.
And that's all I do.
Easy peasy.
Just a little bit of work, right?
Again, right.
It's just basically super, super anal
about prevention, trying to prevent any problems.
Well, if you don't have a problem to begin with,
you don't have to deal with getting rid of it.
And that's twice the challenge.
And I'll tell you what,
I'm in the middle of that right now.
I kinda did it on purpose.
I'm gonna say that, but I totally didn't do it on purpose
because I'm pushing for the more organic,
like trying to do the no-till.
I'm trying to influence my methodology
with the regenerative style.
So doing the mulching cover crops and stuff like that.
But I find that,
I got a case of some pretty bad aphids on the last run.
I actually lost four whole plants
just before like having to take them out.
I got a really cool bug called the Whirlygig Mike
that just totally cleared out all the aphids.
Like I mean, cleaned the house full,
and my wife in the background.
But I lost four plants.
And in a tiny grow, like I got a four by eight tent,
and I put eight plants in every three weeks,
and I take eight plants out.
That gives me about six to eight jars.
You know, I can maybe pull out a pound each run.
I'm not pulling huge volume,
but I'm trying to keep it every three weeks.
So every three weeks I get to pull out a pound.
So I figured out I can get a little bit more
in that version.
But when you have a issue like a mite
or a challenge like that,
and you're out A, you know, the cost of your goods,
oh, look at that puppy.
All the cost of your goods, all the problems.
Yeah, cut and saw.
And run into all those other challenges,
it can really like play deficit on you.
All of a sudden you lose half a run.
You know, you can't like,
you're gonna be short wheat for a week if that happens.
When it's kind of like home growing
just for yourself for medicine.
I mean, you got a pretty large setup.
I imagine that you're pretty well taken care of
in between each run if you manage to get a good one off,
which is pretty regular now.
Yeah, I do pretty stay pretty busy in here.
So what's your system?
Like, cause I know you always have something
it seems on the grow in your tents.
So what's like your methodology?
Are you like, you're clearly doing full runs of this space.
Are you like, do you have a separate tent
that you're vegging out at the same time?
Like what's your methodology there?
Well, I have actually at another place,
a very, very good friend of mine has a very similar setup,
but he's also fully, fully doing clones.
He loves the clones.
So I have a very available source of really cool clones
all the time it seems like now.
So I've just kind of been going through him
when I have the space open and fill it up
with whatever he's got that's neat.
The dessert runs really struck my fancy.
This is my third run of it.
And it'll probably be the last one throughout the summer
and then maybe change it up a little
when fall comes do a fall run
of maybe a mixed variety of things.
See how it goes.
So do you have to like stop a little bit in the summer?
You know, I don't have to,
but because I'm basically set up in a garage,
I still fight a lot of heat
and I just kind of don't like doing that.
Why fight it when you don't have to?
I also dry and cure in the tent
so that creates a pretty bad problem
in this 112 degree garage in the middle of summer.
Yeah, can't be cheap to heat to cool either.
I imagine electric bill isn't very nice
and that would be a challenge in itself to what goes.
Luckily I have the great Canadian outdoors.
Yeah, see I don't have nearly,
I don't have any humidity in the summertime here
and I will accept at nighttime.
And then I don't have a day that's even close to cool.
So I like to do nothing in the summertime
if it's not outdoors.
I like to do nothing in the summertime too.
I get to do that.
Just let the plants grow that are outdoors,
which is, so you have a little bit of a plan
to do some outdoor this year?
Yes, I am actually gonna do probably four,
just four regular,
just wanna play around with some outdoors,
just have something to do.
So I will run those.
Gonna grab some clones actually here,
probably in a week, two weeks,
be time to set those outside.
When I say clones, those will be pretty much teenage girls
ready to really flourish.
So they'll get pretty big, I imagine that.
You're probably, what are you harvesting
out of those tents?
And what do you harvest out of the outdoor?
Like, are you getting pretty big six footers outdoor?
Well, outdoor, I don't know what this is gonna do
to your guys' light, but this little spot of sun
that you can see turns into a slightly bigger spot of sun.
And that's my only girl space out right now.
You got a lot of tree cover in your space then, eh?
Yeah, and right now I got this one little girl
sitting out here and she'll go into that space.
But outdoor space has really been covered up
by the trees around here.
Yeah.
It happens, you can't stop your neighbors.
Luckily, one of my neighbors is like,
turned his whole backyard into a little farm.
So, and I'm South facing with a hill cutoff kind of,
so I can actually get good sun all year,
like most of the season long through this greenhouse
and in my space, just because I have a lucky angle.
But a lot of people aren't that privileged
to be in this space.
Yeah, I used to, the whole side of the yard was,
and I was getting like nine to 12 foot plants
and about four pounds a piece off of them out there.
They were just humongous.
These are Tropicana cookies
is what I was growing out there.
Mostly, I grew a lemon tree and I grew some SFVOG
and shoot, I actually, I grew some Candyland,
but it was the Tropicana cookies that got huge.
They were humongous plants.
Nice, yeah, Tropicana cookies can be interesting.
I've got some, but I'm pretty sure they weren't like
traditional, traditional Tropicana cookies,
but they got this like beautiful purple color
and a really nice flavor profile out of them.
That was one plant that I did chop out of my category
just because I can't like, if I can't tell,
if there's not a consistency there,
or it's like not like really, really special,
then it's like also not really a lot worth the time.
So it's like, I was kind of miss it,
but I put it out to the local community.
So there might be somebody still floating around with it
somewhere who knows.
I don't know.
I try and do the cuts and give them to friends and family
and whoever needs them in the spring here.
I find it can be pretty helpful.
And like that, and if you have a good consistent,
like there's not a lot of people providing
good consistent clones and stuff like that.
Like that relationship that you have built
is kind of critical for a lot of people,
especially like in your space, right?
Yeah, it's my lifeline really.
Yeah, it's a lifeline.
Yeah, because it's hard to do those hunts
going through a whole bunch of seeds.
So what do you, like what do you,
may I ask what you have to pay per piece?
Are you in like the $10 range, $5 range?
What's the, here you sell them in the spring
because people are, unless you're a licensed
medical producer, like a ACMPR on the small side,
like you're a home grower, licensed home grower,
you're only allowed four plants.
So people only buy four and they'll put them outdoors.
So we like, we'll grow them out pretty big
so that they can do as much as they can with them.
And there'll be like, you know,
that big by the time they get them.
But we'll charge, you know,
like when they get that large,
you gotta charge like 25 bucks or 30 bucks a piece.
Luckily, luckily I just get the clones
and they get a little bit of the product when it's all done.
They get to enjoy the finished product.
And the clones, probably the plugs are about
three to $5 depending on genetics.
One gallon's anywhere from maybe eight to $12
depending on genetics.
And then teens, maybe 15 to 20.
And teens are beautiful.
Teens are big, beautiful plants already.
I like the little ones.
I just like the little ones and let them grow.
Yeah, well, it's good.
It's fun to start from the start.
I mean, like I've got, these are all in front of me.
Most of these are the Syrah packs,
which are like my first cross of Chernobyl
crossed with strawberry banana together.
And so there's like, there's a few in here
with like the stinkiest stems,
like really floral and really pungent
and very, very interesting.
I'm very excited to kind of see them take off.
Some of them don't have any aroma at all,
which kind of sucks.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
But you can't, people like,
I think Ryan Lee said it really well last night too,
is that there's like, people need to have an understanding
that there's a variety to when you get a pack of seeds.
Right, like not every plant is gonna be the same
and everybody should have that basic understanding.
There's not a lot of people running like,
really long-term inbred lines that are consistent.
There are, you can definitely find them out there,
but I think it's better to be honest
about what's happening with them than not.
And I think it's cool.
I think it's cool, like it reminds me of when I was a kid
and like you open a pack of cards, you know what I mean?
And you get like your gold card, the special sparkly one,
the rookie card, whatever happens for that person.
And that's what I like, love seed popping so much
because it's like you get such a,
it's like you get to go through the cards afterwards
and see what you want.
Well, that's another reason I'll be taking a little break
for this summer is I'm gonna have to get set up.
I'm gonna do a nice little seed project I have planned.
I just got some really nice seeds, as you may know.
And I'm gonna give those a go this fall probably
and do them in the tent.
So that'll be your stuff.
Really?
Yeah.
So how about we do this?
So people that are in the chat
and have like been kind of following around
for a little bit, know that if you check out
the Cunning Folk and like you buy one of the packs
of the sets, you can actually win a pack of the Saraclan
the Saraclan cross that I handmade.
It's the same box, but it's like it's handmade.
And so I burnt into it.
I like, I burnt, I literally like burnt myself
making these packs.
We had Chad Westport open one on a live
on Future Cannabis Project the other day.
And these, that's the Saracrosses that are my crosses.
These other, the genetics that are in the Cunning Folk
in these seeds are actually Ryan Lee's,
Chimera are his production.
And they're like, I can't take,
I can't give you that much work in length of expertise
in a seed, like I've just, I'm not there yet.
So I thought it'd be an amazing opportunity
to work with someone like Ryan
to get something through Europe that's out of his work
and put it out in the market.
But so because of the giveaway
and you actually were one of the first,
you were the first person ever
to buy a pack of Cunning Folk seeds.
So as a surprise for you,
and since you're gonna do a run of testing,
I would love to, well, I'm gonna give you a pack
of the Saracrosses for you to try out
at in the fall if you would, if you don't mind.
Oh, no, no, no.
I would hate that, London.
I would hate that.
Yes, please, please.
Thank you.
Wicked.
I'm so terrible at these things.
So you're gonna get the first free pack of Saracross
to come out and I'm gonna send you an email
a little bit later today.
And what's gonna happen is you're gonna sign in that email,
go in and give them your information.
Okay, yeah, absolutely.
Just like you did before when you purchased the first pack,
we're gonna send that along for you to enjoy.
And then what we'll try and do is catch up a little bit
when you start hunting through those packs.
Yeah.
And we'll try and see what you get up of it
and see what else is going on.
Peter just showed up.
Hey, Peter.
There you go.
Unlike Vanna White, I'm just here to hand model.
Excellent, excellent.
Can I get a W?
That was so awesome.
That was such an awesome finish there.
So yeah, so those will come out.
Can you show the other packs, Peter, while we're at it?
So the kind of folks that you can win those
if you buy the other.
Now I've worked with Peter.
He's like, I had everything prepped
to just show this one pack.
And now you're gonna make me get up
and go get the other ones.
It is such a cool box.
I hate to even open it, play with it.
I don't wanna plant anything out of it.
It's a collector's item, man.
I love that thing.
It's very cool.
I'm working on, I've been chatting
with a few of the breeders.
Yeah, so those are the regular packs,
which are really cool.
You have to find the seeds in those packs.
So if you get the pack and you don't see the seeds
right away, like it's still a puzzle, which is there.
And what's that one?
That's the Lemoncello.
Yeah.
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
All right, hold on.
The evilness of these packs.
All right.
So again, how it works is if you get one
of these beautiful collector's packs
that have Ryan Lee, Chimeras, Unix,
brought in over from Europe
and you purchase one of these packs,
you get entered for a chance to win,
like Steve did a pack for free of the Saracrosses,
which he is getting sent in the mail later on today.
And we're gonna do another little fun giveaway,
I think in a moment here too.
So those that are staying tuned or listening,
don't go anywhere because you could be part
of another fun giveaway.
So there was a genius story here, okay?
So in the other packs, when you get them open,
they're packed in exactly the same way with rice
and all the glass files
of all the different stuff that's in it.
But I didn't have the foresight to think
that everything being loose in there
was gonna be a problem when you open the package.
So on the V1s, on the one that you're gonna get
the free pack, be careful opening it
because it might surprise you
with the evacuation of its contents.
But I love that in the back there.
The puzzle represents rebellion.
Rebel against agriculture, plant your own food.
Rebel against pharma culture, plant your own medicine.
Are you gonna plant it?
What did you get in the package, Steve?
You got the Schnaz.
So in the Schnaz, you also got the cover crop,
the candy cane beat the cilantro.
You should try out that cover crop,
which is pretty cool on your setup.
I think it'll be kind of fun
if you put it on just like a quarter of the package
on one of your plants, just to see how it does.
It could add a little bit of fun
because you don't put anything on the top of your...
No, I just run cocoa and that's it.
Nice.
So yeah, I would try it out.
It can be a little bit, it can be a lot of fun.
I do the hay now with the cover crop
and I find it's an excellent combination of blends
and it adds a lot of fun to it.
But then you gotta write some of the things
that you can run into is like things will...
There are places for bugs to live
when you have a cover crop, right?
So if you don't have any bugs, you'll be fine
because it's not gonna, like bugs aren't gonna just show up
because you have cover crop,
but if you have to get rid of bugs,
you have to look at things a little bit differently
because you're not just attacking the plant
or defending the specific plant,
you're defending the cover as well.
But it has a double-pronged effect
is that if you have a good cover crop,
like a high blend of variance, variable, different stuff,
is that a lot of the common aphids,
common pests that you have,
actually cannabis is pretty resistant.
I mean, apart from the cannabis aphid,
which seems to favor it,
like is pretty resistant to most pests.
But the thing is this,
there's only one plant in this whole space to eat, right?
So it's gotta eat that.
And then as like,
cause they rapidly develop the ability
to eat over generations
cause they spawn a generation every couple of days,
they're able to really consume and take over a space.
Whereas if you have that variety of cover crop,
they'll eat that and they'll find the thing that they like
and they'll destroy that and they'll move
find that maybe in some other spaces
so it can be a little bit more containable.
You can see things happening ahead of time.
And then you can use like predatory insects
and stuff like that.
I'd like, cause you have,
what I've had to do is cause I was like you,
I was super anally clean.
I clean everything all the time, maintain all the time.
But as you can see, I'm like underneath a deck.
Like I'm like, literally the tent is sitting on pads
on the ground outside.
So it's like, I have to,
there's no way of fighting it anymore.
It's there, I'm in nature.
I have to kind of try and live with it a little bit more.
And there's been some ups and down curves
as there are with anything,
but it's been fun.
Getting over bugs has been hard.
You know that the whole going through,
like I say, I think I fought everything.
I've known the man on that tent.
I gained a lot of knowledge, man.
That was my biggest learning curve
was when I was fighting stuff.
Had to learn, you know, had to learn how to fight it.
Make it better.
Yeah, you do.
So what, like, what was, was there a,
was there a turning point or like,
cause getting through those,
those things and coming out the other side
can be really challenging, right?
A lot of people, like what I see happen very regularly
is people, they get interested in growing cannabis
and maybe they get interested in it.
A, they're in a challenging outdoor environment
that makes things really hard, perhaps like I am,
or B, they're in, they're on an off season.
So they go straight to indoor growing and jump into that.
And it's very challenging.
And like the first year can usually defeat a lot of people,
especially like some of these people go in there,
it's like, I'm gonna spend 10 fucking grand on a setup.
And I, and I burn,
and I had to burn it for the first three runs, right?
And not burn it like I got to enjoy it,
burn it like, like that's bad.
How, what were some things that got you through that?
And if you were you now at that point,
what would you tell yourself then
to help you get through it a little bit easier?
Ooh, well, my first big run in,
I got russet mites and did not realize it
until probably week one of flower, right?
Right into flower.
So I wasn't really able to use any of the sulfur sprays
or anything like that,
that you could normally use on russet mites.
And I'm super stubborn.
So I figured I can get this.
I can cure crop them to death.
I can figure out a way.
And I did, I did, I did finish off the run
when everybody was telling me to throw it away.
And I did get something out of it.
And I think that was my turning point
was when I, my first grow, I finally got something.
It at least taught me it's worth the fight.
Find out what's wrong.
If you don't like the way your plants look,
figure out what's wrong with them,
figure out what it takes to make them better
and see how close you can get to that to make them better.
And that was just my, my philosophy on it all.
And problems, unfortunately,
were a big part of that first year.
And when I figured out that with your help
and learning and reading and just being patient,
I could get through those problems.
That kind of just made it easy for me
to accept any problem I get now.
It's just another day.
It's another problem.
It's another bug.
It's another, whatever.
It's another brown leaf.
I'll figure it out.
I'll get through it.
I stopped stressing out about it all.
So I think that was the big turning point
is when I got that first payoff out of that crop,
I actually grew some buds.
I just said, it's all worth it.
You know, I'll keep, I'll keep struggling with a problem.
If I come to a problem, I'll figure it out,
find out what's wrong.
So, kind of what I did.
Exactly.
Like people get, and you can hammer yourself so bad.
And I got, you know,
I was fortunate to like spend my time in the kitchen.
So it was a lot of like developing your art form
and then going through a lot of failure points.
Like even like putting out a dish in a high-end restaurant
takes a year of work, right?
Like you got to already be it.
You have to test the systems.
You have to then, and then even after all that time,
you create this beautiful, immaculate, flawless dish.
You spend the next six months running it as tests
in your kitchen and selling it to your guests.
And that dish, when it goes into that process
and comes out of it, is something altogether different.
Because now all of a sudden,
you're not just taking a dish
and putting out 10 of it for people to try.
You're taking a dish and putting out hundreds of it
for the world to enjoy.
And it's a very different degree.
So going through that and those challenges
and those nights where it's like,
you can't even put five out
because nothing's going right and nothing tastes good
is like really, really hard.
So I got the fortunate to be able to get that beaten into me
that you got to kind of let go a little bit
and let things happen and see how they go.
It's really hard to learn that though.
It's kind of-
It was-
It was discovering that every problem is not the end of it.
I was so fearful that first run
that I had to do everything perfect
or it was all gonna just die.
And I learned it won't.
Just take your time, readjust, get through it.
Every run, I strive to be better.
Every single run, I'm in competition with myself
and only myself to just beat myself
what I did the last run.
So I just enjoy that part of it,
what I get out of it myself.
I think it's pretty awesome.
And you're in California.
So there's actually like a lot of community around there
and the cannabis community has this amazing
kind of competition,
like this competitiveness with each other,
but also it's like this sharing,
like I'm gonna be competitive
because I wanna see if mine is better than yours,
but let's talk about how we each got there
and try and get better together.
It's that friendly,
almost competitive cooperation.
It's really fun.
And in that area, you get a lot to go around to.
So have you found more community around you
or do you feel like a pillar kind of out of your way?
Cause it's also like, I mean,
there's been a change of legality over the last little bit.
Where you're able to be more open,
like up here I had family and friends over
from my mom's generation last week.
And it was still, there's still like,
you know, like let's go, you know,
they all know what I do.
I post photos of weed all day long.
And then it's like a photo with my kid every once in a while.
So all of them follow.
It still feels like an underground habit, you know?
Yeah, it's like, hey, yeah, let's poke each other.
Let's go sneak out and smoke weed.
No, let's talk about weed right here with everybody
and roll up a doobie and smoke it.
Like, like.
Yeah, I mean, you know, just a couple of weeks ago
here in town at a convention center,
there was a big pop-up weed sale, bombs, weed,
dabs, dab rigs.
It just done really, you know,
just like a swap meet environment.
It's just, it's very acceptable now.
Very cool.
I love it.
While we're on consumption, how do you like to consume?
Oh,
pipe.
I'm old fashioned, man.
I just like to smoke the flower.
I love the taste of the flower.
She's awesome.
She's really good.
And you know what?
You mentioned something earlier
that I think is very important
and to mention is that like,
it's about the flower for a lot of people
that get into it this hard.
It's not about like it because, oh yeah,
the result is I get to smoke this amazing weed.
But like half of the fun is the production of the flower
and being there and that connectivity,
getting back to kind of,
cause we were all farmers.
I mean, really getting back to that,
that root cause and that reward
that justifies after a period of time.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So what do you have?
So you're gonna do some vegetables outside.
Do you do any vegetable gardening or any of that?
Yeah, I'm gonna run,
I'm gonna run, I think four different varieties
of tomatoes this year.
I've got three different peppers going in.
I've got a squash.
Ooh, what type of peppers?
I've got a poblano pepper.
I've got a jalapeno that I like and a Fresno chili.
And I don't know what the third one is sitting out there.
Might be another Fresno chili.
Maybe I don't have as many as I think.
And I'm also gonna give a shot
at some of those big giant pumpkins.
I'm gonna try to grow a big giant pumpkin.
That's cool.
That can be challenging.
A buddy of mine tried to do that last year
and he got okay with it.
But there's always one person that just kills it with that.
I've never, I don't have the room.
They take up so much plant space
and I can get like 30 other plants in one pumpkin.
Although it'd be kind of cool to like hollow it out
and use it as a planter.
Yeah, that's how I got the seeds.
I bought a pumpkin for last Halloween that was humongous
and I got the seeds out of it.
So I'm gonna plant those and give them a shot,
see what they do.
Nice.
Nice.
Collect the good stuff.
What else did we have to talk about?
Where, so you're doing the indoor,
you have the dessert runs going now.
You are, what else?
Did you pick up anything else from Daga
other than the schnazz that you're gonna try out?
I did get a CBD freebie in there
that I would like to try out at some point.
That sounded pretty fun.
When I start running your seeds,
I think I'm only gonna do just yours,
focus totally on that.
And then after that, maybe you make some plans for something
but that's my plans right now.
I start through, see what you find in those fun packs.
Yeah, I'm so excited about that, man.
It's just such a cool thing.
Very awesome.
So we've got another fun thing that I wanted to do
at the hour mark.
I'm sure Peter's listening a little bit there.
And Steve, we got this super bonus episode with you.
So you get to be the exciting conclusion
to an awesome, awesome couple of things.
So we actually have a Daga Academy.
I don't know if you know about this as well,
but here, let me share this.
Is so, you know how like I built the course to do
and I did the Facebook group and it's like, it's fun
but it's really hard to build that stuff solo.
And when there's a great community
of people who work together,
it can be really helpful to work as a community.
So they've actually, Peter has been working on this
for a bit.
And so we put the course up onto,
I gotta do this as big format, onto Daga.academy.
And those that have been paying attention,
I did mention earlier that we would do a giveaway
at or something potentially happening during the day-to-day
but what we have been saying in a lot of the shows
and has been popping up is that if you go on to
Daga.academy and post some content,
show what you have growing in your garden,
you can have the chance to win something.
So what we're gonna do is for that fortunate person,
we're gonna have a look through some of the content today
and pick something.
And maybe we'll pick a pretty plant together
or see how it is and kind of keep it pretty random
and see what's going on in there.
So those that have posted pictures, shared stuff,
made conversation, we're gonna pick one person out
and we'll put you in contact
and we'll do some posts with Peter
and we can put that out there for you
to get some free beans today, which is pretty cool.
So you get some free beans, this person gets some free beans
we're just giving away some fun stuff.
What's your hottest variety, Chris?
Oh, that's what's the hottest pepper you've ever eaten,
Steve, would you like spicy food?
Oh yeah, but I haven't experimented much with peppers
beyond the habanero.
That would have to be the hottest one I've eaten.
I know there's much hotter out there
but I don't know if I'm that brave.
All right, so let's go ahead.
I think we're gonna pick a cool photo
that somebody had posted here.
Let's see, I had something ding me
so I gotta check that real quick.
Awesome, so let's see what we have.
This is a pretty photo.
What do you think here, Steve?
What photo do we want to finish flower photo?
Do we want a scene photo?
Do we want a midway?
What do you think?
What do you see here?
Got it on my eyeballs.
Oh, this flower with the hand behind it.
This one?
Yeah, that's pretty.
Update killer RGM.
That's beauty.
What we're gonna do there.
Yeah, he's been posting a whole lot.
He's been making a lot of effort here.
It looks like he's done a ton of,
put in a ton of stuff and a ton of things.
So we're gonna reward that.
Look at that.
What a pretty, oh, that's beautiful.
That is gorgeous killer RMG.
Congratulations.
You just, congratulations.
I will write a message right now.
I will not write that right now
because I hate writing in front of people.
So we're gonna avoid doing that.
Which is hilarious.
So I'm gonna write that one in just a message there.
I wonder if he's in chat.
If he's in chat, I don't know if you are brother,
but let's go ahead and check out that winning pick
for a minute and continue our conversation.
I gotta bring that one up.
There it is.
Here's the photo of the day.
Comment.
That just looks so healthy, you know?
She's just screaming.
Oh, so go on, check out Jagga Academy.
And I would definitely suggest everybody to go in there
and post something for a chance for you to win
a set of free beans.
That's pretty cool.
I think that's pretty neat and very exciting.
And we'll have those go in a little bit.
So my question for you,
my question for you, my friend, is what,
what,
what has been the hardest challenge other than,
like you mentioned russet mites.
Was there anything that was more challenging?
And have you, have you developed like your feeding system?
Did you start feeding in the way,
like, did you start feeding your plants?
What the system that you're feeding them now,
or did that develop over time?
And, and what was the greatest challenge that you had?
Like the ultimate crux in your, in your growing career?
I was, I was an outdoor grower here in central California
where our summertime temperatures are always above a hundred
sometimes 110, 115.
So I was very accustomed to using a ton of water.
When I came indoors,
my biggest problem was over watering like crazy.
It took me forever to figure out what proper watering
this feels like the way to the plants.
It took me a long time to figure out to let them dry out.
That was my biggest obstacle.
I, I hurt a lot of groves by, by over watering for sure.
And I did start on the FloraFlex program from day one.
It, it was fairly easy, easy to understand,
easy to use that appealed to me back then.
And I've, I've liked it.
It's easy to amend to it's,
it's a very accommodating line of nutrients.
So I enjoyed that about it.
But yeah, the, the biggest obstacle for me
was a personal one.
It was just getting over my, my watering habits.
As far as, as creatures and pests in the tent,
I just sort of started looking at those.
From day one in the tent,
I kind of think in my head, I've got everything.
So I treat it like I have everything.
I clean, I spray weekly.
I look at my plants.
I look under the leaves.
I magnify glass.
I, I do all kinds of stuff, you know,
just to make sure there's nothing there,
but I still treat it like there could be something there.
I don't spray with heavy pesticides or anything like that.
I don't, I don't do anything crazy like that.
A lot of fly strips, bug, bug traps.
Yeah.
Monitoring stuff and things to like help build up
the immunity of the plant.
And like, you know,
the thing is that the pest won't really go after
a really healthy plant.
It just won't.
So what do you, what do you look for in plants
when it comes to flavor profiles?
Like, what do you enjoy smoking?
Is there something specific
that you really like to like to smoke?
And is there something that you miss that you get,
that you from back in the day that you really,
really enjoyed that's a flavor profile?
Absolutely.
Am I, well, obviously I like the dessert runs.
That's my favorite right now to smoke and to grow.
Something, something I miss is that old time scum,
that old time Maui, Waui, 80s, 90s kind of stuff.
Super, super excited to be running the seeds
because train wreck is one of the old ones I miss.
That's a beautiful strain.
So I'd like to see that, some features of that come back.
But as far as the smoking profile and flavors and stuff,
I like, I like sweet gas.
That's what I call it.
I like those sweet candy flavors,
but with that back of a chemical acetone,
diesel fuel kind of flavor to it.
Some ick, some ick and stink on the back.
Yeah, I like that stink in there, man, for sure.
Gotta have that stink in that ickiness,
ickiness in the back.
But there's some that are really good.
That first flavor, I like a sweetness in there too, though.
That first hits the tongue, so.
I've got one that's like that.
I have this Chernobyl Sokolvedank,
and it's like, it's kind of sweet,
but it's got this like really kind of special,
strong funk to it that, it's not a great yielder,
but it is a fantastic plant.
The funk on it is like almost socky,
like almost like an old sock.
Sweatiness to it, yeah.
Yeah, but it's like, it's not bad,
but the problem, it's so potent and so powerful
that I feel like I need to switch the water out of my bong
in between hits of it,
because it muddies it almost to the point
that you can't really taste other flavors
when you have those muddy bongs.
Yeah, it almost like adds that sweat taste
to anything else that you smoke out of the same unit
afterwards, kind of a pain in the ass.
I love it, but it's kind of a pain in the ass.
Oh, the sun's finally coming through,
and hopefully we'll have an okay day.
It's supposed to snow here today.
Snow, I don't want snow.
But yeah, that's what I miss most about the old days
is it's kind of hard to find those good old skunk buds
that we used to find.
You know, I don't have any clue as to what they even were.
We just called it skunk bud.
Good stuff showed up around Christmas time,
and I wish I knew what that was.
I think there's a few people that claim to have it
or that do it, but I mean,
there is definitely, I'm not gonna speak on skunk
because I fear it's the most controversial topic
in the world when it comes to it.
Like there's always somebody fighting about it.
What I do have really good reference for is,
because there's the Limoncello line,
and it's also what you have there,
which is the Schnazz cross with the Dom,
and that's S1 of like a sweet skunk,
but a Vancouver, like the Vancouver BC sweet skunk,
which was like a work better back in the day.
Like I grew up, it was there.
If you're having the conversation last night
about like, you know, when Mark Emery got taken in
by the DA from the US, it's like,
I remember being in Vancouver and living in that
at that point in time and hearing about that.
And I remember going across the street to the door
that you just know which door to knock on,
and they let you in and you go to the back.
And it's like, it's like a over the counter thing.
And this was before there were
the gray market dispensaries in BC,
there was this point,
and it was like right down,
right by the Mark Emery's place,
Epstein Cafe and all that in downtown Vancouver.
So what they were putting out at those places back then
is a lot of, you know, this work that I get,
that I got to try some really excited.
I got like a ton of them down as well.
Maybe I should grab a Schnazz.
Pretty cool, limoncello.
A Schnazz, there we go.
Here's the Schnazz right here.
So I've got one of those going as well,
which will be kind of fun to plug into.
I let it get about five nodes in.
I'm pointing it at the wrong.
I let it get about five nodes in.
Yeah.
And you can see it's still got really nice, even branching.
I just topped it about a week ago.
It's starting to reach out the stretch.
Yeah, then she'll be nice.
I'll probably get her into a two gallon later.
She's already started.
She's pushing out pretty hard there.
Oh, nice roots, yeah.
Yeah, I actually started it in just little set,
like just these little guys.
So it's been planted once.
It's kicking out roots pretty quick now,
which is really good.
Mixed medium.
You can see a little,
I don't know if you can see them in there.
I don't really care that it's in there.
There's a little pill bug in there
that's just chewing on something.
It seems to be having a good time.
Plant's happy, so I don't care.
Trying not to pull my head toward there.
It's just really good.
But yeah, they're growing really well and rapidly.
They're definitely kicking it out pretty good
and have a good smell to them.
But I'm excited because that,
like I haven't had that kind of cheesy, stinky,
sweetie goodness for a long time.
And I'm excited to see how it compares
and if I can find something that really-
Yeah, that's me.
I guess it's because I'm so old
that I'm talking to a lot of guys younger than me
is they just don't really know what I'm talking about.
They never smoked it, so they don't know.
They think they got it, but they don't got it.
And even like, there's been conversations I've had
with some people where it's like, back in the day too,
like, you never know what some of these people
might've been spraying on some stuff.
And then depending on where you're based,
you might've never had the true stuff
or if you did, it could have been sprayed with something
that you might not be interpreting.
You'd never know, right?
So that might be one of the reasons why it's hard to find.
But there's some neat stuff.
There's one pack that I've been really interested
in trying out and that I think sounds really, really cool
is there's actually a guy who does sour silicate.
We do glass chat conversations.
And we actually have an artist called Slinger on last week.
And he's like a really cool guy, very kind of artist.
Artist fellow, but he did like, he did glass bongs
like with Andy Warhol, interpretations
of Andy Warhol's work, which was really,
like he did the can.
The-
The soup.
Yeah, the can of soup as a beautiful hand-glow.
I think you froze up, man.
What's happening?
Can you hear me?
I can hear you now.
Awesome.
Let me see if I can get this to share here.
Share it.
Cause it's actually on Dagga as well.
And you were talking about kind of those old gassy ones
and this looks kind of neat.
I've been chatting with him and he's a legit character.
Sour Diesel, the original Sour Diesel,
our favorite car, OG Kush, which is really cool.
That looks like a really neat,
like classic, classic Sour Legacy, which would be cool.
I want to try-
Really good stuff, yeah.
Yeah, some of those neat kind of unique packs
that have, you know, that story behind them,
that legend, that aroma that we all like to do.
I think that that's kind of the fun part too
is like those conversations we get to have and relive.
And when you taste things like that,
that oral factory memory is just like really, really heavy.
Yeah.
You know, it's too, I'm sure the genetics are better
nowadays and the growing methods are better nowadays
and all of that, but it's just that old, you know,
like you go to the fair and you smell the greasy corn dogs.
It's just one of those things that brings back a memory,
you know, it's just, you don't like greasy old corn dogs,
but that smell sure brings back a time that you like,
you know, so I think that's what I like about those buds.
So what, may I ask, what's the like,
what's the most challenge, you mentioned heat before,
like, is that the most challenging thing to deal with
in California when it comes down to it?
Um, yeah.
Our summer times get super hot
and then our evenings are super hot and moist.
The humidity skyrockets at night.
So you've got a great environment for mold and bud rot,
that kind of stuff.
I think, I think that's the biggest challenge myself.
Yeah.
Get those little extra stress,
stretch to make sure to avoid that moisture.
Cause are you close to the water or are you further inland?
No, I'm in the middle of California and farmland.
I'm surrounded by every crop known to man
and every pest known to man.
And all monocropped.
Yeah.
It's just, if there's a pest out there,
they're visiting here, I can guarantee you that.
It's crazy.
When we were chatting with a few people about like,
even the, even the like,
Denisol and the, the, the bug guys about,
Yeah.
Use with the volume of bugs that come out of monocrop.
It's like, you could have a grow next to it.
And there's a big monocrop right there.
You're going to get hit on a regular basis.
But like you put up a wall of something to stop them.
Whether it be, you know, a big wall of hemp plants
that just like feed them right off the bat or,
Yeah.
Or something else go, it's hard when you're,
when you're in farmland.
I'm lucky because I'm more in like a,
a forested area with a ton of diversity.
So it's like something comes in, it can,
it can take over,
but there's usually something that comes along shortly
afterwards that seems to do the other,
like take care of that one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We tried the mantises last year, which was a lot of fun,
but they didn't do much.
Yeah.
It's hard, man.
It's really hard.
And that's why the big,
the big farmers around here come through and crop dust,
all their fields with some pretty gnarly chemicals.
And what it doesn't kill, it shoes it away to my place.
They all want to come to my house now.
So it was hard fighting bugs outside in the weather.
Awesome.
So are you mainly producing for yourself at home medically?
Yeah.
I provide for my family members and stuff like that.
That way nobody has to buy any marijuana.
I like that.
My dad comes down like once, once in a while, he's like,
need a new jar.
Like, yeah, dad, here you go.
There you go.
These are stocking stuffers.
These stocking stuffers are great.
It's funny.
Like I had, like, like, like I mentioned earlier,
we had a bunch of that older generation of people come over
for a visit and like, so I'm like, you know what?
Easy entrance for you guys to try out right off the bat
is some cream.
Yeah.
Like ran downstairs and grabbed them all
because my wife makes like hand creams
and like facials and all that type of stuff.
Maybe I should send some of that to you, Peter.
You can have a glorious girl section.
And she like makes CBD creams and stuff.
We do, we have all, like, I'm having now to plant
like all sorts of different types of plants
so that she can turn them into aromas
and separate them out using this still, which is cool,
but I'm not allowed to use it for beer for some reason.
You know?
Yeah, I don't, I want to make some banana liquor.
I think that would be fun.
So we'll see what happens there.
Is there any fun things going on
that you're looking forward to?
Well, yeah, I got those seeds from you.
That's really on the top of my list.
I'm looking forward to really getting into those, man.
That's a beautiful sounding cross from you.
I love it.
Yeah, you can see them here, which will be great.
And we'll grow up, we'll have to catch up
when you get them in the period.
Have you gone to any of like the regen conferences
or any of like the kind of,
like, cause there's a lot of seed swaps
and stuff in California.
Do you have the ever had the opportunity
to go check out any of those?
You know, I haven't, I've been to the local,
what we call pop-ups.
They just occur here and there
at the different counties around
where there's vendors and things,
but that's mostly bud and edibles, things like that.
COVID has pretty much kept us shut down here
or at least more shut down
than I want to go out and deal with.
So I haven't been doing too much traveling or anything.
So.
Well, it's been nice that the world's
finally opening up again, it feels like.
Yes, yeah.
It's a blessing, man.
Like to have my mom be able to fly in from Italy
and actually come for a visit without having
a bunch of testing and a whole bunch of extra costs
or like lock her down for a bit.
Like they've got rid of masks out here
and they actually got rid of the passport
when it comes to going into restaurants and stuff.
Like you don't need your vaccine passport anymore
to get into places, which is interesting.
But it's good.
It's a nice development change, it's refreshing.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, it's getting to be an hour in,
just about an hour and 20 minutes.
About to lose battery anyway.
Got a new battery.
I got it running around to do rather.
But thank you so much for coming on
and hanging out and having a conversation,
showing us your garden.
Absolutely.
I'd love to get, like, if you can,
I'd love to see some pics on Dagge Academy
of your garden there.
I'm sure a few people would like to follow along there.
So if you got, go ahead, check that out
and throw it in there.
Cause I think you got some awesome going on
and I really wanna follow along as those develop
and get big and beautiful and sexy.
Cause I'm sure they get, they get blue, you said,
like a blue hue.
Oh man, it's such, it's like a light blue.
Almost looks like a gumball blue.
Just looks like a piece of candy.
Beautiful, beautiful.
When you scope them, are you seeing that blue go up
the stock and into the trichome?
Or cause I've seen that or heard of it a little bit,
very rarely.
I don't know if it's actually a thing
or people are treating it.
I've seen the bluish show up in the plant
and then kind of come through on the color
just cause you have this bluish background.
It's more just in the leaf and the leaf structure.
And I think probably as I run a pretty low temperature
in my tent, I think it just brings out those colors
being slightly cooler.
Okay, yeah, it makes sense.
I've seen purple carry on in pretty well.
Like you see that.
That's kind of what I'm thinking is maybe
if the tent got colder, it would be purple,
but it's just not quite as cold.
So it's turning into a little bluish color.
Neat, interesting.
Do you run cool at night?
What do you run at night?
At night, I'm usually down to like 68.
Okay, 68 at night and then you're what?
75, 80 day?
75 in a day.
Okay.
But then when I was running those,
when I get the blue in that bud,
I'm taking it down to probably about 60 at night
for a short spurt, for just a short bit.
And then usually like about 64,
but there's a short, like a two hour window
where it's gonna get down to like 60.
Which is, it's, you know,
that's kind of kissing the edges of that,
but the air temperature I think
is where the most value is there.
Like I see a lot of people like to,
cause I think that end drop can be handy
and develop some good tones and play.
I think it's depending on the variety,
I think it's necessary,
but a lot of people do alternate things like throw ice
on your Amelia.
And like these plants aren't made for that, you know?
Like they're not growing like is it?
That being said, if that brings you joy, everybody enjoy.
But like I had a friend of mine take my aqua cocoa gold
and he's at like day 63 or 65 or something.
And that's like a 65 to 70 day max.
Like you kind of want to cut that.
And like three, he sent me a photo.
He's like, I'm icing it.
I'm like, dude, no, like you should probably like not.
And I mean, you can do what brings you joy,
but I might not suggest that.
Cause I think that guy is like he's developed.
They're probably good.
She's developed.
She's probably going to sprout some bananas
like literally within 48 hours.
And he gives me a phone call.
He's like, what's that?
I'm like, I told you, you got that root system too cold.
But if you bump down to that low temperature
in the air system, I find that's completely,
that is not nearly as deficit, as risky as ice.
And it was, I've got a super visual representation.
I can show you, I'll send you the pictures.
But when I cut the plants and hung them upside down,
you can visually see on the plant,
half of it's green, half of it's blue and purple.
Just where the temperature was,
where my AC was rolling around on top of that canopy.
You can just see the total difference in the,
like a line through the plant, man.
It's green on the bottom and purple on top.
Exactly.
You can definitely see it's that air temperature.
And you said, it's also that development age, right?
Like the top of your plant's going to develop a lot,
a lot faster than the bottom.
And the North just put it,
pointed out something that is relative.
It's trying to not,
trying to not slow the plant's development
is important at this period.
When you ice it or ice bags or do some of these things,
you can really slow down that process.
And that's not necessarily a good thing
if you're trying to develop.
If it's not moving water, it's not developing.
But it's an interesting point of conversation.
And there's so many different abject points to it.
Like, I think if you talk about like a ruderolus,
where like it's base, like the plant is Russian,
it's been in cold temperatures,
it's going to be affected in this way.
So it's like, it's always still a,
like could that plant benefit stress wise
for a shorter, higher, colder period for a little bit?
I don't know.
But yeah, and there's so many people
taking weird stuff like that and like,
oh, I like this plant,
I'm going to make it into a photo period
and throw it onto the market.
And then that gets mixed in with all this other shit.
So then you, who knows, right?
Who knows if that might show up in that thing.
So I love experimentation,
but I think it's important to like, you know.
Keep it as a hobby.
Keep your experiments as a hobby.
Or if you're going to experiment,
I think like we did a show on like
doing the scientific process
and like actually doing it properly.
Like if you take two seeds,
like we were talking about genetic variability of plant.
If you take two seeds and put one in a fabric pot
and one in a plastic pot
and grow them out in the same tent,
and the one in the plastic pot does better
than the one in the fabric pot,
that doesn't mean that fabric pots are worse
or better than plastic pots.
That just means that seed was stronger.
It has nothing to do with the variability.
A lot of people do that.
They're just, oh, I'm going to put two seeds in
and test it out and don't stress it.
Yeah, and see how it goes.
And it's just, it's not the same thing.
It's funny.
But anyways, before we continue another hour long of rant,
because I always say goodbye 18,000 times.
Yeah, I'm going to have to get going, London.
I thought I'd cut it.
I appreciate it.
I thank you for this.
I absolutely love being here.
Love talking to you.
We'll have to have you on another time.
We're good.
We do every three weeks,
we do like a smoking, harvesting with the homies episode.
But we'll have to like have you on that one
a little bit later on when you start planting some seeds.
Or I would love to catch up with you again
before these plants get harvested.
If you don't mind popping on and coordinating with me
when you get a little bit further in,
because I would love to see those at the end of development
and I'm sure everybody else would hear.
And what we can do too is just in case,
we'll get maybe a couple of photos
and like a little short video
that you could just take on your phone and send it to me.
And that way we can try and do it live.
And if it doesn't work out,
we can go through the photos and stuff like that.
That sounds awesome, man.
Awesome, brother.
I appreciate you so much again.
And thanks for coming on and being part of this.
Okay, man.
I thank you and I thank everybody for listening.
Ciao, ciao.
Talk to you later, brother.
