How are we doing? How are you doing there Dr. Anubis? I'm doing just fine. Awesome.
Well we are good to go. I have YouTube up. I have this up and recording in 3, 2, 1.
On my phone for my own little self-benefit. Makes things quite a bit
easier and I'm sure we'll have some of the other Dank Hour members
join us in a little bit. Of course we are running this live over at Future
Cannabis Project. So thanks Peter and the team at Future Cannabis Project for
having us on and I'm just excited to get into it today because we're gonna have a
little bit more of a fun conversation and a little bit of a deep dive into the
people behind the plant. We've been doing the Dank Hour. When did we start doing
the Dank Hour? Do you remember Anna? Oh my goodness. I don't know. Three months ago?
Yeah like June or July wasn't it? We've been doing the Dank Hour weekly. We've been
doing it for like 12 to 14 like a while. We've been doing it for a while.
I'm gonna say June. We've been doing it since June. So naturally we've done a lot of
episodes and had a lot of fun together. I mean in that period of time we have
learned a lot, grown a lot and also like I've had a baby. It's been a crazy time
and a lot of fun. So I thought it was time now that we're recording and we've
got this amazing audience and great group of experts to bring them all on
individually and talk and get a little bit of view of the people behind the
plants. So why don't we just get it kicked off and Dr. Anubis give us your
basic business profile and then we'll start digging into a little bit more
about you just in case there are people tuning in that haven't seen you on the
show before. So I guess my basic business profile. So I guess right now I'm sort of
half in the academia world and half in the industry world. I just recently moved
to New Jersey from Colorado and I'm working with a organic aquaculture farm.
We do hemp right now and it's a startup company so we're going through some
growing pains. We've got some experiments going and trying to kind of iron out the
wrinkles in our system. But I also teach modern cannabis science at CU Boulder
and that's super fun. We just today are finishing for this semester and we're
offering a winter session which is a super concentrated three-week version of
the course. It's the exact same course just smashed into three weeks and we
cover 14 units from you know all kinds of stuff genetics and chemistry and
medicine and all kinds of stuff. And what else do I do? I work with Curious About
Cannabis as an educator for their workshops and I just recently had one of
my papers published which I talked about on Wednesday on the future cannabis
project. That one has been a long time coming. It was held up in revisions and
peer-reviewed process for quite a long time.
I have my bachelor's degree in cellular molecular biology. I have a
master's in plant population genetics and I was working on hybridization
between two closely related cacti species. I worked at the Denver Botanic
Gardens running their conservation genetics lab for a couple of years. I
have a botanical illustration certification from there. And then I got
my PhD. I graduated in May of 2019 in biological education and my research
focus was variation in cannabis with sort of a background a backdrop of
genetics. Am I missing anything? I think that's good.
Oh we'll get into more detail on all of those subjects I'm sure. But like I'm
excited because I mean you're literally one of our doctors of dank and
I'm sure everybody's excited to know a little bit more about you and your
background and a little bit about what's going on. People don't know this. I mean you
could tell if you've traveled or if you've been about a little bit. But you're not
actually from the US of A. Are you? Whereabouts are you from? I'm not. I'm not from the US. I'm
actually an Australian citizen and I still am an Australian citizen. I've
been in the United States since October of 1987 when my family moved here. My dad
is a geologist and we moved to Denver, Colorado where I went to high school.
Mostly. I did spend a year at boarding school in Australia. But yeah I'm
Australian. My parents are from Tasmania. I'm from Western Australia. So let's step
back of that. You went to a boarding school and if I'm correct that was
St. Hilda's School for Girls, correct? Yep. It's in Perth. It's in Mosman Park is the
name of the suburb that it's in. Yeah and I went there for a year. My plan was to
finish high school in Australia and then go to college from there thinking that
the Australian education system is better, which it is. But that didn't
happen because I accidentally got kicked out. Are you willing to jump into why or
maybe it was cannabis related? It was not cannabis. It was not directly cannabis
related. There was partaking. So what happened with... so all right so girls
schools, right? They're known for girls getting in a little bit of trouble
sometimes. There was a key to the door. So I was a boarder. So I was in the
boarding house and that's where I lived. There was a key floating around to the
doors. We got locked in at night but we had a key and the housemistresses
and the headmistress knew that there was a key. They just didn't know who had it
or where it was. And it had sort of been passed down from generation to
generation without ever being found. We had it and we were... we had been sneaking
out quite a bit along with some other people sneaking out and they knew that
we were sneaking out. And one night they discovered our beds were stuffed. There
was five of us. We were out and they figured out where... they did some
interrogations on the other girls and found out where we were. And they called
the house that we were at and told us to come back to the boarding house. And we
were like, oh shit. Yeah. So they found us. We got in a lot of trouble. They
kicked us out of the boarding house. They didn't kick us out of the school. But I
don't... I think three... two or three of the girls were able to still finish living
outside the boarding house. I decided to come back to the U.S. But really it was...
we weren't really doing anything bad. We were just hanging out actually watching...
I think it was U2 at Red Rocks. And just we weren't drinking or anything. But
they wanted to make an example out of us because girls had been doing it for a
while and they wanted them... you know, they wanted everybody to know that it's not
okay and if you get caught you're gonna have to face the consequences. So we
faced the consequences. My dad didn't talk to me for about two months. So... but
it's a good story to tell the grandkids, right? Yeah. It's an awesome story to tell
the grandkids and it's a great story in general. I mean, I wonder at this point in
time, like, what was... while we're on this subject of rebellion and teenagery and
trouble, like, what was your first interaction with cannabis? I'm sure
everybody's kind of wondered that. We are the day cowers. So we gotta ask. What was
your kind of first interaction with what we would call the stickiness? Oh my goodness. I am not a
hundred percent how old I was. I was definitely in high school and I was
definitely with my best friend at the time. My parents didn't really care if I
went out as long as I was with my older brother who is... he's almost five years
older than me. And so we went out with him one night and I think it was like a
Saturday, Friday or Saturday night. We went to a gay bar, which was fine because
it was men who were not interested in these two 15, 16 year old girls. I think
that's about how old we were. And on the way home, my brother was like, hey, you
guys want to smoke some pot? And we were like, I don't know. Sure. Why not? So we did.
It didn't really do anything to me, but my friend, she definitely felt it. And she
was like, I need water. And then when she drank water, she was like, oh my god, it
feels like there's an ocean in my face. Like, yeah, she was pretty funny. But then,
you know, yeah, we like... one of our teacher, our Spanish teacher took a drug
class so that she could figure out when her students had been on drugs or
smoking pot. So of course we had to test to see how much she learned. And we went
to school high and she just thought we were hilarious. She's like, oh you girls,
you're so silly. She did not know we were high. But yeah, it was about, you know, I
would say 15 probably. I think I was 15 because I graduated early. I graduated
when I was 16. I was younger than everybody else in my class. So would one
be able to assume being your Australian background that there was a lot of
fairy bread eaten at these points and junctures in time? And do you want to
tell the audience what fairy bread is? I friggin love fairy bread. I friggin love it.
I actually buy my hundreds and thousands from Australia to make fairy bread. So
fairy bread is an Australian delicacy. And what it is, is it's white bread. Not
sweet white bread. It has to be like a, you know, like Wonder Bread. They don't
really have good bread in the United States. I don't know how the bread in
Canada is. But Australian bread is very fresh and when you squish it, it squishes.
It doesn't bounce back. So it's bread, white bread, sliced with a good layer of
butter on it. And then you take sprinkles, the round kind that you would put like
on ice cream or whatever. You sprinkle that on there. Or you can dip butter side
down into like a plate of sprinkles. And it's served at kids parties. It's just,
you know, like an after-school snack. There, I think it's, what is it, Jane? No,
what's not Jane? No, hmm. What month is it? November 27th, I think? Does that sound
right? 26th? It's Fairy Bread Day. National Fairy Bread Day. I'll have to look up that
date. But yes, fairy bread is freaking delicious. You are exactly correct. I'm pretty sure. I
was looking this up. And because I knew there would be some excitement about fairy
bread. So do you have any special plans for Fairy Bread Day? Or do you just eat fairy
bread? You know, I always get a video of you eating fairy bread, perhaps while smoking
cannabis. I think that would be a great way to celebrate Fairy Bread Day. I'm just,
I think everybody needs to celebrate Fairy Bread Day. You have to be careful with the
sprinkles though, because the cheap kind from like, you know, Walmart or whatever,
they're just not right. They have to be the good, I guess they're called non-perl, I
don't know how to say that word. Also, but you have to get the good kind of sprinkles.
And there's lots of recipes online where they use like chocolate sprinkles or like the
different kinds of like, long sprinkles. It's not the right way to make it. But you know,
these foods evolve and people have to get all fancy with it. But yeah, you gotta be
careful with the sprinkles, make sure they're good quality sprinkles. I will be
celebrating Fairy Bread Day by definitely making fairy bread. It's also my son's
birthday, right around there. He's the 28th. And it's also Thanksgiving right around that
time too. So we'll see how all those things collide this year. But yes, on Fairy Bread
Day, there's always fairy bread. And my dad, my parents are in Uruguay. They always make
fairy bread on Fairy Bread Day too. It's a thing. It's a thing.
Well, it definitely is. So is so is Vegemite on toast, but we don't eat it here. And
there's reasons for that.
You have never had a Vegemite and Walnut sandwich.
Oh, that does sound enjoyable. I have actually eaten a lot of Vegemite being a chef.
I've played with it a little bit. It's very enjoyable. But I wanted to ask you have this
amazing, stunning photo. And I know that there's a comical story behind it. Because
although it is very, very unique, I heard there was an aftermath after that photo that
you have showing for right now. I wonder if you could share that.
Wait, which photo?
I have your pink, very fluorescent photo that was done under some high intensity.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. My my my profile pic on Clubhouse.
Yes, that one.
Yeah. So that day, so what I was trying to I was actually trying to isolate portions of
the DNA that were related to male and female sex in cannabis.
And I had bands of DNA in a gel.
And in order to isolate those portions of DNA, I had to cut the bands out of the gel
and then put them through like a cleaning process and then send them in for sequencing.
So I was doing this and my hair was glowing under the black light.
And I was like, oh, this is going to make an amazing picture.
So I took off all of my I took off like you're supposed to wear like a visor, like a
full face shield to shield yourself from the black light, the UV light that you have to
use to see the DNA glowing.
So I took that off and I had three three quarter length sleeves and gloves on, of
course. So a portion of my arm was also not protected.
And then I took some pictures of me excising these gel portions.
And during the very short time, it was maybe 10 minutes, maybe five or 10 minutes that I
was taking selfies.
I got really badly sunburned, like my face peeled and everything.
And so when they say wear protective gear when you're working under UV lights, wear
protective gear when you're working under UV lights.
That is so funny.
Oh, that's so pretty.
Let's just take off the protective gear and have some fun.
So, you know, I thought like, OK, well, tanning beds are probably pretty similar, right?
How ten minutes isn't going to do anything like that will be fine.
Of course, you don't want to spend all day under the UV light.
But I was like, ten minutes will be just fine.
It wasn't. I think there are a lot.
They've got to be a lot stronger than a tanning bed because I'm not going to be able to
tanning bed because of serious sunburn.
That was a fun day.
That was an interesting day because when I got it was very, very, very, very cold.
And when I got home from school, the pipes in my backyard going to my sprinkler system
had frozen and it was spewing out water everywhere and water was filling the window
well and there was water pouring into my basement.
So I shut the water off and me and my friend were just looking at the window well that
was full of water. And we were like, what do we do?
And I was like, we close the door and we walk away like it was slowly coming into the
basement, but it was going down the drain.
And I was like, there's nothing we can do.
Like we could open the window and that's about it.
It's all going to pour in.
Let's just let it empty itself.
And then so we just closed the door and went to a brewery for some beers.
I like I'm in B.C.
and people don't have basements here because we have a rainfall warning because it's just
going to rain for the next month.
And it's like there's no point because that's what's going to happen.
But the water table is so high that your basement will flood through.
So it's very funny. I grew up in London, Ontario as well.
And we had a basement with a sub-pond that would flood out like once in a while.
It's the same thing. It's like, OK, well, the basement's flooded.
Let's go out for a pint of beer.
Yeah, so I think so.
We don't I don't have a sub-pond, but there is I call it the concrete room.
It's one room in my basement that's not finished.
And there's a drain in there.
And every time it rains really heavily, all the water flows into that one window well.
And I have several window wells, one, two, three, four, five window wells in the
basement. That's the only one that fills up.
And then it slowly like drains into that room, which then drains into the drain.
So I actually think it was a design, a purposeful design element to that house so
that when it does flood, it has somewhere to go.
That's not just your basement.
So we let it do its thing and it's turned out all right so far.
OK, so let's jump into your you.
Let's let's jump forward a little bit.
I mean, we've been kind of back and forth a little bit, but let's jump forward a
little bit because we were just we were really talking about like your teenage years
and the troubles, trouble, numbskull shenanigans you got up to at St.
Hilda's School for Girls.
And then you went to university in Colorado.
You're a graduate of the University of Colorado, correct?
Not the University of Colorado.
I'm a graduate of the University of Northern Colorado.
OK, I put N here and I forgot what that means.
Northern Colorado.
And I also went to to Colorado State University for five years.
So, I mean, your your PhD is in cannabis population genetics as as some of the first
people, I mean, literally 10, 15 years ago, when we hear about doctors of dink or
doctors of cannabis, what was it like navigating that field in such a suppressed
environment? We're talking about still kind of tail end of the war on drugs.
And there's still a lot of negativity in the air with it's not federally legal still.
What was that like in that initial time and stepping into like asking to do your first
project involving cannabis?
What can you get jumping?
Yeah, so the way that I got into it or even becoming interested in doing another degree
after my master's, which I never thought I would, because not that I had a hard time
with my master's, it was great.
But there's really not there's not a lot of jobs.
There's not a lot of money. There's not a lot of places to go with a degree in plant
population genetics, looking at conservation of rare species.
People just don't put money into that.
At least, you know, a lot of the funding and stuff has been cut over the last few years
due to the last few administrations and whatever.
So I knew that wasn't going to be a great and I wasn't making a lot of money.
I was only actually taking home like fifteen dollars an hour with a master's degree, which
is not very good.
And I knew that my job was only a two year position on soft money, so grant money.
So when the money ran out, that was the end of my job.
But when I was working at the Denver Botanic Gardens, I had a lot of I had a volunteer
in my lab and we had a lot of discussions about cannabis and it had just it had just
become legal in Colorado.
So there was a lot of it about.
And that's when I kind of got interested.
I've always been interested in cannabis just as a plant, just in general, like the
culture, the medical benefits and therapeutic potential of it.
It's just a very interesting plant overall.
And so I kind of started developing some ideas of of where research, where my my
particular set of skills could be applied and in an emerging field, because there aren't
really that many emerging scientific fields like there's lots of cancer research and
stuff going on, of course, with the pandemic, there's lots of virology and immunology
stuff going on. But as a plant person, that's really not my realm.
So I was thinking it would be really exciting to get into the cannabis industry and use
my particular set of skills, which is genetics, population genetics, to get my foot in
that door. And so I only knew of one person that would let me do this project.
And that was my advisor from my master's degree.
Because it was like the perfect project for his lab and the work that he does just on
this totally illegal plant.
And he did he did tell me, no, he did tell me no when I asked him and I had this great
idea. And he was like, I don't I'm not going to be the cannabis person.
I don't want to be that person. I'm not that person.
But he he went home and talked to his wife and his wife loves me.
And she was like, why not?
I mean, someone's got to be that person.
Why don't you be the person?
And so eventually he said, yes, he's like, but I am not going to be the cannabis guy.
He's like, you're going to be the cannabis girl and I'm going to be your advisor.
And I thought that was a pretty that was pretty all right.
And so he had approached the university and asked, is this even possible?
And they talked to the university lawyer and the lawyer said, well, as long as you're not
bringing weed onto campus, I don't see why not.
And so he did all the work arounds, got all the AOKs, got all the thumbs up, and he's
like, OK, so I have no funding for you.
I don't know anything about cannabis.
You can't bring any cannabis onto campus, so you're going to have to figure all this
out. And I did.
He he he gave me a lot of support by letting me piggyback off some of the other
projects. For example, if we were sending out samples on another project that had
empty space like on a plate, he would let me put my samples in there because we were
going to have to pay for the whole plate anyway.
And so like that's how I was able to get some of this stuff done.
It was kind of slow going doing it that way just because I couldn't just send in my
stuff. But I did get it done in four years.
So it wasn't that slow.
But yeah, and I knew there was some other research, some other genetic research going
on at CU in Boulder.
So the University of Colorado in Boulder, Daniela Vergara and Nolan Cain doing some
stuff. And I asked Nolan if he would be on my committee.
I didn't know him at all. I just sent him an email blind.
And he was like, yeah, totally.
Sure. Love to.
Which was like super random and awesome.
And then became friends with Daniela.
At first, we totally butted heads, but we've since become really good friends.
But I know she had a hell of a time navigating her space in cannabis with a large
federally funded school where University of Northern Colorado was a smaller school.
So in some ways it was like easier for me.
We also had a lot of stuff going on in cannabis.
Our chemistry department had a DEA license to work on cannabis with stuff from
University of Mississippi.
We had some people in the exercise and sports science department working on how
cannabis affects exercise and sports and stamina and recovery from from sports and
exercise. And then we had people in the legal department doing things, obviously,
business department, accounting, recreation and tourism.
They were doing stuff. So it wasn't like there were people on our campus doing it.
I think there were nine departments that had some sort of cannabis research going on.
So it was there.
It wasn't like I had to hack through a whole lot of red tape.
Somebody had already kind of started doing that.
It sounds like it would have been a time of like a lot of almost academic excitement
being able to jump into a field that hasn't been done and into like this whole
section of cannabis. And I bet you there was a lot of like shared, fed off energy.
You know, we're all excited to be working with something new.
So it's always really, really cool.
I want to step back a little bit from once you get into cannabis.
I jumped a little bit further ahead than I actually wanted to because I found a
lovely. No, it's all good.
It's all good. We're finding out the timeline as we go a little bit as well.
So I want to jump back to like because I found this amazing YouTube channel by Anna
Schwabe titled Anna Schwabe that was specifically YouTube videos of anatomy.
Yeah. And very entertaining stuff, by the way.
So I invite anybody in the audience or the panel to go check it out.
There's a few fun videos in there that date all the way back to 2010 for me, which is
very exciting. You can see like.
Oh, interesting. Yeah, it was really fun to find.
But I wanted because clearly you weren't at that point in time doing plant taxonomy.
Like you were doing like your earlier work.
What got you into that initial step?
Because I mean, clearly that is a big passion in your life.
So actually, those videos, those anatomy and physiology videos were made at the same
time I was doing my cannabis degree.
So the University of Northern Colorado, all of the Ph.D.
degrees offered at that school are actually education Ph.D.
degrees. So my on my actual degree on my Ph.D.
degree says biological education.
So. I had to do biological education research, I had to take classes on how to teach
how to classes on how to learn pedagogy and all the other stuff that comes along with
learning how to be an academic and teach students at a university level.
But the thing about the biology department and some other departments at UNC is that.
Most of the students that go there, at least in the biology department, we have a lot of
really great people that work there that are super experts in their field, like Rick Adams,
who does bats, Steve MacCasey, who's in the snake lab.
He's like a world renowned venom and snake expert.
We have Dr.
Franklin, who is a really well-known ecologist, Mitt McLaughlin, who is a very well-known
plant conservation, population geneticist, etc., etc.
So most of the people that go to UNC don't go there for the biological education, although
some do. And so a lot of us actually do a second portion, which is our research degree.
So it's basically like doing two Ph.D.
So you have to do the biological education portion.
But a lot of us also have this totally separate research portion that we write our
dissertation on that we do our research on.
But we have to teach.
Our teaching load is about nine hours per week.
So three separate labs per week.
We have to teach one semester of whatever class we want to teach.
I taught conservation biology.
And so my background before I started being a plant person was anatomy and physiology.
And so I was I started teaching anatomy and physiology in my master's degree.
And then when I went back for my Ph.D.
The first semester, I think I taught intro biology, which I hated.
I wanted to go back to anatomy and physiology.
And so I did. And we had this new postdoctoral student who was in charge of anatomy and
physiology. And she asked me, what would I do if I had carte blanche to do anything I want to
teach labs, anatomy and physiology labs?
Like, how would I do it better?
And I was like, oh, so many things.
And she's like, no, tell me seriously.
And so one of the first things I did was take away all the textbooks and all of the lab
books and all of the extra work that the students had to do.
So I basically like re did all of the labs.
And part of that was we made videos on every single lesson that the students had to do, that
they had to watch the videos before they came to class and take a quiz.
So when they got to class, they had already seen all of the information that they were supposed to
learn in class.
And then when they got to class, they had to make with their group, they would have to make a
PowerPoint video with all with pictures.
They all had to be labeled to show us that they knew where everything was.
And then we would grade them.
But it was basically what's called a flipped classroom where they learn the information
before they come to class.
And then they use class as more like a study session to ask me or the undergraduate TA any
questions that they or to clarify anything or to help them learn the stuff better if they
didn't understand it, like difficult concepts and stuff like that.
And we didn't know if it would work, but we did because it was part of research.
We of course, we did some statistics and the grades raised from an average of about 64
percent, which is pretty normal for anatomy and physiology lab for undergraduates.
We raised it from 64 average to an 80, I think it was 82 percent average in the class just by
doing it a different format.
That's a pretty amazing adjustment of numbers and actually thinking about it, that's a lot of how I
learn is I learn and then I make something about what I've learned.
And I find that that'll help me dive into it a lot better.
And you get a bit a far deeper comprehension of knowledge than just taking a quiz or a test at the
end of something.
Yeah. And kids these days, you know, we got we got some flack saying, I can't believe you're making
them watch videos before they come to class.
They can do that anytime.
And I'm like, well, they're already online watching cat videos.
Why can't they watch, you know, two 20 minute videos, take a quiz, come to class and use that
time more wisely?
Because I feel like when they're in the class and they're trying to find all these things and they
have all these questions, they can't find this and they can't find that.
Not only are they getting frustrated because it's really hard and they only have three hours to
learn everything. I'm spread really thin because they have a question and they have a question and
they have a question and I can't get around to everybody.
And then when they get home, they're supposed to study, but they don't have anything in front of
them because they were supposed to learn all in this really short.
It just is not very effective.
And, you know, anatomy and physiology has always traditionally been called a weed out class, where
if you can't get past that class, then you should probably drop out of biology and move to a
different field, which sucks because anatomy and physiology is awesome.
Just the format sucked.
And I mean, you had a little bit of trouble at the start there of the biology.
Yes, I did. So as I said, I went to the Colorado State University for five years first.
And my my my my major was anatomy and physiology.
I failed organismal biology three times at CSU.
And when I when I transferred to UNC, of course, I still had to take it because it's like
introduction to biology, everybody has to pass the plants and animals part of biology.
This is another weed out class.
And I could not for the life of me pass ever the plant portion.
I'm fine with the animal thing, but I'm really bad at memorizing stuff.
And that class was always like, learn all of these, you know, families and genera.
And and I'm just I don't memorize things well.
So that was a really hard class for me to take.
And I failed it one more time.
And then finally, in my last semester that I was supposed to graduate at UNC, I finally
passed it. I got a B.
And I'm told I tell everybody, like, just because you can't pass one class, don't let it
deter you. Like, I really like biology.
And it was this one stupid class that I couldn't pass.
And I could have dropped out after I failed the first time.
But look at me now.
I'm so glad I didn't.
I mean, yeah, thank God, because I mean, you needed that credit to get into it.
And then that's what kind of led you into plant taxonomy after that point.
Right. You had a really wonderful, inspiring teacher.
So for well, for.
Let's see, I mean, I've had a lot of inspiring teachers along the way for the organismal
biology, I don't particularly remember any of my teachers.
I just remember that class sucked.
And when I did finally pass, I actually I don't think I did well in the plant portion.
But I do know that the teacher, Dr.
Neil Snow, who is still around and whenever I go to the botany conference, he still
remembers me. I don't know how I didn't have pink hair back then.
But he still remembers me and talks to me.
He was teaching the plant portion of the class.
And somehow he like had a connection with me, I think, because he used to live in
Australia. And then I was like, oh, I'm Australian.
And I think that's what he meant.
But anyway, I ended up passing that portion.
I ended up passing that portion of the class.
But then getting into plants was not something that I ever envisioned.
It just sort of happened.
Is that the story you want me to tell?
Oh, hell yeah. I mean, that's that's the good stuff right there, because, I mean, we've
just let it up. We've talked about kind of like going through the frustration, the
challenge and how passionate you are about the plant, but also like how it wasn't it
was it wasn't so easy.
You had to put a lot of effort into it.
And it wasn't like, hey, all of a sudden there's this gift.
You're this amazing plant geneticist, brain power person.
You had to work on it really hard.
And I think it's beautiful.
I think it's a wonderful story.
And yeah, let's get into it.
Let's dig deep.
I am great at genetics as far as like plant physiology goes and like horticulture and
that kind of stuff, that plant stuff.
I'm fucking terrible. And I think I've mentioned that before.
When you've been questioning me and you're like, what about this?
And I'm like, I have no idea.
Like, I don't know how that works in a plant.
Plants are weird. Plants are totally weird.
So as I said, my emphasis used to be anatomy and physiology.
And then it was cellular and molecular biology.
And I needed an upper level division biology class in order to graduate on time.
And the only class that was I wanted to take animal communication.
But it wasn't open and it was already like three people over the number and the only
class that was open was this stupid plant taxonomy class.
And I did not want to take a class on how to talk to animals.
I mean, come on. That just sounds.
I know. I know.
And how they talk to each other.
That would have been so much better than stupid plant taxonomy.
What the fuck is taxonomy anyway?
Right. Who wants to know that?
I certainly didn't. But I had to take it.
I didn't have a choice if I wanted to graduate on time and not have to put in a whole
another semester. So, of course, I took the class and it was being taught by this brand
new professor. It was his first semester at UNC.
It was Mitt McLaughlin who ended up being my advisor.
And the first day of class, he handed out a must know list.
And it was this list of 100 plants.
And I was like, Jesus fucking Christ, because I'm not good at memorizing.
And so it was 50 we had to memorize.
And then we would have an exam over those.
That was our lab practical. And then 50 more.
And we'd have a lab practical over those.
And then our assignment for the semester was to collect 20 plants, identify them, make a
herbarium specimen with a label and a drawing.
And I'm like, there's and it couldn't and it couldn't be anything on the must know list.
And I was like, the fuck are we going to find 20 more plants?
This is like everything in Colorado.
Like. There's nothing left to collect, this is stupid, and I hated the assignment.
Turns out there's a lot more than 120 plants in Colorado.
See how much I didn't know about plants.
And I did manage to collect the 20.
And I did the assignment and I did the class and I did pretty well.
I think I ended up getting probably a B, definitely wasn't an A.
But then Mitt was like, your drawings are amazing.
You should go to the Denver Botanic Gardens and take some of their illustration courses.
And I thought, oh, cool, that might be neat.
And I'll tell you, you're probably going to ask me about that.
So I did that. But he so I then found out this is like my second to last semester that I took this plant tax class.
I found out that I was short all of my capstone credits, which a capstone credit is just like either you can do like you can be a teacher's assistant or you can work in a lab and get some lab experience.
And he was six credits, which is a lot.
That's like two full classes.
So I went to him and I begged him, I was like, do you have any lab work that I can do?
I'll do anything. I have to have these credits to graduate.
And he was like, that's a lot of time.
That's like 100 hours.
And I was like, I'll do it.
Do you have anything? And he's like, I do.
I don't know if you're going to like it.
I was like, I'm going to love it.
I don't care what it is. I'm going to love it.
And what he wanted me to do was there was about like 600 samples of cacti that needed to have their DNA extracted.
And I don't know, there's probably nobody or maybe there is who's done DNA extractions from plants.
But everybody knows what a cactus looks like when you break it apart.
It's like snotty and it's got like, you know, all that mucus and stuff in it, which makes DNA extraction incredibly difficult because you end up getting it kind of.
Gunks everything up.
So I had to develop not knowing how to do DNA extractions.
I had to develop a whole a whole set of new protocols in order to get the stupid DNA out of these stupid plants.
And so I spent all semester extracting DNA from cacti.
And I just think so hard because I've done it.
I've like if anybody here like because there's definitely a few leaders in this audience.
I know I see them there.
And we've all talked about using aloe and stuff like that.
And that stuff is so incredibly goofy.
And now I just I can imagine because there's been a few times in my life as a chef where I've like where I've introduced an ingredient to myself or I've introduced a task.
I'm like, oh, yeah, you know, this will just buck through it.
And it turns out that it needs some fucking technique that I have to learn to figure out.
And it's like it would take me a hundred extra hours to do it.
And it's just like so I totally feel that point, like when the first time you cut open one of those cactuses and it was just like the knife was like and it's just like, oh, it's going to be.
Yeah, well, so they were so they were dried.
They were fully dried and desiccated.
But then you grind them and then you add like different solutions, like some soap and shit.
And then it just turns it back into like this mucusy thick stuff that gunks up your pipette.
It it just makes it really like it has to go through some filters in the test tube to separate out the DNA, gunks that up.
So I had to write like a whole new protocol, which I think is published in one of my paper, like inside one of the papers where it says, hey, there's this whole new method that you have to use when you're trying to extract DNA from cactus because it doesn't work very well.
But that actually helped me because those are secondary metabolites and sugars and things like that that make up that mucus.
And cannabis has a whole lot of those as well, although it's not like like snotty and mucusy.
We all know that cannabis has like a lot of resin and sugars and waxes and things like that, which also make DNA incredibly difficult in cannabis.
So that helped me because I knew what to do when the DNA extraction wasn't working.
I was like, oh, I'll just do this.
And I was like, yeah, that worked.
So that was good.
But yeah, I spent the whole semester basically doing extractions on this cactus and I finished all 600 samples, which was great.
So, of course, I got my capstone credits.
And yeah.
So that's how I met Mitt and how I started getting into plants.
I wouldn't say I was fully engrossed in the plant world or even that interested, but that's how I got my foot into plants.
I think it's absolutely hilarious that it's like you need this lab work.
And if you were thinking about like pulling DNA from plants, I probably think that the one that's covered in barbs and spines would probably be the job that most people would want to avoid.
You know what I mean?
It just seems like of all the plants that you need to test, you're going to test all the plants.
Like I would do cactus last because, you know, that's just not going to be very fun.
Right. So you got the last plant on the list.
Well, I would have rather have worked in any other lab than this stupid plant lab.
But for several, you know, for multiple reasons, I just didn't get my choice.
I didn't have a choice.
I had to do what I had to do to graduate, which was my goal.
And I'm very goal driven.
Very, you know, that's just the way I am.
I get the job done and I move on.
And if I wanted to do that the way I wanted to do it, then I needed to do these things.
So I did them. I did them well.
So then. All right, you took a little bit of a break.
I want to jump into.
I'm stumbling over my words a little bit.
All right. So you use the analogy of pizza a lot when we talk about plants and about how the intake comes up.
Why the hell do you always talk about pizza?
So. I start I have a lot of experience with pizza, I love pizza, it's my favorite food.
I worked in pizza for about 15 years.
So while I was at CSU, I started working at a place called Pizza Pipeline, which is out of Spokane, Washington.
And we had there was there was one in the town that I was going to school in.
And so I started working there as, you know, just a delivery driver and then worked my way up to shift leader or whatever.
And then after five years at CSU, my last semester after five, you know, my my last semester of my fifth year, I turned 21.
And I don't know if anyone turned 21 at at at university, but that semester did not go well.
I did not pass any of my classes.
I don't even think I went to any of my classes anyway.
I failed every single one.
18 credits worth of fails.
And so my mom was like, I'm not paying for any more school after that disaster of a semester.
And I said, that's fair enough.
So then I was going to go back.
I was going to like work and get some money and go back.
But I kept working, but I didn't.
I ended up getting pregnant instead of going back to school.
So the whole time between when I left CSU and had a baby and then when I transferred over to UNC, that that was about I want to say 10 years.
I worked in pizza and I was a general manager for a very successful campus store.
And I just one day I decided I didn't want to make pizza anymore.
And I wanted to go back to school.
So that's why I mean, I feel like pizza is very relatable to most people.
I would be hard pressed to find somebody who doesn't know what pizza is and even kind of to find somebody who doesn't like pizza.
You can find people who don't like particular items on pizza, such as pineapple, which is a big, you know, contentious subject with various people.
It's, you know, but I feel like everybody can relate to pizza.
It's got ingredients.
It's delicious, whatever.
So, yeah, I do talk about pizza a lot.
I mean, everybody can relate to pizza or tacos.
I mean, the basic idea of bread and then toppings of some sort.
It's just it's worldwide.
It's fairy bread. It's everything.
I love I love it because we have these we have these really in-depth conversation about very big specifics, all the way to like the difference between strain and cultivar.
What words we should use to like, you know, whether or not pineapple should go on to pizza.
Now, I know you're proud of your son, and I saw this crazy video of him barreling down a hill at lightning speeds.
Do you want to like embarrass him a little bit for a minute and be a mom?
So my kid, he is Earthly 47 on Instagram.
Go check his channel out.
He is a longboarder.
Saying that your mom, if anybody's on here and gone to that, make sure to mention Anna sent me and commented in one of the photos.
Yeah, I think it would be very enjoyable to hear about.
These kids are crazy.
So he has this pretty tight group of friends, one in particular.
They just got into longboarding about.
It's less than a year ago, and they just kind of started out and, you know, they go up these crazy hills and they just get on the and they have, you know, they wear like gloves that have hockey pucks on them, actually, so they can like put their hands down to go around corners.
If you go to his his Instagram, you'll see the videos.
They're just insane.
They wear helmets and knee pads and.
Everything, but they just started out and they did their first they went to their first like competition.
I think it was back in February, maybe.
And it was with a whole bunch of like professionals who have been doing this for years, and they didn't they were like, wow, you guys are really good.
How long have you been doing this?
And Gavin and Ben were like, oh, like three months.
And they were like, what?
Excuse me, you mean three years?
And they're like, no, three months.
And so they made a lot of friends that are professionals really fast because of how how well they were performing at such, you know, so with so little experience.
And yeah, so that's part of Gavin's like every day is that they go down these crazy hills and it scares me to death.
But, you know, what are you going to do?
He sends me videos.
He had a really bad crash.
And ended up skidding across the road, of course, he was wearing protective gear, but like his thighs from like his knee to like halfway up his thigh, both of them were like skinned, both hips, both of his forearms.
And I'm like, Jesus Christ.
Oh, man, like I couldn't imagine my little baby was still so small now.
But I mean, like I know he's always he's always been a daredevil.
The first time he I think the so he's been skateboarding since he was really little and and mountain biking and rock climbing and doing all these things.
The first time he fell on a skateboard, I think it was it was either a skateboard or a bike.
But he literally skinned half of his like the left half of his body from the foot all the way up his whole face.
Like the whole thing was just road rash.
So he's always just been.
Crazy, it sounds like he's got a little bit of your drive, though, a like just that passion and like, oh, well, I'm going to do this, I'm going to go all the damn way, though.
Yeah, he's he is very stubborn.
His his dad is also a redhead, so he's got a lot of stubbornness and then he has a lot of fire.
Which is awesome.
Now let's jump back into you and your what's going on with you.
Now, we want to talk I want to know about botanical illustration.
I mean, I was watching again a show to Future Cannabis Project.
You can check out Dr.
Anubis on this channel a few days ago.
What was it? Wednesday?
Yeah. Wednesday was your show.
Dr. Anubis went through her entire paper.
So if you want the geeky, super nerdy weed stuff, go check that out.
Or yeah, for sure.
Jump in there.
But you showed some amazing photos of your botanical sketches.
And I was like I was like super impressed.
And I don't know why, because when I when I drove and listened to it the first time, I just totally had this vision of you like pulling up a stick figure cannabis plant.
And then I thought, I'm like, these are phenomenal sketches.
So, I mean, I know botanical illustration is is is like a major, major thing.
So can you tell me a little bit about that and how you got into it?
I mean, on that episode, it's actually I think it's very, very funny because you say so if people want to see that I'm like more of a normal person, check out these ridiculously well done mechanical drawings that make me seem extra fucking weed nerdy.
Like, I mean, come on.
I love you to death, but you did not seem more people there.
I'm sorry, I have dogs.
I have dogs.
You do that.
That's more people.
I thought it was really ironic, really funny.
But I also like I check it out.
And I want to jump into that.
Tell me.
That's so funny.
Okay, so I got into so I'm my mom is an artist.
My brother is an artist.
I come from, you know, an artistic background.
And my dad's a geologist.
So I have my dad's a scientist.
My mom's an artist.
I'm pretty good at drawing.
And like I said, when I was taking that plant systematics class, part of the assignment was to make the herbarium press specimens a label and we had to draw it kind of the way we saw it in the field because that gives more information than just like a flat pressed plant.
Mit was super impressed with my drawings.
And he told me go to the Denver Botanic Gardens.
They offer some botanical illustration classes and you'd probably really like them and have some fun drawing some stuff.
And I was like, cool, cool.
And I thought maybe like they offered like two or three classes.
So I looked into it.
It turns out it's a whole freaking degree.
And it's now the School of Botanical Illustration at the Denver Botanic Gardens.
It's 13 courses, which are like 15 hours long each.
And then you have to do 100 hours of elective courses and then you have to do so and you have to show proficiency in graphite pen and ink, watercolor, colored pencil and.
What's the other one? I'm forgetting one.
I see watercolor.
Anyway, there's five things you have to show proficiency at.
And you have to take things like color mixing, color layering, introduction to graphite, advanced graphite, introduction to pen and ink, all these classes.
And then you get to pick some fun classes that you want to take.
And then you have to pass a what is it called a portfolio review.
So you have to show each work in each of the five areas to show that you are proficient in each of those areas.
And I was like, holy shit, that's a lot of work, you know, and you can just take one class.
You can take one or two classes.
But of course, me being me was like, I'm going to take all of them and I'm going to get another degree.
In nine months, in the nine months from when I graduated with my bachelor's degree to when I started my master's degree, it was nine months.
So one semester plus the summer.
I took all of those classes and graduated and I don't know if I still am.
But at that point, I was the the person who has completed the whole program in this shortest amount of time.
And yeah, oh, my God, it was so much fun.
I loved I loved it, but I don't really do art for fun.
I did art to get the degree and then I'll do art if somebody like wants to do a commission or something like that.
My most favorite piece ever.
It's on my website.
It's this it looks like a cork board with like stuff pinned to it.
It's on the tulip tree.
That was a piece that I did for someone's anniversary.
They met in Tennessee and there's like all kinds of little Easter eggs hidden in it.
That whole piece is like a real size, like a full sheet of paper.
So it's big. It's like three feet by four feet.
And it looks like a cork board with stuff stuck on it, but it's not.
It's just a big flat piece of paper.
Everything on there is colored pencil, except for the cork is like watercolor.
And that's my favorite piece I've ever done.
And I totally forgot to sign it.
So they have an unsigned piece of art by me.
But they've said, like, you can come over and sign it anytime.
So so just just shout out your your website again,
so we can look that up while we're chatting about that.
So everything anything you want to know about me and what I've done
and what I do in research, why is school wise?
Art wise is all just on my website.
It's www.inashawbe.com.
And I don't I don't even think all my art is up on there, but I did.
You know, I just threw it up there because it's just something else that I do.
Yeah, so that's what I did.
I went and got one of them certifications in botanical illustration.
And I'm still friends with like a lot of a lot of the teachers from there.
Some of them have since retired.
But yeah, botanical illustration is actually way different.
Like I didn't even know it was a thing.
But having a certificate, like having gone through the courses
and the program and everything, I do notice not in people's houses
necessarily, but like when you're watching TV or movies,
almost all the art on the walls is botanical illustration.
It's weird.
It's like the basic stock prints or something like that.
I mean, it's just I guess because it's not
art that's going to be controversial or like distracting.
It's just, you know, art of plants.
It's just and it kind of goes with I don't know, it goes with everyday core.
And I don't know, there's a thing called plant blindness.
People don't really notice plants ever.
But you can go for a walk in the woods and lots of people like me, you know,
I'm like, there's no way.
How am I going to find 20 more plants?
Because people don't really notice.
And so maybe having that art on the wall like it, like people know there.
It looks weird if you don't have anything on the walls.
But if you have some something that's up there that's like distracting,
it can take away from what's going on in the scene.
So putting art with plants in it, it's there.
But people aren't going to look at it because plant blindness.
I don't know.
That's just a theory I just came up with off the top of my head just right now.
But that could be why. I don't know why.
It's just weird. It is totally weird.
Yeah, I think that's a very valid, valid theory.
Now, I have a fun little thing.
Now, I'm just going to do this because we've had such an amazing conversation.
And I would love to
open up the floor.
I've allowed people to now raise their hands and come up.
We are on a recorded show.
So if you come up on stage, you are being recorded and projected over to YouTube.
So do know that.
And we are going to allow you to come up on stage and ask Dr.
Anubis questions.
Now, I do have a fun one for you.
I have some old quotes of yours from Facebook.
Oh, yes.
So I'm going to I'm going to read the quote
and you tell me what was going on at that point in time, OK?
OK. All right. You ready?
These are some interesting ones, guys.
Dr. Anubis as well is outspoken.
Just a heads up.
Oh, man, I'm scared.
No, there's nothing too bad.
I got a good.
So December 3rd, 2010.
Science is a bitch with a 14 inch strap on.
What were you thinking and doing at this?
Huh? I don't know.
Maybe. 14 inch strap on, that's very large.
Very, very.
I must. I must have been having a lot of trouble.
You know, it was to see 2014.
I would have been in the Denver Botanic Gardens and 2010, 2010.
Oh, 2010. Oh, shit.
What was before Christmas?
This is December.
OK, so.
I think.
Oh, boy, I would have just started my master's, I think.
So maybe I was just having PCR problems.
Maybe it was the snotty DNA extractions.
I don't know. Honestly, I don't know.
I don't. I'm leaning on snotty DNA extraction here.
And I don't know.
I don't have I don't know if that is a correct answer.
I don't know if that is a correct comparison
because I have never experienced a 14 inch strap on. So
maybe it's not there and it's written.
So we know that you said it. It's a for sure these things.
It's funny.
So next one, it just got two of them for you.
This was done on November 10th, same year.
Rock in my northern Colorado hoodie, two lighters, a pack of smooths,
and a Coke and two.
I mean, your grammar is terrible and two daunting grand testes.
Suck it, Trebek. First, my first question is, what were you doing?
My second question is, what did Trebek do to you?
I was probably watching Saturday Night Live like the Sean Connery thing.
Where, you know, on Saturday Night Live when I don't know who does it,
but Sean Connery and he always says, suck it, Trebek.
Yeah, I know, I love that.
I love that part.
And you were writing two grand essays at the time, would you remember?
Two grant essays, I'm guessing they were probably internal grants.
Or I know there was one at the beginning of my career where.
I wrote a whole grant essay,
but my computer crashed and it was gone.
And that was super annoying, so I had to like work over the weekend
to try and like rewrite it all.
And it was due like on the Sunday at five o'clock
out that I needed also my like official transcripts from the school.
The school wasn't open on the weekend, so we couldn't get the grant in anyway.
And it was super annoying.
So I don't know, I've had to write a lot of little grants here and there.
But I don't I don't remember what I did yesterday.
So thinking back, you know, 11 years is difficult.
It's always fun, but I bet you you got the I bet you got it right
because you have quite a good memory here and there, I guess,
for things you choose anyway.
So I mean, like Corey Arjay, do you guys have anything you want to drop to Anna?
I mean, is there anything like what are you working on right now, Dr.
Anubis? What are you what's your big, fat, hairy goal
the next few years where you are?
Well, right now, what I'm working on is while I'm trying to write.
Well, I am preparing another manuscript for to be submitted for peer review
on the difference between potency printed on labels
as far as he goes versus what they test at in an independent lab test.
Just purchasing from dispensaries, them not knowing, like
like not actually sampling the plant or anything, just buying it
like a regular customer.
So I'm working on that.
And then next week, I'm doing a guest lecture at UNC
for their ethnobotany class.
It's and or is it it's botany and economics or something like that.
And also curious about cannabis.
If you haven't looked into them, their workshops and their whole program
is amazing. I'm doing a workshop next Thursday with them.
And then I this is this is kind of just at the very baby, baby
sort of idea formulation stage.
But my boss wants to.
Kind of create like a college campus.
We on our facility where people can come and get hands on learning, training
courses to do with cannabis from every, you know.
All of it, not just come and learn how to grow cannabis,
but learn about the history, taxonomy, genetics, breeding, cultivation,
medicinal cooking, extractions, everything.
So I'm kind of putting some ideas together with that as well,
because I think I don't think there's very many hands on
courses that just normal people can take.
I think it's all, you know, if you want to go to university,
which not everybody can do that.
So we're kind of throwing that around, kicking that ball around as well.
I mean, I think it's definitely something that needs to happen,
even if you look in Canada, like a lot of the courses are taught by people
that, you know, they've read
Ernest Small's book on cannabis.
It's S. Sativa, right?
Like they've read the book and that's how their formal connection is with cannabis.
They haven't done a study.
They haven't done, you know, worked a PhD in it.
And they're being thrown into these areas because I say I'm pretty sure
these classes in general are filling this very popular space right now.
So it would be nice.
I think it's so important for this field for us to continue and develop
and grow as a community to get legalization all the way through
and everything like that.
That's indication stuff so important.
So thank you, Anna, for stepping up.
The other thing is, like, there's a lot of online courses which are,
you know, online courses are great, but they don't give you that hands
on experience, like learning from a computer or watching a video
or reading a book is completely different from what actually happens
when you're in a greenhouse or in the field or doing an extraction
where there's a lot of troubleshooting that goes on.
And I know RJ and and Jameson, everybody knows, everybody knows that.
Like, you can read all the books in the world.
You can read all the protocols.
You can read methods. You can read results.
You can read all kinds of stuff.
But it doesn't always go down that way. And
yeah, hands on experience.
There's no there's no substitute for that.
Absolutely not.
And it's it's it's super important to feel.
I mean, in life, you don't not everything goes perfectly.
I mean, it's funny.
We create this kind of system of education where we have perfect
circumstances and that's how we teach.
It's like, oh, well, in this ideal situation, this is what happens.
And in life just has so many more variables in it.
So I think these types of educations are so important moving forward.
You can't. Like to be able to physically hold a pet, do a female hunt
and be part of that and see how to interact with different plants
and variable species and stuff like that is just such an interesting area to jump into.
And I look forward and I also look forward to seeing you
every Tuesday on the day as well.
Which is great.
And there is we do have one of our shows later today that you're actually in
is dropping on YouTube as well on my on my page.
You can grow to at UK on YouTube and you can watch that video.
And we actually had Khalifa genetics in for that one to do that.
When that premieres at about three thirty p.m. this time.
And then this afternoon is also Oaks University.
So there's tons of fun stuff going on here.
Do you have any closing statements for anybody that you'd like to say there?
I mean, no, I don't.
I mean, unless anybody has questions for me or whatever.
This was fun conversation.
I feel like I needed some hot wings in front of me or something.
If I could, if I could have had you over to feed you and get you a couple of drinks
in and do that whole thing, we would have.
But unfortunately, you know, I'm in Canada.
You're a little bit far away, but we're able to do it here.
Oh, we do have one hand raised now.
Jolly, do you have a you kind of came in at the end there.
Do you have a question for Dr.
Anubis? I'll let you come up if you'd like.
But yeah, so I think it was a fantastic show.
Thank you again for doing this.
And you're the first one of the many panelists that will be doing
will be running through all of the experts on the day.
Our doing these featured is a jolly.
I'm not done speaking.
We'll be running through all the panel experts at this point
throughout the next few weeks to get to know everybody, including RJ, Corey and myself.
I'm excited because I got you.
I got to make you guys do me.
And I'm a little bit nervous about that one.
But very excited.
So, Jolly, do you have a question for Dr.
Yeah.
You said that you did research with
cacti and like aloe and stuff, and I was kind of wondering,
how do you think the properties of stuff like that actually goes into the plant?
And like, is the cellulose or whatever being utilized or.
How beneficial, really, you know, like,
is it actually taking on the properties of the cactus and stuff?
I'm not really sure what your question is.
The snotty characteristics of cacti and aloe and other succulents are,
you know, it's partially it's they need to store water.
And that's how they do it is just sort of an evolutionary trait.
The other thing is that they can that snotty stuff can function as an antifreeze.
So they can store water.
And that water that they're holding onto can freeze.
And so there's it's just I mean, it's part of their physiology and part of how they survive.
But other than that.
So, Jolly, there might be a better option for you this afternoon at the Oaks
show, they have some experts on like the horticulture side on using these
ingredients and how they're going to help the plant survive.
And so I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about that.
So, Jolly, they have some experts on like the horticulture side on using these ingredients for the plant's benefit.
Dr. Anubis is more of a specialist in genetics and population genetics,
not so much on the horticulture side, like she mentioned earlier on in the show.
So if you have any questions about cannabis genetics, I'd be happy to
and I would be happy to answer them.
Otherwise, we'll close up.
Yeah, would that be like I'm looking for like a high that's like Hindu Kush?
Nope. Don't know.
I'm not I'm not a person.
I know.
Wrong talk there, Jolly.
So anyways, you have a wonderful day.
I appreciate each and every one of you for coming in.
Oh, Ryan, I'm going to invite you up, brother, because you always have something.
And I know you're going to have maybe something interesting for Dr.
And Jameson's up here, too.
Oh, totally. Actually, I had a question for Dr.
Anubis on the gene level.
If you might have some information, I guess.
In the sake of grafting,
I guess a lot of the early research on grafting
and I brought this question up to Kevin Dodd with you the other day.
But like in the sake of grafting, have you seen much genetic transfer?
So I haven't I, you know, I'm not
I'm not a horticulturist, so I don't know.
But I also have not had or seen I haven't done
and I haven't seen any research of genetic transfer from, you know, like
if you graft something onto another something,
is there genetic material that passes from one of those individuals to the other one?
I would imagine I would go ahead and say more than likely not.
I mean, DNA is very well housed inside the cell, inside the nucleus.
It's not going to get out of that cell to be able to travel anywhere else
in the plant.
So if you have if you graft an individual onto another, you know,
and I think I was actually in the audience when Kevin was talking about that.
The there's you know, the the the transfer can happen with,
you know, sap or the xylem or the you know, what what's traveling through the plant,
the water that's traveling through the plant, the nutrients
that are traveling through the plant.
But it's not going to pick up any genetic material.
You shouldn't have any kind of transfer from from one of the individuals
to the other. That would be very strange in my mind.
Awesome. Well, that's because I was I was curious because his
his answer had kind of like led me down a rabbit hole in my head
because I was thinking about how like
like right now, there's a couple of people playing with
like the red genes within, you know, cannabis.
And I was always I guess I've been like super curious.
Like, of course, some of these are
or like some of these plant, you know,
or these genetic expressions are just plant defenses, if you will.
So then I guess over time, like say you did
like say you were working with like a like a
you know, genetic with with a red
like leaning, you know, expression.
And this is all in theory, you know, but like, you know,
if you grafted, say something to it, would it essentially transfer the bio
or like the defense mechanisms to that?
And is that even like gene?
I guess I'm not sure if I'm like making sense, but does that necessarily count
as like gene transfer or is that just.
So my understanding of the like the fall colors,
like being able to express purple or red, is that what you're talking about?
Yeah. So like, say, OK, so my my understanding of the way that
so purple, the purple colors are actually like a chemical reaction in the leaves.
It's not. Whereas the other colors like the yellows and oranges, they're there.
You just don't see them through the green.
So when the chlorophyll is taken back by the plant,
that's when you start to see those other colors.
I don't see those phytochemicals, those pigments traveling
or the genes that allow for those expressions to travel
from one portion of the plant to another portion that has a different genetic makeup.
If you wanted to do that sort of thing, you would have to do some sort of
genetic modification, genetic engineering, insert a gene.
Some sort of gene transfer.
Or breed it in.
Totally, I was just crazy thoughts, you know.
Oh, yeah. I mean, crazy thoughts are how things get done.
Like, you know, if you don't have you don't have crazy thoughts like half of science
wouldn't even exist. You know, PCR, for example.
You know, he took some LSD and figured it out.
With his crazy thoughts.
Totally, totally. Yeah, I totally look forward to like more
you know, like genetic like information like from you,
especially after hearing your story and everything.
Oh, thanks.
Glad you're in the community.
OK, thank you.
We can't quite cut it off because Ashley showed up.
Oh, man.
Ashley, I need some dirt, man.
We need to last like a couple of good sound bites.
This is not fair. She knows me.
What is the discussion pertaining to?
Well, we're at the tail end here, so we just want to find out how to burn Dr.
Anubis. It's like the deep dive into my life
that I don't talk about on on Clubhouse.
And so this is not fair because I've known Ashley.
Ashley and I went to UNC together.
We were in the same lab while we both did cactus.
So I got to tell about how horrible DNA
is to extract from cactus because it's so snotty. Right.
Maybe maybe you know what was happening at the time of our quotes
from Dr. Anubis, the first one being on December 3rd, 2010.
Dr. Anubis writes on Facebook, Science is a bitch with a 14 inch strap on.
Ashley, what do you think Dr. Anubis would do?
I do. 2010, let me think, let me think.
So we were you were still in your master's
writing her thesis, probably trying to format that bitch.
Oh, that could have been it.
Yeah. Formatting blows.
Formatting does blow.
That's my best guess.
All right. Good guess.
Second quote, November 10th, same year.
Rock in my northern Colorado hoodie, two lighters, a pack of smooth,
a stiff whiskey and a Coke and two daunting grant essays.
Suck it.
I'm going to go with what is formatting again?
Writing a thesis or dissertation is easier than formatting it.
And the lady that was in our
at our college that was responsible for that was the biggest bitch.
So you sometimes would have to just go indent something six more times.
Or so, yeah.
So that is my guess for these frustrations.
And shout out to that northern Colorado hoodie.
I think that's the best guess.
She's not the biggest bitch.
She just had a job to do and she had, you know,
she wasn't nearly as bad the second time around.
But also, I was way better at formatting the second time around.
Imagine her frustrations when she's like, God damn it.
Another fucking thesis is not even close.
Well, I've had a great time, and I don't know if anybody else
wants to go with the higher.
Actually, you wanted to like,
it teases with a little background story on and Dr.
Actually, you can tell about the time we found the Sasquatch bones.
Yes. So you have to because it's not.
So we were we were in my
my thesis project, we went and had to collect out in Utah.
And it was a long day of walking around looking for cacti,
flowers and stumbled across
Sasquatch bones.
And Anna and I insisted that we have to take them with us.
So we we hauled them throughout the desert in Utah.
And our advisor was bound and determined to tell us
that those were actually just cattle bones.
But no, they were Sasquatch for sure.
Definitely Sasquatch, the desert Sasquatch.
The sand squatch.
It would be the sand squatch.
I still have them.
They're up on like above my front door on this shelf.
They're awesome.
I'm so glad we we took them.
No doubt.
I'm just saying if there's anybody in this space
that has the ability to find out whether or not they're a sand squatch or not,
it would probably be the geneticist in the room.
I'm just so shocked you haven't bothered to try and test it.
Hello, Peter, as well.
Welcome to stage.
Thanks for letting us do this big old thing on the future.
Thanks, guys.
Awesome. Well, let's cut it short now.
Thank everybody again.
One more time. Check out future cannabis project.
Check out all the amazing cannabis stuff going on all over the cannabis realm
here on Clubhouse Future Cannabis Project.
Follow the speakers.
Follow the club.
Check out the Instagram in the back there and get in and join the action.
These are our show and panel of esteem experts show up every Tuesday at 5 p.m.
Pacific Standard Time.
There's also an awesome book club and many other great things going on here.
So please check us out.
Join up and and see what's going on.
Appreciate each and every one of you and happy.
Thanks, London. Thanks, everybody.
See you later.
