Cuban's supposed to be a little bit more racier, yeah?
Is that that black Cuban haze?
Or?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Do you find it has like a coffee chart?
I've heard people say the real black Cuban has coffee,
but I've not seen it in recent stuff.
It's kind of floral.
You know, it's got a weird-ish type of flavor.
All of like, all the crosses that I'm working with
have a very similar flavor.
It's kind of new to me,
being that I haven't been growing the hazes that long,
but it seems like a lot of them
have that pith smell and flavor.
So it's kind of floral, if you ask me.
Like floral in a soapy way?
Yeah, actually.
It's kind of floral.
Like the more soapy it gets, the more I like it.
And it seems like the more stretchy, stringy,
hairy varieties seem to have the more soap leaning.
So yeah.
And if it's not like really, let's say like a dove bar soap,
it's just a little bit less floral.
But like, you know, so the more floral, the more I like it.
And the hazes don't for you?
No.
No?
No.
No, not really.
I mean, I try to do my best growing them,
and I try to maximize everything I possibly can.
And I just don't really pay attention to the yields
because I've been growing this cush for a very long time.
And the yields don't really dump on that either.
So when everybody was like talking,
does this dump, does this dump?
And they were getting like six and five percenters.
I was like in awe.
I was like, how the hell do you guys get all that?
And I started washing like Wilson varieties and GMO.
And I had to start using bigger spoons
because when I wash the cush, I just use a regular spoon.
I just use a house spoon
and I don't have to go to a bigger one.
But when I wash GMOs or that's dumpers, I got a big spoon.
So I don't need a big spoon for the haze,
but that's all I wanna smoke.
And that's all I care about.
I mean, I don't wanna use a big spoon
because then I, for the most part in my experience,
I think it's not gonna be good.
If I gotta whip out the big spoon, I'm like,
that's not for me.
And I don't know, that's just maybe that's me,
but I'm more of a quality over quantity.
Flavors over yields.
Yeah, yeah.
And people, I know people that are like,
stuff that yields better, they love it.
But it's just not, I haven't found anything that dumps,
quote unquote, that I would wanna smoke.
That's just, or that I've watched.
We have some stuff.
I can kind of feel that.
Re-using this 0.6%, right?
Yeah, 0.6%.
And it's, we're very happy with it.
So yes, we understand.
Probably not gonna run that one again for hash.
What strain is that?
What are you talking about?
Bog seed lifesaver.
Oh, okay.
I've heard of that one before.
It's cool.
What is the nose on that?
It's Jack's Cleanery, but it has blueberry notes as well.
We did a mixed phenol wash.
So what we ended up with was like kind of a wide spectrum
of flavors, but some of them lean more like blueberry,
like fruit, candy.
And then other ones specifically,
I think one of them lean super Jack's Cleanery
and kind of dominates the terpene profile of the extract.
But it's good.
It's a unique flavor that I haven't really experienced
in hash draws in our hash before.
So it's enjoying the smoke,
but certainly not one we're gonna run again.
That and it's a Herme one.
It's high terpene lean for sure.
It has that like XJ thing about it.
And you're not gonna, go ahead.
No, no, go for it.
You don't wanna run it because it only got a 6%
or it's not the terpene that you got?
No, we grow a lot for flour as well.
Yeah, but also it was 0.6.
It was 0.6%.
Zero, it was like 0.6 of 1%.
Wow.
By the way, don't think I don't notice
you two smoking flour right next to me
in our salt and this conversation.
But it's KC36, which is something that people,
don't really ever dry.
It's like a known hasher.
So we thought it was relevant.
Wait, are you gonna, do you have,
is that what you have in both flour and hash form factors?
No.
Didn't you say you have something
where you have both the flour and the hash of the same thing?
Yeah, those are from some dudes out in Oregon.
That's OG pie breath.
I could bust that out of the freezer.
We just gotta go to that pie hoe.
We're excited to see how that one does.
All right, so tonight's gonna be a little scattered,
but theoretically John is our featured guest
for the evening, but only I have his hash.
But conceptually, if we're doing this properly,
everybody would have his hash
and we would all smoke it together.
I'll just write it out here.
That can be next time.
But so I was saying before we went live
that I smoked the El Cubano last week
and felt like I was tripping when I,
cause right after smoking it, I went to bed
and it was very nice.
So do you wanna, let's back up.
Are you in your washroom or where are you right now?
I am in my washroom, yes.
Okay, can we get a little tour?
Well, it's dirty as hell right now.
That's okay.
So is my garage.
It is blown up.
Are you still, are you handing it?
I'm excited to see.
Yeah, I'm actually hand washing it.
I'm waiting on my, let's see if I can turn this around.
I'm waiting on, I'm getting a custom made
stainless steel unit, but from right now,
let me see if I can.
Are you gonna be doing all like the mid propulsion
and like bottom agitation or like,
are you custom making it or?
Yeah, so before you answer that question,
if you go into settings or we go through this
a million times, I think it's settings, camera,
and then like you have a dropdown that says front and back.
Here we go, I think he has it.
Do you guys see it?
Now, I think you just turned your camera off.
Okay, so more settings.
You were warned.
And then camera.
Do you see like a dropdown for front and back?
There we go.
Yes, look at that.
And then turn your camera sideways like a TV.
Yes.
So this is just blown up right now.
I apologize, I wasn't even getting ready.
That's okay.
But these are usually what I wash
and this is what I hold my water in right here.
And then basically what I'll do is for right now,
I have been just setting it right here.
So I'll just set it right here
and then I'll just drain it right in to,
let's say this one that's right underneath it.
So I'll just store my water in here.
I'll just quickly put it in there
and then I'll flip that valve
and then I'll fill it into this one.
It's sitting on top of it right now just for storage,
but basically I'll just set another one right underneath it.
Simplest process.
You could make hash a hundred different ways,
but this way right here just makes it a little bit easier
for this particular setup.
And so basically I just gravity feed this
into where I put my bags
and my bags are usually actually, yeah.
How many bags set up?
Are you running the full gamut
or are you just gonna run the five or?
Well, it depends what I actually am running.
If I'm running the Hayes,
I'm actually really only running the 25, the 45
and then, excuse me, just the 25.
And then I'll put the, I'm running 25 to 179.
So here's this just so I could,
there's my wash set up.
That's where I'm basically getting all my water.
Here's my freezers.
I got one more freezer that's out right now,
but I got one more freezer and here's a freeze dryer.
Just a quick little setup
where I don't really need the fridge,
but I kind of use that just for like storing my turps.
Right now I got a little bit of flour in there
and some extra little turps.
Everything's kind of blasted right now,
but I'm harvesting in 15 days.
I haven't washed anything in about a month,
but I'm harvesting again in about another 15 days.
So I got 15 days to clean this spot up
and get ready for my next run.
So normally I'm like running at least every 15 days,
excuse me, once a month for about 15 days,
but I had a little bit of a hiccup.
So I get all my water from, let's see,
here's my Kong and water machine.
So I get all my water from here.
I spray with this.
This is what I use for IPM, but I also use this.
I'll either use the 6.0 water or the 9.5 water.
I've actually been liking the 9.5 water to go into
and that's what I'll wash in.
So I don't currently have a ice machine on here right now.
It broke.
So I'm just using whatever ice I can actually get over here
until I can get another ice machine.
Have you seen a difference in your pHs
and swings in your pHs of waters and stuff?
You know what?
I won't use anything but this, the Kong and water after I,
let me see if I get back to there.
Once I went over to using the Kong and water,
I just like to use it cause I drink it.
And I just understand everything about Kong and water
for my body and I cook with it.
So I treat the hash as if it's food.
So I'm using it as it's food in a sense, you know?
Interesting.
Have you been following Eric Branstad?
Yeah, yeah.
And like his like Kong and experiments.
So like the first one is the aphids, right?
So when you spray for IPM, what pH are you using?
I'm using the 11.5 first and then I go to the 2.5.
Then I go to, I use the EM1.
So I'll actually, within about a two hour time span,
maybe three hour time span, I'll spray those three.
So I'll start at like six or seven o'clock in the morning
and be done about 10.
And so I'll give it the 11.5 pH enough time
to kind of dry off.
Then I'll hit it with the 2.5,
give that enough time to dry.
And then I'll go in and hit it with the EM1,
let that dry and then put the lights back on.
So that's kind of how I did it.
I was, that's somewhat how I learned
how to use the Kong and water machine
was you and watching Eric on yours.
I think that was just about a couple of years ago.
And at the time I was drinking the water,
but I didn't necessarily know how to spray it.
I'd heard through the grapevine that you could do it.
But once I'd watched you guys talk about it,
I went full bore in like that night,
like, let me try this.
I was messaging them and I wasn't-
Eric was standing by waiting to take your order.
Exactly.
And I actually already had my unit.
So I was like, already ready to do it right then.
They were helping me from like day one.
And so it was a little,
I don't know if the information was fully aware
to use the 11.5 than the 2.5,
cause I was messaging them and they were not real sure.
I'm not sure if they didn't want to give the advice
cause they didn't want to maybe hurt somebody's plants
or whatnot, which is pretty smart.
And so I kind of went trial and error.
I started using the 11.5 and then the 2.5
and I talked to Harry and Harry kind of sent me
some messages and DMs.
Harry Rose.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
And got me all lined up.
And from there, I mean,
I was using beneficials before that,
but this kind of lined me out to where I was able
to use this water before, like, let's say like
all throughout veg and then the first three
to four weeks of flower, three weeks of flower,
first 21 days or so.
And then after that, I just hit them hard
with beneficials until harvest.
And then I start that whole process over again.
So it's kind of a learning curve in a little bit,
you know, cause I was just thinking about it today.
I was like, damn, I got to order my beneficials
and my last, I got three rooms.
And so my closest room that's about to get harvest
right now, I actually didn't get to put beneficials
in there just because of timing and basically finances
and everything like that.
So it actually helped, you know, I mean,
if you could use your Kong and water,
you might be able to get away with not even using
any beneficials if your room is that clean.
But I've been using my soil for a long, long time now.
And it seems like the older your soil, at least for me,
the more I've collected problems.
So, you know, I got to continue bringing in beneficials.
I think my soil is probably like six or seven years old now.
And, you know, I do all my own growing.
I do everything by myself.
I got a little bit of help, but in reality,
I don't want to cut no corners,
but in me doing everything just by myself,
I got to do what I can, you know what I mean, with myself.
And so sometimes I have problems and, you know,
and I kick myself in the ass and be like, damn,
you know what I'm saying?
So it's never perfect, but you know.
So you answered one question I had.
So you're a single source, you're also the grower.
And is the grow room within walking distance?
Yeah, yeah, I got it.
Can you bring us on a tour of that?
Yeah, let's see if I could just maybe flip this.
And what are we growing right now?
Right now I have, these are at the beginning stages.
Let's see, I flip this again.
So settings, camera.
Just answered the HPS or LED question.
Oh, he hit the X.
He's probably.
His room must be cell phone sealed as well.
Do you know if he's all single source
or cause I know some people will feel comfortable.
When he comes back, we can ask him that question.
Sweet.
I'm excited to see if he, oh, here he goes.
And he's back, you hit the X, didn't you?
I pushed the wrong buttons, like my fat finger.
That's okay.
Sorry.
All right, so settings, camera, and then the dropdown.
Okay, here we go.
And then turn it like a TV.
There we go.
Let me see if I can, this is,
make it a little quieter in here.
There we go.
So this is my newest room with my smallest plants in it.
And so these two here, and I'm medical,
so I got plant counts, unfortunately.
So I got to go with,
I'm actually going with just two plants for a four by eight.
I wish I could go a lot more,
but this is all I could do right now,
medically plant count speaking.
But here is OG Kush.
Over there on that side is two sour diesels.
Where are the sours from?
It's actually from a buddy of mine.
The cut was called Weasel's Sour Diesel.
And this is my second time growing this particular strain.
And I love it.
It reminds me of what sour was back in the early 2000s.
And everybody that I sold it to,
or everybody that tried it, excuse me,
this last run actually said it really reminded them
of the early 2000s too.
So I'm actually pretty happy with the cut being like,
it was the first one I actually sourced
and got back into my grow.
So, yay.
Did any get dried or did it all get washed?
I didn't get a wash any,
just because I had only one plant last time.
So this time I have four plants
and I'm actually doing a little bit of a breeding project.
Being that I like it now, I actually got one.
I have another room behind that wall that's sleeping,
but I'm doing, I'm actually gonna do,
I got one plant in there, just about that size.
I'm gonna spray some CS, colloidal solution,
or silver, excuse me.
Yeah, colloidal silver.
And I'm gonna get some pollen out of that.
So I'm doing a little bit of a experiment in there
so I can get some fem seeds.
I'm doing that with these right here.
Here's the El Cabano.
This is a El Cabano four,
and this is El Cabano 23.
You tasted the El Cabano four,
and then the El Cabano 23,
that one's more of a purple variety.
So I got both of those sitting right here.
And then-
And where'd you get those from?
I pheno hunted those out of a pack of Masonix El Cabano.
Yeah.
So I got those ones, both from here.
And this was, those were basically ones
that I pheno hunted in my keepers.
One is pretty, this number four is pretty green
with a little bit of purple, really crystally.
And the 23 is really, really purple
with not that much crystal on it.
So, but the terpenes on the purple one
is a little bit more fruity.
So I had to keep it.
You know, it's not so piffy.
It's more, it's almost like a strawberry.
It was kind of like my,
like a strawberry variety that I just picked up
from exotic genetics.
Can't remember it was strawberry something or other,
but I'll remember it in a second, but I really liked it.
So I kept it and, you know,
I thought that was different for the El Cabano
having a more of a strawberry type of flavor.
So I wanted to hold on to that one.
And so over here, I put,
and some of them I put two just in case, you know,
so I could, I'll be able to pick the better one
and I'll toss the other one.
But over here is Cuban black haze on your right.
And then El Cabano number four,
and then El Cabano, and then another Cuban black.
I don't think the Cuban blacks are gonna perform
as good as these El Cabanos,
just these particular clones that I put in there.
So I'm probably gonna pull the Cuban blacks out of there
and do something, probably just kill them.
Here's a couple more of the 23 El Cabanos, number 23.
Here is a couple more of those El Cabanos,
another couple more of the El Cabanos.
And on the backside, I have Cuban blacks,
El Cabano, here's the El Cabanos.
I got some avocado plants in here too,
just so I could keep them going.
I ate so many damn avocados,
I figure I might wanna grow a couple.
So, and then here's a couple more El Cabanos.
I'm kind of in love with that El Cabano lately.
It's, you know, it just,
it seems like there's a demand for it plus.
And then right here,
I got a couple of these Nigerian silks.
These are just gonna, I'm gonna veg these ones back up
and get some more clones off of that.
I don't have any Nigerian silk in here,
but next door I have almost half a room of it.
So I didn't put none in this room right here
cause I just, I didn't wanna have too much back to back,
but you know what?
I should have put a couple in here just-
Have you ran to turn that Nigerian silk
or will this be the first full term?
No, I actually, this is my second full term
on the Nigerian silk.
I really like it.
That is what I was mentioning
that has that more soap flavor, that more dove,
that has more dove flavor than the Cuban black.
So it's the Cuban black and the silk are,
really have a close terpene profile to one another,
but the Cuban black seems like it's a little bit more leafy
and it's not as floral.
It's not as soapy.
And, you know, I mean, if I didn't smell,
if I didn't smell the soap, smell myself,
I'd be like, I don't think I would like a soap smell,
but cause I'm more, for the last 15 plus years,
I've been smoking nothing but like my OG gas type of flavor.
And so I thought I was just gas, gas, gas.
But now that I'm actually smoking this haze,
I don't even want to smoke my OG anymore just because,
I mean, there's, it's good,
but there's not enough energy in it for me.
You know, I was smoking my OG cushion.
I thought it was giving me enough energy,
but it doesn't have the kick that I need.
You know, I don't know.
And my fricking dog just came in
and brought a piece of steak in here.
She's like, I'm done.
Just quickly, do you smoke flower and hash?
Are you all hash or?
I'm all hash at this point, unfortunately.
I don't get very high off of flower anymore.
You know, I try, I try every once in a while
to smoke some flower and it's weird.
I don't like the flavor anymore.
I don't like the flavor.
I see you, Chad.
You know, it's good.
I mean, I'll grow some pretty good flower.
I've always been a flower grower
and I'd throw my smalls over into making my hash
because that's just the way it was more predominantly,
financially, you know?
I mean, I'll go for the head or whatever.
I'd make the nugs or, you know,
previously I'd just do whole runs for my own head,
but as far as like, you know,
let's say 2010 or something like that,
like it was, no one wanted to buy no like hash.
I couldn't find anybody that wanted to buy any full melt
or anything like that.
Like, you know, even if it was cheap, you know,
10, 20 bucks a gram, like we used to have a dispensary.
I'm here in Oregon and so we've had a dispensary here.
We don't no longer have a dispensary,
but we had a dispensary in from like 2003, 2004.
And we tried to sell it.
I grow it, process it.
It kind of just sit on the shelf.
No one really wanted it.
So it was like a weird thing, like up here in Oregon too,
like people want like cheaper stuff, you know,
like they want the $30 ounce, you know?
I lived in Oregon, man.
It's cheaper, you know, like, you know,
you say you don't want to work against the grain.
You just, they want that a hundred dollar ounce of indoor
and they want that $30 ounce of outdoor.
And, you know, you don't want to, that's all they want.
You know what I mean?
So it's, I mean, 10% of the people maybe will come in
and they're connoisseurs,
but the majority of the people that,
they just want to get high and they want to save a buck.
So you don't want to be too much against the grain,
but I would bring in a bubble.
I'd bring in everything and put it on the shelf
and I just wouldn't get much demand for it.
And so I'd just sit there and smoke it all or whatever.
So, but yeah, flour for me is, I like it.
I enjoy it.
I respect it, but it's just something for me now
that I just make cash out of it, you know?
It's like, so I've kind of changed it a little bit
to where if it, the very top colas, like the very best,
I'll save those for flour if I have a market for it.
But I mean, I was kind of cringing there for a while.
Like I was just turning everything into flour.
Everything, everything.
Like I had people coming and being like,
hey, can I get some flour?
And I was like, it's too late, it's gone.
You know, and they'd be like, what?
This big old room went, yeah, it's gone.
You know, and it's easier.
I mean, it is, like I don't have to,
I don't have to get trimmers over.
I don't have to hold their hands.
I don't have to, I don't have to do anything.
I mean, I don't, I don't like to trim anymore either,
but when it comes to breaking down fresh rosin,
I'll break down fresh rosin.
That's a lot funner for me.
It's like, it seems like over the years,
like I'll start creating,
like get allergies from all the dry flour.
So I don't even want dry flour even around me.
Like, I know that sounds kind of bad,
but you know, I don't even want it around me anymore.
You know?
I get those allergies too, man.
I got you.
Yeah.
So.
Has your growing practices and techniques kind of changed
as you just switched primarily to hash?
Has like more hash tech come out in the industry
as for like lighting or spectrum wise
or anything like that?
I think for other people, yeah.
But for me, like I've been kind of, I don't know.
I was thinking about it earlier before when,
and I was thinking, well, okay, how am I going to put this?
Like, I guess the best way to put it is,
is I've been growing in living soil beds,
like before, like it was a cool thing.
Like it was a, it was a problem, let's just say,
because it was harder to sell the flour.
It was, because I mean, I've owned Hydro Sports stores too,
and I mean, owning Hydro stores,
you could just go over to a Hydro store
and I could just use anything I want.
I could just go fill up the truck with anything
that came in on the latest order.
By the way, I forget if we said, what state are you in?
Oregon.
Okay.
We didn't cover that yet, right?
Yeah, well, I said it just a couple minutes ago,
but, and so I've been, I've been privileged
just to use everything from botanic care
to advanced nutrients, anything that was quote unquote
good at the time.
It's easy to get quote unquote, I would say quote unquote,
easy to get pretty buds when you're using chemicals.
It's easier.
I wouldn't say easy, it's easier.
Because I mean, it's synthetic.
I mean, if when you, if I could just mix something up,
put it in my resin and pump it out to my plants
at a certain parts per million, in my opinion,
I thought that was pretty damn easy.
I'm not bagging anybody in their thing,
but now I kinda, I got a top dress.
And so that's, I mean, I haven't burned any plants
top dressing really ever,
but it's always in the back of your mind.
Like you're just throwing,
I'm throwing like handfuls of this shit on there every time.
And I'm like, is that too much?
And then when it wasn't too much,
next time I put another handful on, you know?
And so I just keep increasing, increasing.
So it's always in the back of my mind,
like, am I about to burn this thing?
Because my hand isn't a TDS meter.
It's not a parts per million meter.
I'm just throwing handfuls of this shit on here,
like scoopfuls.
And so, you know, in layman's terms, what does that mean?
Well, I could burn,
I feel like I could just burn the shit out of my plants
by throwing too much of this,
but you know, kind of like doing a lasagna tech
or, you know, layering your shit, but I haven't.
And so it's not like it's hard to like layer it in
or anything like that.
But to answer your question, no,
even when I first started my beds, stupidly,
I watered with chemical fertilizer
and this was years and years ago,
but I just watered it with like botanic care,
filled up, you know, and watered my beds with botanic care.
And I'd see all these, you know,
cause I'd moved over from pots or cocoa.
And then I was like, okay, well, let me go to these beds.
And, you know, I just didn't change the fertilizer.
And you know what I mean?
It just kept rocking with that.
And when I got to the point where I was like, okay,
no more chemicals, only organic,
or only this top feed that I want to put on there,
the buds look different.
You can get a really, really, really close look
to a non-organic, but I could just look on people's feeds
and I could be like, I know what he's using.
And you know, and so it's,
and I'm not bagging on nobody's stuff.
I just, I eat organic, I'm a vegan.
I don't put, I don't want that shit around me.
And so I don't, I, you know,
I don't want to play that game to where this table's mine.
I'm going to do something else different from mine.
I don't do none of that shit.
I, everybody shit, every table gets grown the same.
I've been growing this way with just top feed amendments
for, I don't know, four or five years now.
And yeah, there's totally a difference
between the look, the buds swell different.
There's a crystal content that you can actually see.
And you get close.
I can get really close to a non-organic look,
but I am not going to.
Well, when you're not growing for flower,
it doesn't really matter.
So that's why I think it's kind of exciting watching,
moving forward, how breeders are kind of going to be moving.
You know what I mean?
It's less and less back appeal is as important.
You know what I mean?
It's the same thing though, really,
because I don't look at bonnet like,
oh, I'm just growing for, no, I don't look at it like that.
Because I'm still taking pictures.
I still have my same self-respect that I'm,
I mean, sure, we've all had those harvests
where we've had some problems and it went to wash, right?
But that's not my goal.
My goal is to shock and awe everybody that sees mine,
regardless of what it goes into, rosin.
It's not, this isn't, and I don't mean to say this
in a bad way, but this isn't to hide my product
by putting it into rosin.
I enjoy rosin.
And ever since back in the day when nobody knew
how to even press rosin, and I went and got a t-shirt press
because I heard, you know, Bubble Man and John Barfello,
I believe his name is, talking about a t-shirt press
back in like 2013 or something.
I was like, well, let me try this out
because I already had Bubble
and I already had these things that could make rosin.
I just didn't, not too many people knew what to make it.
And so if you look at it, like, this is just like a,
what do you call it?
Evolution.
This is just like an evolution to like anything, right?
You know, like everything evolves
and there's nothing wrong with flour,
but the next step from flour would be rosin.
Do you get what I'm saying?
When you're not getting high off of flour no more,
what do you do then, next?
You know what I mean?
You gotta step up.
You gotta go to the next thing.
Fortunately, I still get high off flour.
And some people do, you know?
Some people do.
I feel like, you know, and that's a good thing.
I think I've just worked my body to like,
like this is the dab I'm about to take.
And it's not huge or anything,
but you know, it's like, I need that.
I need this, you know?
And if I don't take this every couple of hours or eat it,
I eat a lot of hash too.
This probably like, I don't know,
maybe 0.3 or something like that, but it's strong.
You know what I mean?
Like some stuff you smoke in a 0.3,
you're like, yeah, whatever, I can smoke that.
But when you're smoking something like maybe the sativas
and you're at a 0.3,
when I first started smoking this shit,
it'll give you a heart attack.
I mean, it'll give you some heart palp,
you know, your heart will start pounding
and you gotta be right in your mind
because if you're not like happy with yourself
and right in your mind, you'll have a panic attack.
You straight up, straight up will.
And that's, you gotta be ready for it.
And that's where it's like, all right,
well, so then now there's levels to rosin, you know?
And it isn't THC content.
It's not stuff like that.
It's levels to what type of high are you willing to endure?
You know, cause I could go smoke some indica
or I could go smoke a hybrid
and it's gonna go set me down and I'm gonna relax.
But if I go smoke a sativa,
I go smoke something like that,
like Peter said, like you're gonna go lay down.
If you try to go lay down after this,
your brain's gonna keep on going.
You're gonna keep thinking.
And if you ain't in the right site, you could.
Why I just smoked the coke heads.
So I think that's where I'm heading.
Oh, okay.
I'm gonna be lying down and my mind's gonna be racing.
So, okay, so I sent you some of the coke heads too?
Did I send you some of that coke heads too?
Yeah.
Okay, so what coke heads is, is Wilson times GMO.
So that's.
That's got gangsters, oh.
Yeah, it was actually an accident.
Wilson, it kind of, I made that on accident.
And, you know, so if anybody ever wants those seeds,
I got seeds, I'll give them to you guys.
So I got that, that was on an accident.
Did you get the Wilson to come out of that GMO?
I know that whenever GMO hits stuff,
it's pretty GMO heavy.
It has a flowering time on it.
It's eight, nine weeks.
It is kind of GMO heavy, but it's, it's kind of like,
how would you say that?
Peppery, it's kind of peppery.
You know, it took that.
Spicy peppery or just like.
What do you think, Peter?
What would you say?
Are we talking the coke heads?
Yeah, the coke heads, yeah.
Give me one second.
I think the Spurgeon stuff has like a real black pepper.
I don't know what it is, but like that,
it's pretty clearly that I haven't tried Wilson GMO,
but, and it doesn't sound like it's in there.
It's similar to like a Girl Scout cookie peppery herb.
Peter just sent me some Girl Scout cookies.
Let me fill that up again.
It may have a bad, a freebie.
So someone sent those into me.
Tell me what you think of them.
Cause if it's good, it sounds kind of cool.
It's good.
Honestly, it's really good.
I've given it to Masonic and he liked it.
I've given the flower to Masonic
and actually I've given the rosin.
Oh yeah.
Shout out to Masonic.
I was just talking, wait, where's the,
I was, the Girl Scout cookie,
Kush Girl Scout cookie crust.
But I would love, if you have a bunch of seeds
that you want to get out to people,
I'd love to get them out to people.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, that's basically what it is at this point
is I don't feel like I'm going to run it anymore.
So anybody that wants it, you guys, you guys feel free.
You know, have at them.
You know, I think that would be cool
just to see other people running genetics
and saying, hey, that came from you.
Were you saying earlier that a lot of this stuff you grow,
it's not a high yielder in terms of washing,
but it's what you do.
Like you're not going for the highest yield, right?
Yeah, I tend to stay away from that.
I'm only into like the effect.
If it's going to have like a good effect,
that's what I'm in for.
I want the high.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Because I feel like if people are commercial hash makers,
there's, they need an audience of people who are,
because if you're yielding less,
you need people who appreciate it more
to pay a little bit more
to make it something you can keep doing.
Well, exactly.
And the thing is, is there's,
everybody's flooded that other market of, you know,
the hype and what everybody wants.
And so secretly, if you just keep your ears peeled,
you can kind of listen to what some people want,
you know, or what some people enjoy.
And that's kind of what I'm after.
You know, I'm after what other people aren't really.
And then you kind of beat down that bush
and you're like, whoa, that's interesting.
That's, you know, for the longest time,
I was guilty of, I've grown a lot of strains.
I've been growing, shit.
I, you know, I've been selling weed, doing whatever.
I've been in the game, let's just say since like 96.
And I started growing in like 99, 2000.
And that was, and I haven't had, that's all I do.
This is what I do.
And so in that time,
I was able to go down to Oakland, San Francisco.
It's a little peppery.
Yeah, it is a little peppery, a little too much for me.
Yeah, a little too much.
There was something we smoked a couple of weeks ago
that was peppery.
Was that the Thai?
Do you guys remember?
We have a couple of jars of what that could be.
A bunch of hazes from, at Masonix,
there was actually a coffee and haze event
with our homie, Nick, who used to do Oni Seed Co.
And Masonic collaborated on this event.
And we got to go home with some sour A5 haze.
We got some velvet buzzsaw.
We got some fucking Bubba haze, that's fucking crazy.
All of these are really hazelining, by the way,
these crosses.
And then another mystery haze called the potion.
But yeah, that was a cool event, coffee and haze.
That shit just, you know, when you were talking
about how sativas and hazes and stuff kind of elevate you
and get your brain racing, dude,
when you throw some like really well-extracted
proper caffeine coffee into the mix, hell yeah, dude.
Dude, I mean, I just, I poured up in the Chemex
before I came over here.
I hit a nice cup of that, went to my garden, came here,
and I smoked a haze joint as well alongside that.
So I'm all about that, man.
But can't even remember what point I was gonna make,
but we got some cool hazes here too.
And these-
Whatever it was, it was gonna be amazing.
It was gonna be fire.
Well, I don't remember what was soapy.
That Thai was-
The Thai is the velvet buzzsaw, right?
No, there was, you were-
No, the-
Oh, I got it.
The Thai that chenzo brought.
The Thai that chenzo brought, yeah, yeah.
Or was it-
That buzzsaw, I think I've heard of that.
I actually started some seeds of the buzzsaw
about six months ago.
Wow, look at that.
It's really interesting.
Here, let me get out another one.
It's some of it's really squeaky.
Is that the buzzsaw there, or is that-
This is the buzzsaw.
Wow.
So this is what the app,
this is a crazy fat nug right here.
This is what the average nug looks like.
And this was grown in like our friend's proper facility.
It's grinspoon-y.
Yeah, grinspoon-y for sure.
But this is a fat one.
See, there's little kind of, you know,
foxtail-y tendrils coming off of it.
Really nice flavor, really nice smell to it.
I mean, it smells crazy.
I would smell that flower.
Dude, yeah, it's great.
I mean, you can see,
one more example is you get these little,
crazy wispy bits at the top.
Wow.
Of the buzzsaw.
It's cool.
Yeah, I saw those jars when they took the pictures of them
and I was regretting that I didn't make it down to that.
The next Haze and Coffee, I'll definitely be there.
Dude, yeah, it's a cool event.
Masonic and Nick, cool guys, man.
They throw a good event, that's for sure.
That's fucking amazing.
I'm glad that this,
I mean, the Haze thing to me is somewhat new.
I got turned on to it, let's say,
about a year, year and a half ago.
I mean, I've always known about Haze.
You know, if you're into weed or whatever,
you know about Haze.
But the first time I think I ever grew a Haze,
I can't remember what variety it was,
but I think I picked up a clone down in the Bay Area
and I only grabbed maybe a couple of them
and it never finished for me.
And my room wasn't dialed in, so it just,
then I went to maybe like a Super Silver Haze
or just something that wasn't what I was looking for.
And then about a year ago, I had a guy say,
hey man, go check out Piff Coast Farms.
Shout out Piff Coast.
And I was like, you know, from there,
that Piff Coast has been really very, very, very good to us
and helping us with whatever variety that we want.
You know, if we want it, we don't got the cash,
you know, he just hooks it up.
And so-
Have you tried his Green Haze?
Yeah, yeah, he's got Green Haze.
I mean, if it's Haze, that guy's got it
and he knows about it, you know,
and he's really helpful with it.
And so if like, for a guy like me
that kind of turned a blind eye to the Haze, you know,
he got me right up to speed.
You know, I'm not really that knowledgeable still yet,
but he knows it and, you know,
all of his people around him, like, you could tell,
like here coming up this next month,
he's putting on a Piff Con.
And I mean, in my opinion,
that's one of the coolest events coming up.
Yep, there you go right there.
Like that guy, he's, you know,
he's holding it down for Piff and he's keeping it alive.
And among a lot of other guys too, you know,
good for them on these East Coast guys,
because I needed this.
I needed this kick in my ass effect from,
I mean, cause I was smoking OG and then, you know,
I'd have some good days and I'd have some bad days
of smoking it.
Like some days I would be working real hard
and then some days it put my dick in the dirt
and the effect from OG is good.
It's kind of like a wiry, almost a haze high,
but it does have some, it does have some, yes, exactly.
And so once I've got into this haze now, I love it.
I love it.
Now I completely see what these guys are,
what they're raving about,
what they've held onto it for so long for.
And thank you guys, cause that's,
anybody, you know what I mean?
Cause it's not, if you really think about it,
a lot of people nowadays are like the Terps,
the Terps, the Terps.
Not too many people are like, what about the effect?
You get what I mean?
And so that is another one of those things
of like another level to this.
You know, right now everybody's screaming Terps,
next people are going to be screaming Terps and effect.
You know, like everybody's screaming Terps right now.
What's the high yield that you're getting?
What's the dumpers?
Next people are going to be like,
what's the effects and what people want?
Because I could have, like, I had dumpers in my rooms
and I was doing pretty good, but I couldn't really sell them.
And then I was discounting those strains.
And then I was like,
well, why do I really want to work with these?
And then I started really getting like,
I started really streamlining, like back to,
like true to my heart,
like what do I want to see in my garden?
I mean, maybe that's just a stingy thing,
but that's just what I've done for years.
I've only grown what I wanted to grow.
And it really, you know, and it really just came down to,
I guess once it was all gone,
like I'd be looking at what wasn't the best, you know,
that would always be lingering around.
Like the best was always gone first.
And then I, whatever was left around would be not the best.
And then I got tired of seeing that.
I was like, so I'm only, I only want to grow the best.
Do you get what I'm saying?
Yeah, that's real.
I didn't want to grow no, okay.
He said it was good.
No, no, I don't want that.
He could grow that and he could sell it.
I, you know, I only want the best.
And it's caused problems
because now you're looking for the best,
but I'm up for the challenge.
I like the challenge.
Have you seen anybody playing around
with like minor cannabinoids in the extracts
with like rosin and such, like CBDs?
Are there any other type of maver cannabinoids
you might not be able to find like terpenes and thiols
and some of these other strains or CBD high
or high CBD cultivars?
Has anybody been messing with that to try to find something?
I'm sure they are.
I've grown and washed a couple of CBD strains.
They're awesome.
They're awesome.
They tend to have like a bat smell that CBD does, you know?
And so that's cool, you know, but the ranch,
grew some CBD and he kicked me down with some CBD
and I'm looking forward to growing that really
just so I could kind of kick it back to him
and see what that helps him.
Cause really that's what this is about is I don't,
you guys, I walked you around my spot.
You guys gotta see, I'm not rich, you know, I'm doing this.
I've been doing it for a long time
and financially I've been better and I'm not there right now.
And so I could definitely grow some strains
that would financially get me more in a better place,
you know, but I'm just not with it.
I'm not, I'm just not with it.
I want to do what I wanna do.
I'm too stubborn.
I'm too hard headed, you know,
I just wanna do what I'm doing.
And so to answer your question, like, yeah,
there's a lot of people out there doing
and testing out different stuff nowadays.
You know, it's, especially with the outdoor.
Yeah, this whole last outdoor season,
I'm seeing everything.
I mean, you name it, you like, for instance,
like people that weren't even doing, making rosin,
like extractors that weren't making rosin
are making rosin now.
They're, they have all the,
they have a lot of tricks up their sleeve too, you know?
And now they're bringing that over to,
a lot of people say, oh, these BHO guys.
I used to make BHO.
I've done all that, you know what I mean?
And I ain't clowning on nobody.
There's a lot of knowledge coming from that,
that over there too.
And when they bring that hard work
that they've been putting in for years over there
on the BHO side, and they bring that over to,
you know, the rosin side, we're gonna have,
watch, watch in the next year.
We're gonna have-
I think you have to be like a true artist at BHO almost
for it to be a good quality, smokable, enjoyable product.
You know, it's so easy to, to just, I don't know.
There's so much CRC just bullshit that has ruined it.
It's named for, I think, a lot of people,
but for the people that do take the time to, you know,
actually treat it as an art form.
Shout out like for Grohli, he's one of them, but it's rare.
You know, he's using fresh frozen material as well.
You know, he's treating it a lot of the same steps.
And with that, are you into like making a melt?
Do you like melt or are you more of like a just-
Yeah, I love melt.
I love making melt.
It's the step right before rosin, right?
And so it's just using a couple more bags.
And so when I'm running the haze,
I wanna make a full spectrum as I possibly can.
I mean, I'll do just a 90 bag or 90 pull of just the haze,
but in my opinion, it's missing something.
And I don't wanna be a snob or say this guy's doing it wrong.
These are all just my opinions.
Everything that I'm saying tonight is just my opinion.
I never wanna put anybody down.
The only thing I wanna do is like learn from people.
Like I'm not anywhere right now other than my here, right?
And so I got here by watching Bubble Man.
I got here by watching people that, just regular people.
I got here by watching everybody and learning, you know?
I mean, and when I used to make shatter
and I used to de-wax and I used to do the things
that would make shatter, shatter, right?
There's a lot of the same tendencies
or a lot of the same steps that you have to have here
to make good rosin also.
You know, there's that whole cold aspect
to where if you're not cold when you're making shatter,
you're not de-waxing and you're not making these right.
Well, it's the same thing with rosin.
So being a good rosin or shatter,
being good at making BHO or made me better at making rosin.
You get what I'm saying?
You know, when I had my processing license in 15, 16, 17,
I would go from one side of my lab making BHO
and go that night, I would go run rosin.
Excuse me, I'd make a, you know,
I'd be running bubble into rosin.
And people would be like, what are you doing?
Why don't you just run it off?
Well, certain strains and certain material
would work better over here.
And with my dispensary, I had a demand for shatter
that you wouldn't believe.
And I would, I'd be making it for like 20 bucks a pop
and you know, and it would be good.
And so I would just be running it and people,
you know, it's all about what people want.
If you, at the time, and let's just say,
if you think back in 2016,
I had rosin on my shelf in my dispensary
at competing prices in 2016.
I had, I'm not lying.
I had a pin, I had rosin pin.
Yeah, I didn't have a bunch.
I didn't have a bunch of different flavors.
And yeah, I did have alcohol in it as cutter
just to make it burn properly.
But that's all I knew at the time.
And no one really wanted it.
They, nobody wanted no rosin pin or this and that.
They didn't, they didn't, you know what I mean?
It was just me and like people that I showed in my circle.
You know, there was other people in, you know,
United States or whatnot that were hip to it and whatnot
that I was like trying to pull that into my little circle.
But I'm in a little town here.
I'm in Coos Bay, Oregon.
And this is, there's not that many people in this town.
And we're over here on the coast
and it's kind of like a tourist spot.
And so in the summertime, you get, it's, you know,
your dispensary starts popping a lot more and all that.
But those are just tourists that are coming into town,
you know, so it's, it's just different.
It was like, it was always different.
I'm from California.
I was born and raised down by Sacramento
and I didn't move up here until I was like 22.
And so I had a whole different like set of tools
from living down there.
And then I moved up here.
It took me maybe four or five years just to slow down.
You know, I was, I was running, you know,
being down there by Sacramento.
I had to run to keep up.
And then I moved up here and everybody was so quote unquote
kind of like walking, you know, like,
and so I was not, not in a bad way, but you know, I mean,
I had to, I had to slow down just to fit in
or I was an outcast.
And so that was, that's like a weird thing.
That was weird for me.
You know what I mean?
I had to, you know, it's kind of like that, you know what I
mean?
I've been growing for a while.
So I almost feel like in a sense,
I don't get along with people because I've been quote
unquote institutionalized inside my grow rooms.
You know what I mean?
This is all I do.
I don't have friends.
I don't, I couldn't, I couldn't really point
to five people I hang out with.
I don't have no friends, you know, my friends
and my plants and my family, you know what I'm saying?
It's, it's, and I'm not, I'm not, I'm not bragging.
It's just the way this lifestyle has forced me to be,
you know?
And so I, I, I wish I had more friends
and I wish I had more people I could bounce information
off of, but for me and how I learn,
it's through avenues like this and, you know, and, you know,
kind of like picking people's brains and rewatching,
you know, episodes and all that.
And so it's, I'm grateful for, you know, Peter
and when Lobster Farms hit me up and was like, yo,
you want to talk?
And I was like, hell yeah, you know what I mean?
Why not?
That'd be cool.
You know what I mean?
I mean-
Wait, which tester group are you in?
Say that one more time.
I said, which tester group are you in?
I'm not sure.
I'm not, I'm not sure.
What's that mean?
Maybe it's not you.
I thought you were in one of the tester groups
with either Chad or the seed tester.
Oh, I think you did.
Okay, so you sent me some seeds, right?
Some PIF times 707 seed bank, PIF times lemon tree, right?
Yeah.
Okay, and so that is, you guys want me to test those?
Is that what you guys need me to do?
Yeah.
Okay, I'll do it.
Okay, I was gonna pop those.
Honestly, I was gonna pop those
because those look so fire.
Because I researched that lemon tree.
That lemon tree is like skunk times something else.
I was like, yeah, I want to do that.
I think you'll be very happy exploring that.
And they're really gonna fit in with me
because they're fems.
A lot of the things that I'm having to rock right now
are fems because of my plant count.
And I just can't,
regulars being able to pull out a male
after they grow so much.
So once I saw the strains and I seen they were fems,
those are actually going in my next room.
For each room, I got like a 18-ish plant count.
And I got like 15 plants coming,
15 seeds coming from my next run
that I'm gonna be doing is the Harlem Dreams.
So I'm not gonna have quite enough plants
to fill a whole room.
So I'm gonna put those seeds in there as well.
So that's gonna be about the first.
I should actually be starting those any day now.
But on the first, that room's coming down.
So I got a room, I wish I could show you guys.
The lights went on at three o'clock.
I got a room of midnight mass.
And that's Cuban black haze.
Don't quote me on this,
but I'm pretty sure it's Cuban black haze,
back cross with blue dream, real similar to that.
If that wasn't Harlem Dreams.
But I got that in a couple of El Cabanos in there
and they're like maybe 65, 70 days in.
And so I'm pulling that down on the 25th.
That'll be, I might've let it go to the first
and get about 80 days in.
Just depending on, there's different phenos in there.
So I'll be able to pull different ones down.
But I'm gonna pull it down.
And the PIFCon is actually gonna be,
I think the deadline for entering is on the 5th.
So I got a real, it's real close.
I gotta cut, wash and get it to New York by the 5th.
So I'm gonna do it.
And I'm not even gonna, I was gonna say,
I'm winning first place on PIFCon Connoisseur.
I already know.
Like if I don't, the person that beat me is a better man.
But I'm just speaking it out.
Yeah, I'm just putting it out there right now.
Just because I, the harvest wasn't,
the room wasn't like the best I've ever done.
But it's good enough to where the dates are gonna line up.
I'm gonna let it go.
I'm gonna get over 75 days
and I'm probably gonna get about 80 days.
Most of the phenos are gonna be done.
At least the phenos I'm gonna wanna wash at that point.
I'm gonna make sure that the plants I pull down are ripe.
I'm gonna wash those and get those.
So I'm actually excited.
This is only my second deal I've been able to enter.
We entered the Organic Cup this year in New York
and we got third place with,
that was Masonic's, the Skittles Trap Wilson.
So we got third place.
And I knew I was, I don't mean to say it in a bad way,
but I knew that Skittles Trap was so good.
I already knew I was gonna win.
But the thing is, is like,
I think I just didn't call out
I was gonna win first place.
I just said I'm gonna win and I only won third.
So that's why I'm like, this time I'm winning first.
I'm calling it first place.
Not third, not second, not no attendance.
I have to win first place.
You know, and no disrespect to anybody else entering.
Even if I lose, that's just the way I do it.
You know what I mean?
It's wild.
He got like three or four pretty heavy wins this year
and it is at the hash events.
Usually Mountain of the Heads and Legends
and everything else.
He smacked out a couple of really good crosses.
And it seems to be that Wilson
is always gonna be around in there.
And now I'm starting to see that Cuban Black Haze
pop up in a lot of these winners, you know?
So it's funny, you kind of caught onto that
before everybody else was even on that coattail.
And are you gonna be entering Rozin
or Flower in the PIVCon?
I'm gonna do Rozin.
Sick, that's gonna be fucking lit.
Interesting.
If he has any extra available spots,
I may enter the Flower as well.
I just didn't want to put my foot in my mouth
and be like, yeah, I got some Flower too.
Because dude, PIVCon, there are no slouches over there, dude.
I could already tell by looking at
who is who.
Dude, they don't fuck around when they got hazes.
They've been growing them for years.
Like I let my plants,
I've been letting my purples go for 70, 80 days
for a couple of years now, maybe 10 years now.
I've been letting them go 70 plus days, right?
But we're talking 80, 90 days.
That's a difference that your plants
have to be healthy to go that far.
70 days is a long time.
It's a long time.
But that extra 20 days, that's a long time.
To let some-
Do you do teas or are you heavy amending?
Are you top dressing heavy?
You have pretty big beds for two plants.
How's your plan of attack for those longer going?
Well, really, I hit it really hard
with all the amendments at the beginning.
And then I don't add anything after week two-ish.
If I'm really busy, it'll probably may go to week three.
But mind you, these strains are probably going 12 weeks.
So they're going maybe more 14-ish.
I don't know exactly how many weeks,
let's say 80 days would be or whatever.
But yeah, some of them,
I just had to turn a light off
of one of my larger haze plants in my room
because it's 70 days in and it's starting to yellow.
And it's so tall,
it's getting a little bit close to the light.
I just had to turn the light off.
There's so many lights around,
it's not gonna hurt it at all for the next 10 days.
It's not gonna do anything.
But just to know that that light's gonna be sitting
over the top of it, bleaching out any extra chlorophyll.
I just wanted to,
I didn't want it to bleach out any of the buds
and make the buds look any weirder.
Do you get what I'm saying?
Totally.
We definitely, we had some long stuff as well
and experienced some similar issues.
It's kind of like,
the way my mind is kind of like seeing it at this point,
it's like,
what's the word for lack of better words?
It's like charging the batteries
or charging the,
making sure it has enough to go through it.
Food, because then you can't add it past,
you could add, a lot of people,
I know people that add food five, six, seven weeks in
and they act like they don't flush.
I don't, I wanna flush.
I know that I don't have that much fertilizer.
I don't have that much food.
When I pull and I'll go put a,
I'll put a little clone in,
sometimes maybe this big a couple of days after
and I'll need to add more food.
So I know that they used all their food
because the clone is needing it.
So I'm trying to flush.
I don't want,
cause you really can't flush.
I don't have no drains on my beds.
I think some people have like drains on their beds
or can drain,
but I don't have a drain on my bed.
And so my only way to get the food down
is to let the plants eat it.
You know what I mean?
So that's kinda like,
kinda like one of those things and it's good.
I wanna see my plants yellowing,
but if I know they got 20 days left
and they're yellowing too fast,
I know it's gonna get into the bud
and then the buds gonna start turning yellow
and then people are gonna start looking at that bud
when they're looking at the flower
and be like, oh, what happened here?
And it's like, if I could just help that a little bit,
I want to, you know what I mean?
And by the way, this is Max,
our intrepid hash correspondent.
How you guys doing?
He's a man.
Come on camera or smoke someone's hash
and then come on camera with them
and tell them what he thinks to their hash.
No one's more qualified to do it.
Hey, how's my camera?
Is my camera black and white for you guys?
Yeah, a little bit.
Well, it looks so.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm trying to figure it out.
My camera's white and black.
I like it.
I don't know why.
I think it's the lighting.
Is it the lighting?
But that's okay, it works.
All right.
It almost looks like you're in someplace sunny.
Yeah, right?
I'm not, I'm in a shade dark room right now.
I'm not taking it.
So how was that?
Wait, you were just in Oregon, right?
Yeah, I just got back from Oregon.
Fuck, I had to get back.
Yeah, you guys made cross paths with each other.
So he's in Oregon.
Where were you at in Oregon?
I was just in Portland for a couple of days.
Beautiful, beautiful.
Yeah, yeah.
Where about yourself?
Where are you at in Portland?
I'm in Southern Oregon.
I'm between Portland and like Southern Oregon.
So like Ashland and all that.
Oh yeah, yeah, perfect.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I drove up through Medford and Ashland and all those.
I'm like in between those two
and I'm like towards the coast.
So I'm like right, I'm on the ocean.
Yeah, that's awesome.
That's super cool.
I gotta go and I just got off the plane.
I need to go in for a little dab, ex dab.
And how was the hash up there?
Hash was good.
I brought back some good hash.
Did you smoke flowers too?
I brought back some Argy for us to review.
Excellent.
The hash was good.
I saw it, I met with Passion for Hashing,
Vert's old partner.
And I met with some of their growers
and yeah, their hash is fire out there.
Their community is just so much different
than the California's community.
Also, even on the rec market,
being able to only buy five grams of hash legally,
it's just different coming from California.
But I like it.
Personally, I think that Archive kills it with their rosin.
So I really, really, really like Archive.
And while we were there,
luckily we looked out
and they had just dropped the Lemon Peel.
And I haven't seen them drop Lemon Peel since 2018.
And is that washed by Dammit Bobby
or is it washed by someone else?
I think it's washed by someone else.
Yeah, I think they have their own little team of washers.
But yeah, it was good.
I like the people there.
They had some good clones available.
Also, we also stopped, we also drove into,
I think it was Eugene to go over the Capricorn.
Love it there.
Yeah, we talked to them, saw their clones,
picked up some Zope, picked up some Meat Breath.
Yeah, it was nice.
It was really nice.
I was trying to get some seeds, but they're all sold out.
Next time for sure.
Yeah, next time, next time.
But how are you guys doing tonight?
Is his video frozen for everyone?
Yes, so is yours, Peter.
Your video, I'm frozen.
Yours is pretty much always frozen, Peter.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I saw you take a nap for a second, but.
Yeah, Peter did take a whole nap, John.
I saw that.
I think you really licked yourself.
Yeah.
That's impressive, I was proud of him.
I love it.
Proud of you, Papa Peter.
All right, is that, am I moving?
Yeah.
There we go, hell yep.
Yeah, I'm gonna throw some water in this boy real quick.
And let's go.
What were we talking about?
Oh, he was frozen too, Max, right?
Yeah, but we can hear him.
Wait, now he's gone though, right?
Yeah, I just grabbed Max and put some water.
I had to put some water in my dive bag.
There's just darkness.
I had to put water in here.
Fire.
Max, you may need to reload it
just because the camera's frozen.
Okay, all right, I'll come back in.
Whoa, what's up with that blade?
That's super cool.
Is that a folded steel or Damascus steel?
Yeah, Damascus, pretty cool.
It's all nice and hairy now
because I just dropped it, but.
Something like dog hair on it or?
Yeah.
Shag, right?
Shag, cat hair.
That's so funny.
Just trying to show it off, I dropped it right in there.
More flavor.
Carpet flavor.
So is there an insurgence of,
do you see a big difference in sun grown
versus indoor on your hash?
Have you been able to experience the same cultivar?
How about that?
Do you grow outside too?
Or is that, yeah.
Yeah, it's, when I say we're over here on the ocean,
it's fucking cold.
Like it rains, it rains a lot.
You probably get 300 days of rain here, if not more, right?
So it's really hard to grow outdoor here.
I do grow, last year I grew a couple of plants outside
and this year I'm gonna build a greenhouse for them
so I could get a little bit more.
But honestly, to answer your question, outdoor, indoor,
I love outdoor.
I started outdoor and outdoor is amazing.
The difference, I believe, between outdoor and indoor
is the grower.
It's not the inputs.
It's not, it's the grower.
I mean, it could be the inputs, obviously,
if you're asking, if it's organic or non-organic, right?
But if a guy knows what he's doing,
he could grow chemicals and tell you it's organic
and you would believe him if he knew what he was doing
and could flush properly.
You get what I'm saying?
Like for years, I grew Botanicare, Pro Series,
Grow, or not Grow in Micro Bloom,
but the Grow in Bloom with the Sweet Cow Madge Liquid Karma
for years, probably since like year 2000
to like 2000 for like 10, 15 years, right?
I said organic based on it.
So like back in 2000, I was like thinking it was organic,
right, because there, you know, there wasn't,
if you think back to 2000, 2005,
there was no such thing as really like organic lines
unless you were like talking about,
because Big Bud wasn't organic.
They had a bunch of crap in there.
It was, I can't remember, there was that line
that's made in Sacramento or real close to Sacramento
that was pretty, Earth Juice, that's pretty close,
but I'm sure they got some weird stuff in there.
But my point is like, if you grew it and flushed it
and you did it in soil,
like people didn't really know what organic was
or you get what I'm saying?
Like now you fast forward and then people are like,
what do you got?
People are just starting to care, you know?
It's a good thing, right?
People are just starting to care.
That's an awesome thing.
But I honestly like, if a guy,
if you took the same grower outdoor,
if you took the same grower and you hired him
to grow outdoor and indoor, the same strain,
he should be able to grow that strain
and make it look the same.
It's pretty damn close.
Do you get what I'm saying?
So it's not an outdoor or indoor thing.
It's a grower thing.
Okay.
Do you get what I'm saying?
Yeah, I didn't know if like the sun spectrum
would give it more of a different expression than indoor.
It will, it'll have a different look
and it could be better.
I mean, because you're dealing with artificial lights,
right?
And so I think it could be better, right?
I mean, when you smoke some outdoor and it's grown right,
I think it has a stone to it.
Like it'll get you high that indoor might not be able to.
Right?
Now I've grown, when I was down in Sacramento,
we were doing light depth and we were doing indoor,
we're doing outdoor, right?
And just, you know,
depending on what time of the year it was
and we'd pull down our indoor and a week later,
we'd pull down our light depth type of shit.
We'd mix it all together.
You wouldn't be able to tell the difference, you know?
So we'd be getting indoor prices for our light depths.
Everybody knows, you know, that trick or whatever,
but if you could grow it right,
and so, you know, we'd be, if you grow the right strains,
now purple is very popular right now, right?
It's always been real popular,
but so now you could grow purple outdoors
or you see now you go to your plant outdoors
and it's going to purple up, right?
So now it's, I mean,
it's making it to where all these purple strains
are working outdoors a lot better.
You get what I'm saying?
So outdoors, like the ticket, it's low overhead.
I mean, I'm a grower.
So first and foremost, I'm pro, indoor, outdoor.
The only thing I'm not pro is chemicals and pesticides.
Right now with your grow,
are you growing indoor or you're growing outdoor now?
I'm growing indoor right now.
Growing indoor now?
Yeah, yeah.
And it's only because I'm on the coast and it-
Are you using LEDs?
No, I'm using, I'm using Govitas.
I'm paying for them, I'm paying out the ass for them.
You know, at times I really-
You're still, they're the best on the market right now,
so you're killing it, yeah.
Yeah, you know, I've wanted-
Pay for what you get for sure.
I've wanted to switch over to LEDs,
but I got a couple of buddies and I don't know,
you know, they saved any electricity,
but they're overall,
I was just talking about it with my wife today
and she was like,
when are you gonna switch?
Your electricity bill is crazy.
And I'm like, I don't know.
She's, you know, we were talking-
Doing fine right now, my buds are killing it.
Like I'm happy with my product.
There's no reason to switch.
Like I've seen, yeah, you, like right now
we're running LEDs in our, up in Piedmont right now.
And we just had a, we're gonna have a harvest
in like two weeks and the nugs are super small.
Like the plants are really big,
but the nugs are like super tiny and just,
we just, we think we're gonna be switching it up this year.
I think, I think the LEDs, we don't even know.
Have you ever heard about mixed spectrum
or heard anybody talking about the mixed spectrum?
I've seen a few people, you know,
kind of playing with the,
getting the best of both worlds,
especially kind of in the hash game now,
because they're saying, you know,
a lot of these big expensive LEDs
don't even come with, you know, UV or IR
or anything like that,
that are actually being shown to kind of help out
in the hash game.
And they're saying HPS is kind of killing the hash game
because a lot of other spectrums that the LED
isn't even gonna go near.
100%.
Yeah, we literally talked about that.
We were literally talking about that conversation yesterday.
So it's just, yeah, it's like,
let me say, which, what do we want to do?
And we're right now for our company right now,
we haven't, we haven't worked right now,
our next run, our next plant will be
our first washing run.
We have never washed any of our product yet.
So now that the hash game has been changing so drastically,
we are wanting now to get into strains
that wash more heavily.
And so while we're at Capricorn,
we literally just asking them what wash is,
like, what do you guys recommend?
All that kind of stuff.
But also keep in mind that you're gonna,
by asking those questions and filling that order,
you're gonna be getting the same clones of trays
as everybody else.
You don't want that.
And that's just my opinion, but.
So I agree 100% with that.
Cause then you're just, it's harder to sell.
You know, in this day and age, it's uniqueness.
Now it's not, you know, I'm not,
and I'm not saying, hey, go Hayes or something like that.
But that's why these pheno hunts are,
are, you know, are these like,
I feel like people are grabbing the seeds
and they're doing their own little pheno hunts.
Cause they're actually,
they want something a little bit different.
But, but the key into wanting something
a little bit different and still being able to play it safe
is like rockin' with someone like Masonic.
Something like that.
Someone that you know that you can grab.
You can message a guy like that.
You can't message a lot of these other seed people.
You can't mess some of them, but I, you know,
I love Masonic, shout out Masonic.
Cause you can just message him and be like,
yo, what's gonna help me when this is done?
Right?
100, literally 100%.
I shout out Masonic, I'm literally smoking on some right now.
Right?
Literally like, I link up with Masonic all the time.
I have, I have a lot of Masonics as product.
Like I buy a lot of their raws and off just off bat.
They're good people.
They really, they definitely hook it up
with a lot of questions and stuff.
And so it's almost, it's almost like another way
where you can figure out what is gonna help you
when it's done.
Right?
You know what I mean?
Without, without having what everybody else has.
You get what I'm saying?
Like-
100%.
I agree 100% right now with like the hype and all that.
Everyone wants something new.
Everyone wants like what they,
what someone else doesn't have.
100%.
I agree 100% on that.
Yeah.
But, but they want what somebody has,
but they don't want what everybody has.
Yes.
And so it's, it's walking that fine line.
Like I seen it last year after the ego clash.
I seen last year, the ego clash off the top of my head.
I can't remember what strain, cause it was a blend.
So they named it something, but what the blend was,
it was Skittles blended with,
it's like a lemon tree, but I don't think it was lemon tree.
It was something like that with a Sherbert.
And so it was like, those three blended together,
made what one ego clash, I guess it's in Spain.
And so I started thinking after that, I was like, really?
You know?
And I went all in with Skittles.
I went and found a couple of packs of Skittles S1s
and I paid a little bit for them.
And it actually paid off last year, this time,
cause it was just all in.
And you can see, so why you,
if you see what wins these competitions,
these bigger competitions, you kind of go that route too.
You know, there's kind of like,
at least those are kind of what I do, you know?
And kind of, and they've paid off for me
as I've seen what one ego clash, I've seen what one this,
and I kind of went with, okay, well, what breeder was that?
Or what genetic, what strain was that?
And I tried to figure those out
and seeing almost like, okay, well, they won.
That's what people are feeling.
Those, like those, cause especially in Spain,
they're ahead of us.
They are, they're, they're Rick rocking, in my opinion,
you know, cause me growing up in this,
you always could look up to Canada.
You could always look up to Canada in the early 2000s
and up to Bubble Man and figure out like what was going on.
You know what I mean?
And like, if we didn't know what was the next step
or what was hip, what was going on,
you could like look at Bubble Man
or you could like, you get what I'm saying?
And you could see what they were doing
cause they were just a little bit more ahead of us.
Spain, they're just a little, I wouldn't say maybe,
but in the hash game, they are, they got it going on.
So if you pay attention to what's going on over there
and stuff, it's like a cheat code.
You can just be like, oh, okay.
That's what they're using over there.
Watch, watch what wins fan of,
watch what wins Eagle Clash this year over there.
And who knows what it's going to be,
but I bet you that's going to be hot over here next summer.
Last summer, I was actually in school for a trade school
and I had an internship and I was able to take a detour
to Spain and I stayed in Spain for two weeks.
And I met with tons of hash makers while I was there
and they're there, they kill it.
And this was over a year ago.
This was like a year and a half ago.
And they were so ahead of our time.
Even when I was there, they were, they're cold curing,
they're cold curing melt.
They had cold cured melt.
They had an insane, I've never seen this cold cured melt
with a terror player that was just oozing.
I've never seen a cold cured melt,
they're killing it in Spain.
The Spain hash makers kill it.
They have great product.
They have great strains, all their products clean.
Like they, I mean, they all work together.
They're all, it's all like,
it's somewhat of a family over there.
Exactly, there's not as much.
They have hostility.
Yes, there is some hostility with some people,
but that's just how it all goes in the real world.
But yeah, in Spain, it's just,
they're definitely all just like there to help each other.
It's very, I agree with you a hundred percent
and I think Spain is coming up on the rise.
Main hash makers, SubZero Extracts, Meltiamo.
There's a couple other big names
that are just going to be blowing up this year.
I think that personally, I think Meltiamo
is going to be getting at least a top three place
of Eagle Clash this year on something.
He's really been killing,
he's a young hash maker out of Spain, so.
You can play with any like jam techniques.
You do, I know it's kind of,
some people kind of do the heat tech a little bit.
Have you messed with that?
Do you enjoy it?
Do you see like both of ours specific?
I see the difference.
So personally, I don't like heat tech.
I think the heat tech makes it all soupy.
I don't like the, I like the rosin and it's all right.
I like it when it's just whipped, hand whipped.
Like the only heat tech I personally like
is putting in a sous vide for 24 hours
and letting it sit in the sous vide
so you're not really cooking it in the oven
or like not even cooking it.
It's just like you're burning.
I feel like when you're bringing it into the oven
and you're melting it down,
like not melting, but heat teching it,
you're definitely burning turps or losing turps.
Like you're changing the rosin.
So that's my only, that's definitely a big,
and a lot, I mean, that right now,
the big craze is having that wet, somewhat soupy rosin.
A lot of companies out here in Cali right now
are just completely heat teching it.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah, I'd say majority of companies
heat tech their rosin here in California.
Out here in Midwest, it hasn't really caught on.
There's a few makers that are making
a good jam consistency, you know what I mean?
But for the most part, it's definitely cool.
Yeah, here in California, you're not finding it.
You are, you can find the jams,
but it is definitely harder to find the jams.
And jams are made-
Well, now what about like fresh presses?
I've seen people kind of starting to get people fresh press
so they can kind of do their own,
like, hey, where do you want to take it from here?
What do you like your consistency to be?
Do you want it kind of ribboned out or what?
You know, so I think that's pretty cool
that people are offering that.
Yeah, yeah, I think, honestly,
I think I've been in, and y'all's in Portland,
in the Portland area, in Oregon area,
they're doing a lot of fresh press.
Yeah, here in California, I've only,
right now the only company that I've seen
releasing fresh press is this dude,
his name literally is Fresh Press.
Like, it's Fresh Press without the E's.
But he releases fresh press here and there.
But I know a lot of growers don't like to release
fresh press just because they feel like the turps
aren't there and the nose, you're not smelling anything.
So that, yeah, like, personally, I love fresh press.
I would love to see more fresh press and melt,
melt for sure.
Yeah, melt's coming back over here in the Midwest.
Melt is, I think the melt's coming back here
in California too.
I think I've been seeing a lot more companies,
even on the delivery menus and all the hype stuff,
that they've been starting to bring back melt more and more.
I've been seeing a lot more of the immortal hatchery
over here in Chicago.
Really?
Three or four of the menus down here
on a consistent basis, it seems.
That's cool, that's awesome, that's nice.
Cool, man.
Yeah, we, you know, that's what we're trying to do.
We're just trying to get out there as much as we can,
anywhere we can, you know?
So it's a little harder now that we're working
a little bit more in the hazes.
I gotta get a little bit more variety back.
So here in the next, I'd say a couple of months,
hopefully I'll be, I wouldn't say everywhere,
because we're so damn small, I can't be everywhere.
But, you know, I'm glad that you've seen us places.
That's really cool.
And you're obviously full single source.
Yeah, yeah.
Whenever you have your next run, please, yeah,
please let me know.
I'd love to get some of your product.
Yeah, that'd be awesome.
Yeah, excellent.
Get it to all the boys, all my friends,
all my friends would love that.
That's cool, man.
I'd love to do it, you know?
Yeah, I have a whole menu between California
and then Portland, and then we just, wherever.
Yeah, that's cool, man.
I'm seeing a lot of these guys from Oregon pop up too.
You know, just all over, like in different people's feeds
and all over the East Coast and shit,
and I'm like, wow, that dude's just right down the street.
So yeah, this was a really good summer for Rosin.
Really, like really a lot of Rosin this year,
a lot of great Rosin.
You know, I've seen more good pictures of Rosin
this last couple of months than I think I have.
And not early.
Like, I think people are finally finding
getting over the early, I want it to look pretty phase.
That was so huge for a long time.
It kind of, you know, people got tired of that monoturbed
and just kind of, meh, hi.
Getting full term that you said you're taking your purples
and stuff like that, 70 plus days, that's commendable.
She has a full team this year.
Yeah, and I know a lot of guys down here, down South,
that were taking their, shoot, I know a couple of guys
that were taking this stuff really a long time, you know?
So, you know, even outdoor guys,
which were able to get it to go that much further
and get that nice color out of it.
I've seen some depths this year that look like indoor.
You know, that just-
It's crazy to even say that.
In Portland, while I was there,
there were some, they were hitting that $600.
And they, you could pass them off as 12, $1,400 indoors
all day.
We get them here in Chicago at that all day.
I mean, we get more.
I think we sell more of California's.
We do.
I'll be right back.
Well, and the thing is, is Oregon, to tell you the truth,
I've been here for a while, but you know,
I just started classifying myself as that.
Oh, I'm an Oregonian, right?
But in reality, you don't, I see a lot of brokers.
Brokers will not say it's from Oregon.
There's a lot of herb.
There's a lot of good herb coming from Oregon.
But Southern Oregon's like an hour over the border.
So it's basically California.
So those guys, I don't know if I should say this or whatever
but, cause I'm not trying to hate,
but you're going to get more if you say it's Cali.
I mean, I'm not hating on Oregon.
I love Oregon, but I'm going to say,
I don't say my packs are coming from Oregon
if I don't have to, because let's be real.
Like if you say, you know,
if you got something from California,
like I don't really tell too many people where I'm from.
Unless it's, you know, like me and my lab
or what I'm doing.
You get what I'm saying?
Like, it's just a newer thing.
Like, you know, and when I see the brokers come into town
or especially when I go meet brokers
and then I see what they do with it.
No, they never tell anybody they get it from Oregon.
It's almost like a shame
because there is so much good weed
and rosin coming from here on the underground
or whatever you call it, like the black market.
Nah, they all say, you know,
once they get it and then it ends its destination,
they're like, nah, that's Cali.
That's, I mean, you know, it's worth more.
As soon as my buddy's packs hit his broker,
he goes, nope, nope, this is that.
This is this, you know,
because people who just work on that larger scale,
you know, they,
If you could get more for it, why not?
That's why, but that's why I like enjoying, you know,
people's products like yours, you know,
and then when you get into the kind of smaller craft,
craft style products, it shows,
it definitely shows within the end product itself.
You know, it's hard if you're doing fucking 14 facilities
to get that quality control down and take that time.
I mean, you said you started from the very end
all the way to, or at very beginning,
all the way to the end, you're there, you know,
and you're in tune with how much inputs
are you're putting in there,
even if it's all, I'm just doing a handful of this
or a handful of that, you know what I mean?
You've been in tune with that for so long
that your final product definitely speaks for itself.
And, yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's kind of the only way to do it
if you are expecting a certain result,
unless you're, you know,
unless you're dealing with another business partner
that has the same mindset as you,
or it's never worked for me.
That's awesome.
I love to hear that from him,
that saying how that's awesome to hear.
Like, it's awesome that your hash is like,
you're killing it.
That's, I love that.
It's amazing.
You must be so proud of yourself, bro.
It's amazing.
I love to hear that from someone like,
it's just such a good feeling.
It's good stuff.
Yeah, I love that, bro.
So you've had this in Chicago.
Yeah, my buddy down in May Gallery.
Oh, cool.
They run a pretty good assortment of hashes
from the United States.
We get a lot of diesel stuff down, all sorts of,
hell yeah.
Kapone's got a-
Yes sir, you already know, dog.
Yes sir, what's up, man?
Yes sir, you already know,
got that made on.
Yes sir, what's up, man?
The made, dog, yes sir.
My homie went and bought a,
made had a, it was a Yoshi Rose Roads cup, slop cup.
I facilitated the sale.
It was like 13K and he, my buddy bought it
like six months ago,
or maybe a little less than that.
Yeah, hell yeah.
And that's where like I go to,
they have a lot of good drops.
Like, so they'll be like, okay, well,
we just had a drop of Immortal come in or whatever, right?
We get a lot of the Midwest stuff, tons of Michigan stuff.
But I got to enjoy some of T-Beasles,
it was that Fioha or something like that.
That was some wild turps, unique turps,
that's not everywhere.
So it's nice to be able to get people's,
and you know, they're not gonna grab everybody's stuff
because like you said, I mean,
it was a good year for Rosin, right?
Everybody, the grandmother and the granddaughter
fucking grew up for Rosin, it seemed like.
And for somebody, everybody had fridges full of GMO,
everybody had this, everybody had that,
you know, you could always find that readily available,
but those rare ones weren't really around
and for them to, you know.
So I think that definitely speaks for itself as well.
You've got, what are you smoking on there, Max?
What do you got, some flour?
Oh, wait, you're muted.
Is that milk?
You muted yourself.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I noticed that for a second, I was like,
oh, man, I muted myself.
It looks pretty.
This is some, let me get another light on it.
This is some banana hank from actually, from Masonix.
I heard him talking about that banana hank
a couple of weeks ago.
Yeah, this is some banana hank.
I got a jar of the banana hank.
I got a jar of the, it's like lemon pound Z.
This week's going crazy this year.
I just washed and waves,
which was luscious across the apples and bananas.
I'll be getting that in the press,
hopefully tomorrow or the next day,
whenever we can get down there,
but one of them washed pretty well.
So I'm excited to be able to take that one fuller turn.
I'll get the other one down, stoked.
But yeah, I'm really excited about that
because it was heavy on the Z,
but definitely had some fruit on it for sure.
That's nice, yeah.
Just some Dante's Inferno right here.
This is also done by you.
Oh, hell yeah, that's cool.
What temperatures are you pressing at?
Me?
So this is my buddy's.
I'm not actually a,
it was my first time going down to his lab
and everything like that and washing.
I was able to do that.
Oh yeah.
This is my buddy's, True High Chicago is his IG name.
Yeah, so I'm just super new at it.
It's just, I love it, man.
And so I'm able to start dipping my toes into it.
It's just, you know, that and the torch.
I was able to get on a torch for the first time this year.
And so glass and hash is just life now.
Are you still on a torch right now?
Yeah, I get on it once in a while.
I'm getting a little bit more room.
I'm definitely getting a torch.
I definitely got bit by the flame on that.
And really stoked to get on it.
Once you're back on the flame, I need a marble.
That's for sure.
I need a marble for my collection.
Are you guys working with quartz in there?
Or just?
Oh, that's killer.
A little vortex?
Yeah, a little vortex.
That's what I heard.
Yeah, I'm getting a little bit more room.
I'm definitely getting a torch.
I definitely got bit by the flame on that.
That's fire.
Oh yeah, oh yeah.
It was a glass.
I love it.
Killing bro, I love it.
We can bring back the glasses.
So by the way, Max, how do you like this thing?
Bro, fucking love this thing.
I love doing the living and ripping it since I got home.
How is it to the Puff Co?
We can turn my desk around and we can see all my glass.
I'm not using any glass.
I've only been ripping on my Dab X.
Yeah, no, yeah.
Compared to the Puff Co.
So I also have a proxy.
I have a proxy.
Okay.
Compared to the Puff Co,
it's definitely very different than the Puff Co
because you only get a 15 second consecutive hit.
Like that's how long the heat element stays on.
So you get 15 seconds of just a nip of rippage,
but it's clean.
It tastes great.
Like personally, I've had no trouble with it.
Battery lasts long.
Like I really liked the Dab X.
At first I will say like when I first ripped it
at our session on Tuesday, I was like,
oh, this thing sucks, blah, blah, blah.
I only told Peter, I was like, yeah, I don't know about this.
I need one in my hands to mess with it,
to really feel like the,
and over like the two weeks
of really messing around with it,
I've easily put like four jars through this thing.
And I have now found like the real capability.
You can flood this thing.
You can actually-
I think it was on like the lowest temperature setting
or something.
Yeah, and the coolest thing about it,
like breaking it down, like it's a little magnet.
So you just take it off.
It just literally just pops off the magnet.
You just take the top chamber off.
And the coolest thing is like it has a storage container
on the bottom, on the bottom of it.
And this is the bigger reservoir
is where all the oil drops into from like you smoking
all the claim.
And then the two small reservoirs are for like your travel,
for like you putting in a little concentrate
just to have on the go.
And then the coolest thing about this,
that that is where your oil drips in through from the coil
and just super easy to clean it.
You just pull it right out.
Cause just fully magnet.
It is super easy compared to like Topco
and just all that, just so much easier than just taking apart.
I mean, I traveled with it to Portland.
I brought it to Portland and I brought it back
and traveling to the airport was easy.
I didn't get stopped with it.
I mean, I took it out of my bag like usual
to just hang up as a lithium ion battery,
but I had no trouble with it.
And I brought it through this time with Ash
in the atomizer.
Cause I was hoping that there was going to be
an outside flipping stop for me at the flipping
Delta lounge.
I was going to take a little pre-flight rip,
but it didn't happen.
Harold and Kumar moment up in the middle of the plane.
Really?
That'd be funny.
That'd be funny.
I need a smoke buddy.
Yeah, no, I like it.
I like it.
What about you, Peter?
How are you liking it so far?
No, I like, well, it's like,
I wouldn't like if someone else has a torch, right?
Like I'll be like, I'll hit that with you,
but I wouldn't be like the one to do
what he's doing right now.
But with this thing, it's just like easy, right?
I'm going to take care of it for you.
Yeah.
You sure we're good?
And it also, like, I don't, like,
I don't have the dab cough as much.
So.
I got very high tonight.
That's big though, because like, like why my dad,
he doesn't like smoking for the reason of just coughing.
Right?
Like he'd rather eat it than any bitches
about being high the next day.
So maybe a machine I can call it.
Well, a smoking flower, I don't cough.
And I like, but with this thing,
I don't really cough either, which is why I like it.
Cheers.
I like the 800 degree.
You like hotter dabs?
No, no, no, no.
So someone in the chat said, I like the red mode.
Hey, I like the red mode.
I tried the red mode.
I tried the red mode off bat.
That was what I went for.
Cause I personally like hotter rips
and the green mode just kills it.
You don't need the red modes if you're sweating it.
And the red mode definitely holds.
I like the red mode.
I've already put 0.3 and it completely destroyed it.
Completely destroyed 0.3.
And in the Puffco, there's always a puddle,
always a puddle.
And this thing just flipping.
I mean, there still was bubbling,
but it flip it.
It gets every last left of the rip.
Like you're really killing it.
That's good because I feel like some of the electronic ones
are almost like,
for lack of better terms, it doesn't get you there.
Right?
Like it gets you close,
but it doesn't give you the dab experience.
I feel that like a rig does.
I don't know.
That's how my Puffco is.
I don't really get high off of it like I want to.
That's how I feel.
That's how I felt whenever I was hitting Puffcos.
And then it's hard for me to clean.
So that unit right there actually looks really cool
because the Puffco, I don't know.
Some people that are used to the Puffco,
they could just dab it right out,
Q-tip it right out and they're good.
I'm not that lucky.
My Puffco don't look that good,
but that thing looks cool.
It almost looks like a volcano
to where that piece sits right on top of like volcano.
Yeah.
And also I didn't even explain also that also
on this piece, cool that.
When you put it and drop it on,
because the Puffco just has that one restriction.
Like it just has the,
it doesn't have any restricting method
to make the water more restrictive
or the piece more restrictive.
This piece has like a built-in like airflow basically.
So like once you fill up the chamber with smoke
and you want to clear it fast to get more smoke in,
you just press the button
and it literally just creates a massive amount
of airflow into the piece.
Oh, that's a carb.
Yeah, it's basically a carb.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's dope.
That is because don't you feel like,
like on a Puffco you're just kind of like,
you know what I mean?
You're trying to see it.
You're trying to like,
and the thing about it is with a Puffco,
when you're trying to like rip the fuck out of it,
you don't get smoke.
You really need to just sip on it.
It's more of like a sipping
and people don't understand that
that you're supposed to slowly hit that,
hit it and not like rip the hell out of it.
But with this, you can really rip on it
and just fully get like massive clouds.
I've heard that.
I've heard people say,
you got to hit the Puffco a certain way.
And I've looked at people sitting right next to me
and maybe their eyes are getting red as fuck
and they're getting lit.
And they're like, you just got to hit it like this.
And I'm like, I wish I was getting as high as them.
So, you know.
I went to the Puffco event,
the proxy event two weeks ago, brought my proxy.
I have dabbed off my proxy over 40 times
without having to clean it.
Cause like I sip on it,
like the wax ever popped out of the whole chamber right here
and I brought it to the event.
I was able to get nine dabs out of the proxy.
And when I got home to clean it, it was just filthy.
Like, because people had been just like,
like ripping it and ripping it sort of the way
they're pulling the concentrate out of the toilet,
into the hole and it was just going flooding out.
So it was just, yeah.
And it was honestly just crazy.
Cause people were like, oh, I'm not getting as high.
I'm like, dude, you guys are just ripping it.
This thing is just made, it's a sipping pipe.
It's basically an old man's pipe.
You're not supposed to be ripping below it.
So like you like meant to pump on it.
Is that what you're trying to say?
You're meant to just slowly give it a slow, slow inhale.
More of less like you're hitting a donut.
The same aspect of like hitting a donut type joint
where you have like, so you're just not slowly,
you're not sucking it, like ripping it.
You're just slowly giving it, you're still,
you're not puffing on it,
but you can still give it long, long inhales.
But you're not just like,
you're just giving it a nice, like smooth,
slow, like long exhale or long inhale.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think I've just had better outcomes
of like dabs with the Procti,
giving it like smaller amounts of rips and stuff like that.
And people also say that the ball cap changes
air flow and stuff.
Personally, I think the stock cap is amazing.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Maybe it's just my puff co, I don't know,
but maybe I got lucky and I got a good one.
But it happens, it happens.
That's another big thing with Hashins,
like donuts and stuff like that,
that's making a pretty big popularity jump down here.
Over the year, I saw a bunch,
bunch of people starting producing those.
Have you seen Rome's rolls in Chicago?
We had a big person that was buying like a large,
large amount of Rome's rolls in Chicago.
Okay.
Do you ever see, you're close to Detroit, right?
To Michigan?
Yeah, Michigan, yeah.
You see a Growfair extracts, have you ever seen them?
Growfair, I've heard of them,
but I have not had their extracts yet, no.
Yeah, they make some really good killer stuff out there.
Michigan has tons of great, great, great Hashins out there.
Turp Wizard, they got Smokey, he's fantastic.
I love Connor, he's an amazing person as it is.
The new up and comer I really like is Resin Reserved.
He recently just went out there with Simply Adam
for the Coffee and Donuts Tour.
I think he tagged along with them.
And I was lucky enough to try some of his stuff
when he's kind of just coming on,
and he's really blowing up making some killer product.
Really, really.
Excellent.
Organitron, he's really good people.
Makes great stuff.
Well, guys, I'm gonna take off.
I got a couple of things I gotta do before I go to sleep.
Yeah, I think we can call it a night.
I've been...
It's been a long one for me.
I've been hitting the Girl Scout cookies.
Hey, I appreciate you guys allowing me
to come talk with you guys.
This is actually, I've never really done this.
I've done it once or twice, and it's always fun.
It's something I always love.
This is something I love.
This is a subject I love.
Now, and I like, there are so many people like you.
I like having people be able to see
how other people do stuff and to learn from them
and to like, it's like, if we can all be hummingbirds,
kind of seeing what other people are doing
and then being like, oh, I'll incorporate that into what I...
What you were talking about watching Eric
talking about the Kangen Water, right?
Yes, yeah.
This is like-
And then you had like conversations
with him after watching that.
That's cool.
Yeah, yeah.
That was, it was like a big,
cause it was like, like I was saying,
it was a tool I already kind of had.
So once I saw it, I was,
you helped me put two and two together really quick.
And I appreciate that as well.
Yeah, and I want to get the update from him
of like experiments he's done since our last conversation.
Since we last spoke a year and change ago,
what else have you learned about Kangen Water?
I like that shirt.
That would be great because I'm sure
that he's learned so much that,
from the farms that he goes to
and all the feedback from everything.
Cause it's just, that would be excellent
if you could have him back on here
to where he could give some more insight
on what he's learned with the machine.
Cause that would help.
I know it helped me.
Yeah, if someone either watching or me,
or someone remember to remind me to reach out to Eric.
Eric.
Cause I probably won't tomorrow.
I'll try to remember for you.
Well, thanks.
I really appreciate the opportunity to come on here
and be able to ask some questions.
Like I said, I'm super new into the hash making world
but I'm loving it every minute of it.
Even running into the bad apples in it.
You know, you live and learn.
So thanks for being a solid person out there.
Sounds like you really are true to your craft.
You know, we definitely need more crafters out there.
If you got any questions, hit me up.
You know, I'll follow you on IG.
You could always hit me up.
You know, I don't want to hold no knowledge.
That's crazy.
You know, I always want to help people out.
So even in any cuts that I have, any seeds,
you know, I want to give them away just because,
you know, it's one of those things.
It's like a free flowing thing.
When I say no, you say no.
When I say yes, you say yes.
And it just works that way, you know?
And so anything that I have, I really want to share it.
I don't want to hold anything.
So if you guys got any questions
or if you got anything like, anything like what bags,
anything like that.
I think we can put together some questions for next time.
I got a lot.
Yeah, even when you're in the room.
We'll be back with questions.
Let's just say Alex, I think,
so even if you're pressing some stuff up here
or coming up or, you know, whatever, just hit me up.
You know what I mean?
I'll get back to you with whatever, you know,
I'll get back to you within an hour or something,
you know, something like that.
So I hope, you know what I mean?
So.
Hell yeah.
I got a wash coming up, man.
So some sour melon I'm going to be washing.
So I'll definitely fucking buzz you up.
I always got questions.
I got people I ask.
And so if they weren't there for me,
you know what I mean?
Like, so.
Oh yeah, I really appreciate it.
I'd love to be there for somebody else.
Cheers.
So right on guys.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
I'm going to kill it on that.
