Okay. Let me... Yeah, yeah, okay, bye. Alright everyone, bear with us. Can anyone hear me?
Can you hear me, Major Tom? Hi. Jolly, I saw your... that you called earlier. I've been
dealing with a whole bunch of stuff. I don't know if anyone can hear me right
now. Yes, you can hear me. Now, can you see... whoa, that is... that is right up in my
face. Alright, so we're just doing some tech stuff because it looks like there
are two streams going. Okay. It looks like only one went live on channel two, so
just give us a... we're also launching the Clubhouse room in a minute. So, Chad
Westport, if you're watching, it looks like one of them is just still a
reminder and the other one's live, but nine people are waiting in the reminder room.
Let me see if I can figure out how to kill that. With some technical wizardry.
Okay, yeah, you saw me. You can hear me. It's always good to feel heard and seen.
Okay, what am I trying to do, you guys? Thank you, Chad. And actually, since we have Chad in the
house, to all his adoring fans, hi diddly ho, Chatterinos. Alright, let me go to
studio.eu, the YouTube studio. And let's go to... I may be able to kill content live.
Okay, let me kill... delete. Okay, hopefully this doesn't... Alright, I'm hoping that the
other one disappeared. Why thank you.
Alright, well I am, like you guys, waiting. I should get on the Clubhouse, though.
Alright, let me... I think you guys need to look up my nose. We are very close.
London, I don't know if you can hear me, but I am just killing time. Alright, let me...
Oh, fuck. Let me get the phone.
Hold tight, everyone.
I don't know if you can hear me.
It's good to go there, because I'm on the side. So, sorry, and we appreciate...
And we are good to go. Everybody, welcome to the Deck Power, an amazing,
amazing show. Amazing, specific subjects for about an hour and a half. So, last week we had an in-depth
discussion about PGRs. This week we're going to be jumping into a lot of other amazing things,
and we are looking to have a lot of fun with it. So, Colin, welcome to the stage. I'm just going to
throw a mute button on you, my friend, as I get a little bit of feedback. I apologize. I'm very
excited to have you on board with us, as I was just mentioning to everybody else in the room.
But we do not speak, try and keep your mute on, Mike, because we do have a fairly large
stage here. You're mic muted, and then when... At the start of the show, we're going to run
through each of the panelists. They're going to say hello to themselves in the order in which that
you see with your desktop on YouTube. Awesome. So, we will have Jameson, it'll go Jameson, Drew,
Ashley, Damon, Josh, Dr. Anabas, Tess, Corey, and then Colin. So, because we'll be following this
order, the panelists that are here on a regular basis will be quite short and quite brief. However,
please, Drew, Tess, and Colin, our special guests for the evening, please take a little bit more
time and introduce yourself to our less regular guests and less regular people. So, I'm going to
get it all started, and I'm London. I'm happy to be the master of moderation for these awesome
conversations that we have here every Tuesday on the Dank Hour. I am excited and elevated to have
Future Canada Project projecting us all the way over to YouTube first, as well as Resonate Radio
down there. Always excited to be working with our community, as everybody knows. I believe it's about
community coming up together and growing together. And I think the beautiful thing about Clubhouse
is we're able to connect in such an awesome way and really able to get to the next level of
information. So, I'm excited to have that little journey with all of you today. So, we're going to
get into it. Jameson, would you like to introduce yourself, please? Hello, everyone. My name is
Jameson Walborn. I am co-founder and general manager of a fully licensed cannabis genetics
company here in Canada. We do all of our sifting in living soil under LEDs. And, yeah, very excited
for the conversation here today. I'm sure I'm going to learn something. Go ahead. Yeah, you're
up, Drew. I am Drew Olson. I'm a biological sciences technician for the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
And I did a lot of work with Mycorrhiza back in my master's.
Hey, guys. My name is Ashley Hubbard. I am the director of cultivation at a fully aeroponic
grow facility here in Michigan. Been in the industry about seven years professionally.
Received my master's from the same plant lab as Anna in plant population genetics.
So, started as a trimmer, worked my way to the top.
Thanks, Ashley. My name is Damon. I'm a co-founder of Rive Scientific.
We handle epigenetic signaling within the cannabis plant. And I got other projects on the side.
And, yeah, that's me. Next is Josh. He's more impressive than I am. Bye.
Thanks, Damon. I appreciate that. I'm Josh Virk. I'm a breeder, grower, researcher. I've worked on
molecular breeding projects and just personally really love phenotyping. And
very excited to see what we learn today. Anna?
Hey, everybody. My name is Anna. And I got my PhD, plant population genetics, specifically looking
at genetic relationships in cannabis. I graduated in 2019 and just moved out to New Jersey.
We had some R&D for a aquaponics company that's growing both hemp and also growing
high THC cannabis. And I am excited tonight to listen to everybody talk about microbes.
And Tess, go ahead.
Awesome. Thanks. My name is Tess Edom. And I am the director of science at Willow Industries.
And before that, I worked as a lab manager at Columbia Care. And before that, I worked as a
researcher and as a professor. I got my PhD working on drug discovery, developing antimicrobial
agents against pathogens like staphylococcus or staph infections. And I also appreciate a good
microbe. My husband and I also have a fermented foods company and love the friendly bacteria too.
So I'm really excited. And next up is Corey.
Are you with us, brother Corey?
You might be a little bit away. So we will move on. Colin, would you like to introduce yourself,
please? I'm very excited to have you on.
Thanks. Hey, my name is Colin Bell. I'm the co-founder of the company Mammoth Microbes.
Our company's name is actually Grosentia. Everyone knows this in the industry by mammoth
or mammoth microbes. I guess in March, it was our sixth year anniversary. And we've just done,
we've stayed so busy thinking about ways that we can just develop technologies, natural technologies,
started off with our microbial biostimulant mammoth pea to just bring value to growers.
We think about the science of nature and the chemistry of biology to implement into
precision cultivation. And that's pretty much all I think about. I do a lot of traveling,
my background, a PhD, basically environmental microbiologist, spent years and years in
desert ecosystems, understanding the relationships between soil bacteria and fungi and plants and
the resilience effects under different abiotic and biotic stressors. And that led from one thing
to the other, where I finally ended up at the Natural Resource Ecology Lab at Colorado State
University. And in about March 2014, we started thinking about ways we could actually apply
some of our fundamental science to help people in this lifetime. And that train of thought led to
us starting a company and launching the product that we developed at the university in March 2015.
So it's been quite a journey and very happy to be here. Thank you.
Awesome. Well, Corey, you're back. Would you like to introduce yourself? And
excellent introduction there, Colin. I really might be having some technical difficulties over there.
Are you? We will come back to you then. All right. Well, I want to get this started. And I thought I
would just throw this out there as is often misunderstood. And, you know, microbes aren't
exactly the cheapest of products when we're adding them in. I'm a big believer in... Oh, Corey, are
you there? I think you're coming through. Is he choppy for everybody else?
You're coming in and out pretty bad there.
All right. Well, let me know when you get back. Things back up and rolling. I appreciate having
you on stage and we'll bear with the technical difficulties for the time being now. So I really
wanted to jump in and right off the bat, kind of as you, Colin, you know, as microbes and mycorrhizae
and the products that you carry, like what is the best application method? I mean, often it is,
I've been told anything from if you apply, you know, powdered dry microbes like bacteria,
that you should apply them directly to the roots and that if you don't apply them directly to the
roots, you know, the likeliness of them actually initiating and becoming alive. So it's best to
dress the root system in transplant. What would be the best way to achieve the most out of your
first application or getting your inoculation started with bacteria and cannabis? If I can
just jump right over. Sure thing. I'm happy to tackle that. And I'll answer this question how
I typically do. And it's more about understanding for me, the function of those particular
bacteria and the purpose of that inoculum. And if we understand function, just like we might
understand basic general nutrients or ions, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, we kind of know
how the plants incorporate and use those particular elements and when they're used and why they're
used. And that's why we use them in a particular order in a particular application right across
the growing season. And it's pretty simple. We've made it pretty simple. And there's a lot of
different thoughts on those applications. Well, honestly, keeping it that simple, microbes are no
different. They all have particular functionality and they have their ideal status of
shelf life and viability. And so if we understand why the microbes are used and how they
function, it's pretty easy to tie the application around that. I heard mycorrhizae a couple times.
That's a really good, very simple example. Mycorrhizae do one thing very simple. Very, very well, they
infect plant roots and they infect plant roots not from a pathogenic point of view, but that's how
they function, just like a pathogen would. But instead, they exchange nutrients, scavenging
phosphorus and whatnot from the outside the root sphere and in turn take carbon from the plant.
The plant feeds them carbon, labile carbon, and they'll exchange phosphorus that they've
scavenged from the media or the available soil zone in exchange. It's a very simple function.
How they work is by infection. So you want to make sure that you can apply them. They typically come
in a dry form and that's really because they're spores and they're more viable or they have longer
shelf life in a dry form. They seem to store better. You can also get them in some liquid
carriers, but it's a dry spore or it's analogous with the plant seed, but it's microscopic and
it's what these fungi produce to persist until they can find a host. In that particular case,
you absolutely positively want to get those spores implanted close or within the root zone
because that's what they need to do to survive and engage. And if they're not infecting the
roots, then they're not doing anything. And so you want to make sure that they're viable,
which means having spores that will vegetate and infect cells and also being close enough to the
root zone so they can infect. One last piece about that, I'll use mycorrhizae as this particular
example. It's also important to understand the infection rate or the time of infection.
And so if you're using mycorrhizae and it's kind of this early rooting stimulant, a lot of people
are using that. And I know you said bacteria and I went right to Arbus termicorrhizal fungi,
so sorry about that. But it's the same example about structure equals the application and mode
of action. You just want to understand what those bacteria or fungi are doing. It might take weeks
for getting back to that. It might take weeks for mycorrhizae to actually infect the plant root.
And so it's not something that's necessarily as useful later in the growing season, but it's
amazing to establish early on in the growing season. So you might use a mycorrhizal inoculant
for early transplant right from that early rooting, seedling, or cloning stage into the
vegetative transplant and even maybe once more. After that, the mycorrhizae is probably
infected and established in that root zone and further applications may be diminishing returns
as a cultivator because you already have that infection rate and you're not going to be able to
apply a mycorrhizal powder in this particular case into the root zone. A lot of people have
success with those products later on in the growing season. And I'd also say that some of
those successes are probably with the bacillus and other microorganisms that are associated with
those formulas. I don't want to keep rambling, but that's how we can break down any particular
microbial functional group and we could tie a best practice application rate based on that
functional group, what those microbes actually do, and how you can get them where they need to be,
either in the root zone in most cases or in all cases. Very few applications would work for foliar
unless there's a function that brings that you or that plant value in having that microbe on the
leaf. It's a stretch for this particular crop. I have like 18 follow-up questions, but I don't
want to overdo it and just target you there, Colin. So I'm going to jump over to Kes a little
bit. And with your background, I wanted to kind of express and get your opinions on kind of the
best way to host environment for a lot of these microbes. We know that they all kind of need a
varying degree depending on the bacillus and mycorrhiza. Actually, you know what might be a
great opportunity here, Tess, is to kind of describe the difference for our layman of the
differences between kind of the bacteria that would be used in agricultural setting and its
beneficials. Yeah, so Colin mentioned bacillus. That's one organism that is typically used.
Am I sounding okay? My image is flashed. No, you are coming through. It's supposed to.
It just lets people know that you're the physicist. All right.
So yeah, you want to, for those types of applications, you definitely can get good
success with other types of bacterial organisms that can do all sorts of things. I mean, bacteria
are involved in basically every nutrient cycle on the planet and founded those nutrient cycles
to begin with. So they can be used for all sorts of things from nitrogen fixation to
aiding in phosphorus uptake. So they're pretty useful out in especially large agricultural
crops with cannabinoids. And this is something that we're noticing at Willow because we do a
lot with compliance is that sometimes when you apply certain microbes, you are risking a chance
of some of those microbes cross-reacting on some compliance tests that may or may not distinguish
harmful microbes. But if aerobic bacteria are really high because they're a huge group of
organisms and some of them are really beneficial for all sorts of reasons for cannabis, that can
cross-react on those tests and you can fail for compliance testing. So you have to be pretty
selective and really trial out different types of bugs that you're putting in your garden
to understand how they're going to work on your plants and then how they're going to work on the
ultimate final product for testing. That's a hell of an answer. And I kind of wanted to jump over
and ask, just kind of break it on to some of our experts here. And Jamison, like what kind of
products are you using? You mentioned you're using Living Soil. You're very excited to have this
conversation. So what kind of inoculants are you using or are you using anything on a regular basis?
Are you doing soil tests to see kind of what your beneficial microbes are? What do you do to
create that balance? I use the Dragonfly Earth Medicine Lush Roots. I've had great success with
that and I know I've turned a couple people on to it. I know Corey, I don't know if you can hear,
but I know he's used it with some success. I'm very excited to sort of listen and learn and
understand what's going on from a science aspect. But I have used that in the past. I've had friends
that use microbial mass and have had great success. So I definitely know as a grower that
we can see a response from inoculating our root zones. And typically I do it during transplant.
I'll rough up the root ball a little bit and then I'll coat it in that powder. I've experimented
with a couple of others, but not in a setting where I can say I kept track of it and I can say,
yeah, that did better than this one. Sometimes things are a little busy in the garden and
you use what you have around and maybe forget to make a note of who you used what on.
But yeah, I know I've had great success with the Lush roots from Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
So I'm just going to throw this out because I know a lot of people's minds and what's been on
my mind a whole lot. I love kind of, I'll give you a rundown. I do a little bit of an inert,
I start with an inert medium that's Cocoa Core, Perlite, Vermiculite, very simple base mix,
but I add a lot to it. I add a high amount of variety of different composts that I source from
various locations. I put it all together and I feed in tea and I put in microbes and I bring
them all in. But my question is, and that's this often debate, like, especially when you jump into
like the Jeff Lowenfeld's teaming with microbes area and you jump into these new worlds where
we're talking organic growing and we kind of create the segregation in the cannabis space
where it's like I'm hydroponic or organic and I've never really got that. I've always kind of looked
at the world and gone like, let's take the best of what we have and kind of put them together.
But there's this kind of segregation of, hey, you know, if you put in salts and you're going to kill
the bacteria, like no tomorrow. So my question is, is like if I use a liquid or a bottle or a
ammonium based nitrogen in a low PNPK form, is that going to kill my microbes right off the way?
How can I facilitate them to endure something like a hydroponic environment? Or are they capable of
enduring that environment? And we're kind of looking at it as a little bit more closed
mind of view. Colin, if you could give me a little bit of a peek. Sure. So my short answer is maybe
you might kill microbes. And I did a lot of experimentation, mammoth microbes or microbes
that we found in nature. And we started off and this is kind of my experience with this,
knowing that we were going to have an application that's going to go into high salts. I talked to
too many farmers that told me, hey, we're not going to change our application practice if
your microbial products and stimulants work well in our existing system without us changing a thing,
then it sounds like something very intriguing, but I can't change our management practice to
add this additive. And that was very interesting and it helped actually shape the way I thought
about selecting microbes for agriculture. And the story with mammoth, and again, it was a journey.
We didn't know exactly what we were going, what to expect, but we started off with over 10,000
microbial isolates that we selected from nature. We had all these soil samples that we collected
from everywhere. That's kind of my expertise, can grow microbes, can nurture microbes, can get
them in an environment. But what we wanted to do was not baby them. And that's where I think a lot
of the agriculture industry in general, in these R&D efforts, start to go sideways. They don't think
about real world application. They really nurture individual species and maybe keep them in a lab
setting. And my idea was, man, if they die, they should die because if they're going to die in the
lab, they're definitely going to die in the field. And we created a selection gradient platform,
which is actually a functional trait selection platform where I could grow up microbes, 10,000
of them, a really rich community that were from nature, but then populate them or grow them as a
community together in an environment which mimicked the high salt environment that you were mentioning,
where it's environment selects straight up in all biological systems. The environment selects,
and this is an environment, a micro environment, but an environment that microbes are going to
be exposed to in agriculture. So we want to make sure that we select the microbes that can persist
in this environment. And that's what this trait selection platform was designed for.
And we'd actually patent this also. So it's pretty cool. It's public and you can read more about it.
But we grew all these microbes up in a high salt, high ion concentration, high osmotic pressure
environment. And we just wanted them to grow. And we wanted the ones that wouldn't grow to go away.
And over time, what we hypothesized that we could populate these microbes generation after generation,
which we could grow them up in this pretty rich media over a couple of days, but weed out the
microbes that wouldn't persist in this type of harsh or precision agriculture environment,
harsh or different relative to their native soils. And we were doing a functional trait selection for
phosphor cycling on top of this. So we're actually selecting microbes that could cycle
phosphors very well. So there's kind of a two-tone approach in environmental selection
and a functional selection. And that's how we selected the microbes from MFP.
But part of the genius that was kind of an afterthought was this environmental selection,
generation after generation, was so very important. We didn't nurture them. They're at room
temperature. After a couple of days, when they grew to a stationary growth phase, we would
transfer them to another plate and then grow them up and transfer, then grow them up and test them,
take the winter, transfer them, do the same thing. And that went through about 67 generations.
And what we found was in the first generation, we had over 10,000 microbial species, like I said,
after about generation 67, there were four species that could persist all those transfers.
And in that pretty highly selective media, which kind of mimicked the hydroponic system as far as
a nutrient regime, generation after generation. And I think that's fascinating because not all
microbes, to answer your question, in my humble opinion, not all microbes will die in those
environments. But I think it's our job as scientists and as, you know, microbiologists
to find the right microbes from nature that will work well in agriculture systems. And that was
kind of my big aha moment going through that journey with Mammoth Pea. And that's all I think
about now is the environment and the compatibility from the environment, the microbe seeds. And so,
you know, we were talking about Dragon Earth Fly Medicine, the Lush Roots. I haven't used it,
but it looks like an awesome product. I just pulled it up. Has four different Glomus,
our best-known mycorrhizal species, has a bunch of Bacillus species, a lot of typical ones that
you see in a lot of products, and then some Trichoderma species, all of these, all of these
different microbial groups, they have a mechanism for environmental resilience, which is
sporulation. The fungi in the Glomus or the fungi in the Trichoderma or the Bacillus,
they actually create endospores, which they can persist in environmentally stressful environments.
And when the conditions are right, they vegetate and start functioning. So they're kind of in a
dormant state, but then they vegetate, and they'll vegetate once there's a water and a food source.
And if you can apply this product, for example, exactly how it's supposed to be applied
in the root zone, their plant roots will grow out. They'll nurture a microclimate that will
support these microbes. They'll actually feed these microbes because plants exude carbon from
the air, not only to put on biomass, but they have evolved to exude simple carbons, it's called plant
exudate, into the soil to support a microbial community. That alone creates a microbe habitat
that can support a lot of life, and that would support some agriculture inputs, especially once
that's established. I don't want to ramble on this, but what I would say is I think it depends,
and I think there's a lot of microbes, depending on their physiology or the selection criteria,
that work very well in agriculture, but there's a lot, obviously, through our studies that
don't do that well as well. Colin, I was absolutely loving the deep dive, so don't feel like
you're rambling. This is what it's about, talking with the, getting the dank conversation going,
and talking about these amazing things. And I just wanted to help to paint a picture. Now, Drew,
with your experience in biological practices in the lab, can you talk to me a little bit,
because I just like, for some of the people that aren't familiar with it, I understand that
usually when you're growing bacteria or fungi, you would use an agar type of solution and a petri
dish. So, I mean, I don't know if I'm close to right, I'm just guessing, but Drew, could you
maybe talk about a little bit how you might populate or pull these spores and create and
like isolate them in this way? Like, how would you isolate a spore? To be honest, I'm probably
not the person to talk to about that. With growing up mycorrhiza, instead of doing like a spore
isolation and propagation, we would actually get spores sent to us in a culture material
straight from the University of Virginia over in Richmond. And we would do more of like a
soil dilution to actually, and as Colin mentioned before about, you know, the timing of, the timing
and how you do actually apply, you know, the dry material, we kind of did the same kind of idea
with our first transplant of our plants. We would just set them in a soil with that specific soil
dilution to get an idea of how many spores per gram of culture material we were actually
adding to our plants. But outside of that, someone else may be a better candidate
to actually talk about the isolation of all these different types of microbes.
I'd love to give you an opportunity, Tess, would you like to? I know Colin is, I wanted to give
him a little bit of a break of the chat. Would you be able to jump in? Yeah, sure. So, you know,
with different microbes, thank you for that, Drew. And actually, that's really cool. I'd
love to talk to you more about how you culture these different, I'm definitely more of a
bacteriologist. I'm always super excited to learn more about fungi. So, I'd love to learn more about
that. But as far as like culturing different types of microbes, you really culture them based on what
they eat. So, as Drew mentioned, and I think London, you talked about this a little bit,
you can do liquid culture broths, you can make auger broths or auger plates, I should say,
and that's more solid. It's like the jello version. So, then you can kind of grow microbes on the
surface of that. And then you can kind of observe certain things about them, like their morphologies,
what they look like, are they fuzzy, do they have frilly edges, are they glossy,
what colors are they, you can do a lot more on those, on those auger based plates. And then you
can also count them. And so by growing them on different types of selective media, so kind of
parsing them out by what they like to eat, and the conditions that they like to grow, so the
temperature, the amount of CO2 that's present, and amount of oxygen that's present, you can really
kind of parse out major groups of organisms. And then you can kind of parse them out a little bit
more by those morphological characteristics. So that's typically how different microbes,
like the old school way, it's the non-molecular way, it's the culture based,
how can you grow and kind of identify and count microbes.
That's awesome. I mean, because it's, we talk about these things, but we never really get the
full explanation on how it was, how it comes about. So I really love that response. So I'd
also like to, you know, ask Colin, if you could talk about a few of your favorite microbes and
their role in the microbiome, like what's each microbes function and get a little bit in depth
with. Thanks. Yeah. Overall, I think the, let me just, I just want to say the culture-based
methodology, obviously is the only way we really have as applied scientists to work with microbes
that we're creating products, we're trying to implement for agriculture, the molecular techniques
are great too, to get more of a deep dive on what you're actually working with. And it's a ton of
work to do the culture-based methods. I've done a lot of bacteria isolation. I've also done a bunch
of fungal isolation work. I'd say it's when I kind of make a point on the arbuscular mycorrhizae,
it's very tricky to work in, and to culture and to mass produce arbuscular mycorrhizae
because of the nature of their symbiotic relationship with plants. That's really where
they grow and they create spores. And so in many cases, and in the major manufacturing,
call manufacturing labs, I guess, or facilities for mycorrhizae for agriculture,
they use plant symbionts. And so like almost a greenhouse setting where you're harvesting the
mycorrhizae from the roots as they're actively growing plants. And so it's very laborious,
a very different game than collecting soil samples and then doing cereal dilutions, like Tess was
saying, and maybe doing some street plating where you can look at the morphological differences and
pick those off and isolate those until you get a homogenous or a plate that looks like it has
all the same characteristics. And then you start working with those as an isolation technique. And
you know, again, that's laborious and there's multiple steps involved in isolating the microbes.
What I would say is I don't really have a favorite microbe. I do like
Aspergillus niger because I used to collect a lot of those when I was in doing a lot of desert
micro soil microbiology and environmental studies and did a lot with climate change. And again,
plant microbe interactions, looking at different microbial groups associated with different
invasive species and different types of plants and different photosynthetic pathways, all this
crazy stuff that we used to do, tons of fun. I would isolate a lot of soil fungi, saprophytic
fungi, which are free living fungi that do most of the decomposition in all soils and forests.
And of course, also in desert systems. And you can do that through a sieving technique where you can
actually extract organic matter from the soil and then sieve that through a particular particulate
size and then just plate those organic matter particulates. And they're very small. Again, onto
an auger plate that Tess was talking about. And from there, you start growing the fungi. And then
you can isolate that by taking little plugs or even a little straw and you stab it right in the
center of that hyphal mass. It looks almost like a bread mold mass, but it's growing on a round auger
plate and then transplanting that into clean auger plates and doing all that work. It is a ton of work.
A lot of the microscopy work that I did was on a fungal diversity study in Big Bend National Park.
And, you know, it's really hard to identify those in many cases using the culture-based methods
in the ID books. And you look at the spores and the hyphae and the septate. So all these
morphological characteristics, again, that Tess was talking about for the bacteria,
same for fungi. And it's just kind of a lot of book work in microscopy.
I think I'm more interested, though, in microbial functional groups and in communities.
And I'm fascinated by this because I noticed, especially when we started this company and
kind of ramping up to thinking about being an applied scientist, or maybe, you know,
then ultimately co-founder of Mammoth here, that I saw a lot of products early on,
especially in agriculture, that was a single species. And I always thought about soil and
microbial ecology in terms of the community effect or the consortia effect. And that's where I thought
there was another real gap in the way biostimulants were being applied in agriculture.
Because there's not one case ever that I saw ever in nature where there was just one microbe there
doing something. And the truth is, they were all microbes typically work together in a community
or consortia, which is a multi-species assemblage to perform work. And so that's what
I wanted to accomplish as applied scientists. And for, you know, just kind of bridging our science
into an applied approach is creating a group effect or a community consortia, microbial
consortia to perform work. So I'm really fascinated with the community consortia effect. I'm also
fascinated with the different functional groups, mycorrhizae in particular, herbuscular mycorrhizae.
I love it for its simplicity. It performs a very specific function and it's very easy to understand.
And it's very easy to acquire and apply. And I just love the simplicity with that. The bacillus,
again, there's a whole group of bacillus that are used in many products and they're used because
they do stuff regularly. So they're reliable and they're also not only reliable from a functional
or an effectiveness point of view, they're very reliable from an efficacious point of view.
So I think of these two words, effective and efficacious, being kind of the holy grail of
what you have to have. If you're going to have success with microbial inoculants or biostimulants,
effective, it has to do something for your plant and it has to do that repeatedly,
predictably, and otherwise we wouldn't want to use it. And efficacious is everything else.
Does it apply? Does it store? How does it mix? All these challenges and idiosyncrasies that typically
science fails to acknowledge. It's everything else that me or you or a farmer would need to know to
be successful with the product. Bacillus is a great example. They sporulate. We dry, we can
purchase endospores, which is the dry dormant stage for all Bacillus genus. And there's always
Bacillus subtilis is an example, Bacillus megaterium, a lot of them. And they're all in a
dry form so they can be added with a dry carrier and they can last for years and years. And so you
can easily formulate them for the needs of your farm and you can store them for a long period of
time and you can apply them really easily. Also, the dry formula is for sure a scoop and transplant.
Some of the dry formulas don't really work really well in a irrigation system. So that's the
limitations of that formula with that particular microbial group. The other products that I think
or functions that I think are interesting that I'm kind of spend a lot of time thinking about
and the examples mammoth pea, you know, thinking about a microbial consortia that can actually
facilitate, engage and facilitate a particular nutrient or nutrition need, maximizing nutrient
use efficiency for a plant for the macro and micronutrients that your plant might need across
the growing season. You know, we've been working on a mammoth N for years, a mammoth K or a mammoth,
you know, whatever it is, having microbial formulas that accommodate your plants.
General nutrition needs. And I don't think microbes again, replace your plants,
nutritional needs. I think they can enhance uptake and your plants ability to maximize
the efficiency, meaning everything that you add into your substrate for nutrition,
your plant should take up. And I think that's where microbes role is in the soil
is to maximize your plants ability to have everything that you're feeding it available
and stimulating that plant's ability to take it all up. That's the real sweet spot for,
at least that's how I think about it. I mean, that was awesome. Do any of our esteemed experts
have any questions or follow ups that they would like to jump in with that? I mean,
there's definitely a lot of knowledge dropped there. If you want to splash in Mike, go ahead
and I'll let you speak your word. If not, I kind of had a fun direction to go in. Drew,
we talked last week a little bit about desmonic acid. Now we know that in a plant desmonic acid
is help is used in the production of terpenes. Could you describe that function a little bit
better than I can at this point in time, if you don't mind?
Sure. Yeah. So for anyone who doesn't know, desmonic acid is one of the well-known plant
hormones. And a lot of its functions that we know to date are to respond to any type of stimulus,
such as touching, cutting, or any kind of mechanical damage. And this also can be
stimulated by necrotic or necrosis. So any type of fungal or bacterial infection
that actually starts eating away and decomposing the plant tissue right there
is largely initiated jasmonic acid response. And this can spread to other parts of the plants,
which can actually start building up different kinds of defensive compounds to better deal with
any kind of invader for the most part. But there's a plethora of other responses that can come out of
this too. So my question would be, and maybe Colin, if you could, are there interactions of
microbes in plants that we have noted that might increase the secretion or development of desmonic
acid to maybe increase terpene levels? You know, I wouldn't know offhand. I wouldn't
have a microbe on top of mind that says, yeah, I know a microbe does that. But what I do know is
there's microbes that interact with plants in nature and everywhere else. And plants and microbes
also often produce plant hormone analogs, which is chemistry that looks so similar to a plant
hormone to the plant that it will act and function the same way as a plant hormone would.
And so there are some of those interactions that happen in nature. It's just
basically chemical signaling. Plants create hormones to stimulate growth for a lot of
different functionality. And there's cases where that absolutely could happen. I'll give you an
example. And thanks for that overview on jasmonic acid. I know that it's in some products in the
industry and it's not necessarily labeled. So it's fascinating for me to kind of hear,
get a deeper dive on some of those ingredients. And hormones are really well, in general,
hormones are really well understood as chemistry that's pretty consistent to do certain things.
There's auxins, gibberellins, and all these things. And they're well known to have a consistent,
they check the effectiveness box. They do things continually that stimulate regular responses to
plants and you could typically formulate them. So there's a lot of efficacious benefits that also,
I was looking at some microbes and we were looking at the potential of the microbes,
and this is a side deal. I don't, like we don't do this. This is kind of our R&D side,
but I'll share it with you where we were looking at different natural root stimulating
options from a microbial perspective. We thought it'd be cool maybe one day to do that.
And it's the same kind of process that we use. We're trying to bring in natural microbes.
And there are some products out there and they're hormone based products, but they're not active
microbial products. What we noticed is we found some different microbial groups that absolutely
positively will stimulate with the right inputs or plant exudate. They'll stimulate or produce
analogs, plant hormones that will stimulate root growth. I thought that was super cool. I kind of
haven't put it all together in my head yet, but there's microbes that do this for almost all
different plant produced hormones. I don't know how much of the jasmonic acid, I think they're
also produced synthetically. So I'm not quite sure how many of these hormone products or
ingredients in industry in general, just in agriculture are extracted or produced from
natural sources or are actually synthetically produced. I'm just ignorant to it. I'm not sure
what that ratio is. My guess is it's pretty high on the synthetic rate on the synthetic side,
because it's just easier to mass produce. I think that's why some people have problems or
regulators have problems with hormone products and it requires more rigorous registration
for product registrations. But so yeah, I think a long answer short once again for me,
the potential is absolutely positively there. I haven't looked at it and I haven't really heard
of that before, but for sure, something out there can do that. I would guess.
This is what I love about Clubhouse is that it can create these kind of point and interjections
of conversation that can create a whole new line and train of thought. You get people together that
wouldn't normally be and that could actually synergize and create these new functions and
modes and ideas, which is really awesome. I wanted to jump over to Ashley. It's been a little
bit quiet, so I'm going to bug you a little bit. What type of microbes do you use in your facility?
Now, Ashley, for those that don't know, her facility is an aeroponic system, so it's very,
very different and we're talking about microbes here. I find this increasingly interesting. If
you could tell me a little bit about that, Ashley, and then I'm probably going to bug test and ask
microbes function in that environment, but if you don't mind getting started with that.
Yeah, no problem. We inoculate when we transplant from our cloner to our flower rooms.
I was really curious. We use a handful of trichoderma and bacillus powders in that
inoculation. I was really curious how effective those were all the way at the end of our
cycle, which is about 63 days. The one application I sent in, I got it plated,
and just that one application, that agar plate was covered in trichoderma. It was actually pretty
cool. That was the only time that we applied it and nine weeks later, it was still coating all
of those roots. We use a couple different powdered formulas, but inoculate them once
and they hold on that entire cycle. It was pretty cool to see that plated.
We have that one application and it holds strong the whole time.
Awesome. Now, Tess, how does exactly that function work? There's no regular medium.
We're talking about growing in air. My understanding is bacteria and air,
they aren't super great friends. Can you talk a little bit about that? It's definitely something
new.
I'll preface this by saying I'm definitely not a botanist. My environmental microbiology
is that knowledge is always growing. My expertise is a lot more in quality and human health, but
I do know a little bit about the environment that goes on in these types of systems. With Ashley's
system, because she has a slightly different way of doing things, there still are some common
denominators there. There's going to be nutrients that are going to be broken down and exchanged
between the plant and the different types of bacteria or different types of fungal species
that are there. That exchange is going to, depending on the type of environment, like for
legumes, there's specialized structures that actually form. Those are very highly developed
and those interactions between the bacteria that form those little nodes where different nitrogen
fixing is going on, they have to communicate a lot with that plant to tell it to turn on and
off certain genes and to really build that structure for them. For cannabis, those interactions are not
quite as highly specialized, but there's still a lot of interactions going on there. Signaling,
okay, I'm going to feed you this, now you feed me that, a lot of that is going on no matter what
the nutrients or the environment or whatever is going on. That is something I think Colin could
probably speak to a lot more since he dives into all these cool microbes that are building these
ecosystems. Is there any hand that off to me, you want me to say something about this?
So I have an opinion about trichodermin in general. I'm not surprised at all that I heard
that finding. Trichodermas are super aggressive, fast growing, very dominant and somewhat competitive
fungi. It's one of the saprods, free living fungi, and it will do a lot. It functions to
decompose and to cycle nutrients very well. It's kind of a well-rounded, it'll cycle a lot of
carbon, but it'll also cycle nitrogen and it creates these enzymes. Fungi and bacteria produce
enzymes. Enzymes aren't a living thing, they're a protein or a functional structure that
we use them inside our body, but microbes actually exude them. They're called exoenzymes
into the environment and they do specific functions. Typically what they do is they break
down large chains of molecules into small chains, creating available nutrients for them and then
plants also to take up. So the trichoderma are prolific enzyme producers. They're prolific
growers and they'll out-compete a lot of things. I want to be clear when I say out-compete,
and it's not like microbes duke it out, but they do compete for resources and they do compete for
space. Success, when you talk about competition from a microbial scale, it's a probability game.
For example, if there's 10 of me on my team and one of someone else on the team or against,
there's a 10 to 1 probability that we can out-compete that person just by whatever that is.
That's maybe a weird example, but that's the right example. If a microbe or an organism is taking up
more space, just like ecological niche theory, once that space is occupied in nature, and this
goes through a lot of different organism examples, it's very hard to displace the biology and the
microbes in this case from that space. How trichoderma compete very well is they grow very
fast, just like we heard, and they'll occupy all these spaces. They love growing across the root
zone because of the exudate. Those plants are actually shooting out simple sugars as they do
through the roots. That's what they've evolved to do to support below-ground microbial growth.
That sugar is food and it's yummy. That trichoderma has occupied all the spaces,
all those food sources, in a really competitive way. It does one thing, and I can't quantify this,
but what you can think of also is it being a very dominant microbe. It might limit diversity
of other species that grow slower or aren't as mobile, meaning aren't able to expand
across spatial areas quickly. Once the trichoderma is there, it's there. It functions,
and the plants will love it because it does a lot of great things, but it doesn't play great
with other microbes because of that purpose of how aggressive it is. I'm not saying that's a good
or a bad thing. I think that's just a reality with trichoderma. We find a lot of products that have
trichoderma. I end up looking at products. I don't really—I just look at the ingredients and I'm like,
okay, I know what that is and what it does. I just look at it from a microbial point of view.
If it has trichoderma, I know in a lot of cases that trichoderma is one of the very active
ingredients because that biology is a very active fungi that will grow very quickly. Again, if the
plants are feeding it carbon, the other missing macros and the same macros that plants need are
what microbes need, the nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium. We're feeding that because we're
feeding the plant. There's that perfect combination. Fungi don't photosynthesize.
They take up carbon like all the nutrients through their cells, through their membranes,
and they soak it in. The plants are feeding them that. They're either cycling the rest of
those nutrients, macro and micronutrients, from the soil or the substrate or we're feeding them.
That's the dynamic that trichoderma play in cultivation. Saying that, they're pretty
bomb-proof too. They will prolifically sporulate. You want to keep them below ground where they'll
do a great job creating a lot of spores. Again, I'm very hesitant about above-ground microbes
from a cultivation practice point of view because of the testing we talked about earlier.
If we're applying microbes to above-ground parts of the plant, then we're actually engineering a
bacterial count or a CFU count on the above-ground parts of that plant. We could be
challenged with testing if we're in a cultivation facility that requires testing.
Keeping it below ground, we're really safe. I think that's a place to use
all the products, all the microbial products. Again, trichoderma, definitely keep it below
ground. One of the things, I'll leave it at this, with all the saprobes, the fungi,
the arbuscular mycorrhizae, not as much, but all the saprobes, the free-living fungi,
trichoderma being one of them, just like all the molds and mildews, even if you see mold
on your cheese or anything, we don't really see the early stages of that fungal growth.
When you see cheese mold or bread, what you see is the spores because those are when the
fungi actually starts putting on color. Those spores, they air disperse very easily. They can
actually contaminate via air because that's how they get distributed without much air motion at
all. It's very tricky when you're working with high concentrations of fungi that do like to
sporulate and they're growing above ground at all because if they do sporulate, that could
increase the spore counts in the air. That would be one caution when you're working with a lot of
different fungal populations. Awesome response. I'm going to jump to one of our experts here,
Josh. I wanted to know, actually, I wanted to hold up on that because you broke open something
a little bit. It was that air travel of fungus and microbes. I've always had this thought and
theory in my head and question when it came to, I couldn't think of a better opportunity to ask it.
One thing I know, I'm a chef by trade and I personally love fungi because there's a very
large portion of them are very edible and they're delicious. I've gone through a few holes of digging
and mushroom hunting books and looking at all these different things. Of course, you follow
and you find that there are breeds and specific fungi that develop and grow all over the world.
Most of them are actually, though there is some regionality, there are tracks of very European
mushrooms and funguses growing on the eastern coast of Canada. I read an article about which
is fingers or the cauldron one. It's this beautiful cauldron that shows up. It's very,
very uncommon. It's usually seen in Europe and it was found here in Canada. In Korean natural
farming, there is this thing called IMO, indigenous microorganisms. I've always thought
it might be a little bit puzzling while your local area might have a lot of bacteria in it.
I feel like because of the natural way that they spread and just the way that the world is,
I feel like everywhere there's fungus. You're not really going to have an individual and indigenous
microorganism. That might be a little bit national wide. How easily do these fungis
spread? Am I absolutely off track here or am I relative? Maybe do either test or comment. I don't
know which one of you guys would like to comment. Oh man. Oh, Colin, I see you unmuted. No.
I'm just going to say one thing that I want you to stay on. I'll just say I don't think you're
off track. I think that there's something, this term ubiquity, which means everything is everywhere.
That's not true from a macro biology point of view because we know the environment selects and you
see biodiversity from a plant gradient, start at the equator at its highest and then it dwindles
as we go out to the poles because the environment's much more selective. Only certain
plant groups can live under those extreme cold conditions where when it's optimal at the equator,
you get a lot of different things because of the moisture and temperature that can grow very well.
There's a lot of plant competition and a ton of biodiversity. Microorganisms, it's a little
different because the dispersal can be much higher. You still run into some of that though,
the environment selects. Although bacteria and fungi, they're so light that they can transport
via air or via air dust particles and it just happens. If you think, I grew up in West Texas,
and so you'd see these huge dust plumes come from the fallow fields and just go across the
landscape through these windstorms. Of course, it's picking up the soil because that's what's
hitting you in the face and it's picking up all the soil organisms that are attached or
associated with that soil and so it's distributing them. That happens around the world and that's
just the way these microbes are dispersed. I would say that there's some dominant
effects based on the environment. Some microbes or some areas will nurture some species or some
genus or some family of microbial groups more so than others because of a characteristic.
One of the main characteristics that affects microbial diversity in soils, the major one,
is pH. As pH gradients shift, which they do across different soil types, across different
geographic regions, it will also show huge shifts in microbial diversity at the community level.
So there's other factors that influence the indigenous species besides just what's there.
If you do a molecular test of any one soil, I think you find almost, I wouldn't say almost
anything, but you'll find a lot of overlap. But that overlap, as far as an occurrence or
a dominant type of species or microbial group, is a very different question.
You'll find occurrences, but some things just do a lot better. In some cases, they do a lot better
because they like that environment. They like that soil chemistry condition, the pH, the temperature,
there's texture, there's hydration. All these factors influence the success of different
microbial groups and they all have different thresholds of what they like, what they love,
what they can tolerate, what they just can't tolerate. Some of it's just what was there first
and what is established. And some of these also, I've looked at rhizosphere-specific
microbial associations or assemblages where we found in some plant groups
that do certain things, they nurture a certain microbial community that's a little different
than in other plant groups. So there's so many things, but I'll just leave it at this.
There is overlap. It's not a discrete answer, but there might be some groups, and I've seen this
because I've done a lot of this work, where some areas will favor a certain assemblage
where the assemblage, although it has some of the same players or maybe all the same players,
their relative proportions might look different. All right, Tess, do you want to add anything?
Yeah, yeah. You brought up cheese and the different types of cheeses and how they have
different flavor profiles as a result of the metabolites they produce when breaking down
different components of the cheese and how it brings that terroir, which I only recently
learned how to correctly pronounce that word. And there's some really interesting research on this
from the Dunlap in North Carolina, and they've done some really cool stuff on sequencing sourdough
microbes and looking across the entire world at people's sourdough recipes and kind of something
that speaks to what Colin mentioned earlier, where he did these kind of generational
experiments. In generation one, they started with 1,000 different species, and by generation 70,
you know, four different species. That's kind of what they saw in a lot of that work with the
sourdough bread, is that there was like a core group of species that were typically present in
every sample, but then some of the different microorganisms that were unique to a specific
region might bring a certain sour flavor or a certain kind of yeasty flavor that wasn't
present in other regions, and so that kind of brought that local flavor to it. And so I kind
of would echo some of what Colin had said previously, where, you know, there's going to be
some common denominators there, and then there's going to be sort of some unique outliers that
really depend on other circumstances and how all of those species are interacting with each other
to maybe open up a niche for a different microbe. And we see a little bit of that in
cannabis facilities when we are, like, you know, setting out looking at air quality or looking at
raw materials. We do see some common denominators there as well, but then there are some outliers,
and those can actually be really problematic, depending on what's going on. So yeah, it's
really cool. Microbes are everywhere doing everything all the time is what I say, and it's
100% true, but there are some unique environments that will favor kind of some special microbes.
So I've got this nasty red bar on the bottom of my screen that says poor connection. Am I
coming through? Awesome. So I just wanted to check. I just wanted to check before I continued to speak,
but I wanted to kind of ask, well, I've got you, Tess, as well, and you were speaking a little bit
about kind of the interaction of people and bacteria and kind of the health on a health
aspect. So one of the things that I've recently read up on, and you know, we practice and, you
know, I hate saying, you know, because it drives me nuts, because everybody's here to learn about
our beautiful conversation, and they don't know. So that's why they're here listening. So I have
this bad habit of saying it. I'm trying my best. But one thing that I've noticed and that we do is
like dipping plants in AACT, like active aerated compost tea, AACT, active aerated compost tea,
and drop, like dipping the whole plant in it. And that means we're creating like this whole bacterial
biome on the entire plant, like leaf surface and everything. And naturally, these bacterias will
grow and stuff like that. I'm wondering, what is the health and safety risk, or is there health and
safety risk of these beneficial bacteria being on the plant post production and being combusted?
I know that there's a potential for mitocrops in there. I was wondering if you could touch
and get a little bit deeper. Yeah, yeah. So, you know, there is some evidence kind of carrying over
from the tobacco industry, which is also very secretive and very hard to get a hold of any
data in that industry, where, you know, just because combustion or vaporization happens doesn't
mean you actually kill all those microbes. A lot of them actually can become aerosolized
and remain viable. And so that is one thing to consider is how many living microbes off that
plant do you want to like directly consume via inhalation? And then there's all sorts of other
toxins besides mycotoxins that both fungi and bacteria can produce. So there are, you know,
endotoxin is a bacterial, it's called LPS or lipopolysaccharide. And it's very immunogenic.
It's produced by every gram negative bacteria. And that has been linked in, you know, in
agricultural industry, especially with like dust and particulates and animal husbandry.
The inhalation of that has been intimately linked with COPD. And that's something that, you know,
you're finding on cannabis and these high bio burden products. So I think that what's important
is to really understand if you are dipping in or using these compost teas, you know, what's in them
and, you know, what does it survive to final product. So a lot of these microbes will end up
kind of dying during the dry cure process, especially the bacteria. They're kind of the
first to go. But some of them can remain pretty dormant and happy depending on where they are in
the plant. If they're inside the plant, theoretically, they can survive a little bit
longer because the moisture is there a little bit longer and they can remain viable, which means you
can grind up that cannabis plant and plate it on all those different types of selective media that
I was talking about earlier and look to see if they're still alive. And sometimes they are.
And so just understanding how those microbes, you know, are there any potential human pathogens in
there that are known to cause disease either directly through being alive and growing inside
you or indirectly through the different types of toxins that they produce? And does that carry over
through the dry cure process onto your final product so that you're not accidentally introducing
that into, you know, a very vulnerable patient like a cancer patient? And just being really
cognizant of that. Sorry, did I cut you off there Tessa? My mic got a little... Oh, not at all.
Not at all. Awesome. Well, while we're at it, I'll give you a little break before I come back to you.
Josh, now as an experienced grower, that is a lot of time, trial and practice. What are your kind of,
you know, microbiome practices? Like what do you do to create a healthy environment in your system
for bacteria? And also what bacteria do you use in your home?
Hey, thanks. At home I have a mix of kind of a living soil with some KNF inputs as well. I started with
a base of, there's a mix of some stepwell soil and then a friend of mine had had some living
soil going for a little while and had a couple pots that he wasn't using anymore. So I'd mix that in
as well. So I mean, there was whatever microbial life was kind of in there to begin with.
And then also, you know, anytime I transplant, you know, I knew cutting into that, into those pots,
I, you know, inoculate the soil, like the hole where I'm putting it with dynamical, so it's a
micro product. When I'm taking clones, I also mix that micro with the rooting powder and use that
for cloning so that the my cries are, you know, they're right from the start. I also use, you know,
EM in the soil with a bit of molasses. And I've also used, you know, other microbial products like
microbial mass. I'm excited to try a new product from a friend of mine, Canadian
Shield Nutrient, it's a backer. There's a couple of bacilli species that they have in a root rage
that, you know, give that a try as well. But yeah, so I just try and ensure that the soil has,
you know, everything that it needs to stay happy. I water with humic acid and add some amino acids
as well. So there's a lot of food there for the microbes and aminos for the plants and, you know,
microbes as well that use that. There's a lot of worms in the soil as well. I've used,
you know, the avocado tech. I've also used something a lot of people don't hear about,
cracking an egg onto the soil and covering that up. The worms will eat that. And there's a chemical
in the egg that makes the worms reproduce. So you'll get a really nice large population of
worms pretty quickly. But it's kind of something that you really only do once if you're,
you know, maintaining a good soil life. You're not really going to want to have, you know,
that, you know, some worms is good, but too much of anything, you know, becomes a problem. So at
the moment, things are happy and yeah, that's kind of what I do. Thanks. Awesome and really
great response. I got a good fungi question coming up for Colin here. But first I want to ask,
because I asked Colin this earlier and now it's your turn for the awesome question.
And the question is, what are your favorite microbes and what are their functions for plants
or their functions in biomass? Oh, good question. It's dinner time here, so I'm a little hungry. So
I'm going to go more towards the food route. And I'd have to say, you know, I love some lactobacilli.
They're a larger group of bacteria that can tolerate really acidic environments.
And they're lactic acid producing bacteria. So they do, they're living all the time on plants,
but after that plant, you know, is harvested and like cabbage, for example, when that
that cabbage is harvested and if it's put in with a high brine environment, so a high salt
environment, most things can't live in that. But this lactobacillus can and it makes a lot
of lactic acid. So it's like actively, you know, basically pickling your cabbage and turning it
into sauerkraut. And so there's all sorts of lactobacilli species that are important for all
sorts of different types of mostly vegetable fermentation. And they make all sorts of
deliciousness. And so I'm going to go, I'm going to go with the lactobacilli.
That is a really awesome response. Now before I'm going to throw a great question over to you,
Colin. Now we've gone for about an hour and 17 minutes at this point in time. And we like to
kind of, you know, not take too much of our expert time and cut it off at about an hour and a half.
Now that being said, we like to keep the room open for a little bit of deep conversation.
So if you'd like to stick around a little bit longer and chat and come up on stage and have
a conversation with some of our experts, you're welcome to do so. But we always like to have that
deep conversation. I'd also like to offer the opportunity to anybody in the audience to come
up and ask a question for our experts while we have this opportune point in time. Please allow
me to call on you at that. But before I pull anybody up from the audience to ask questions
to our experts or comments, I'd like to ask you Colin. Now I've always had this kind of weird,
wacky idea. My goal has been to like grow mushrooms out of my cannabis pots. You know,
like I grow in three gallon pots. I start with inert, like I throw a ton of life at it. I do
cover crop. I also do hay. And the idea is to like this create the most diversity possible.
And now I've managed to get like inkeys and what's it called? Not inkeys, but like
shaggy vetch or shaggy something. Sorry, I'm spaced a little bit, but I've managed to have
some mushrooms grow on skin. Now I was wondering is, you know, are there edible funguses? Because
fungus are the microbes that are we're using as beneficial that are edibles as well. Like,
can I, can I, you know, spore late an edible fungus and use that in my medium to kind of,
you know, grow mushrooms that I can eat at the same time as my cannabis. Is this a possibility?
So if I remember you're using a cocoa kind of an inert substrate, and my guess is it'd be pretty
tough to grow edible mushroom on that type of substrate, just because there's not enough of
a food source, everything at the, in its simplest approach, everything needs to eat.
And if you don't eat, you don't live, or you don't actually grow healthy at least. And,
and if you've grown, I've grown mushrooms, mostly in labs or for fun. And you get these mushroom
blocks, you can find mushroom blocks at a lot of grow shops now for growing lots of different
kinds of mushrooms, but it's a dense substrate that's actually inoculated with spores. You just
add moisture is what it comes down to. Or you inoculate sports in some cases these days,
depending on what kind of spores you need, but then you just need a moisture source and it just
creates a substrate. If you had the answer is you could, but you'd have to make sure you had the
right mushroom food in your substrate as well. And a cocoa is probably not going to do it. A cocoa is
just mostly a root anchoring substrate and you're feeding everything else, the nutrition into that
inert substrate. So you'd really want to get some density. If you look at mushroom farms and you
look at how well they prepare their substrate to grow mushrooms, it's intensive. It's simple enough,
but it's pretty intensive. And so you'd want to recreate or have to recreate, I think that,
that food source in your potted media or in the ground to be successfully growing
many different kinds of mushrooms, especially a lot of the edible kinds. If you think about
the typicals that you grow for culinary. Does that sound right? What do you think about that, Tess?
Sounds good to me.
Like, is there, is there like, I've also wondered this, like your base, your, your common mycorrhizae,
what's the fruiting body look like? You know, like, is it, does it come off as one of those
little kind of hairy kind of your, your basic microbe or is it like, you know, the little...
No, no. So there's, there's several different groups of phylogenesis. This is a pretty
interesting question. We used to do a lot of succession studies and we'd actually do it on
dung. We'd go collect, and I do this in the microbiology classes at the university when I was
teaching the labs or something. We'd go get feed from the dishes and go collect like deer
droppings or rabbit droppings, and you can keep them moist and kind of keep it covered.
And you can go through a succession where you'll actually see different groups of fungi grow from
the zygomycota to the ascomycota to the basidiomycota. And those are secessional fungi
where the zygomycota, it's just a big group or a phylum of fungi are considered the sugar fungi,
and they're the quick growers. They'll quickly grow to consume the very simple food source,
the very simple sugars that it can extract from that particular substrate. The ascomycota are
the next group, and those aren't really the mushroom forming fungi. And they're more
enzymatically capable or more functionally capable to degrade complex substrates and
extract the food from it. And then once you get to that kind of the secessional group of fungi,
or the basidiomycota, and these are the mushroom groups. And what you find, and that's why you
find a lot of mushrooms in these kind of moist, mesic, wooded forests, because there's a lot of
substrate and a lot of material for them to grow. And those basidiomycota are very enzymatically
capable. They create a lot of different forms of carbon degrading enzymes. They'll break out that
wood and that lignin and actually be able to feed off of that and create those big fruiting structures.
And those fruiting structures are actually the reproductive structures. And all the spores are
underneath in the gills, underneath that cap. It might have a fleshy layer, but if you peel that off,
it's just a bunch of slits with spores. I don't know if you've ever done a spore print.
You can take any of the mushrooms from the store, remove that, remove just the film or the
membrane that's covering the inside of the mushroom, and lay it down on a white piece of paper,
and leave it there for half a day. And when you pick it up, you're going to see the imprint.
It looks like an actual imprint of the underside of those of those mushrooms and their spores.
And that's one of the identifying characteristics of mushrooms is the color of the spore print.
It's a pretty fun exercise to do, and you can get a lot of different colors depending on the kind of
mushroom. Saying that, why that's produced that way is because they're producing because they have to,
they're getting stimulated to reproduce because they've kind of started to run out of a food
source and they want to disperse. And so they'll drop the cells and the cells get carried in the
air underneath the mushrooms and disperse and fall on new food sources, drop trees in the case of the
music forests and start degrading and producing those. So, you know, the other group is,
which I didn't even talk about, and you asked about, the Arbuscular mycorrhizae, which are the
Glomeromycota, which is another completely different group from the groups of the Zyko,
Asco, Basidio, Glomeromycota. And they act very differently than Asco or Basidio mycota.
They don't produce fruiting structures or microscopic almost completely. And there's a
lot of great images if you look at it and you look at how they infect. They have
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. So they have Arbuscules that actually, once they infect,
will expand through the cortical cells. And that's where there's exchange sites of carbon
from the plant for nutrients from the fungi. So it would be a very different look and you can't
really even acknowledge those. We do spore printing when we look at mycorrhizae to look at infection
rates. You can actually stain the roots of the plants that have been infected, but then you have
to wash that stain off and then you use a different technique to stain the fungi. And then you can look
at how well different mycorrhizae are actually infecting and creating these Arbuscular sites
within the infected plant roots. So it's a pretty cool technique, a little laborious,
but it's all mostly kind of a microscopic purview. You wouldn't see anything above ground.
You know, I thought I was like this genius. I'm like, I'm going to go to the store,
go mushroom hunting and make some spore prints and pour that on my medium.
I'm going to save a bunch of money. I guess it doesn't work that way. But I thought, you can try.
Let me know if it works.
Oh, I like I live right in the North. I live in Vancouver, North Vancouver, like right in the
Pacific Northwest. I mean, you I can drive five minutes and be in trails that are named mushroom
because of the volume and variety out there. So I've always kind of wondered, like how I could
create this form of life in a beneficial way in my space. But that's beside the point. I wanted to
ask Michael, welcome to the stage. And do you have any questions or comments to our experts for
today? Yeah, thanks for thanks for inviting me up and having such an interesting room. It's
interesting to hear so many polysyllabic words in a room like this. It's kind of interesting.
So one of the things that I wanted to comment about was that
I think it was Tess was talking about issues with microbial contamination and how,
you know, I guess you guys were talking about, you know, leaf feeding with compost teas and stuff
and how that might affect the end product even after drawing. And from my perspective,
as a as a health care professional, the biggest problem that that I've seen over the years from
studying cannabis and cannabis pharmacology and cannabis physiology is is the the idea that
those people that are immunocompromised are susceptible not to microbial infections like
salmonella or shigella or pseudomonas, but they're susceptible to the spores of, you know,
and mostly it's aspergillus. And there are numerous case reports in the literature
of immunocompromised patients who have succumbed to these rather aggressive
pulmonary infections, aspergillus. You know, they get this big wad of of fungus that's growing in
their lungs because they've inhaled a spore. And for medical patients, I mean, it's a really big
deal. I mean, for a normal, immunocompetent person like I assume most of the people that
are listening to me, you know, you can, you know, inhale these spores and not a whole lot happens.
I mean, because you've got a relatively healthy immune system. I mean, if you think back to HIV,
you know, these, you know, the early days of HIV, these patients were succumbing to
infections that were, you know, organisms that were endogenous to the body, you know. And but
because of their immunocompromised immune system, these, like pneumocystis is the example,
these organisms that live in check in our bodies, that live in a symbiotic relationship because of
our immune system keeping them in check, you know, the HIV devastating the immune system,
you know, they then grew out of proportion and ravaged, you know, the body. And so the
real issue for me from a clinical point of view isn't microbial infection, it's fungal infection
and spores. And to my knowledge, and I think Josh might know this, but I know that when Canada was
looking at their medical program, they were going to incorporate some of what the Dutch were doing.
When I had my own lab, actually brought one of the, and some of you guys may know him, Arno
Heyskamp. He came over and helped us set up our lab back in 2009. And, you know, he would tell us
that what the Dutch do is for their medical cannabis is they put it all in a gamma radiator
and basically, you know, nuke all the DNA, you know, in the medical cannabis. So it renders it
essentially sterile. You know, according to Arno, he, you know, you know, they did, you know,
analytical chem, you know, analytical analysis on the cannabis post gamma radiation. And apparently
you know, it didn't affect the terpene content. It didn't affect the cannabinoid content.
So, so, so basically I just wanted to bring to light the fact that it's the, the spores that
are really problematic clinically and especially in immunocompromised patients. So, you know,
thanks for the invitation, great room and I'm complete. Thank you.
Awesome. Do any of our experts have a response to.
I think that's a whole nother episode.
Agreed.
Awesome. And thank you for hyping on stage and, and joining us, Michael. I do have a question on
the YouTube side and this guy has to be Canadian because he has decided to put his name as Randy
Leahy. So thank you Canadians. We appreciate you very much. How much labs do you feed your plants
and how regularly, and is there any negative to using too much? So labs, lactic acid, I would
probably not decide to, I'll let one of you guys say exactly what it stands for, but like,
is there an overabundance? Like I know in AACT, you can pretty much like just go all you want
and put as much compost tea as you want because it's bacterial friendly and you can't really
overdo it. But labs is, is, is built a little bit differently. I'm wondering Tess, maybe, you know,
is there an overabundance that you can do? Can you overdo it with labs?
And, and, and what would potentially be the cause out?
So I'm probably going to defer to one of the actual cultivators here, because like, as far as
I actually haven't heard of lactic acid bacteria being used in, in the garden, but I know that it's
definitely used in fermentation, but maybe one of the cultivators here has something to say.
Yeah, I'm not familiar. I'm not familiar with using that. So Randy Leahy, if you're still
listening, I have this awesome thing that's happening. I don't believe it's this week. I
think it's the 26th, not this Tuesday coming up, but the following Tuesday, we're actually going
to jump in and do a whole episode on KNF with some amazing, amazing, amazing people. Jason Gideon,
awesome KNF guy. So we're going to talk about that. And I invite you, and I've made a note of
it here, but I invite you to come and join us at that show. And maybe we can come up on stage and
ask that question directly to the audience and come up into Clubhouse here. Now I wanted to
really thank you guys for your time. I'm going to open up the room for people to come up and have a
chat. Thank you, Tess and Colin, for your time. It is greatly appreciated. Do any of our, does any
of the speakers on the panel currently have any questions or closing statements? If so, could you
flash your mic before we do the shout out? Nothing. I think my, our regular speakers
sponged today and learned a ton off of Tess and Colin. I know it's been a very exciting
conversation and we look forward to having more of them. Now Tess, can you, where can people get
a hold of you? What can people learn about you before we shut this down? Like where can we get
a hold of you? Tell us a little bit about what's going on and share a little. Awesome. Yeah, you can find
me at Willow Industries. So I'm Tess at willowindustries.com. I've been, I've been going by
kind of the pseudonym, the Microbe Assassin lately, which I'm pretty cool with actually. So
if you look at like LinkedIn, I'm on LinkedIn. You can find me there. We can chat if you have
any microbial challenges or issues that you want to walk through. You know, right now as my
as the director of science at Willow Industries, I really work a lot with cultivators who are
having microbial compliance challenges. And me and my team kind of walk through their,
their like processes, both on the agricultural side and on the manufacturing side. And we kind of
try to apply best practices in other industries like food, beverage, agriculture, to this industry,
which hasn't quite established its good practices yet, but I think we're getting there and we're
growing a lot. So yeah, if you are curious about learning more about, you know, different microbes
that can be a challenge for you and how to get around those challenges, feel free to reach out
anytime. Awesome. Thank you so much, Tess. Ryan, welcome to the stage. Did you have a question,
comment for our esteemed panel of experts? Yes, and thank you. My name is Ryan and I have a question
for the panel. I'll make it real quick. Will hypochloric acid kill bacteria or microbes?
My name is Ryan. The answer is yes. So acids do a pretty good job. Yeah. Drew, you just unmuted. Do
you have, do you have more to add? I've been talking a lot. I was going to go off that and say
yes, it will kill everything. I think that's unanimous all the way around because I think,
yeah, so then it's more about like dialing in. Is it going to be able to kill microbes if there's
a bunch of organic matter on it? Are you going to be able to, you know, really get the contact
time that you need to get the kill rate that you need? So then you, then you start to, you know,
what's the concentration that you're treating at? And, you know, can you get to that concentration?
Do you need to add anything else to kind of like stabilize that acid and stuff like that? So you
can really go down some rabbit holes with your cleaners. Absolutely. And thank you for addressing
that. I've seen a lot of products that are coming out. I'm not going to name any companies, but
there's a lot of transitioning from salt to organic going on right now. And I see a lot of practices
where I'm seeing microbes and hypochloric acid being used together. So I just wanted to clarify
that. Thank you. Colin, you look like you wanted to. I was just going to kind of key off of what
Tess said. For any kind of disinfection or antiseptic, it's a time and dilution. And so
I was actually doing experimentations at some point just to see what concentrations over time
would kill different microbial communities at a certain concentration. And there's definitely a
strong positive correlation with time and concentration and kill rate. And so thinking
about those things, I think in general, for sure, disinfectants do their job and they kill microbes
and they kill a lot of things. Well, you know, microbial. However, there's a fine line between
the effectiveness and again, that's the exposure time and the concentration that you're using.
So there is a formula there that has a wide range of effectiveness depending on
what you're trying to disinfect. Awesome. Does that answer everything to your heart's desire?
Absolutely. Thank you. Awesome. Well, thank you for coming up on stage and asking the question.
Colin, give us a shout out. What are you working on right now? What do you want people to check
out? Whatever you want them to follow, give us a shout. Okay. Well, you can follow us at
mammothmicrobes.com. Pretty straightforward. I'm on Instagram some. It's just my Colin W. Bell,
if anyone else. Colin W. B-E-L-L at Instagram. Email Colin at grossentia.com or Colin at
mammothmicrobes.com. It's the same thing. We're working on a lot of new products. We have
actually submitted three new patents this year for new microbial solutions. It's finishing the
provisional stage and it's in the rigorous, like the final stage rigorous testing that we do
internally. We do a lot of lab testing, mode of action testing, plant testing, early stage plant
testing, and then repeated trials in our research greenhouses on cannabis here in Fort Collins.
We're excited about the potential of developing some new microbial technologies, which hopefully
we'll get out next year. It's a pretty long process. We're also coming out with some other
things that aren't necessarily microbial. Overall, I think we've settled on we're a plant growing
company. We want to bring value to cultivators. We're coming out with some new stuff. We think
it's overall chemistry, natural chemistry that maximizes plant success in whatever that chemistry
or that product is targeted for. We also think about the right price, the right application
compatibility, all these things. We're actually doing a lot. Our team's
evolved pretty significantly. We have almost 60 people in the company.
Give us a shout out on Instagram or if you want to reach out and learn more about what we do,
feel free to email me or reach out on social media. Lots going on.
Awesome. I will, A, be reaching out because I'll need a couple of things from you.
Don't be waiting on my email, but it will come through. I wanted to thank Tess and Colin again.
I like to throw some stoner introspective here every once in a while because we are
the Dank Hour. One thing, I was recently rereading Jeff Lowenthal's Teeming with Nutrients.
It's a good, easier read. I enjoy it. It's fun to read through. I find new things that I find
exciting every once in a while. One of the things that was talked about is the mitochondria, the
energy houses of the cell. Now, one of the interesting thing about mitochondria is they
actually have their own DNA and that they were more than likely a separate living organism that
had come in contact and essentially become a pair with a living cell. We have these two
segregation, but the mitochondria in every cell, every cell of ours, every plant cell that there
is, and it's all about symbiosis. We were talking about mighty microbes and the symbiosis of
mycorrhizae and bacteria to our cannabis plants. I thought that stoner introspective would be an
enjoyable throw down. Again, I thank each and every one of you for tuning in and checking us
out both here and on Future Cannabis Project. Don't forget to check out the Instagram, follow
the Dank Hour, subscribe wherever it is that you're going to, and check out all of our amazing esteemed
experts here on stage. Again, I thank each and every one of you and have a wonderful evening.
Enjoy your dinner, guys, because I'm hungry now that we've been talking about some cheese.
All right. I think that is over, but can you all hear me? I got to feed the kids right now.
But in...
Jimmy Myers, what's up? Seeds coming tomorrow. Excellent. So at nine o'clock Pacific, that would
be midnight, three hours ahead for the people on the East Coast. We got Hash Tuesdays with a Motley
crew of hash makers. So I don't know if anyone can hear me right now. Bongo time.
So anyway, right here, channel two, nine o'clock Pacific. We'll have a Cheddar Bob sighting,
a Deal Grows, I think Rackums, Bird Extracts, Live Bubble Hash Pedro right here in the LA SoCal area.
Diz Loot, it'll be back up, I believe, tomorrow or more safely the next day.
In the world of payment processors, we got shut down, so we had to move to a new one.
It's taken a little longer than we thought it would, but we should be back up tomorrow.
And then you can keep on buying this guy's beans, who makes the best beans in the world.
And you can keep on buying this guy's beans, who makes amazing hearty lines, vigorous.
I can attest to that. Anyway, if you want to talk hash, we'll be back in
two hours and 15 minutes. All right. See you, everyone.
