different. This is more back row. This is more large and big and definitely kind of
a little bit of the opposite of what we talk about. So definitely very interesting. I'm
looking forward to tonight's conversation. How you doing tonight, Ben?
Quite well, as always.
And as quickly, we're live now.
Fantastic. Thank you very much for the high sign. All right. So, Ben, how you doing tonight?
Quite well. Had a lovely day. Got to spend time with my family, stepfather, Maureen.
And thanks to all of you who serve, have served and will serve. We appreciate you.
Awesome. Good stuff. So now that we are live, welcome, welcome, welcome to Hoat to Herbs
Grow and Tell. We are, this is episode nine. We're almost at that number 10 mark. So coming
up on an actual milestone real soon. So that's very cool. I always love numbers and milestones
and stuff like that. But I appreciate everybody joining us tonight.
Tonight's Grow and Tell is going to be about communication networks. And we almost got
into this last week because it was a little bit, it was almost kind of part and parcel
with some of the conversations we were having last week. But it would have taken us way,
way too far down the rabbit hole. So Nick and I agreed that the communication network
stuff was going to be saved for the following week. And I'm excited to really get into that
tonight. Again, this is Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell. I am Jason Gideon, also known as
Hoat to Herb on Instagram. Tonight we are being broadcast as always in partnership with
my friends in the Future Cannabis Project who are simulcasting us on YouTube on the
FCPO2 channel. And I was actually looking to join the conversation. There we go. I see
it is up now. Great. I want to make sure that I can answer all the questions of what's going
on with our friends on YouTube as well. So I welcome Chris and Okie Grower, Blasted Puffin,
and all the other folks who are going to join. Brian, Jeff, Bill, thanks for joining us on
YouTube. And I appreciate everybody who's joining us here in the room on Clubhouse.
If you like what you hear tonight, make sure you click on the little green house here on
Clubhouse and join the Future Cannabis Project. Make sure you follow the moderators, follow
the other folks in the room with you tonight because they are a bunch of like-minded folks
and probably good folks to follow as well, people to know in the community. From the
YouTube standpoint, make sure you subscribe to Future Cannabis Project and the FCPO2 channel.
Subscribe to both channels because there's awesome content all the time coming out on
those two channels. And I appreciate Peter and all the work he's doing to capture and
record all of these conversations that myself and London down below and a bunch of other
folks are having on a daily basis. It's great that we can all go back and re-listen to the
things that we miss as well. So I'm super excited and appreciated you, Peter, for all
you do. And thank you again for your stuff, man. I appreciate you. So let's get into it.
Let's get into it. I've got Nick, I've got Ben, we've got Peter rolling and we've got
the YouTube crowd going. I'm sure Doc Ray will be joining us shortly. It is around dinner
time. I'm sure Peter's going to be getting into dinner as well, like he normally is doing
during our broadcasts. So tonight, as I mentioned, we're talking about communication networks
and there's different types of communication networks that we want to cover. We definitely
want to talk about the different types of communications that plants and have with other
types of plants. We want to talk about plants to humans because that's one of my favorite
conversations to have. But we also want to highlight human to human communications because
it is Veterans Day and it is important that we help rebuild, strengthen, increase communication
networks with veterans. And especially because we talk a lot in this space about cannabis
and cultivating cannabis. I think it's really important that we help veterans get access
to the plant in any way, shape or form that we can, preferably getting them to grow and
helping them learn how to grow and cultivate their own medicine. I find that the therapeutic
nature of cultivating plants is tremendously beneficial. And so we'll get into some of
those human to plant interactions and human to human interactions. To me, one of my favorite
networks that we all like to talk about all the time, that is an amazing, amazing network,
communication network, especially in the plant to plant world. We can't ignore the mycorrhizal
fungi. And I guess in general, that's really plant to fungi to plant communication because
the fungi are part of that and they're not really plants, they're fungi. They're their
own kingdom. They're their own species. They are the network that are connecting many,
many, many species of plants underneath the ground. And so if you've ever pulled back
some mulch or some leaf pile and saw some spidery white network of stuff growing, that's
mycorrhizal fungi. And mycorrhizal fungi networks can grow for miles. They connect all of the
trees and the plants underground. They are communication networks that not only send
messages, but they also communicate nutrients and water. They can bring water to plants from
miles away. Really, really tremendous how these connective tissue of plants happen
underneath the ground and all the things that are going on all the time. I'm going to stop
though, for just a second and welcome Doc Ray to Herbs Grow and Tell. So I definitely want
to pause here before we really dive in and let Nick go off on his normal little deep dive that
we're going to get into tonight. But I want to thank you, Doc, for joining us. I, as always,
appreciate sharing space with you. And I'm so humbled by your presence tonight. Thank you so
much for joining us.
Hey, Jason, Nick, Peter, Ben, everybody. Good evening. Hope you're all doing well. Jason, you
know, it's Veterans Day today. So, you know, I thought I'd set in the space. And when you asked
me here a week or whenever that was a few days ago about coming in tonight. I got my little
cannabis power nap and had a little bit of frickin dinner. So I'm ready to fight muffins when he gets
out here. Fantastic. That's awesome. Yes. And I really appreciate you taking the time to do this.
I know that in many cases, this is a tough day for veterans. And so I do appreciate you spending
the time with us tonight during your normal, whatever you do normally on this day. I know it's
not always a celebratory day. It can be a very solemn day, a very contemplative day. So, you know,
we're going to come we're going to contemplate things today. We're going to talk about networks of
things going on. So again, I appreciate your service, sir, first and foremost, but I also appreciate you
joining us and all of the cultivation knowledge that you share with the community all the time. So
thank you.
All right. So back to plant to plant or plant to fungi to plant networks, as I was talking about.
Mycorrhizal fungi are incredible, incredible networks. And as I mentioned, they carry water and
nutrients. And it's not the only type of communication, though, that plants use. Plants also are known to
release different types of compounds and aromatics that help warn or try to help defend against
predators and pests and other issues that might be going on within the environment.
Nick, sir. I don't know how you doing tonight. I'm doing I'm doing great. Fantastic. Fantastic. How are
your compounds and aromatics working for you this evening? They're working really, really good.
Actually, a lot of a lot of terpenes, a lot of monoterpenes and diaterpenes in specific. So it's
it's nice. And I just want to take a moment to say, hey, what's up, Doc? It's great to see you.
Great to hear your voice again. It's probably been a couple of weeks, if not months, since we've last
interacted. So when I saw you hop in the room, that's why I got all excited. I was like, yeah, Doc's here.
This is going to be a great conversation overall. And as Jason was kind of setting up the stage, there's
these interactions that occur in nature outside of the context of between which species. It's this general
idea or understanding that nature is very communicative and all creatures are, especially birds in the spring
and summertime mornings. It is abundantly clear. But plants in specific, too, they communicate. They just
happen to produce chemical signals. So in this vast and very complex universe of molecules that are being
produced, it can be oftentimes very difficult to kind of sort through them all because there's hundreds of
thousands. I mean, just terpenes alone, there's 70,000 different terpenes that have been discovered so far.
And then theoretically, there's a lot more, if not an endless amount. So it's a very, very vast and complex
thing to try to just navigate through with no sort of understanding of how it ties into anything else.
One of the nice pathways for us as cannabis growers and as consumers is that we have this interface with our
nervous system to be able to interact with some of these molecules, the cannabinoids and terpenes. They tend to
modulate these systemic responses inside of humans. You know, they can deal with certain stressors like anxiety.
It can kind of help bring you to a place where maybe you achieve a more relaxed or calm state. Not that you change
your external circumstances necessarily, but that the internal chemistry of what's happening inside of you, you
have more control over and you just feel a little bit better. And this sort of relationship between the human nervous
system and with a variety of species of plants has certainly been well documented and established for thousands of
years. Some of the plants that we're working with, like hibiscus flowers, for example, and even sage leaves, which
we'll kind of get into the history a little bit here. But these are plants that are documented and have been the basis of
medicines and the understanding of medicines for thousands of years now. Cannabis is one plant that kind of fits in at
large to this much broader category of plants that would be considered therapeutic or medicinal. And, you know, like Jason
was also saying, oftentimes it's the mere cultivation of these plants. It's not so much that they have to produce these
psychoactive substances or even this actual suite of medicinal compounds, which a lot of plants do. But oftentimes the
process of growing the plant and just simply watching it grow and do its thing can be captivating. It can be
mesmerizing and it can kind of provide people with the type of content that they are looking for. Or, you know, when I was
young, I heard a saying that was, if you wish enlightenment upon yourself, take up gardening. And I've kind of thought about that
over the years. And it is true. You sort of become a little bit more connected to the natural world around you through the
cultivation of plants. We're sort of blessed with this opportunity to have cannabis as a plant that we can all kind of connect
with mutually on and sort of form a basis for us to talk about something larger, which is, hey, besides cannabis, which has a
very rich history with mankind, maybe people that are not in the cannabis community don't necessarily know because they're on the
outside looking in. But that much is also true with other plants. What if we looked at the history of sage and hibiscus and even
other plants like marshmallows and cacao and, you know, even citrus peels? I mean, there's so much out there to form a basis for
understanding how humans as organisms are also plugged into these networks in nature. We have them internally. We see them
externally between plants and fungi. But we ourselves are like neurons firing in this gigantic brain. And every time that we're
communicating with each other, we're just passing tidbits of information back and forth. And we can use that to sort of manifest some
real benefit to the natural world around us, to people around us. And part of it starts with understanding, you know, what are some of
these compounds produced in nature? How do they work to benefit sort of this greater collective, whether it's between plants and
microbes or between plants and people or even people and people, you know, because people can come together and they can share a plant
mutually and they can have a connective experience with a plant as sort of the medium of overlap between the two of them. So yeah, I'm
looking forward to everything. And once again, Doc, it's fantastic to see you. And I hope that tonight you can stick around and we'll
have a great talk with you.
So Ben, since I have Ben in the room, and I want to lean on Ben a little here as well, pull him into the rabbit hole with us. The Soil Food Web
is a tremendous communication network. Do you want to talk a little bit about the Soil Food Web and some of the kind of things that are going
on in the Soil Food Web, Ben?
Yeah, I'd be happy to. It's actually one of the first places that my brain goes to when you start talking about, you know, communication
networks of really any kind. There's, you know, the macro world, and then there's the micro world. But when you think about them as one, and you
no matter how macro or micro of a specimen you choose to look at, you can extrapolate out the fact that it reaches into almost every other aspect of
those ecological systems. And that really every single thing from the tiniest bacteria to the largest apex predator within a single community,
which is basically a group of different populations of species that are living within one area and sharing resources and sharing an environment.
And when you look at that, you're able to see that every single one of them is interconnected. Every single one of them is tied into the well-being to some
extent of the others and that they work within a balance. So when you look at the microcosm of the Soil Food Web, and you think about how, you know, the
most microscopic ones like bacteria and how they are influential all the way up to like your macro arthropods and your, you know, your large insects,
and how all of that interplays with how healthy that system is, and how you can take the bacteria and the fungi, they work together within the nutrient cycling.
But at the same time, you have detritivores, and you have decomposers like fungi, and also some insects that are able to take things and break them down into more
base chemical elements more readily available both for plant use, but also for the microbial communities use. And at the same time, they're able to take carbon and sequester it down into the soil again.
They're able to take things like decomposing carcasses, rotting tree limbs, just your general detritus of the forest, and turn that into readily viable nutrients for the rest of the ecosystem.
Because it all starts with your, you know, basic elements of having energy converted by your producers, your plants. They bring the base form ATP of energy into this world through photosynthesis.
They create glucose that is then consumed by herbivores. Herbivores are then consumed by carnivores. Carnivores, therefore, bring more decomposition to the world by killing herbivores and by dying themselves.
And that then feeds right back into the microbiology where they then feed upon that decomposition. And that's the way that energy moves through our entire system. It's entropy.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I think nature is cooperative. I know there's a school of thought around Darwinism and survival of the fittest and all those things, but in general, nature is cooperative.
Nature wouldn't succeed without the cooperation that's going on, without the communication networks that get established between these plants to help them support each other.
I think, you know, something we were talking about as well, Nick, were some of those synergistic responses that are happening that help keep these things in balance.
Yeah, and part of it just comes down to, like Benjamin was saying, the nutrient cycling. And, you know, part of it is that a lot of these elements like calcium, for instance, we got into this a little bit, that calcium in plants functions much like neurons in the human brain.
And calcium oscillations in plants, aka calcium is mobile, but as it moves through plants, it spreads all kinds of interesting signals.
And so for the past 50 or 60 years, botanists have been trying to decode some of these highly encrypted signals because they seem to regulate everything from circadian rhythm to immediate secondary metabolite biosynthesis.
And there's even a little envelope that sits right outside the nucleus of every single plant cell. And inside of this envelope, it's stuffed full of calcium.
One of the things we got into with that discussion was how calcium waves are required in the propagation and the formation of symbiotic relationships.
In other words, plants in the absence of calcium cannot actually form and sustain relationships with either beneficial microbes or our muscular mycorrhizal fungi, which may actually sort of come in very close proximity and get into the interstitial space between the cells.
There's some actual penetration that occurs there. So that in the absence of calcium can't happen because there's not enough signaling happening. There's not enough communication.
All it takes in this case is an element that can function much like a signaling molecule. But that's the very microscopic kind of level of it.
The other level of it on the flip side is the same concept applies to the foliar surface too, in the sense that there's the same types of relationships occurring in what's called the phyllosphere, just like there is in the rhizosphere.
If you think about what the leaf surface is, that's sort of the progenitor of all soils globally. About 500 million years ago, during the Ordovician period, when bryophytes first started to colonize land, it was the chemical weathering of silicates that gave rise to soil across the planet.
Now soil has this…soils across the world are very…typically when they're very fertile and very rich, they can support a very large number of kingdoms of plant species.
I'm sorry, not plant species, but entirely different kingdoms altogether of organisms because of the beneficial bounty in the substance that is created when plants photosynthesize, like Ben was saying.
And they reduce carbon out of the air from its oxidized state in the form of CO2. And in this chemical reduction process, they generate triggers, organic acids, flavonoids, terpenes, hundreds of thousands of different compounds that can be used for signaling across various plant species to maybe indicate, hey, I'm under attack.
Or like we were talking about calcium waves flowing in plants, there's some work that has to be done to actually transport all the calcium. It doesn't just happen passively. It has to be an active process. And so there's all these different ways to kind of pass energy around these systems.
And I think that, you know, with…whether we're talking about in the rhizosphere or in the phyllosphere, the dynamic of communication is very important because we're talking about multiple organisms that are occupying the same square inch, square foot, square mile.
There's potentially hundreds of thousands of different, you know, microbes and maybe hundreds of different dozens of species in total. And the same thing for arthropods and more and more complex organisms and stuff all kind of comes from the same place.
And photosynthesis is definitely one of the greatest achievements that gave rise to everything from soil itself to every organism that depends on soil, which happens to be pretty much every organism.
And, you know, we also were discussing some of the things that, you know, that plants also release these compounds and aromatics as defensive measures and ways to protect themselves and ways to signal other plants of problems.
We know that trees will communicate either through the mycorrhizal networks or by releasing compounds and aromas or scents and terpenes into the air to warn other trees, other plants of predators, of things that might be attacking, you know, weevils and other problems that carpenter ants or, you know, infestations or things that might be attacking other plants.
Things that might be happening to the plants and they will communicate and in certain cases even sacrifice themselves to send their energy to the other plants so that they will continue the species.
Many times you can see a ring of trees around an older, larger stump and it's in the case where that mother tree had, you know, helped its progeny continue to survive long after that it had left.
Trees are very well known for doing that and for communicating that stuff across even large distances.
I think, you know, at a smaller level, one of the things we were talking about was, you know, defensive to things, something like corn aphids.
Yeah, yeah. And along those lines, you know, some of the it's interesting how the foliar surfaces, anything above ground, oftentimes plants, I would say, arguably modulate more interactions across entire kingdoms of species than any other kingdom.
In other words, the compounds that plants produce will do everything from affect the human nervous system to attract a pollinator to, you know, repel a potential predator to prevent some pathogenic bacteria and fungi from colonizing it.
I mean, it's very, very complex set of interactions that are occurring here.
And then, you know, like you were saying, if you've got the right strategy in place with your garden, let's say you're growing corn, for instance, and you may have some aphid problems, a traditional solution may be, or conventional solution may be to just spray the plant with some aphidicide or a pesticide.
But I think a more traditional, more natural approach would be to try to find what is the natural predator of the corn aphid. Is it a ladybug?
If that's the answer, then what attracts a ladybug?
What kind of plants attract a ladybug?
Going down that pathway kind of brings up this world of knowledge about mint and rosemary and sage, all of these really bright and aromatic plants that ladybugs just happen to love.
And if you can attract enough ladybugs into your garden by creating an environment that's very hospitable for them, full of stuff that they like, you find a lot of these benefits just kind of start to stack on top of themselves.
The corn grows crazy and it's very tall.
These shrubs stay pretty low and pretty short to the ground, so they have this like interesting property of creating some additional shade on top of the soil.
So if it gets too hot during the day, you have a physical barrier that prevents the evaporation of water from underneath these multiple layers of plants.
And like you were saying, Jason, there's all these compounds that can be produced by these plants to kind of help make each other aware of what's happening.
Some of this happens directly from plant to plant.
Other times it can be mediated by relationships that are in the ground, in the rhizosphere, through fungal networks, for instance, and microbial activity is another really good one.
But these things are like vastly interconnected.
And the idea that even plants themselves are kind of separate is, I think, a better way of looking at it is that there's better results attained when you have a greater diversity of plants in the mix, instead of just like monocropping or monoculture.
If you understand how certain plants are companion plants, they want to work with each other.
One produces a metabolite that's beneficial for the other.
One fixes nitrogen, the other kind of returns carbon to the soil.
There's all these really interesting relationships that open up this new way of looking at what goes on in a garden.
It's not like this one dimensional layer of, you know, it happens on this binary kind of layer like X to Y.
What we're looking at here is a very complex network of plants to plants, plants to microbes and fungi, and then back to plants through those fungal and microbial networks.
So, yeah.
I think it's and I'll let you jump in in just a second, Ben.
I think it's also interesting, you know, when you think about companion plants and planting things together.
And I was definitely going to go to you next, Ben, because you do spend so much time on farms.
You know, there's plants that don't work well together.
It's almost like they speak different languages.
Like you can't necessarily plant garlic and onions in the same place that you're planting your brassicas.
And you can't some of these things just don't grow well together because either those aromas or aromatics or compounds or, you know, they're they just don't work well together.
Or there's some signaling going on or they're more competitive in their in their communication.
But it's almost like they speak different languages.
Ben, what do you got to add?
Yeah, that's spot on.
I mean, working on both cannabis and vegetable production farms, you see a lot of intercropping, a lot of companion planting.
And exactly like Nick was saying, you know, you want to be prophylactic with your approach.
You want to be preventative because an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
I think it's more like 10 pounds of cure.
But having a balanced ecosystem like we were talking about, diversity, both at the macro and micro levels, is really what it's about.
When you have diversity, you have checks and balances.
If you think about the plants, like Nick was saying, where you're doing monoculture.
And if you just have a single crop, like think about any other organism.
If you put it in an environment and it was the only thing in that environment, it couldn't thrive.
It needs interaction.
It needs these different benefits, losses, and gains from other species, from interactions with the other populations within that community.
So to have a healthy ecology, a healthy system, you have to have that diversity.
You have to have that balance.
So a lot of the farms that we work, we have both beneficial plants to attract beneficial insects.
And then we also have beneficial plants that produce their own terpene profiles, their own olfactory scents, basically within insects.
It's repellents, sort of like what Nick was talking about with rosemary, peppermint, things like that.
They can be very, very powerful as far as their ability to help minimize populations within an area when they're grown consistently along with predators.
Awesome. Yeah.
Plants are communicating with the environment around them, releasing exudates, releasing those cookies and cakes, those starches and sugars,
to attract the right type of community.
Like they're building their own community, farming their own environment by releasing these chemicals to create these,
bring in all of this biology that will convert the minerals and nutrients in the soil over to a form that they can readily absorb.
So they're creating these communication networks.
They're releasing these different chemicals.
And when you increase the diversity of the plants and the species in those environments,
you also get a lot of interaction and beneficial complementary interactions between those different species that kind of complement each other
and take care of each other and supplement each other in different ways.
So really, really cool stuff.
Doc, I know you do also, because you are a tremendous farmer, not necessarily just a cannabis cultivator, although that is one of your specialties.
I know you grow a lot of other things up on the mountain around the house.
What are some of the things that you like to throw in from a companion plant standpoint
or things that you've found have worked really well from helping the plant communicate with the environment around it?
Doc, are you there?
Might be tied up in this garden, actually.
All right, we'll come back to you, Doc.
We've spent a lot of time talking about plant to plant communication.
I want to make sure we continue to move on.
It's a little after 9.30, so just a quick reset of the room.
I wanted to welcome everybody again to Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell, episode nine.
Tonight we're talking about communication networks, plant to plant, plant to human, human to human,
different ways that, as we mentioned, even plant to fungi and fungi to plant,
different types of networks and communication things that happen all the time.
That's the primary topic of conversation today.
It being Veterans Day, it's really important, again, that we look for ways to increase communication networks for veterans
and whether that's connecting veterans with the plant, connecting veterans with other veterans,
connecting veterans with non-veterans, civilians, and others as well,
building these networks that help support and give veterans the things that they need and as well as deserve for their service.
I think that's the best way that we can support veterans, not necessarily celebrating once a year or having a day,
but actually taking the time to have a conversation, meet somebody, talk to them, see them, experience what they have to offer.
You'll be amazed at what you find by building those communication, human to human communication networks.
The Grow & Tell itself, I've talked about it in the past, but Hota Herbs Grow & Tell has always been,
a portion of it has always considered veterans.
When the Grow & Tell was a monthly growers club event, we raised money every time we met,
and all that money went to the New England Veterans Alliance, to their cultivation program to help get cultivation equipment
and stuff to teach a group of disabled veterans how to grow their own medicine.
Got them full sets of equipment, tents, lights, soil, pots, seeds, the whole deal,
and also set them up, five of them, with a mentor who is also a cultivator and a veteran,
to take them through the whole process of seed to harvest, so that they could go and then obviously use that equipment that they had
and continue their journey learning about the plant and learning about themselves as well in the process.
That's always been a component of my Grow & Tell events, so it was super fitting that,
fortuitous that tonight happened to land on Veterans Day.
My events always were on Thursdays, actually the second Thursday of every month, which happens to be tonight as well.
Again, it's really nice that it happened to land on Veterans Day, because this event and this session,
and now this weekly podcast, has always tried to highlight veteran issues,
and try to look for ways to help connect veterans with the plant for this incredibly important benefits that it provides,
either therapeutically or medicinally, when enjoyed.
So, let's jump back into it.
Again, right before I... one last plug, please make sure you subscribe to either the Future Cannabis Project channel,
FCPO2 on YouTube, or click on the little blue house up top and join the Future Cannabis Project here on Clubhouse.
So, I think we should jump over to plant to human communications,
and cannabis is a really, really interesting case in that, because we've now... they keep backing up.
Every time I turn around, it looks like there's a new historical reference,
some other way that they've discovered that humans have been interacting with this plant.
And, you know, the plant itself has been around since, for I think 43 million years ago.
It separated off from the hops plant and kind of became its own species.
But for over 13,000 years now, it has been part of the human experience.
It is a plant that has been cultivated, captured, carried,
has been part of beneficial... has been part of ceremonies and practices across human existence for millennia now.
And so, it's important to talk about some of that history.
And one of the things that we were talking about, Nick, which was really interesting,
that had my... just really got me going, was your conversation about the mallow plant as well.
Yeah, and, you know, more largely, it's the mallow family.
Because this one family of plants... there's about 5,000 species or so.
This one family of plants contains very few individual species that produce metabolites
which are toxic or harmful to the human body.
So, it's very interesting that the human nervous system and the human body itself is, you know,
to a certain extent, soft-wired for a lot of these plants.
And with the mallows, like I was mentioning, you know, the most famous one is what I call the OG marshmallow,
the original marshmallow plant.
The ancient Egyptians actually used to make marshmallows by using the roots.
They would take them and boil them in water.
And when they boiled, they would release this, like, stappy, mucilaginous mix of glycoproteins and polysaccharide.
And then they would strain the liquid and then they would whip it up.
And the process of whipping it trapped all this oxygen inside of this glycoprotein sort of matrix.
And it kind of created this soft, airy, marine-like treat that's famous nowadays.
So, you know, other mallows would include chocolate, which is obviously a very well-known plant that produces compounds which humans respond to.
This process of fermenting and creating a bar of chocolate is very complex.
If you're not familiar with it, I highly recommend going to YouTube.
There's probably a good, you know, three to five minute long video that sort of summarizes the process.
But it's very fascinating how humans are involved in this process of taking plants and maybe transforming them to sort of get their most therapeutic substances and therapeutic qualities out.
Like, we're soft-wired from our nervous systems, but then we have these practices.
We go through these motions in space and we take the plants and we do things with them that the plants would otherwise not be able to do.
And so we have this like really strong connection to processing plant matter, processing metabolites in such a way that becomes extremely, extremely useful for us.
Again, with the mallows, everyone that's listening is probably wearing a skirt or some article of clothing that's made out of cotton.
And cotton is definitely in the mallow family.
So they all around the world, very interesting, anywhere you go, it is the mallow family contains plants that are among the most useful.
In terms of industry and among the most practical in terms of nutrition, you can eat the raw leaves, roots, flowers, fruits.
You can eat them when they're cooked.
You can make jams out of them like hibiscus flowers, for instance, are phenomenal.
They also have anthocyanins that have neuroprotective qualities to them.
They function like antioxidants for your brain, basically.
So, again, we go around the world and mallows have this strong connection to humans everywhere we go in every continent across all of time.
We are softwired for these plants.
We're physically connected to them, too, because we take them after they grow.
And again, we process them into things.
We treat those things like our nutrition, substantive compounds that keep us alive.
I would consider them in some cases to be macronutrients.
To kind of go back real quick to one of the earlier discussions I believe we were having, Jason, about carotenoids, the human eye, at the very center of your eye, there's a pigment.
There's a carotenoid pigment, but the human body cannot make this carotenoid.
So the fact that you can see and there's light that can come into your eyeballs and it doesn't physically fry your eyes, that ability right there is owed entirely to a carotenoid that the plant must produce and we must ingest.
There are other carotenoids in the brain, for example, and if you are deficient carotenoids, you get irreversible brain damage that starts to occur.
And so for that reason, I think we need to start looking at some of these substances like dietary and nutritional substances.
They're not just quote unquote secondary metabolites that are produced by plants.
They are primary nutrients that are found in your brain.
It's a very important place.
And in the center of your eye, also a very important place.
These things are not accidental in the fact that they're there with such precision, yet a little bit ironic how the human body cannot make it itself, I think, just goes to show you how fundamental this connection is and really how subtle it gets when we start looking at some of the more nuanced sort of bits and pieces of information about how humans are utterly and entirely dependent on plants in every way, shape and form.
Yeah, I think you mentioned there's over 5000 species of mellow plants and almost all of them are completely edible, either raw or cooked.
Yeah, yeah.
The roots, the leaves, the stems, everything.
And like I was mentioning with hibiscus, because it's a really famous one example of cultivars that have been sort of selected to produce organic acid that make themselves lend themselves very well to making jams, for instance.
There's a lot of pectic acid residues that you can just by boiling, not even boiling, but just by using somewhat hot water.
I think in the case of making traditional marshmallows, it's important to not actually boil the roots themselves.
You're supposed to take hot water because otherwise you're going to denature the compounds.
But with this process of transformation, it's like the plant is producing something that it knows is going to be processed out a little bit further.
We got into this actually, this exact same topic with cannabis plants a few weeks ago.
We were looking at how terpenes are structured.
They're sort of engineered in a way so as to accept light and light energy in the presence of oxygen to age.
And this is the process by which hash is made.
So I think it's interesting.
It's almost like the plant is creating a molecular structure that it knows on some layer of its existence, some level of its existence, the plant is aware that the compound it produced is going to be separated from it.
In other words, it's going to be given to another organism and that other organism will continue the process of maturing this compound.
We're looking at mercine is a really good one.
Mercine will potentiate, it will turn into a compound called hashamine.
It gives hash its kind of distinct, strong kick, very potent psychedelic and psychoactive effect.
It's a derivative of mercine that specifically will undergo a transformation if it's cured properly.
It's not enough to just have the hash.
You have to, with respect to the plant and the substance that it produced, you have to know how to mature that compound once it's been separated from the plant.
This is an art. It's a craft.
It sort of defines hash making, but hash making aside and cannabis aside, there's all kinds of stuff.
Like I'm a big tea drinker.
I love tea. If you look at Phoenix Mountain, oolongs and pours, a phenomenal sort of a world of information regarding processing plants and learning how to work with the compounds that they produce.
There's thousands of different types of teas out there, depending on how they're plucked, what the plucking standard is, so on and so forth.
So all this stuff is very organized and has been sort of explored for thousands of years.
And I feel like it's only been very recent, maybe in the past 50 years to a hundred years, that humans have kind of lost this connection with the natural world around them.
It used to be known, for example, that sage plants, salvia officinalis, the salvia part of the genus is a reference to the word, the Latin word for salvation, means to be saved.
So here's a plant that is literally named after its healing properties and its healing qualities.
But how many people are out there trying to grow sage in their yard and take it on, eat sage on a daily basis?
I mean, this is the type of stuff that literally gave rise to entire institutions of medicine.
It's not an understatement to say that some of these compounds that are produced by plants, they've had such a very potent effect on the development of humans across time that we can't really neglect them at this point.
Like I said, it's been only very recent that we sort of lost that connection to nature.
Doc, are you back with us now?
I'm here, man. I'm here. I've eaten a little dinner and listened and said, but yeah, brother, I'm back in the room.
Fantastic. Fantastic. I didn't want to leave you out. You were quiet for a bit there.
And I wanted to give you an opportunity to chime in.
I know that you are a big believer in growing lots of different types of plants and that you are a big believer in the human to plant connection.
So anything that you'd like to share on that topic?
I think it's part of what Nick alluded to. It's part of this disconnect that's happened in the last four decades or so.
There was a time not too long ago where we grew everything. We grew everything.
Your grandparents and your great grandparents, they grew everything.
My parents, I grew up on a farm environment in this from the 50s forward.
There's just been kind of this disconnect of moving into the city and getting on concrete and unplugging from Mother Gaia that I think is a part of the problem with the world right now.
We seem to be so hell bent on going into a metaverse and living in this false reality instead of going out and standing under the trees with the sun on your face and the wind blowing in your hair or on your bald head, whatever it is.
I just think there's a disconnect.
Absolutely.
The part of it, Jason, and just for myself with the plant, there was something about it.
I talked to so many veterans, veteran men and women that have never cultivated and just me to them, just try, just grow one.
Get one female plant and grow one plant.
Every one of them, there's this connection with this particular sacred plant on this planet.
It's this one plant that everybody in this room listening, we all have this interpersonal relationship that we have with this thing.
We get around other believers of the sacred plant and we get around other proponents of it or users of the plant.
There's this common bond that we all form with one another.
Just like in this room, generationally, I'm probably the oldest guy in the room and I'm sure there's somebody listening going, yeah, yeah, yeah.
19, 20, 21, 18.
We literally have a 50 year shift between me and them.
That's part of this thing that I love.
I could sit down with any person and break sacrament with them.
We might not believe about anything other in the world on anything else.
We might not see eye to eye, but if we both use this plant, there's that common ground and that ability that we find to find tolerance with one another.
I went to another room we were talking in earlier, Jason, when he was RJ and I had been talking about it.
It was that lack of tolerance for one another that it's sorely missing.
Anyway, I just believe that I'm hoping and I manifest in my own prayers and thoughts that this is that moment in time.
That awakening of the masses to interact with.
The divine mother ganja, you know, for the well-being of humankind, I believe that as much as I think it's fucked day in and day out, that there is this moment in time that this plant can hopefully do something to help a lot of people and the environment and the world.
I mean, we all know in this room, it's kind of preaching of the choir, you know, but, you know, the plant, she produces more oxygen than anything on the planet.
This single source fiber, all the oil, the construction materials that can be built renewably and sustainably with this one plant over and over and over and over again.
I just hope that this is that moment in time that we didn't think it was going to happen.
Thought I'd be dead, buried in dirt and ground.
But hopefully maybe before I'm gone, see this thing come to fruition.
Yeah, man, I agree with you.
I agree with you.
You know, I mean, that's that's how we connect, right?
I mean, this plant has brought us together in completely different parts of the country, you know, decades apart or a decade or two apart.
And, you know, it's it's funny when you said, you know, guys, 19 and 20 years old, you may you probably have mothers that you've been cultivating.
That's some of these guys are alive.
That's 74 hippie trail, I think, is almost as old as you, big boy.
So I've got plenty of friends that go, good God, that's before I was born.
You know, it's like, man, I guess I'm just getting to be an old bastard and I'm still here.
You know, you think, you know, you look in the mirror, you know, and you some mornings you get up and I think I'm thirty five.
And other mornings it feels like I'm eighty five, you know, and just get up every morning and just keep going.
This plant, you know, they get something about it.
And I look at what the recourse was, brother, you know, Uncle Sam's recourse to me was opioids, alcohol or a forty five and blow your fucking brains out.
You know, and it's like nothing's really seemed to change from when I got out to this new generation of veterans when they get out.
And then I'm talking to them. They don't even give them as good a drugs as what they were giving us back in the day anymore because they screwed us up so bad.
So they know the pendulum swung the other way.
And then I sit down with, you know, one of my brothers and sisters and break sacrament with this one plant.
And I see the wash come over them, you know, the relief, the decompression, the tears, the laughter, all these emotions that just kind of wash over them.
And like, you know, what's why you do it?
You know why I do it? Why Nick does it?
You know, I don't know, Ben, but I'm sure it's the reason why he does it.
I know it's why Peter's in this space and a lot of the men and women listening this evening.
We all love this plant. That's that interpersonal thing you're talking about, brother.
You know, that that could that connection with your plant to human plant, a plant plant to human and a human to human.
That's that connected with this plant. And I don't see it with any other plant.
You know, I don't have this feeling towards my tomato, close to my tomato plants, you know, close.
But it's not the same feeling that I have towards this plant.
And I sure don't look at my green beans or my lettuce the same way I look at my my cannabis plants in my garden.
I don't know. I've had a couple of really spicy peppers that had me praying a few times.
I'll tell you that.
That was the nightshades. What is it between cannabis and then the nightshade family that gets everybody so excited?
Absolutely. Well, I think they're they have burst. They're bursting with terpenes. Right.
I mean, like what's more flavorful, flavorful or even like, you know, something that can just take you down on your knees.
Cannabis or are really, really spicy peppers. Right.
That Reaper, Scorpion, Reaper or whatever that Reaper, that crazy thing.
It's like, yeah, put you completely on your knees.
And they both get you high.
Yeah, absolutely.
Awesome stuff. Yeah. Yeah. And I agree. Right.
Like the there's definitely a need to rekindle the relationships with the plant.
I think that is a huge problem in this country.
Most people don't know where their food comes from.
They don't know. Look like they don't know what the plant or the animal it look, you know, it came from looks like.
And just as much, you know, there's lots of people who smoke cannabis, but they have no idea what the plant actually looks like.
They only know what the flower looks like.
The dried version of the flower.
They don't even know how beautiful it is when it's growing.
And, you know, for me, that's one of the things that I try to highlight with my, you know, with my with my Instagram is really just taking those pictures of the plant.
That's why I'm rarely on there, because I really am very much focused on presenting the beauty of the plant itself in its true nature.
No filters, just being what it is.
And I absolutely agree that, you know, the communication, the human to human communication, building communities is absolutely something I've been very much a part of.
I mean, we have a opportunity to set the tone.
We have an opportunity to build the community that we want.
Right. We have the ability to support the people that we should be supporting.
We have the you know, we can buy online or we can go to the small business down the street.
Right. We all have the ability to make small, little differences for the plant and for the community.
And at large. But I think the plant is been something that has always helped me connect with others and help me find community any place that I've been.
And, you know, if you can find that, especially when you're in illegal places, right, if you can find that one or two people who are also fans of the plants, you become like family immediately.
You have this shared experience, this understanding of the of the things that this plant, the benefit that it brings.
And, you know, just because somebody is a cannabis consumer doesn't make them a good person.
But it's much more likely that you will find common interest with that person in other ways above and beyond the plant itself.
I'm not sure what the hell that was, but that was a great background noise.
This is my English bull terrier wants to go.
That was cool.
There's this interconnection and really, Jason, what you were talking about, I mean, like if you come into my here, my place, you know, my little retirement potting farm here, you know, it's like,
I've got everything under the sun growing here, literally from avocados to zucchini.
You know, I've got passion fruit on the vine right now and lemons hanging and citrus everywhere.
And, you know, berries when they're in season, they got all kinds of berries and cherries growing and just we grow everything that I need to survive.
You know, if I really had to kick it into gear, I can add chickens back into the mix and the whole nine yards.
You know, what are we, what, how do you, how are you connected to your food supply, your medical plant, medical supply?
How are you in touch with everything?
Are you in, you know, are you in touch with where it all comes from?
And there's been this serious, serious disconnect, like I said, about 40 years ago in the late seventies and early eighties.
You know, this was this change of what we see now, you know, corporations having personages and, you know, the average consumer orders their meal once a day or more talking to a clown through a box for 99 cents.
This is what it's turned into.
And it wasn't that long ago, you know, where you went out onto your property and you picked your meal for the day or you harvested your meal for the meals for a couple of days.
That's just how everything used to be.
Or you depended on your community and you traded with the other people in the community that grew the things that you didn't grow so that you could get those too.
We do that here still, Jason.
And I guess maybe a part of it is like where and some communities do do that.
You know, I'm fortunate to live in the triangle, you know, and Humboldt County and this little community in Arcata, man, where I retired to.
This is like a very self-sufficient community.
You know, we have one of the most phenomenal farmers markets on Saturdays during the season that you've ever seen.
And once you figure out the community, you realize that all these farmers with all this bad ass produce, man.
The bulk of them are bad ass cannabis farmers to boot.
You know, that's just part of what the heritage and lifestyle here is of interconnection with the plants and interconnection with our food and, you know, everything.
You know, I mean, we just we're all about self-sufficient and being, you know, so sovereign.
That's really how do you how do you protect yourself in this uncertain time?
It isn't cryptocurrency and it isn't how much money you have stashed in the safe because those aren't going to do dick for you when the power grid goes down and the water system shut down and the food supply chain shut down.
It doesn't matter how much damn money you've got.
What matters is do you have water and food and shelter for yourself?
Otherwise, you're going to know again why we're heavily armed when we live here.
We know all you city dwellers are going to want what we have here and come our way.
Guess what? We got a plan for your butts, you know, so just be on our side.
And I appreciate the gun reference, too, because, yeah, and I hope you didn't take it offensively.
I mean, some of the Instagram posts I had earlier was, you know, kind of I've been doing this whole Bugs Bunny jump down the rabbit hole thing with Nick for the last couple of weeks where he's been Yosemite Sam and kind of just pointing me down this long, long diving board to jump off into the rabbit hole.
And this week we went kind of I think it's always odd.
You guys make me the damn hunter in the situation, though.
Always. Well, I figured you'd be the one who was packing.
So that's why I made you.
And it really was. You were you were definitely not an Elmer Fudd, but I knew you'd be the one that was packing.
So that's why I made you Elmer.
You know, it's funny.
In my community, brother, I'm not my home is known as the fortress in the community.
And I'm the guy with the flagpole with old glory that's fenced off with eight foot everywhere.
It's like my neighbors are like, really?
It's like they go. We know you're commandeering the community.
Well, immediately when the grid collapses, we be your friend.
And it's like, yeah, man, you guys can be my friend.
Yeah. So and since I'm always bugs, that's kind of how it worked out.
So, you know, truth be told, I'm actually more of a Daffy Duck fan than I am a Bugs fan.
So it's just it's how it worked out.
And I appreciate you enjoying the humor of the situation.
But yeah, no, it's it's just been this running joke.
So I had to add you into the mix tonight and bring in the and bring in the reference.
And I knew you would be the one who was who was packing and definitely the shotgun.
I can see the shotgun, you know, like that's to me is you.
That's what I carry on my golf cart, man.
That's a tool.
Right. Like, all right. That's the one that I roll with all the time.
It's a 12 gauge. Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely. That's for vermin control, man.
You know, that's for coyotes and impact dogs and vermin and stuff, you know, but it also is a good crowd control tool as well.
You know, I hate to even think those thoughts, but it's I mean, we have conversations here.
I had that today. You know, we're about being sovereign.
You know, we've got, you know, everybody has their own power supply, even like I'm connected to the grid, brothers and sisters.
But I have a, you know, 6500 water that starts on one pool with a transfer switch and two huge propane tanks where I can run for two months without having to have, you know, the power come back on.
You know, it isn't the end all be all.
But I know I can operate for 60 days without having a power grid on.
And I'm kind of retired.
You know, a lot of my friends, they're like, they can they can unplug.
They are unplugged.
They don't hook into it.
You know, they battery banks and solar panels and, you know, 100000 watt diesel generators and got 15000 gallons of diesel standing on the side, you know, where they can literally run for years without the grid ever being coming even into consideration.
And that's just how we live here.
You know, that's the Emerald Triangle mindset.
It's that survivalist mindset that I believe we're going to see advantageous skill sets for a lot of people in the coming decades in this country and around the world.
It's not going to get any better, ladies and gentlemen.
It's going to get more.
It's going to get tougher.
It's just going to get tougher.
It's definitely going to get more interesting.
Absolutely.
It's really a freaking party.
I didn't think it was going to happen in my lifetime.
But where, you know, I'm an elder in this community and we're having seriously having talks of forming our own freaking first responders, our own Emerald Triangle troopers is actually the name we're looking at.
And it's a group of men and women here that are first responders in our community because we live so early.
You know, we don't count on the law enforcement.
They show up, but it's always after the fact.
So when we approach things with people that are in our community, if we don't know you, the tendency is to be met.
Yeah, we're packing, man.
We just know what you're here for.
It's easy to rip us off or do harm to us.
And that's the way it's been forever and ever.
So pretty much everybody you encounter here out in the hills and in the mountains, man, you just have to assume if you're an outsider that we're on the other side.
We're packing and we're assuming you're here to do, you know, not to be our friend.
So we kind of take that approach.
Developing those human to human networks to protect.
We are now.
And I mean, literally this this year, it's an active conversation right now.
Jason is like I had breakfast this morning with two of the sheriffs and one of the first responders, sniper team guys and half a dozen cannabis growers, man.
And we all see the need for this community interaction that everybody's in.
I say it.
I've been thinking that for years.
Well, you know, everybody's thinking it.
Why the hell aren't we doing something about it?
So kind of taking a proactive let's do something about it approach right now with the country in flux and all this craziness is happening.
We know which bridges to blow.
So you guys can't get into our county.
Well, we don't want to.
We don't necessarily want to be taking down networks or at least talking about closing networks.
This year, we're closing some networks.
But yeah, no, no.
And I appreciate that. But, you know, I think, again, the main thing is that, you know, you guys are developing those human to human networks, which are also super important.
I think it's a huge part of what we try to do here on Clubhouse, what we try to do on Instagram, trying to create safe communities, safe places for human to human networks.
And, you know, I've really seen the power of those human to human interactions for the veterans community.
And so, you know, one of the things that they were doing here and I'm going to pause in just a minute here and relight the room and allow some folks to start coming up and ask questions and join us.
I opened I turned hand raising back on.
But, you know, one of the things that they used to do for a while here in Massachusetts and in Rhode Island, too, they were kind of bouncing back and forth between the two every twice a month.
It was one in Massachusetts and then one in Rhode Island as they would do these check ins, veteran check ins.
And they actually got a good, you know, 20 or 30 veterans who would get together every two weeks.
Like I said, once a month in Rhode Island and once a month in Massachusetts.
And they'd flip back and forth. And the Massachusetts one was done at the Summit Lounge, which is a consumption lounge.
And the Rhode Island one was held at a place called the Tetra Hydra Club in Rhode Island, which is a consumption lounge for medical.
If you have medical, you can consume at that lounge. It's also a comedy club.
So they do once a month, they would do kind of a comedy night down in Rhode Island at the Tetra Hydra Club and their veteran thing.
And then they would do a veteran therapy session in Massachusetts and they would get together at Summit Lounge and it would be a three hour meeting.
And basically two of those three hours were closed to the public and only open to the veterans themselves.
So they kind of block off the back area. You know, friends and families would come by and support them at the beginning and then at the end.
But for a good two hours, they would just get together in the back as a community and talk about issues they were dealing with, problems with the Veterans Affairs community, Veterans Affairs office.
Talking about ways that they could get access, talking about just personal problems, community therapy, talking, sharing, creating a safe space for these guys to get together.
And to medicate and to pass, share the medication around and share seeds and share information.
You could really see how much these guys were benefiting from these sessions.
The guys who were organizing it, I think even more than the veterans themselves because they were getting an additional layer of therapy by creating the space.
They're empowering all this activity to happen and them being a part of it, being a sponsor of it.
I think it added an even deeper layer to their own therapy and ability to come out of their shells and to deal with some of their issues.
But it's really, really tremendous and important.
We talked about it early on. We've talked about it. I've heard it mentioned multiple times today.
But human to human connections are extremely important.
Veterans are very much a disenfranchised community in their own.
In many cases, their issues force them into their own isolations.
And they don't necessarily get positive interactions with other people.
So what I found to be the most beneficial is not walking around all day saying, thank you for your service and thank you for your service.
Or doing these things on Veterans Day.
But really just talking to people, understanding, listening.
It's interesting because I think the things that you hear and the things that they talk about aren't always the specific, like, oh, I was in a Jeep and there was an IED.
It's no. It's a lot of it's, you know, I have these just terrible pains in my joints because I was carrying around a 70 pound pack for three years.
Destroyed my hips. Discs in my back. Neck pains.
Aldi Muffins was talking about this earlier. Concussions, right?
There's lots of concussions just from firing those large weapons, let alone being shot at or having explosions go off near you.
Firing large artillery also causes micro concussions.
So I think just talking to people. Some of the some of the guys I talked to actually had more PTSD from being firemen after they came back than they did from their combat service, actually, which is interesting.
But again, making these connections to people, seeing them, recognizing them, talking to them like human beings, not sticking them up on a pedestal.
Right. Not, you know, walking around and bowing or saluting or any of these other things.
It's really just talking to them, sharing a joint with them or giving them a joint that they can smoke themselves, because we don't really shouldn't be sharing so much these days. Right.
But just having this, you know, again, building human to human connections is super important.
It's why I do what I do and especially important, I think, with the veterans community, helping bring them back in to the rest of society, helping them re-establish themselves and their place in the world by, you know, making them feel like human beings, I think is super important.
Nick, anything that you'd like to add this evening?
Yeah, kind of along the lines, as we've been discussing, these relationships are very important, but it's also important to come together and kind of stand for the right things and to kind of take it back to the interactions between plants and microbes in the soil.
You know, there is truth to the idea that plants will produce chemical environments that are very non-hospitable to pathogenic fungi and pathogenic microbes.
So the plant in the process of supporting the right types of relationship, part of what that means is that it has to wage chemical warfare, basically, against forces that would come in and otherwise disrupt the balance and the beneficial chemistry going on.
So, you know, there's a whole branch of compounds called allelopathic substances. Allelopathic compounds will modulate some of these relationships in a way that induces stress or prevents the growth of certain organisms or in some cases, even certain plants.
So it's important to understand, too, you know, especially in the context of Veterans Day, you know, there are things that are worth defending. There's things worth sacrificing.
And if you're a plant, for instance, up to 20% of the carbon that you get through photosynthesis can be diverted to the phenylpropanoid pathway, which gives rise to secondary metabolites like anthocyanins, like flavonoids, for instance, other defensive compounds.
These are substances produced for the benefit of every organism that's in the soil. It's not just for the plant by the plant and it ends there and it stops there.
The plant is doing this work and the benefit of that work, it gains this carbon that then goes into the soil and it allows this very complex set of relationships to happen.
The bad guys stay out. The good guys get to come in. And that's the sort of thing that I think not to be, you know, we don't want to be passive as people in the garden, as growers in the garden.
We want to tend to our plants just like we want to tend to each other. We want to make sure that, you know, everyone around us is doing well and kind of reach out to people and try to connect with them sort of along this same pathway of being beneficial and forming these types of good relationships with people.
Awesome stuff. Awesome stuff. All right. It is 20 past 10 o'clock. So we'll just do the quick little relight. Welcome, welcome, welcome everybody to Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
Tonight we're talking about communication networks, human to human, human to plant, plant to plant, plant to fungi, fungi to plant, human to fungi, whatever you want to talk about.
Different types of communications are going on. We're talking about them tonight. It is Veterans Day. We want to recognize and thank our veterans for their service.
But as we were saying, we also want to try to find ways to help them get access to this plant, whether that's cannabis plant or any plants actually.
But in general, to help them get access to cannabis, whether that's to help them learn to cultivate it themselves or to be able to just be able to get a good supply of the medicine that they may need to help themselves out is always, always important and something that we should always be thinking about and trying to do.
I want to thank all the folks on stage. We're definitely not stopping yet, but I wanted to make sure to acknowledge the folks who've been joining me tonight. Thank you, Ben and Doc and Nick and Peter.
As always, if you're enjoying the conversation, please click on the little green house at the top here on Clubhouse and join the Future Cannabis Project. Make sure you follow your speakers.
Make sure you follow the other folks down in the audience. We have some amazing folks down below like Dr. Laurie, Allie Muffins, Rachel, who's one of my new friends, one of the regenerative family, Miss Nydia, who I love seeing and talking with on a daily basis.
We've got Sohan, my friend Sohan from MCR Labs I see down there, Gravy and Adam and DB and Johnny and Richard and all the other folks as well. So thank you so much for joining us tonight.
We've got Jolly, my friend Jolly I see is on YouTube. We've got TK and Don, Shredder, TrapGen. Of course, the Future Cannabis Project is simulcasting and recording the show, providing it on the Future Cannabis Project FCPO2 channel.
Make sure you subscribe to both the Future Cannabis Project and FCPO2.
So back to our conversation on communication. Ben, what would you like to add on our communication conversation tonight, sir?
Well, I think that there's been really amazing points made so far. I think that supporting your community is just as important as supporting your plants. And like we were talking about from earlier, the micro to the macrocosm, it all ties together.
So taking care of those around you is really important. I know that for me personally, doing work with veterans has been really near and dear to my heart and my family.
And I think that anytime that you ever get an opportunity that you can reach out to anybody, really veteran or otherwise, it's something that you should always grasp onto and take advantage of because it can be just as beneficial of an experience for you as it can for them.
And you can really change somebody's day or change somebody's life in ways that you don't even realize that weren't necessarily super consequential to you or really impactful for you can have some deep and long lasting ramifications to others.
So never think lightly of the actions that you take and always try to put your best foot forward and make sure that when you're interacting with people, it's with good intent. And you will often find that there's amazing things that can happen from that.
I mean, you and I, right? Like, I mean, we just kind of ran into each other at an event, right? A mutual friend, our buddy, Tommy Fox had an event and kind of a meet and greet of some folks in the cannabis community very early on.
Again, trying to help build networks in the community. Tommy Fox is a great builder of community, a real fantastic supporter of things going on here in New England when stuff got going and brought together a bunch of business folks and some cultivators and some folks new to the industry and things like that to help build some networks, some communities.
And I think we ended up talking for like three hours straight. So it's amazing. It's amazing what can happen when you allow those communication things to flow. And Ben is like the same age as my son. So it's not even necessarily an age thing, but we connected on the plant.
We connected on our overall love of this plant. And then eventually, you know, we've been, he's been kind of my partner as we've headed down this regenerative rabbit hole over the last couple of years now, really. We've been on this track. It's been, it was two years. We've been doing K&F for two years now. So it's crazy. But I do appreciate it.
Building community is definitely been a big thing that I've been trying to, that I've been doing here in Massachusetts since we got started. That's why I put the Grow & Tell together. I wanted other humans that I could talk to about cultivating.
Also, super, super important part about what's going on right now. We still have tons of states where, you know, it's not legal. Obviously, there's not that many states that have completely flipped over to allow us to get full access to the plant and grow our own cannabis. Even in legal states like Washington, you still can't grow your own, which is kind of insane to me.
But, you know, I think as folks that are a little bit more knowledgeable about the cannabis plant, whether it's about consumption, you know, my 35 year history myself with the plant, Doc's, I think, five decades plus experience with the plant.
Sharing that information with others who haven't had a chance to understand this plant, haven't had the exposure to its beauty, to all the benefits, to all the things that it can do.
Our legalization, our ability to enjoy this plant is really dependent on us developing these human to human networks and these plant to human networks. Over the next couple of years, really, if we don't build these human to human networks, we're not going to get full legalization.
We're not going to get the federal changes. We're not going to be able to get people the medicines that they need. And we're still going to be in a place where a large portion of our society is kind of in the dark, right?
Where they don't have choice over the plant that they can get. They don't have choice over who they can get the plant from. They're limited to what they can find. And, you know, we want educated consumers, right?
I think we want folks who can, you know, to learn about this amazing, amazing plant and all of its benefits. Doc, what would you like to add?
Oh, Jason, you know, I think it's just a revolving with the more we just keep teaching the thing same, you know, it's that spaced repetition thing, you know, over and over and over and over again, you manifest the destination that you want all of these things that we say to each other, but there, you know, do you follow through with it? That's again, I think it's that moment in time.
You know, we, a lot of alliances in 2021 with this app, but people bring in together this community over the last year, us all kind of interacting and some of us outside of this and before that, but for the most part, like, you know, you and I being in the same space and, you know, me and Nick and you being in the same space and, you know, there's people in the audience listening, we're in the same damn town and didn't know each other until this, this app.
This clubhouse realm that brought us all together.
How, you know, not even about how we continue to push forward with sharing, sharing the truth about it, this collective knowledge base that we have, you know, just on this panel alone, you know, but being able to share out information and correct flawed teaching that's been out there.
I think that's critical with what we're doing right now in the communication realm.
I see a lot of it is because it seems like such old information to me, you know, cause I just like, man, I can't believe that this is first time somebody's hearing this, but there's new people walking into this realm every day that don't know good, clean, growing practices and don't understand, you know, that this is something that's a consumable.
So you want to treat it holistically when you work with it.
Now they want to learn that, but they don't know these questions right off the bat.
This is, I think, part of what we're responsible for brothers and sisters is to share correct knowledge so that the communication line becomes more open.
Becomes more transparent with how we work with the plants.
As you guys know, if you've been listening to this, this trio of Elmer Fudd and Bugs and Daffy here, man, you know, I started this wormhole with the bricks thing a couple of months ago and look what we've fucking gotten on that crazy topic.
But just to see that, you know, we're to a point now, and I said that is this is a formula that I've literally worked for 50 years on that.
I just don't share that information with people and how to manage to get all of it.
But the last little bit of it out of me in one afternoon conversation.
And I'll get that other part too.
Oh, dude, can I replicate it?
Now, can you replicate it?
And do you remember to hop up and down on your left foot while spinning counterclockwise?
Do you remember those steps?
And that's the part that I tend to leave out with people so that they don't get all the mojo, just 90% of the mojo.
And that's interesting because we're supposed to stir our K&F preparations clockwise.
So to be able to spin counterclockwise and stir the ferment clockwise at the same time.
Baby. Yeah, that's totally right.
I mean, it's like getting into some serious stuff and we should run down that wormhole with some of these.
Breaking up a little bit on a stock that I like to work with dry farming, you know, things that we've been some of these comments that.
Sorry, Doc, you cut in and out on that one.
Hey, Doc, as I'm coughing on this joint, I realized the one time old Tom Franks rest in peace was making me stir some nutrients clockwise and counterclockwise.
And touch my belly button. I think I almost passed out. It was so complicated for me at the time.
Welcome, welcome, welcome, Olly Muffins.
Thanks for joining us tonight. Appreciate you jumping up and saying hello.
I jumped up. Thank you so much, Jason.
And thank you for everything you do for this community.
All of you guys, Peter, your work recently in terms of getting our message out from our small circle to to the larger audience on YouTube has been really great.
I have a notion of our connections that made me jump up when Doc said, oh, I'm surprised that some of this knowledge is old.
And I actually think it is the it is the ancient knowledge that gives us the connectivity that we guys we are kind of exploring tonight.
And I think it's the passage of the knowledge that makes it permanent.
The permanent thing about it is is the fact that it continues to be passed along.
And I actually have told this before to you, Doc.
The fact that some folks, many of myself included, we think, oh, I've figured something new out.
That's an improvement upon the design of nature, an improvement upon what's already in existence.
It's kind of foolish because we know nature to be an ongoing experiment that's that's current.
That's constantly refining itself, constantly perfecting itself.
And what we see around us today and the world we came into is the most perfect version of itself as it could exist today.
Because everything has survived, whatever elements came at it.
So I find that the more ancient the knowledge, the more it connects us and our connection to the plant, to and to the fungi.
And all of that is an ancient one.
And it's almost like even when we're beginning to learn or the first time you really grow a cannabis plant, more so than exploring something new, we're tapping into something ancient that's inside us.
And we're just finally tapping into it or finally becoming conscious of it at that time.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
I'm a big believer in the theory that cannabis in some way, shape or form is a almost a substitution in some ways of tree bathing.
So, you know, tree bathing is when you're going out and you're out deep in an old, old forest away from noise and electronics and man, society and things like that.
But you're off in the woods and you're really in some of these old woods.
You gain tremendous benefit by just being in those environments and breathing and experiencing the release of the terpenes, the release of the compounds, the aromatics.
All of the different things that are being released in that environment are tremendously beneficial for us as humans.
You'll feel it's a great way to relieve stress and to reconnect yourself and to ground yourself.
I know, you know, if you're going to go ahead and do that, it's always good to remove your shoes or be wearing something natural so that you don't separate yourself with rubber or other things.
As I know Nydia loves to point out down below.
I think it is correct and important that we try to find ways to ground ourselves in those environments and those experiences.
But just being there and breathing those things in and those scents and those smells and those aromas are extremely beneficial and relaxing for us as humans.
And it's known as forest bathing.
But a lot of those scents and smells and those terpenes are piney, right?
Those old forests in many cases, they have a lot of pine and older types of trees that release those types of terpenes.
And so cannabis, one of the reasons that we as humans connect so much to cannabis is because many cannabis varieties are high in pinene.
And that connection to pinene is something that we as modern man are missing.
That connection to forest bathing is something that we as modern man are missing.
Back to what Doc was saying, our disconnection from nature, our disconnect from the food, our disconnect from understanding or experiencing the natural world is harmful to our health.
And so to get back to nature and to get back to those environments and those beneficial places, we need to bring those things to our environments.
And that's one of the things that cannabis provides and one of the reasons why I think that we're so connected to this plant.
So, Johnny, how are you doing tonight?
Thanks for coming up.
Yeah, thanks for having me up, Jason.
I'm doing well, doing better than I was earlier.
I just wanted to come up and, you know, going on the topic of community building, just, you know, how grateful I am for the community and how grateful I am for cannabis kind of for bringing all of us together.
There's a lot of people in here I consider my friends, even though I haven't met them.
Doc and I are going to get together at some point in time.
I just found out he's basically my neighbor.
I see a bunch of people down, down the crowd who are all like amazing people.
And there's some people I don't know, but, you know, we all have this shared sense of passion and love for cannabis and it's bringing us together as a plant.
So I just want to express my gratitude, you know, for for the plant and for all of you guys in the community that we've built together.
Yeah, absolutely. Thank you.
Thank you for coming up.
I agree. And again, Doc, as Doc was saying earlier, somebody who who's right in his neck of the woods that he doesn't know that through the the the network provided by this app, this communication network, we're able to get you guys together and connect.
And that I, you know.
When Doc was talking, you know, it made me think about the fact that, you know, we do need to continue to repeat these things, right, because we need to repeat them to undo the brainwashing.
We need to repeat the truths to undo the negative lies that continue to be spread about this plant and the things that are continue to be said, because this is, you know, that's the learnt thing.
You know, most people who are alive now have been alive during prohibition and so have been experiencing this lie that has been taught, that has been codified, that has been enforced during this war on the plant.
And so we have to continue to repeat to reverse that brainwashing to replace those incorrect thoughts, those incorrect pieces of information.
As a community, we also need to share information to help correct the anecdotal bro science that's out there as well, right?
We need real science that backs up all the anecdotal things that we as citizen scientists have been doing for years and experimenting and testing and observing and doing all these things.
We need to get the scientific, the data, the numbers, the facts that prove these things that we have experienced and that we know and that we've taken to heart.
So sharing, building those communities for exchange of information, right?
That's what networks do.
Communication networks are for sharing information.
Information is a large portion of my life.
That's what I do professionally.
I work in information technology.
I work in data warehousing where we store piles and piles of information and look for ways to categorize it and quantify it and measure it and use it to forecast and to predict and to choose direction.
And so networks are for sharing information, for passing different things on, whether they are networks that are helping pass nutrients or water or information or energy.
They are very, very important aspects of life in general.
I'm very much a big believer in continuing to try to help expand these networks and undo the poor learning, right?
Re-educate folks to help share the correct information, the real facts, not the lies, not the things used to push the prohibition, to push the lie about the plant, and to keep us from having access to this important, important thing.
Yeah, and just to quickly piggyback off that, Jason, the one thing I want to bring up too is plants in general, not just cannabis plants, it's a good little gateway for us to be able to talk about other medicinal compounds produced in other plants.
Some of them may actually be similar compounds that are found in cannabis.
The terpenes that are produced in cannabis flowers are not exclusive to cannabis, but the particular combination of cannabinoids and terpenes along with other metabolites,
gives cannabis its own kind of unique quality as a therapeutic substance.
But to kind of take it back one step a little bit, I was talking about the sage plant earlier and how it has roots in modern medicine.
It actually was the plant of choice for what is considered the oldest medical school of modern civilization.
So a lot of work was done several thousand years ago to try to categorize and assemble a whole bunch of information about ailments and general hygiene practices.
For example, there was a physician's handbook, I think one of the very first ones that was ever published in the School of Medicine, and it's in Salerno, Italy.
It's called the Scola Medica Salernitana.
And sage for them was the most important plant.
It was the most important therapeutic plant.
And fast forward to modern times, people are looking into this plant and trying to figure out, well, why is the genus salvia literally a reference to salvation?
Why was it referred to as the salvation plant?
Why was this one plant the most important plant in what is considered to be the oldest school of medicine in modern civilization?
So people have kind of begun to peel back some of these phytochemicals and some of the constituents inside of this plant.
And they're kind of finding all of these compounds inside there, like rosmarinic acid, for instance, and other organic acids that can increase cognitive function and memory in some cases.
So for people that have Alzheimer's, for example, it's been shown that this plant does benefit, has pretty remarkable effects, actually, on the transmission formation of neural networks inside of your brain.
You can sort of relearn how to, in the presence of sage plants, you can sort of relearn how to make neural networks in your brain.
You can kickstart this process of cognitive re-enhancement.
And furthermore, besides sage, there's other plants, too, that we shouldn't forget about.
But all of them, the point I want to kind of bring up here is that we have all of these plants around us and such a vast level of disconnect.
The first layer of reconnection is to cannabis.
And the second layer past that is the rest of these plants, which, just like cannabis, have potent therapeutic effects.
Taxol, for example, Pacific yew trees, quinine from cincona bark, or even wormwood, produces compounds that are powerful anti-malarial substances, very powerful.
They are among the most effective in all cases.
We need to kind of understand that at large, pharmaceutical corporations have driven this wedge in human history and this understanding that plants are medicines.
And furthermore, a very extensive, detailed and very elucidated map that's been put together for thousands of years describing specifically how these plants work.
All of that has been kind of washed away because pharmaceutical companies have kind of come in.
They've looked at these natural substances.
And since the 1980s, something like three quarters of all of the drugs that have been introduced and approved by the FDA, somewhere around three quarters of them are based on natural substances produced in plants.
The pharmaceutical companies got smart.
They said, well, we can't patent the plant.
Does that sound familiar to anyone with the cannabis plant?
Same thing.
Different plant.
There's all of these plant-based medicines.
They can be useful for cognitive enhancement, for memory formation, for neurogenesis like cannabinoids.
But, you know, the point, again, at large is to understand that what we're perceiving and what we're interacting with in this one plant, this cannabis plant, is also very true of a much broader, much wider array of plants.
The mallows that I talked about earlier, sage plants, so on and so forth.
Lavender is another great one.
So just things like that, I think, are really important.
Awesome.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, it's absolutely fascinating and important, again, that we recapture that knowledge.
Even pesticides, right?
Raid, for many years, was made primarily from lilac, an extract made from lilac.
So there's a lot of things they can do with these natural components that are out there and in the environment.
And it is, again, super important that we look for ways to reconnect back to these natural plants and the natural world, regaining our understanding and access to food and herbs, whether they are medicinal or beneficial.
It is super important.
And it also made me think of when you were talking about rebuilding networks.
I mean, there's a lot of talk and discussion, and there's been some evidence around how mushrooms and fungus help rebuild neural networks.
Lion's mane, combination of lion's mane and some psilocybin and some other things has been shown to actually cause some neurogenesis, some recreation of some of the neural networks in the brain and the recreation of some pathways or the pushing of alternate pathways to allow those communication networks to reestablish where they previously were.
Previously were not correctly working.
So, you know, fungus, we can't leave psilocybin and fungus out of the communication network discussion either, because they are, you know, especially psilocybin is tremendous in helping create new communication pathways within our brains and our neurons.
All right. Go ahead, Ali. Did you want to say something?
Well, yes. I think I don't want to take up or keep you up too late, Jason.
But I do. I do want to take up space. I just don't want to keep Jason up.
That's what I meant to say. I want to take up space, but somehow without keeping you up.
But the thing that I see about the cannabis movement and especially as it relates to even hemp and the environmental movement, as we talk about connection and interconnectivity, is that it's not so much that cannabis is the solution to all things.
It's that we have removed an essential part of the balance in nature.
And cannabis, if allowed to be free, would have filled more of the void that we see now left.
And specifically, I think many of us have heard the discussion on terpenes, not only as the role that it plays in our air, but like you were talking about lilac just now, Jason.
The presence of all the other plants and the biodiversity and cannabis should be a part of that biodiversity.
It has been removed. It's what makes most of our environment extra resilient.
And I think even what we've seen with the human virus, the pandemic over the past few years, is a continuation and a worsening of us getting so used to a monoculture state, both in humans and in plants, that there is no more common threads.
Each thing is supposed to be siloed and so specific.
And that's just not how nature or life works.
And I think that's the corrective that we need right now is the establishment of biodiversity and even to the humans too, with our ideas all the way down.
All right. So, and Ali, I do have to warn you, you know, Doc took a nap specifically to be ready for you, my friend. And he is feisty and ready to rock.
I'm just so ready to collect a pair of ears this evening.
Hopefully, those are going to be duck ears, not rabbit ears.
I'm looking for muffin ears this evening.
Yeah, it's more muffin season. So it's not rabbit season or duck season. It's muffin season.
Muffin season. Yeah, I had somebody go on a personal note.
Oh, is that part of the blueberry muffin season?
I've had this. Oh, is that part of the blueberry muffin? It's like, no, actually, it's the other way around, youngster.
The blueberry muffin was formed with this plant.
I can tell somebody, again, how much the community doesn't get it.
The razzleberry kush, man, that plant's been around for 30 fricking years and it's in everything around here.
Even the Humboldt Seed guys will go, no, man, that's whatever the hell his spino was.
And he pulled cross with the razzleberry kush, man. That's the blueberry muffin genetics.
But anyway, I just think it's funny that I get to be alive to watch all this shit.
Man, it just cracks me up.
Well, you know, I didn't even explain it well enough because I went down a rabbit hole of my own smoking on this Tom Ford that I am still unraveling from this year's harvest.
But like I hear so many times, for example, people go going to Africa and they're saying, oh, now we're taking these California strains and trying to see how well they grow here.
And I feel like we're doing such an injustice.
All of the native strains is what should be explored and should be found.
And they should be doing a deep dive into whatever locally it has been preserved and is left, if anything.
I think even within the cannabis community and the genetics aspect, like we have a role to play in keeping things where they're supposed to be.
There's a reason why Humboldt grows the best chronic and it's the region.
And again, it finds itself already in balance with nature in that environment.
The plants are in balance with their environment.
Although, you know, Ali, I think it's, you know, I agree with you in some aspects, but in some other ways, I think it's also interesting to consider that by taking some of these cultivars and bringing them into unnatural places, you may expose something that has been hidden.
From the rest of us.
That might not come out unless it's exposed to a certain type of microbiology or a certain type of environmental situation or a certain type of external exposure that just isn't possible.
In its current Humboldt County world, you know, it might even be an interaction with an insect that causes a different reaction or aspect of that plant to come out.
So, yeah, while I do appreciate that, I agree that they should be focusing on the Nigerian hazes and the Malawis and all those other fantastic African strains when they're in some of these African locations.
It also may be interesting to see what happens to some of those strains when they are put in those situations.
And that's a part of nature too.
Absolutely.
How are you doing tonight, Robert?
Thanks for jumping up.
Anything to add to the conversation?
I was just, when I heard Doc say razzleberry, my mouth started watering.
I totally know that strain, Doc.
And now I can see what I was trying to figure out what was in this blueberry muffin because I've grown that recently.
It's one of Nat's strains.
Awesome. You guys are listening. I'll chime in again.
Thank you so much.
RJ, how are you doing this evening, sir?
I'm doing okay, Jason. I was looking at your profile and I said, man, I've been in this room before with this guy because he's got the barbecue smoker thing going on.
And I'm down here in Southern California.
I'm going to be kind of following this room and kind of hanging with you guys.
Doc, he was in the other room as well.
But my thoughts are, again, I've got this piece of property down here in Southern California and I'm thinking about just trying to keep it for learning how to experiment with it.
It's privately owned, eight acres with another, my brother's 10 acres next door to where we can just do whatever we want to do.
I mean, we got the legal 10 plants per household, but because it's a large space, I don't think anybody's going to bother us.
So when you guys talk about experiment with different strains and stuff like that, and I've got some folks up in Humboldt, a couple of people up in there that I grew up with.
And we've got folks in Portland with some 10,000 square foot indoor growth facilities.
I just wanted to keep the old school stuff.
I'm 60 years old and I wouldn't care as long as what we had back in the days in the seventies, if we could keep those strands to where they're original, if they came from Humboldt or came from Mexico.
I just want to keep the good stuff and keep it clean and be able to talk about the good old days.
This is RJ and I appreciate the room.
I'm complete.
Thank you for joining us.
Yeah.
Well, like Doc was saying, some of the strains he's got are 30 years old and RJ, you land in between the two of us.
So thanks for joining in tonight.
I'm 51.
So I appreciate you coming in and bringing some more elder wisdom to the group.
But yeah, I think not only do you want to use multiple types of cultivars, you want to consider using multiple types of crops in that space or adding multiple types of plants and lots of companion planting and cover cropping and some other things that will help bring in and build those awesome communication networks and diversity and things that we've been talking about tonight, especially.
But are definitely a super important part of that.
And then, you know, again, finding ways to incorporate the community into those spaces so that you can teach and show and share.
I really, you know, I hope for the day where we can have a bunch of school kids out at a cannabis farm to learn about nature and or just really coming out to a farm and not really caring what type of crop is on that farm.
Right. You know, I think that's to me, that's actual normalization when we no longer separate it and segregate it when it is part of our community and part of our normal networks.
I think that's part of something we all hope for is a full ability to take care, take advantage of all of the business networks, financial networks, legal networks as well as we move this community forward and this plant forward.
I think that's part of our pain as folks that are part of this community is that we've been segregated. We've been cut off from those networks.
Right. Many of us have experienced this within our lives of having to be alone because you are the only cannabis person around.
Everybody's out at the bar getting drunk and you'd rather just go smoke a joint. And you can't smoke the joint with those folks because, you know, they might turn you in.
And so we as a group, really as many, many single individuals in many cases have been isolated from our ability to communicate with other humans.
We've been stopped from taking advantage of the communication networks that are in place, the financial networks, especially for, you know, equity and people of color getting access to capital to help them to get their businesses going.
We definitely have seen lots of cases where we are denied access to normal financial transactional networks where we're shut out of advertising, marketing, communication networks.
So we as a community always have to look for ways to improve our communication, increase our ability to communicate with others and help push the normalization forward further so that we can also be a full part of society.
We're still kind of in some ways segregated, sequestered. And I know some of us don't mind that so much.
It's okay that we've sequestered ourselves off in our mountains with our group of friends and our community.
But it is important to be able to bring people back into the fold.
And again, that's, you know, a lot of why I started posting on Instagram and started the community sessions in Massachusetts and going to events and meeting people and talking with people here on Clubhouse the last many months is to bring people along, to bring people in, to be inclusive.
To help stretch those community networks out further, to spread that.
I think getting people out, allowing them the space to come out of the closet, to be proud of their cannabis usage as part of their, you know, as being part of themselves.
I know I, you know, cannabis is very much a part of who I am.
And when I'm in situations where I have to hide that, it's uncomfortable.
And I try to avoid those situations.
So, you know, that is definitely my hope, right, is to help create those safe places for others so that they can, too, become part of a network, a communication network in some way, shape or form.
And that's where I am, Jason.
I really appreciate it.
You kind of summed it all up as to what my goal is.
And up until over the last six months, I kind of was in my lane to try to get to the point where I could come out.
It's a crazy to say come out of the closet where I was just working in these spaces to make sure my credentials were right, my licenses or my attitude was right.
And when it's time to jump out here in this time right now, Ali Muffin, we've been talking about it.
I'm literally here in California.
And what amazes me is that I can legally grow medicine here in my yard, six plants per household, whether it's medicine or recreational.
Nobody's bothered me.
If they were to come over, oh, that's Ron Cooper.
He's there. He's ex-sheriff.
He's ex-veteran.
He's legal because it's legal.
But my thing is, why can't everybody feel good about coming out and using this plant from the medicinal side, from the recreational side?
And hell, if you want to make money, you know, with the social justice and all the other folks making all this big money off of us as consumers, why can't we make money as well and be proud of it without being worried about criticized or someone ostracizing you or even trying to put you in jail for it?
I'm just fortunate enough to have learned all the rules.
And now it's like sharing it with other people.
And then on a larger scale, you know what?
This is a privately owned property.
Cannabis is legal.
If I have 500 people here, if I have a thousand here, it's privately owned.
We're all getting high.
Can't do anything with it.
Just deal with it and keep on going.
So, again, I just appreciate the room and what you're doing over there where you are and the folks up in Humboldt with Dr.
We can just bring all this information to where if they want to come out, you know, again, that's their tradition, what they've always been doing.
I've heard about him in the 70s up in Humboldt when I was in the Navy.
So now just to physically meet people who are old timers who have been around that I can say, I remember back in the 70s when we were when we were smoking and hiding.
And now that's not hide anymore.
Let's share the medicine.
Let's share the wealth and let's share the realization that people need to come out of incarceration and come out of the closets and accept this as what it is.
And it is a medicine.
I travel around the country.
Pain management, relief, CBD.
People are using it and it is actually saving lives and making people feel better.
So I just appreciate this space and this project that you're on.
And I thank you guys for allowing me to share.
And I'll end my plan.
I'm done speaking for now.
And thank you for being with us tonight, RJ.
Thank you for joining this communication network tonight.
Right.
Again, that's what we are all about.
Nick, any final thoughts this evening?
Yeah, I mean, I think we did a pretty good job summarizing everything.
I'm, you know, obsessed with plants.
So I'm just going to end it on the note that we talked about a lot of plants outside of just cannabis.
I'd also really quickly like to point out that chrysanthemum flowers produce pyrethrins.
And that was the basis for pyrethroids, which were a very successful class of chemicals that were, you know, no longer useful.
But, you know, point being, ultimately, they're derived from chrysanthemum flowers.
And then also everyone in the cannabis industry knows about neem oil.
And this plant produces a compound called azadirachtin that happens to be lethal when applied properly.
So the idea there is like as humans, what we need to do is we need to learn how to work with plants and understand there's a lot of very complex chemistry happening between these various species of plants.
If we learn how to work with the compounds, what we're going to find on the back end of these compounds is there's medicine for humans, like we're already discovering and we've already known about for thousands of years.
But these same medicinal compounds don't just, their beneficial effects don't just stop with humans.
They can also be useful in the context of healing damaged soils, for instance, and starting to rejuvenate some beneficial biological activity, building organic matter back into the soil.
And having this complex healing effect that extends into the microbial world, into the worms that occupy the space and structure the soil.
And then also to the plants themselves that depend on the right combination of elements to actually perform at their best.
And in certain cases, these are the plants that we would consider to be medicinal plants themselves.
So we need to kind of connect this loop again.
We need to understand that plants produce compounds that can be used in the context of healing other plants and the plant becomes the plant and so on and so forth.
And part of it is that the human experience is necessary.
We have to be in sync, we've got to be in rhythm with the plants and we have to be willing to take the compounds that they produce, process them and learn how to work with different species to extend the same benefits that we see like from neem, for instance, and from chrysanthemum.
And even to some extent from cannabis and sage and all these various medicinal plants.
So with that being said, I am done and thank you.
All right. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome stuff.
Doc, any final thoughts for the group tonight?
Grow your own everything, Jason. Grow your own everything.
Like what Nick said, the herbs and the spices, you know, and I live in an apartment, I don't have any room.
You can grow in three to four inches of dirt in a shoe box.
You know, you can use an old coffee can with holes poked in the bottom of it.
You can literally grow in anything and everything under the sun in container form.
You'll be amazed by just growing your own herbs on a windowsill.
How much energy and personal joy you get from these kind of things by just keeping a plant alive.
This is all that interconnection with Mother Gaia and Mother Earth and Mother Ganja that most people have gotten disconnected from and removed from.
You know, like what RJ said, you know, and then the 70s, brother, I retired to humble, but I'm a Mendocino outlaw.
First and foremost, sir, I assure you that when you rolled into the northern portion of Mendocino County back in the 70s, you had to come through our neighborhood.
We were the guardians of the valley back in those days.
I'm a beat up, shot up old man, but back in my prime, sir, I was the scariest thing in the valley for a long ass time.
Yeah, Doc, I did. I didn't come in there without, like they say, you better know somebody.
That's the truth, sir. Yes, sir. That's people laughing.
I don't know about the triangle in the 70s, man. I mean, people told me we didn't get it, you know, because we were living in real time, Ron.
You know, we were living in real time. It's like you don't get about it. Get it now.
Good God, man. You guys were like just freaking outlaws. It's like, yeah, I guess we were, you know, but it's just part of where this things come from.
I truly believe if we hadn't stood our ground that we wouldn't be where we're at right now, because most of us wound up getting into the medical realm, you know, medical cultivation realm, which is the rabbit hole I've been running down for 35 plus years now here.
But, you know, there was a real divide. And then like 15 or so years ago, we saw this shift where a lot of us kind of rode off 15 and 20 years ago.
And there's been that break away from it, you know, that kind of like what Ron was talking about earlier, this there was a time here when it's and it's still here.
It is a real utopian kind of a moment. And if you're in Humboldt and Mendo as you're driving down the 101, you see a little sign, you know, don't forget the magic and the magic is here and be a part of the moment.
That's that's part of what this cannabis heritage really is all about, brothers and sisters, is the community and being in touch with Mother Earth, being in touch with Mother Gaia and growing your own everything.
Jason, you know, grow your own everything. It all and what Nick alluded to, it all comes it all comes from plants and what he whatever he said, 80% of the pharmacopeia, you know, the synthetic pharmacopeia is out of plants.
Sir, would you know, tell me if I'm wrong or not, does the other 20% that comes out of the sea or out of bugs, right? And that where the rest of it comes from, you know, I mean, it's all from Mother Gaia is my point.
So, you know, you just grow your own everything, ladies and gentlemen, be prepared. It's better to know it, not need it, and need it, not know it. That's been my experience in my life. Doc Ray Humboldt County outlaw now above board for six damn years. I own a couple of brands and a couple of companies shutting the hell up.
Awesome. Awesome. Thank you so much for joining us tonight. I really appreciate you come in on this Veterans Day, taking your time with us this evening. Obviously going through your dinner. This was going on.
You know, it's, it was an interesting, it was a really, really fantastic conversation in the room tonight. The YouTube channel went way off the deep end. I don't even want to get into some of the conversations out there tonight. I do have a troll though. So that's fantastic. I really appreciate that. It's, it's awesome. I must be making some good progress to get a good troll on here.
Commenting on my voice and several other things tonight. So I appreciate that. Thank you for joining, John.
You saw my comment that a troll puts hair on your chest and I have a lot of hair on my chest.
Absolutely. Absolutely.
I love it.
Absolutely.
You guys made it. I like it. I have a couple too.
Someone has a problem with something at all times.
Always.
Always.
Where my friend.
Absolutely.
So I do appreciate the folks who did join and did have some decent content and conversation on the chat tonight, but it definitely went south. So I'm not going to even bring up a lot of the topics that were gone on over there. But I do, as always, I want to thank Peter for producing the show.
And getting it available to sometimes not positive crowds, but usually a fantastic crowd on the YouTube side. We do get a great group of people. I think we had, you know, there was like 80 something people on the chat at one point in time.
So it's always awesome to have folks rolling through and listening in on YouTube. And I appreciate the Future Cannabis Project for saving these sessions and archiving them so that folks can listen in if they miss part of the conversation or something that Nick rattled off that they want to go back and review because they come fast and sometimes they're hard to keep up.
I take notes and I have a whole set of stuff that Nick and I prep before we have our conversations. So I kind of know what's going on. But if you want to listen, if you want to go back and re-hear something you missed, go to the Future Cannabis O2 channel and go ahead and re-listen to the episode and check out what you missed.
So thank you. And of course, thank you, Nick from The Rooted Leaf for taking us down the rabbit hole tonight and playing Daffy to my Duck, Bugs Bunny while we dodged Doc and talked about whether it was rabbit season or duck season.
So awesome stuff. Awesome stuff. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Ali and Johnny and Robert and RJ for contributing tonight. I appreciate all of you down below. Dr. Lori Sohan, Christ Ascini, Rachel Dock, Drew D.B. Rye, Anna Brianna Lay, Chase Adam Tyson Redd, Jennifer Sergio Gordo Carolina.
Chris, unfortunately, I'm not going to get you up because we're going to shut down. And thank you to Jolly and Jason and Stoney and even you, John, who doesn't like my voice. Carlos, Buddha Boy, Don and all the other folks on the YouTube today.
Appreciate you for joining and listening, as always. So have a wonderful evening, everybody. And please go talk to a veteran. Thank you very much and have an awesome evening.
Can you all hear me? Yeah. All right. So my dad is a Spry 91 and for his 90th birthday. The reason I have all these pictures is because I was like, I should. We didn't have a scanner. So I just took pictures of the pictures. But like.
From when he was younger, so like these were. I think he was like in his early 20s here. This was the Korean War. And his plane was called Maiden's Delight, and I wish I had a picture of that.
That's a baller name to name your plane. Maiden's Delight. That's Big John right there. He actually looks more like my cousin, Jimmy. But anyway, there is my dad. And there's me.
All right, so ready? Anywho. Yeah, my only point about veterans and wars are like, you know.
But and then. Yeah, I mean, I think even through Vietnam and even after 9-11, it's like people see their country being attacked. They're like, I want to stand up for my country and my people. Like, I don't think that's a good thing.
I think is disingenuous and very black and white. That was the point.
I think is disingenuous and very black and white. That was the point. I was making. And since I have the mic, I get to elaborate on my points.
But I think to say, on average, veterans are killers and puppets and whatever, I think is disingenuous and very black and white. That was the point. I was making. And since I have the mic, I get to elaborate on my points.
So anywho. Tomorrow, because I'm going to go hang out with my kids right now. What's today? Thursday. So Chad Westport and Trevor Sungrown Mids are doing part two of the Breeding Deep Dive, which we're going to do an even deeper dive into with.
Ryan from Chimera.
Sorry, I'm also looking at comments.
Yes.
Just angry people who hurl feces.
Yeah, I smoked a lot of weed today.
Had a lot of weed. I'm a few beers deep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I think everybody agrees that, you know, government and those in power.
Can sometimes be a little corrupt and not have I mean, like even like Vietnam, you'd have the dudes on the front lines being like whoever is sending these orders in is either an idiot or, you know, it's like from the US.
Not in the trenches.
Giving the directives.
And like every war follows the same.
Kind of recipe, I guess, of like old men from previous wars.
Getting to make the calls. It's like if your quarterback can't like do a check down.
Little football analogy. Can't do a check down.
Or like call a new play based on what he sees on the field.
And there is.
All right.
Yes.
I agree with the comment that I just saw my phone.
But anyway, so tomorrow night we got Chad.
We may have latent and compost conversations around two ish.
Although I have Gemma's student teacher conference at one, which could have been a FaceTime meeting.
But Gemma's mom insisted that it be an in-person meeting, which which added an hour of driving to my day.
So any who.
We may have latent and compost in the afternoon.
There's possibly something from London at some point.
I definitely know that Chad is on.
I believe at seven o'clock at night with sun grown mids.
And I've been packing up a lot of seeds from sun grown mids for the past week.
It's all the 88 G13 hash plant crosses.
And actually, for people who are older, when was the first time you ever crossed paths with 88 G13?
Mine was in college when I was going down to New York with some friends and I got my hands on some.
And we were like, is this crazy, wacky government shit?
Chris Mertz, I will not dispute you on that.
Thank you, Jason.
I could have a baritone radio voice.
I feel like this mic, if I, if I cranked up the bass and
Yeah, you can definitely play with your voice and make it sound amazing.
One day I will do that, but.
Okay, with that.
Nice Buddha boy.
I'm going to grow that out too.
I have all that stuff over there.
We got some lime one jarro.
We got some Pakistani kaitrel kush.
And we got some 88 G13 hash plant.
And I want it because I have the same stuff from different people.
So I kind of want to grow like the PCK out from a couple of different people and.
See if there are commonalities or if it's all totally different, like same with the Malawi gold.
Like I'm looking at three different Malawi golds right now.
So.
The Pam is what I smoked earlier.
I re of the.
David Allen Boucher from Boston, I'm from Boston.
So what's waggy is the.
The tetra hydro place that Jason mentioned.
Literally, I grew up with that, so it was a movie theater in the 80s and 90s and like into the 2000s, and then it was just closed down for like 10 years.
And I was always like, I want to take over that spot is just like a cool venue.
And then I came home to visit my parents and were in Narragansett one day.
And that not only had it been taken over, it was like a speakeasy, like a cannabis consumption lounge.
And Jolly, one of my fun future projects is wrapping my mind around the many unpacked seeds that you sent me.
So that is a I got to motivate myself for that project.
I don't doubt that the beans are good.
I just got to motivate myself to.
Want to pack up lots of 10 and 12 packs.
On the spectrum, there is like shit that's packed up and sent to me prepacked and stuff that's just like, you know, I'm just going to go with it.
Like shit that's packed up and sent to me prepacked and stuff that's just like, here's a bunch of labels.
Here's a bunch of beans.
Good luck.
No problem. I read. Yeah.
Yeah, I have a bunch of different black market breeder.
Freebies, so I kind of round robin of like things I send out.
So any who, I will look into that.
Well, I'll yeah, I'll see what this stuff.
It's all very small right now.
So like this is one of the line one Jarrow crosses from Mean Gene.
Yeah, I feel like a.
Like a squirrel, as I think about where I need to send all these, it's like they all need to go to different homes.
So.
It's never painless.
Baby mamas.
It's.
They're not fun, but the kids are worth it.
So anyway.
All right. Have a good night.
