Yep, Jader Bob should be joining us shortly in Major General 420. How's it look
buddies? The hair looking good? Are we ready for the show? Are we live?
Always looking good.
Aww, thank you guys.
We are live back in our lives.
Thank you everybody for joining us. In chat, everybody who's gonna catch it on the replay.
We've got something super special for you tonight, a fun one.
And we were just talking kind of pre-show. We want to give a shout out to anybody traveling this weekend and had to use the restroom at a gas station.
Those things are dangerous. You never know what you're gonna find.
Pine cones, baby, pine cones.
It's a good thing everyone's got hand sanitizer on them now.
Yeah, bro, like that's the reason the hover was invented.
And it was invented by a crackhead. I'm telling you, somebody was watching a crackhead hovering off the end of the back of a toilet trying to drop a pine cone behind that motherfucker.
Oh yeah, they're all trying to compete with each other at this point.
So we can sleep in peace. I don't know how we started there, but we'll get off that topic quickly. You don't want to see that more than once.
No, no, we got to get off that topic tonight. We'll get back to the original topic here.
This is going to be a fun one. I know that I don't really need to do much introductions here.
Mr. Toad, thank you a lot for coming on tonight. I think everybody in the community has a lot of respect for you.
If you're not on the clubhouse, if you're not on the camera, you're in the chat and you're dropping knowledge and you're helping people out.
Also with your Instagram too, man. So I thank you for coming here. I know a lot of people were looking forward to this.
Tonight we're going to talk about some of the breeding projects that you've been doing, that you're working on, some of the things you've got going for the future.
Yes, sir. Sounds good to me, man. I appreciate you having me on there.
Mr. Magpie, I appreciate you for coming here. Cheddar Bob will be showing up here shortly.
All the other testers that have been putting in work and just helping do what we all ask of the breeders out there to do.
Like show some of the work, man. Show some of the testing and be transparent when you do it.
That way, if there's anyone out there that's new, they can ask questions.
If there's someone out there that's experienced, they can lend some some of that experience.
Right. I'm always down to learn, like some of the stuff that Camero brought up the other day about mosaicism.
I've been diving into some of that stuff. Whoa. My camera just slide.
I've been diving into that so I can understand some of that stuff a little bit deeper.
Yeah, that's the fun thing. It's like even, you know, you know a heck of a lot, but the fun thing is you don't know it all yet.
And there's room to learn. There's always going to be room to learn.
That's something that interests me greatly about, you know, audio. That's interest me greatly about plants and, you know, cannabis to cannabis.
It's a plant separate from plants, though. There's a lot to know in either world.
But hopefully we learn them both and then we apply them together.
Indeed. Yeah. Also want to give a real quick shout out town down in the bottom there.
Mr. Magpie. What's up, buddy? How's it going, bro?
It's going good. I'm so glad to get you back on here. You were a guest on the perfectly imperfect grow show.
You and Green 13. That was a frickin blast. And we've actually we've kept in pretty close contact.
You know, we talk pretty often about what's going on in our growth. So glad to have you back, man. Thank you.
Yeah, I appreciate being invited to come on. Yeah. You know, it's Mr. Toad's idea.
We're he was on a panel last week and, you know, everybody's kind of talking.
Somebody's like, hey, you know, be fun to get some testers on. And, you know, Mr. Toad has a pretty unique approach with the testers.
Something that I enjoy seeing and enjoy hearing about.
You know, I get to hear a lot from Cheddar Bob and actually have seen those two kind of go back and forth.
That's a really fascinating side of this that a lot of us don't get to see.
But we're all trying to think through in our minds. We're like, you know, what is what is the breeder looking for?
What has been some of the experience like is he, you know, telling you to stand on your left foot on a full moon and germinate it with spit?
Or, you know, that's that's that's kind of a cool thing about Toad, because he's trying to basically get you to do your thing.
Like he'll help you and give you advice and stuff like that. But he kind of wants to see how because everyone does it different.
Right. Kind of how your way is going to treat them. The one thing I like about it, too, is you can get like kind of really detailed advice.
Like I can send him a picture of like, say, that Robbers Creek Congo space.
She's I'm running now. And right away he could tell me, OK, well, you're seeing the mom and not one and the dad and not one.
And because I have like probably six space, she's male crosses going right now, even though I've never grown the space, she's plant male or female.
I'm starting to be able to see traits from him just because I'm growing like, you know, 80 percent of my flower room right now is all space.
She's crosses. That's awesome. And here we go. We've got join in the session with a camera that's facing up and down.
Maybe we'll go left and right. Mr. Cheddar Bob, how you doing, buddy? Thanks for joining us tonight.
And again, for those people who don't know, Cheddar Bob 13 is a man of himself, but he's also a tester for Mr. Toad.
Probably one that I've seen, you know, talk a lot about the different strains. How you doing tonight, buddy?
I feel like stripping. Why? He's getting ready for you.
Yes, he's not a superhero, but he is the Grateful Dead. And then out comes the hairbrush.
Thank you for the thank you for the quick. Oh, he is a superhero. OK, usually.
Thank you for the strip tease there. That was a bonus for everybody.
Oh, did you get a little flash? I thought I felt a little draft of the belly.
Just just just a little bit. But let's see. Are you able to actually flip your phone sideways?
I like to do things a little differently, but I thought you've done this before.
See, he's one of the beginner testers for me. So I send stuff to him just in case I can.
I can accommodate your wishes. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Now, you know, we all we all get the full profile. We all look pretty.
And I'll probably actually ask you to maybe turn yourself up a little bit, too, if I can be an ass.
I'm sorry. I just want everybody to hear you. Good.
I try turning you up on this end, but sometimes I get a little crackling.
Do you mean so automatically adjust mic volume? How's that?
It's a little bit better. I can talk louder. OK, yeah.
No, that'd be good. I appreciate it. I just want to make sure everything comes through.
Good. There's been times where everything sounds fricking fabulous in the headphones.
And then I'll go back and listen to it and somebody will be quiet. And I'm like, ah, damn it.
So I try to get that. I get that when I'm listening to it in the car on the way to work.
I have a long commute and I'll be listening. And all of a sudden, someone with the best mic will start talking and they're just screaming.
Yeah. Yeah. It comes down to platform, too, because I could be on here and nobody complains about my mic volume.
If I'm on Clubhouse, I have to put the microphone in my mouth and try not to touch it with my lips.
I'm serious. It's crazy. And I've tried every I've got five microphones over here.
I can't get nothing to work with Clubhouse on Android.
Yeah, I like on your I like on your lives when you've had enough about people asking for it and you end up just shoving the microphone right into your mouth.
I see that, too. It's like, bro, any closer and you're getting a freaking colonoscopy.
Well, he'll put it closer and he'll put it closer and then people will be like, oh, I can hear you breathing.
It's like, so no matter what, like you just you came here to complain that cool. All right.
That's right. Well, hopefully everything's everything's worked out.
And again, I appreciate you, you know, you guys for joining us. I'll repeat that one again to you, Cheddar Bob.
I know it's late there on the East Coast for you, but thanks for hanging out a little bit.
So let's yeah, no problem. We're we're talking Roberts Creek, Congo.
Mr. Magpie just mentioned that one. So what what is the kind of story with that cultivar, Mr. Toad?
What is Roberts Creek, Congo all about?
It's a cutting that I got from Kevin.
It's a line that was passed originally, from what I know, by a man named Alex that went by the handle of La Mano Negra.
He passed away in 2008 and he was responsible for passing a few different land race lines to the community for free.
And under stipulations that people would pass them freely if they could and not try to profit off it.
And it had been worked eventually to, I believe, to the F4 status and a selection from the F4 was then released.
It's been around for a while. I know Chimera said that he had had that cut for over a decade already.
It just takes time for some cultivars to get different areas.
She's a nice plant. She's, it's hard to explain when I say a citric on there.
A lot of people will think like tangy or something like that, but she's not like that.
It's kind of like a kerosene and orange zest with like, she's bright.
There's like a lime and a lemon coming off her, but she's not your typical orange flavored cannabis at all.
It's something I'm not really fond of. This plant here, she's nice.
She's one of the plants that gets me higher than most. I mean, she sets me down on my rear real fast.
She makes me start daydreaming when I smoke her.
But I don't want to do anything at all. If I still had two legs, I wouldn't get the fuck up. I was smoking that stuff.
She just puts you in your place. I've passed her to some older cats to see what they thought.
Cats older than myself, I'm almost 50 and they feel the same way.
It takes them back to smoking herb in the older days, just from the type of high you get from the plant.
Reminiscence of the terpene profiles that you will find on her.
Now that's something that I've actually heard a lot more recently too.
I'm not quite 50 yet, but I also don't know a lot of these older cats, but a few of the older ones that I have, they do.
They talk about that different kind of stone.
They almost, gosh, I forget the terminology, but there's like a difference between stoned and high.
It's a lot of the older cats that are relaying that type of message and some of those strains bring them back.
This one actually does sound like it's an older strain. It's been around for a while.
It's not something that's just been crossed recently and you're working through.
Is that cut from Vision Creator past from El Mono Negro or did he get past Seedstock and then he found that?
As far as I know, he got Seedstock. The Seedstock that El Mono Negro had, I can't remember off the top of my head who originally it was passed to.
It eventually worked to Vision Creator as far as I know and that's where the F4 selection came from.
If I'm wrong on this, I want to be clarified on it, but that's what I believe is the information that I have.
Well, people can reach out to Vision too. He's on IG there.
Him and White Buffalo are doing a lot of work with that line.
I would love to try the haze across to that plant because the type of high that would come from that.
For myself, it's the kind of herb that works for my system.
There's some plants that I can smoke and I can smoke and I can smoke and it doesn't really have a lot of effect on me.
There's those lines that I can just smoke a few puffs of and I'll put the joint down and don't realize I've done that.
I'll have that same joint all day.
You're the type of person that says, I smoke any kind of weed.
Yeah, fool, you smoking that same joint all day.
Some weed will do that to me. I got the same high from my playing with fire.
It's a Kosher Kush Fire OG Accidental Cross.
That plant, man, I got so high off of that I lost my joint in the refrigerator for half a day.
I didn't realize I lost it.
I was so high I was sitting on the damn couch and didn't realize I'd lost the joint until I went to the refrigerator to cure the munchies and found the joint in the refrigerator and was like, oh shit, I lost my joint.
I picked it back up and proceeded to finish a few more puffs and I didn't even eat, but I was high.
I've used that in some crosses. I use that in my raindrops and the Flame On to continue through.
That playing with fire was crazy. We found six seeds in some herb.
I took a partner, 12 Kosher Kush and 12 Fire OG and we found six seeds in the Fire OG side.
It was the plant right in the middle.
He hung plants selected by how they were positioned in the room because he wanted to see which ones are the best so he could pull the weed from that one and then regrow it.
We knew exactly which plant it came from.
I'd been growing at that point the Fire OG for about 11 years and I had never seen that thing throw any kind of stamina flower over that time.
I had seen a few a bottom of the Kosher under particular conditions, but I had never seen it grow.
I had seen a few a bottom of the Kosher under particular issues.
We tied it to that, but it could be a Fire S1, but we're not sure.
It has something different in it and we do know that comes out of making S1s.
You're getting like an F2 expression, so there's going to be different genotypes.
There's no way to tell from just smoking whether or not it's truly a Kosher Fire or a Fire or Fire, but whatever it is, it's one of the best Kushes I had smoked in the last decade.
That stuff was so good, man.
I'm so sorry I lost that plant when I got sick.
That was one of the ones I wish I could get back.
When you find one of those S1s or you find that six seeds in the ounce or the pound or whatever, you're just like, yeah, it's not a ton.
I'm going to go ahead and toss them in and see what I get.
I myself, I've had fairly good luck.
I've had some that were just naturally and very easily want to put off Nanners by themselves.
I've had others where I've tried and I can't get them to express Nanners anymore.
So what has kind of been your experience in that sort of situation where it's maybe one or two, it's not a hundred seeds in your bag?
When I find that it's a plant that over the years I've kind of been able to see a cultivar be able to – is it thrown in from an abiotic stress or is there a biotic stress happening in the plant that's causing it?
The abiotic stress has to do with some specific environmental cues.
It could be spectrum.
It could be heat.
It could be a hormonal issue.
There could be a gas that's being put off in the air.
In the old days, cats would be using a propane heater in the room to heat the room and it would burn inefficiently and propane can leave extra ethylene in the room.
If you were breeding, you could find a male that now might appear to express as a homorphodite because it has issues with ethylene sensitivity.
Now it's processing inside the system.
All of a sudden you're like, I don't want that plant through selection.
This is where I talk about people doing phenohunts where they really – I think they believe they're doing genohunts where they're trying to find a new genotype in that gene pool, that pool for them.
Now you grow it in different environments to see what type of phenotypal expression you're going to get in those particular areas to now be able to dial in to one of those particular spots.
Does that plant like heat?
Is it a plant that needs a cooler area?
Does it need a higher nutrition level, a lower nutrition level?
You're not doing any of that in one grow from any amount of seeds.
You're just going to find expressions from the line in one type.
We do know that with a – no matter what size amount of seeds you have, you're trying to find a new gene type out of there, which is the genotype expression ratio.
If it was a true breeding line, you'd have four different genotype expressions out of there.
One to one is the ratio on there.
So you'd end up with basically 25 percent going to have an expression one way and 50 percent that will show basically a split half and half, but they're pretty much homogenous from a lot of traits together.
And then another 25 percent there is going to be more heterozygous traits also like the first 25 percent.
So you're trying to find the genotype expression you're looking for in that line.
If it's a phyro G cross, are you trying to find that tall lanky plant that represents the mother a lot or are you trying to find the outlier that might show up in her system?
So if you made a lot of seeds, you'd be able to find that.
And six, you're probably never going to see it.
And 100 percent aren't.
That six could all express the same.
They could all express differently.
But that doesn't tell you if those alleles that were in the other progeny were going to repeat that frequency on the same level.
So is number six the dominant expression in that line?
Is that what's going to come out of that plant when you S1 it the most or is it number two?
And from those six seeds, you'd never know that no matter how many times you grow it.
You're only going to know that that plant was killer.
That's what I worked on.
So I find that those S1s are like that.
You never know exactly what it came from usually.
That's what all the greats that we found, all the chems and all that's out there, the stuff that we love came through some form of, we believe, asexual expression or homophrodite, maybe rogue pollen, we're not sure yet.
But that's the stuff that we're all coveting out there.
It all breeds beautifully and it wouldn't be around for the time it has if it wasn't that great.
It would have had to pass so many hands to breach the status that it's at.
Right. There was an interesting thing.
I was talking with Trevor, Sun Grown Mids, the other week, talking about some things that were selfing and the different alleles and potency.
It was only responsible for potentially 9% of the overall potency.
But there was a paper that showed the S1 or the selfing actually led to increased potency in that specific allele, which is only 9% of the total equation.
But I thought that was interesting because instantly I'm like, yeah, a lot of people love the chem because it just fricking hits you.
But again, we all kind of know that was a bag seed.
So that was probably a female, female thing.
And I wonder if that is where the power came from, maybe.
There's a possibility.
And in the original story, they say there was a male.
So we don't know if they came from S1s.
There's just no way to tell.
The male could have been a female that had ethylene issues and was just expressing that way in their garden at the time from maybe too much nitrogen.
Or maybe they hit it hard with amino acids and it was having issues with that right there.
Anything could have done it.
So there's so many things that those I wish I knew what they really were because you grow them side by side and they're different.
But they're similar, right?
They have different expressions.
S1 and it's hard to find each other in them.
Right. On a repeatable amount.
So you have to do a massive population to find the Chem 4 and the Chem D if they're related.
Same with the Chem 91 or the Chem 1 or the Chem 3 or the Chem 6.
All of those plants, if you sell them, should eventually show their sisters because they came from a self, their self.
So eventually they would apparently show their selves or the genetics that were in them repeatable.
So you'd see something that was going to express over and over.
That's where we should dive into like in a group of readers, not just myself, but like as a community.
Try to figure some of these things out without genotyping.
If we do it through experience with the plant, it would teach us a lot.
Because you could read a book a thousand times, but you could be shown the same thing while the books open and be like, here's that's this is that right there.
And boom, you understand it.
You don't have to read that paragraph a thousand times.
I can show you how to pollinate a plant.
And you're like, what the fuck do I do with the Q-tip?
Right. There was no pictures back in the day.
Like people, I don't know what the fuck I'm supposed to do or when I'm supposed to do it.
I had a partner that grew a male for fucking a year and a half under 24 hours of light.
The thing was just fucking stressed out.
And I phototron, right. He didn't know shit about weed other than he wanted some.
So he's just grown it and grown it and he was afraid to ask anyone.
But he knew I knew because I was the first person to ever got him high back in fourth grade.
We got caught smoking weed in the pig pen and his dad had a three thousand three thousand acre ranch.
They had pigs and cows and sheep.
So we figured if we fucking go up to the pig pen, we could cover the smell of the weed with fucking pig shit.
So we go behind the pig pen.
Well, he followed us. We weren't smart enough to realize that fucking cowboy was tracking us.
His dad was a fucking cowboy, dude.
Like them cats have been here since the 1800s and they came here in a wagon and they still had the fucking wagon.
Like for real.
They had the first school that was out here. Everything.
So but we're out there and we fucking I'm like, check it out, Kenny.
We'll go behind Susie, the pig. She's big as fuck.
Susie weighed like 250 pounds.
We're in fourth grade. So she looks like she's a thousand pounds.
So we're behind Susie and we're smoking this joint.
And here comes his dad fucking clopping around on the fucking horse and shit.
We're in there shaking like, oh, shit, Buzz is going to fuck us up.
All he did was stop out right exactly where we were and start talking like we weren't there.
But like if we were there, he would wish he heard like he just fucked with our brains.
That dude never cussed. He never swung at us, but he could mind fuck you real good, dude.
So I went home scared as fuck that my mom was going to beat me for smoking the farm boy out there.
I was always the kid smoking the first kids out there.
It's crazy.
Every time you're going to get invited over there for dinner again.
But eventually they're like, he's a good kid and shit.
Yeah, I'm pretty good kid, but I'm the one that got your kid high first.
So we got to get over that.
It took a couple of years, but eventually I get through parents somehow, you know, because I'm not that bad of a guy.
I just got weed all the time.
Right. Well, yeah, you know, I'm seeing somebody in the pig farmers are great people to know.
Sometimes that's what business you're in.
But, you know, they're also they're also talking, you know, kind of about like her math and did it traits.
You know, that's something that you've talked about in length.
And I know one of the important things and for testers is to, you know, again, you said I want to see them in different environments.
You can also run into some different issues.
Like I know Cheddar Bob, you know, I respect you're growing.
Absolutely great grower.
But you had I remember not too long ago you had an issue with like a timer and then you had another issue.
Little, little things that would cause like, you know, that's the reason why we test.
So could you maybe talk about how that turned out for you or, you know, some of the testing that you've done?
I know that's kind of a broad question, but yeah, you do great work.
And I know you've been testing for Mr. Toad for a long time.
So maybe you just kind of give everybody a rundown on that.
Yeah, the so that instance was when I was testing the Bruce Banner, Bruce Banner number three across with Space Cheese, which is now Bob's Cheddar.
And everything was going gray all through veg.
The plants were looking beautiful.
I had called out the males.
And then all of a sudden, like you were saying, all those little small things that you never, you never really plan for, you know.
And then when it started happening, like the timer broke and the driver went on my light and we had this unprecedented heat wave in like late June that we were like 90 degrees in late June, which we never are on the coast of Maine.
And then, geez, there was something else, too.
I can't think of off the top of my head.
You even had to switch out the lights.
Yeah, I had to change light sources.
Yeah, switch light sources.
I mean, it was just a cascade of things that happened.
And those plants, you know, I've run plants that have been in ideal conditions and they've hermioned, you know, they've thrown nanners, they've had a seed or two pop out of them.
And these things, nothing, they just trucked right along.
And I was I was blown away, you know.
So what kind of feedback are you giving to, you know, the breeder at that point?
Are you kind of like hesitantly like, well, did my timer broke and I didn't know?
How does that how good is the reporting there?
Well, yeah, there's a lot of that, you know, personally being like, you know, you feel like you kind of let the person down by not providing them with the optimal grow.
When actually you're doing more of a service by throwing all of that stress at these plants that are being tested.
And that's that's I mean, no one wants you to, you know, go out and mess up and grow.
But, you know, I think that information is is almost as vital as to having ideal growing conditions.
So, yeah, I think so, too.
I mean, I don't know. I'm sure, you know, Mr. Toad, if I'm giving out seeds to somebody, you know, I'd love to get them in the hands of like a great grower, someone who I know.
You know, can bang it out time and time again.
But I'm also kind of looking to get them to somebody who is maybe not so experienced, someone who might be like, oh, if I add twice the amount of food to it, then it's going to grow twice as big.
You know, that's what Mr. Tree says, too.
Like he likes to send testers to your average grower, then some to the best grower he knows, and then some to the guy who kills almost every plant he touches.
Yeah. I mean, again, a lot of these, I think, are probably going to go to, you know, folks like myself.
We're a home grower. You know, we don't have all the bells and whistles and we don't have all the knowledge and experience, but we're doing our thing and we're trying.
So how does that kind of come into play for you, Mr. Toad, when it when it comes to looking at, you know, potential testers or things that you deem important to get things out to people?
Well, for me, there's a few things that I want to start with.
I want to know that the person is open with cannabis because of the times that we're coming to and the reasons why we're doing this and why I breed.
I don't breed just so I can have the fame or something or the hype from it.
And I don't breed just so people can post fancy pictures, but I've always bred to put respect back on the plant and to offer medication to folks who are dying or sick and to the point where they're almost dying.
So this is why I breed. So when I I'm kind of hard on folks about being open with cannabis because being open with cannabis is why your grandmother will begin to use cannabis in the topical format and begin to talk to her son, who she's yelled at most of her life about possessing cannabis.
And he spent his whole life feeling like an outcast because he wasn't accepted because of information that was passed in a era that we don't want ever coming back.
And many of us don't even believe existed. Right. I was one of the people that was in this time where me and my own family, even though we grew with cannabis, we we fought amongst ourselves over because of secrecy behind the plant.
And that's where the evilness is in it. When you hide the truth of what you do from people, you want to offer your reality to your reality isn't anything more than smoke and mirrors.
And you can't offer that to people that don't have much time left. So I started there. After that, it really kind of doesn't matter what technique you use, because there's growers of every style out there.
I've learned this when I used to run the club. There's someone running hydro. There's a cat running multiple versions of hydro. Right. There's going to be a deal with ebb and flow. There's deep water culture.
There's a cat out there that's growing in a bucket of coconut that has nothing in it. And he thinks he's growing organically, but in reality, he's growing hydroponically.
You need to be able to have plants that can handle different nutrient loads, need to have plants that are going to be able to handle different Instagram loads, which is going into the room at night to take your pictures because they look great when the flash hits them.
People do this so often and so repeatedly and will even send you the pictures and tell you they did this. And then three weeks later, ask why there's some orphanedites expressing in the room.
And how many times have you showed Jack and Jill your whole damn girl in the middle of the fucking night? Dude, what are you doing? You don't understand how this plant is regulating different hormones in its system.
You just read a book that said to do this and it'll give you that. You're mad at me. Right. So I want someone that understands that what's going to happen is it's going to happen.
If the whole fucking pack of testers turn to morpho, I guess what you get to post that on Instagram and Facebook, you can write the newspaper and tell everybody that that happened.
And I'll be happy that it did, because it's going to keep me from repeating this mistake again, making a bad cross, offering it to anybody in any type of form, because this is now is going to waste somebody's time.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because they grew some plants and halfway through flower there to kill everything, start shit all the way over. And now they missed the fucking birthday because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again. And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again. And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again. And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
And I'm not going to be a birthday with a grandson because there's a fight in the family over weed again.
That's sad
That's where I'm at now.
For 10 years ago, I was a different person.
But now, I don't...
You know what I mean?
I have no reason.
It's like, cool.
Do whatever you want.
I got a medical card that you guys took several hundred dollars from me, by the way, and then gave it to me.
Don't have to hide anymore.
You don't have to be in fear, which is a pretty awesome feeling.
That was the beauty of it.
I don't know if you saw the videos I put on Instagram of my backyard garden this year.
But I've never been able to have that many outside, so I just went nuts.
I just threw stuff everywhere.
You go nuts with everything, bro.
You put shit everywhere.
If I could grow one on my head, I would.
I just love it.
It's so cool.
Just opening all Toad's packs and opening Mr. Tree's packs.
I had some Bodhi gear, like green Bodhi.
And it's just insane.
It's just clearly so much better work than anything I've ever run.
As soon as I saw a couple of them, they only had to get three inches tall.
And I'm just like, you know what?
Let's fucking pop everything.
That's definitely one of the things that until you experience professional breeder gear, it's hard to really understand or state the difference.
But once you do, you kind of are like, oh, that's what I've been missing.
That's what I've been missing.
Mr. Magpie is running my haze for days up there, too.
He's been doing selections.
And it's officially, I checked today, from yesterday to today, it officially hit my ceiling.
So it's almost just a for fun one at this point to see what it'll do.
But I figure by the end of the week, it'll be Grinch Mount crumpeting from my ceiling, which that's not a complaint.
That's one thing I love about the haze.
Like when I think of the word overgrow, I think of the haze for days.
Like you can clone this thing.
Like I did it in the tent I ran.
I'm going to put up the post soon.
I took some pictures.
I ran a whole tent full of cuts.
No domes, no nothing at 60% humidity.
The same as a bedroom.
Just out of curiosity.
Roberts Creek Congo to Space Cheese and the haze for days are the only ones consistently.
And every single haze for days female I had took off to the point where like where the rest were just shooting roots.
The haze, by the time a regular cut is shooting roots, the haze is growing out of whatever you're cloning it in.
And it doesn't care if you give it new shoes or not.
They'll grow five feet tall in a one gallon and they won't even get angry.
It's insane.
Like they're just they're aliens.
I love growing them.
That's awesome.
They're breeding stock.
That's what I tell them.
See, I wish like Todd has released the NL5.
If you get those NL5s and make your own modern day version of the NL5 haze and then sift through them and then start diving into all the old forums where there's pictures that go back to the early 2000s.
Yeah, for reference.
And yes, exactly.
And start looking at them for reference and you'll be able to see stuff that you would never know was going to be there without the experience of those original plants.
That's why I sent you two crosses to the Robert Creeks Congo so that you can grow both of them.
Yeah, I can't wait to pop the jungle toad too.
That's the next one I get to pop.
Yeah.
Cross and here's the deal.
The space cheese has no relation to the ghost of Port Royal male, but the mothers are the exact same cut.
So what you're going to see out of there is going to be the most homozygous traits at that plant could pass once it starts popping up in higher numbers.
So the ones that have the traits the most similar.
Now, if you cross those and do a sibling cross, right, you're going to start to see traits that you're probably going to want that you wish you could found in the original Roberts Creek Congo.
If you can't get on the cut yourself.
So having two lines crossed at the same mother, even though I can't give you the mom because of your location, kind of does what I did with Cheddar Bob by passing him the mail.
Well, that's on the list to like at some point next time I can get out to B.C.
That's I've already reached out to vision on Instagram there and been like, I don't know whose hand I have to shake or whose back I have to rub, perhaps.
But I would love to be a hand.
And there's a hard reality to the situation.
Like no one. No, no.
Real quick. Let me jump in here.
You had mentioned this word a moment ago, and this is something that we hear a lot.
And I'm just just curious, maybe a little more clarification.
But we hear a lot of people, Mr. Toad, say it's good for breeding stock.
So when you're saying breeding stock, does that mean it's not fun to grow?
It doesn't smoke great.
Or there's just certain traits that it always passes on that makes it like what what is breeding stock when we hear that term?
For me as a breeder, if I want to make lines that are going to be more homozygous for specific traits, they're going to have alleles that have frequencies that are higher than other ones.
Like we're not going to see crazy mutations out of the line.
We're going to see plants that are more similar than dissimilar.
You want to start with plants that are better for breeding.
And this is a plant like that.
There's some lines out there that we all know just from the amount of years they've been on the scene, the amount of crosses they've done and the visual representations that we can all see.
And the descriptions we've all had from deep chunk to hazes to the amount of people that are working with the Congo now that you'll be able to start seeing stuff out of.
When you see the cookies pop up in lines, everyone can see it or the OG Kush breath, right?
If that line was true breeding for all of its trait, it would show up all the time.
It wouldn't be a recessive mutation that shows up sometimes.
And that's what we want.
So we could breed for that by doing back crossing or sim crossings like or doing F generations and then doing the same exact thing.
It just takes a little bit of time and the knowledge of knowing what you're looking for.
Right. So you can't just have one picture of the plant.
Preferably, you should grow it like I did with Cheddar Bob by passing him the mother to the plant.
He can see specific traits that she's going to throw out.
Maybe none of them show up in the cross.
And he's like, what's going on here?
Like, why? Why is this plant very dissimilar than the Bruce Banner number three?
And he showed some pictures to me.
I already knew the picture that he sent to me had my space cheese plant being pretty much replicated in its structure and density.
To me, it looked like it was going to have a lot of the smells that would come off the plant that I know from the space cheese hybrids.
So like he didn't even have to tell me.
I knew what it was, but he was asking, like, what's this?
Which like which ones are coming from?
He wants to know specifics about it because he can see the mother over there.
But he wants to know if possibly my grow.
She showed something different or does she grow like this in my guy?
Like, is the shape of the buds of that Bruce Banner?
They this shape, right?
Do they crown into the conditions or are they a very spear shaped bud?
Like, are they very round golf ball shape?
Like, what what am I seeing here?
Right. I know I have the mom.
But is it because my room got hot this grow and I had those issues or is it because those plants are showing something from the mom or from the plant that I'm just not getting right?
And I can show him pictures from my grow that show the same structure from what he's getting on the mother.
So now he knows what he sees from the other side is more than likely coming from my space cheese sides, especially when I can send him pictures of the sister, Finos and the brother that made him like the father, Mr.
From under. So I sent him those pictures and now he can dig through those to actually do a genome hunt so he can pick plants that either represent the Bruce Banner or that represent the space.
She says more. They're not going to be copies.
They cannot be, but they can share a lot of the traits of those plants pass homogeneously and could carry some of those recessive traits like, say, bread to a freak show or an ABC.
Those hybrids will show those in their progeny. You just have to dig through enough of the seeds.
And that's what would make that plant novel to use the line breed in different directions. Right.
You take that plant and cross it back to its original parent or to its sibling that shows it and start to line breed for those mutations.
OK, that's interesting. So the breeding stock basically is almost just kind of it's the stud. It's going to give you reliability.
Yeah. So if you're going to take a cookies and cross it to a green crack. Right. And you've never grown either one of them without looking at pictures on the Internet.
How do you know which one passed which? It's just a name on a pack. Right.
So you get a line that you know that you can look through history like like the haze for days that I've made a continuation through and other people have made hay seeds.
I'm not the only one. There's Todd McCormick. There's positronics. I've made over the years. Other people have made haze continuations.
I am not the only sole proprietor of this strength, but you can look through and see similarities in the leaf structures across this make the flower times that are represented through unless they're line bred to a specific way.
You can see the terpene profiles that are really popping up in the true hazes and not the hybrids that come out of those hazes so that you can know what to look for when you're breeding.
So you take the haze, you dig through everybody's forums and find out what's going on. Look at all the podcasts that are going on right now about it.
Look at BAM's grows. Look at the pictures that I've shown and see the similarities and now know what you're looking for in your plants and know that they've all said that that plant's going to be wide in its gene pool.
So it's going to be heterozygous and traits, but you're going to be able to pick those traits to use the line breed by breeding together or crossing them to something dissimilar and finding something like Tom Hill had the monkey haze or, you know, like my totally haze, which is haze the redwood or my space Tiva, which is the haze to my angel.
And you got the NL5 haze. Some of these crosses like the NL5 haze are legendary lines that over time have shown what they could produce from that cross. So, you know, you could find those genetics these days and more than likely have a more successful breeding start than if you just went willy nilly with anything because you'd like the names on the pack.
If you can start with the experience that you understand through like cheddar, Bob, not that he didn't know about plants, but knowing that he was going to test one of my lines, I knew if I sent him a plant, it wasn't like it was going to get out and he's going to give it to someone. I don't give a damn. That's why I don't send him a mail.
Right. But the mom, someone I got the mom somehow. So why does it matter if he gets the mom somehow? But it's the experience. I would prefer that people testing for me and that want to grow my herb, get some of my experience.
They know why I picked mom slightly. You know, some of them, they're going to see some of the stuff that I liked in there when they start to smoke that weed or if they smell it, if they grow three or four of my crosses that lean to the sours and shit, you'll be able to see similarities to what I was looking for in those crosses in those crosses. Right.
It's not that they're all the same. It's because I wanted that kind of shit out of those. So if I was going to breed towards that direction, that's where I can drive my fucking shit into. And it speeds up my breeding. Right. I could go by the name on the pack or I can go by the experience in the back. Right. And that's what I'm looking for. I'm looking for experience in the back of the head, not what you read about the pack.
Because that's just for me, it's back in the day I learned cannabis by region. Right. It was Afghani. It was Thai. I was Colombian until someone else's interpretation of it. Well, not really. Back in the day when I started, we're talking late 70s and early 80s. So there wasn't a lot of now.
Oh, now. Yeah. I'm just talking when I started. That's how I learned about cannabis. So I wasn't about what the name on the pack was. It was really about the high that we got in the guy that gave it to us because we knew that guy gave it to us so I could get the seed stock from him. I could go get more and it was going to be that same thing. And I could use that to make my own seed.
Right. If he said it was Thai, it really didn't matter if it was Thai. It just mattered that that shit was had the effect. Right. So every time it's the same seeds from the same guy. He's just giving me Thai every time, every time he says it's Thai. It's never changed. Same pies, the same buds. And one day there's some seeds in the shit. And I'm like, oh, shit. Now I'm not buying this shit no more. Right. Now I'm going to make my own seeds because by that time I'd grown pumpkins, grown some squash.
I grew up around farms like I was talking about earlier. My friend's dad had a 3000 acre cattle farm and had pigs on the farm and sheep on the farm and horses on the farm. I grew up around growing fucking animals and plants.
That's just what I've got. Documentation of my grandfather going back into the very early 1900s down in the Tockwoods Canyon with their work in the fields in the area down by Palm Springs. It's just in our blood to be playing with plants and to be interested in what we're playing with.
It just kind of makes sense that people get more interested in the hobby they start with to the point where it either tries to become they try to become more professional, even if you aren't a professional or you just let it go. Right. It wasn't for me. I find something else that was better. And this just was for me.
That's awesome. And that's kind of one thing I got a question or a comment that I'm going to put up here from Chase. It kind of goes kind of goes to my question, I guess it is. But, you know, I've always been impressed. You know, like Mr. Magpie had mentioned earlier, he said he was seeing the auto traits and you know that it leads back to this particular redwood cultivar that's, you know, down in the lineage.
But I've always been impressed by the back knowledge that you have, because I think in like my opinion, that's that's the ultimate that you want to hear and see from a breeder is someone who knows those older strains. And, you know, it says Chase, he says, Mr. Toad understands the importance of breeding stock because he doesn't work only or work only polyhybrids. He prefers building block cultivars. And it seems like you have a good base foundation.
Dude, I'm sorry, but the guy on Instagram isn't going to be able to tell you that what you're seeing is from three generations down. How did you kind of get a lot of that knowledge or come to that knowledge? Because that's it's you know, honestly, it's very impressive. And for me and a lot of people, I think that's a deciding factor of like, I'm going to I'm going to go with this guy's gear, you know?
Oh, I think you're muted, Mr. Toad. You're muted. Sorry.
It goes back to working with my space cushion line and actual for females that I kept the three females and the male angel and the breeding that I did with him and starting it started with the pink pistols that started coming out.
I started seeing this coming out of there and it's coming out of like every cross I'm doing it with and plants that either weren't showing it in other crosses or and weren't showing it in their cells to start with.
So I started seeing a trait that like a lot of people out there want to start to breed for because it's beautiful. Right. And I don't understand why it's there. And for me, I know that if I can understand why it's there, I got a better chance of replicating it and making that allele frequency happen at a higher rate.
So I start diving into what I think it is. And even now, I don't know 100 percent what it is, but what it's coming down to that I see it is it's an anthocyanin that protects parts of the plant that don't photosynthesize on the same levels as the green parts of the plant.
So this could be the stigma, the bracts, even the stems, the petioles. This is why at a specific point during the grow you start seeing more red expressed or even more blue from the internal phloem and xylem fluids that are being passed that are transferred to the root tips that are now passed through the whole plant.
Once they've reached the very tips of the plant, those students are so thin and they just start to fluoresce those colors. And once I start seeing that and seeing it in other plants that will do it during pollination cycles to where it basically comes down a way for those plants to make themselves more attractive to pollinators.
And now here's where we'll get everybody saying that why does cannabis need pollinators? It literally doesn't, but the males actually love to attract bees, the male plant. They have amino acids. They're a high protein source. They will flock to those when there aren't native flowering plants in the area.
So us as humans introducing a non-native plant to the area on a high level and it starts to produce this male pollen, if you ever go out there and start to see your garden, you'll see this trait to pop out. These plants will start to attract bees and some will do it at higher levels than others.
And you only notice this when you're growing multiple males, right? Not because you grew one male this year and another male the next year, but because you grew 15 males out there and they're all going to three of them and those three happen to be related. And for some reason they go there first, right?
And I can take those out of the equation and let them deal with the rest of the plants and see what happens there and see if they start to select through there and you can pick breeding stock. And I've done that for years to find out if Mother Nature thinks my plants are on a nutritional basis better for the environment and the critters around it.
There's documentation on pollen from plants being something that can help the bees with colony collapse disorder now that's happening. There's quite a bit of stuff on that. So it came out of that, right? I started seeing things through nature because, like I said earlier, I'm a people person. We were talking about that earlier. I was watching people.
I'm always watching because I really don't understand why everyone feels the way they feel or what's happening. So I'm trying to always figure it out. It's just my nature. It's just how I've always done shit. It's part of the testing with cheddar.
And same thing with Mr. Magpie. By sending plants that are crossed to different cultivars, he gets the experience of that mother plant without them. It's my secret way of sending my tester away to up their game and they don't even know it. They don't have to select for it. I'm like, here, just grow those. You said you like that. Here, try this. See if you really like it. See how it breeds.
Make more seeds. Try to replicate what you love out of it. I try to do that with other breeders. I send them more packs that are related or if they want outcrosses or anything they want, I send that to them. Just so they can do whatever they want. Make seeds. Give them to your friends. Use it for positivity.
Passing them out. Overgrow, basically. Which, again, is awesome. You come from a long background of medicinal application for this plant. Again, that's awesome to hear and that's kind of rarefied air from breeders as well. Make more seeds. Give them out. Do that.
My first company was called 215 Farms. It was named after the proposition that made cannabis legal in 1996.
That was in California. Prop 215. I think Dennis Perrone and Eddie Leper.
Yeah, at the Cannabis Pirates Club. Hell yeah, brother. Pioneers. Doing what Instagram lets us all take for granted. Those cats, they were putting their life literally on the line to do what people are like, I got a 30 day ban and shit. These guys got a ban from reality and shit. Cannabis was deeper than fucking pictures on the internet.
Yeah, they were getting freedom bans.
Yeah, I will. I mean, not to sound trashy.
They were dying, brother. I mean, for real, them folks were dying. They're not here no more. That's the reality of their original 215 days. The collectives that were selling us weed were there because the people were fucking not going to be there long.
They weren't going to be customers for days and the prices, like the original theory was to put it at a dollar a gram, right? Who the hell would sell their herb for a dollar a gram a day? Nobody, right? There was no branding.
There was nothing but pass the knowledge and the plant to the person so that they don't have to die looking for it. That was the original fucking recipe, right? And instead, we decided to start selling shrimp and fucking hamburgers at the KFC and we had them 11 herbs and spices correct the first time.
We did. So, are you taking some of the feedback that you're getting from your testers not only to evaluate the strength of a future release but also to look at, I might cross this and that in the future? Does that come into your mind with the feedback?
I know.
I know.
In the old days, that's how I did it and the people I knew did it. We had enough people in our circle that we could take some of those seeds and be like, here, grow them. Someone's grandma needed some seeds, right?
You don't charge her. You put them in her garden and she grows them and you come over and help her put in some fucking top dressings and shit.
You put a fence up so the deer don't eat it and while you're there, you're writing down what you need in your head so you know how they're working in the shade because she's got them hidden from the neighbors and she fucking trims the shit out of them because she's used to the rose bushes, right?
And she's never on cannabis so she's out there fucking doing manual fucking maybe out of stress every damn day but they're still growing like champions, right?
And you're writing all this shit down in the back of your head. That's how I did it because I came from where you couldn't put pen to paper. You were fucking putting time on the fucking sentence.
It all went in the back of the head so I'm just writing it down. What is she doing? What's the guy that thinks…
My buddy used to feed his plants raw meat. He worked in the restaurant with us. He had a seven gallon pot or one of those… it's like a five gallon fucking bucket but seven gallon that we used to get fucking pickles in.
And he would take all the scraps for the week and throw it in there and leave it outside in the sun and at the end of the week he'd take it home.
And that was the fertilizer he was putting on his plants and then wondering why they're dying.
So I could give that cat plants and if they lived in his shit I was like those are probably… they might be hardy. They might have something in them, right?
So I'd go check and make sure he was feeding them the fucking kitchen scraps and buy the rest of them.
And he's like those don't have no problem but the rest of the shit those guys don't know what the fuck to do.
They'll be like yeah you're right they don't know what to do. I'd write it all down because it ain't either one of them, right?
It's like there's a reaction happening here. Don't use meat. Don't use meat. Don't give homeboy the seed. Don't give Chris the seeds, right?
Don't give homeboy Chris the seeds because you're going to lose them. That's how I lost my fucking… the lion that we used to have called Ben Gay.
I gave him the last 13 seeds and he fucking put meat on them. Fucking gave him sloppy Joe. The sloppy Joe treatment. Don't give him the sloppy Joe treatment. It doesn't work.
He was trying to get that meat breath.
Here we go.
The original me.
Man and the lady from Billy Madison. You like some sloppy Joes, do you?
No.
Someone out there right now is wanting… I'm looking for those sloppy Joe turps. Someone right now is wanting sloppy Joe turps. I guarantee it.
I got some oregano turps in my drawer. I got the man with the oregano turps.
Man, check this out. My mom was down here.
She would tell you guys. Check this out. When I was four years old, I used to sell my uncle fucking oregano in a bag and shit.
And those little Smarties candies, I used to take the wrapper off and sell them the little fucking red and blue ones.
And he thought he was getting fucking quaaludes and weed and shit. He'd fucking go in the bedroom and smoke those things and eat all the fucking Smarties and come out and be like,
I'm like, what the fuck, man? My uncle would be drunk as shit. He'd drink until he thought he was tripping, dude. It was crazy.
I've been slinging herb at an early age, man.
I may or may not have sold a fancy stick before.
You're right. Slinging oregano.
In his mind, it was the best weed in the world to him.
Just like some people smoke Beasters and think it's the best fucking shit in the world until they run into some weed grown by Mr. Trees.
And then they're like, holy shit, what were they passing off on me? This is some bullshit. That ain't weed. That was oregano.
I got a good supply. I got you. Don't worry.
Hey, I paid him back later. Later in life, I gave him as much real weed and hash as he wanted.
Those first oregano joints.
Was he still asking for the old stuff? He's like, man, this is good. I missed out on old schools.
Remember when you had that real weed?
Yeah, in the 90s, he's like, man, I'd like to have those lewds back, man.
Where are those pre-rolls at?
He would have took any lewds, anything you gave him.
All he wanted was the music and a beer and some weed eventually. That's what he came down.
He used to sit in the back of my van and turn my radio up as loud as he could because I had a van with all kinds of beats in it.
He'd sit right in the middle of that and play Creedence Clearwater and smoke the fattest joints you could.
He'd be like, man, it's like 1973, man. This is so fucking awesome.
He'd just sit there rocking his head until my battery died. He used to do that shit all the fucking time.
Hell yeah.
There's something about Creedence. It's supposed to be played in a slightly smoky environment.
Fucking slightly?
Overlooking.
You know what I'm saying. I don't know. There's something about Creedence that just draws that atmosphere.
Yeah, it's got to have the dirt floor bar.
Yeah.
He'd sit on this carpet that was so thin because I had an 84 GMC one-ton van. I had two 15s in the back.
Shagging wagons.
Six-seater.
That's right, man. There's a bed in the back.
He'd get back in there and crank that fucker and leave the door wide open, pretend he was at the front row of the show and smoke all my weed.
He'd be puffing and puffing and shit. He'd be like, this is great, man. This is the best thing you can do. How'd you do this shit?
He couldn't believe he could make a car sound that loud.
I was like, man, bro, you've been living on the street too long, dog. You ought to see some of the other cars I've done.
He used to install stereos and shit. He was amazed that you could make a car sound as loud as a fucking concert and even better.
You could have it at your fingertips. You didn't have to pay for a ticket. You didn't have to get in a fight in the parking lot.
You could just turn that shit on and it was right in there. He loved that shit, man.
That's awesome. I love bumping music. One of my old buddies back in my slinging days allegedly had a car with a competition stereo in it.
He'd have to go and get every bolt re-tightened once a month on his car. Every month he'd have to bring it in to get shit tightened again.
It ain't no joke.
One of the things that I thought was cool about getting Mr. Magpie and Cheddar Bob on tonight was maybe just to see or hear some of the interactions that go on between the tester and breeder.
I don't know if you guys have things that you talk about or maybe I could be like a fly on the wall.
What is a typical interaction like? Yo dude, what's up? Looks good. Right on. Peace out. Word.
What is it like? Can we be flies on the walls and you guys just go through your normal…
A lot of mine is just taking a video. Tony's out in the west coast. Our time schedule isn't always compatible.
Usually I'll take a short video or I'll just send him a little blurb and messenger of temperatures and humidity and stuff like that.
I don't have a power meter. I don't have… You know what I'm saying. Minimal but important enough information to draw from.
Kind of give him the tools and then let him… He just kind of looks it over and you know too if you've run into something specific probably you can ask specific questions.
Yeah and I mean as a grower for 20 years I can rectify most problems and notice most problems.
It's not the plant or the soil problems that arise that I can't deal with. It's the equipment failures and that stuff that are more of my issues.
Those shit happens. Not often but they happen.
Well this is… I don't know.
Let's see. Let me get you full here. The fuckening. When your day is going really well and you don't trust it then something shitty happens.
Ah there it is. The fuckening. Noun. Nice.
It's the fuckening. You always need to be aware of the fuckening.
Yeah. How about you finish…
I had that.
No go ahead Jeterboff. Finish your thought there.
I was just going to give you the secret location of the magnet but I'll tell you at another point in time.
Damn I blew my chances.
You only get one chance with a guy like Jeter. You ruined it.
Yeah I'll send you the decoder ring.
I'm that guy.
No. No. One of these days we'll get over our suplex issue but that's another debate.
How about you Mr. Megbye?
Well body damage.
I heard that. I heard that.
His mic dropped right at the end. He just muted himself.
It's basically the same. I try to post a lot on IG. Not just so he can see the info but so other people can see it.
I noticed that he's got a little group that likes to check out his new work.
I'll always have someone comment or send me a message saying…
Usually it's Terps people are asking about what smells are you getting from it.
A lot of the time it'll be the same for me. They really want to try a cut that they can't get their hands on.
I always want to try that. Are you getting these smells that I keep hearing people talk about?
Stuff like that. I try to post a lot on IG.
I'll usually talk to him. I'll make a post and then I'll send off to him a message saying this is how it's going.
Or this cool new thing happened. This smell showed up.
The other day I told him I had to defoliate the insides a little bit. I made a post about it.
I've never run a room this big so I'm still learning as I go as well.
What I learned is the difference between getting air flow right in a 5x10 and a 20x10,
even though that doesn't sound that much different, is way different.
What I figured out now is not only do I need the air to move around the room as opposed to through the room so it's not too intense on anything,
but I also need to... I was messaging you about this, Chad.
I've seen Sky Overlord in the chat.
YouTube?
Oh, I'm sorry. He's back. Sorry. Go ahead, brother.
I realized I had to think of air flow not just as before where I just had to worry about having...
As long as air was moving everywhere a little bit, it was always fine.
But in this room, I didn't think of it as 3D. I really needed to think air flow-wise.
When I went in the one day, I've noticed this when you grow outdoor.
If you grow a massive plant outdoors and it's a real thick canopy, if you go in the inside, the leaves will almost get...
They're a little bit droopy, but the edges are a little bit extra droopy where the leaf's like,
okay, I'm suffocating. Get me the heck out of here or open it up.
I'm going through a learning curve with it.
You and Toad are basically the two people that I message just because the few friends I have around that grow other than one friend I have,
they like to grow, but they're not into it.
They'll talk for 5 or 10 minutes, but then 20 minutes into the conversation, it's just me talking at them and I can see their face.
I don't give a shit, man, at all.
I'll message you guys and I'll just out of nowhere sometimes, I'll be like,
hey, here's a 15 paragraph message about how things are going.
Just kind of force my update on everybody. It's like, hey, what's up?
I love it. I love it personally.
Yeah, you're right. I love that you just said how you phrased it.
You got to think about it in 3D, in three dimensions because yeah, it is about air flow,
but it's also about those microclimates in larger rooms where you have very dense plants.
Well, that's the thing because my other room, my room, that's my bedroom now, is only about a 6 foot ceiling.
It drops for the HVAC.
So I went from a 6 foot tall room with just under 5 feet by just under 10 feet
and then my new room is just over 20 feet by 10 feet by 8 feet high.
So it's a massive difference, right?
So I'm just kind of figuring it out as I go. So I'm sure stuff will go better.
But I mean, it's also nice too because I've been able to hit him like same thing that happened
like with the El Vijo del Norte with the auto tree.
I had the proud Mary, which I have four females running right now.
And that one, like I said, if you go in the room, you can clearly tell it's those four
and then one Fino of Martha's Orchard from Mr. Trees.
You can tell at one point they were super over water just because I was just trying to figure it out.
And then when I asked him, I'm like, hey, he's on a live there.
Like, hey, ever noticed that the proud Mary doesn't like water?
And right away, he's like, no, she fucking hates water.
She wants dry food all the time.
And that's what I like too, because it's not like, oh, I had a problem.
If I'd be more worried if I had a problem and I messaged him and I was like, hey, you're one El Vijo del Norte.
It autoed. And if he sent me back, wow, that's weird.
That would be a problem.
But the fact that the fact that he messaged me back a paragraph immediately and like not only told me exactly what was happening,
like as I'm seeing it, my eyes told me why it was happening, how how I would go about calling if I wanted.
Say I decided that was my favorite, how I would go about picking ones that wouldn't necessarily do that.
What his opinion was on it.
He's like, you can do whatever you want with them, but here's what I would do.
That's priceless.
And like immediately with that. Right.
And it's the same thing. Like when I told him, I'm like, it would be really cool to like make your own medicine at one point.
Like just fine to you really like now that I have it now that I'm running, you know, more.
I don't want to say like prestigious because I know that's not what Toad's going for, but more like more professional work, proven genetics.
You know what I mean? Where it's not just hopefully it's what's in the bag.
Like he's he wouldn't he wouldn't pick something up if he wasn't sure about it.
Because why the hell would he write like he has access to what he wants.
You can also run something I've crossed to a female that say trees has or someone else has and see if you're seeing repeatable traits.
And then you can see like, say, you've got four packs from trees and he's using this Pam.
Right. And he used it in specific crosses and you've grown three of them.
They show these specific traits and what you've grown.
And then I offer something across the Pam and you don't see nothing in it. Right.
So you're like, I'm going to buy one more pack just to see nothing again. Right.
I'm probably talking shit out my ass. Right.
Or I send you some information that can prove that I got something from trees and maybe what I fucking bred to it isn't working.
And both of them come back to me about you. And it either proves I'm full of shit because I don't want to talk about it.
And I won't show my face about the information. And I don't mean physically show my face.
I mean, talk about the fucking information at hand. Right.
Show my hand. Am I going to talk to you about what actually happened with what I created?
Or am I going to say, well, you fucked up, dude. Right.
Because that's where a lot of people take the what happened with the environment.
They're automatically like, well, that's where you fucking fucked up.
You should have fucking did this with the light and done that with the light.
And I'm like, man, that plant is probably showing the same thing that the mother did.
She's highly sensitive to this specific trait. It'll happen at this day. Right.
Did these happen on this day? And you'll be like, dude, it happened exactly on that day.
And you're like, man, we might be seeing some kind of recessive trait that's popping out out of both of them.
That's showing up in there. So it's not again, it goes back to me not trying to accuse nobody.
Finding out about the cues that are causing it so I can understand my breeding stock better.
And especially better now that I had to, again, dive into the space cheese to start to breed more plants with.
That's why it took me two years before I dropped the line with space cheese.
I've been doing this for two years with this plant and showing everyone when I started to do the selection and the original crosses.
And then I showed some of the stuff I was doing. Most of them I were doing for myself to find out, do I want to do this again?
Do I want to put this one in a tester's hand? Right. Do I?
Because I had a bunch of other cuts that I don't have here no more.
And that's over the last two years. I called some stuff out and left some stuff in.
And those are what got added to the space cheese crosses.
And that's what I wanted to find out.
If the medicine that I know coming from that line is going to come across in these other lines that people hold dear.
That like Magpie said, these outstanding lines, they're not just outstanding.
It's more along the lines of that they come with provenance and proof of breeding history and medicinal power.
We know what Kim's going to do for people.
Right. No, it's not that you weren't. You were wrong, brother. It's just me expanding on it.
Right. You were exactly right. I'm agreeing with you.
But it comes down to the that some people want that medicine but don't want a great profile on the plants.
If I can breed it to a plant that's going to offer a more gassy profile or something that's going to lean towards a more lemon or a more something that's, say, on the woodier profile or something.
Or maybe it has nothing to do with terpenes and has to do with the structure and how it can hybridize and give vigor to the cross.
And they want to find hidden traits in their lines.
They want to out cross to something very dissimilar like the haze and then back cross to their parent line to find out what their parent line's giving them because they weren't sure what the seeds were.
Like you buy seeds in a bag. You're not sure what the fuck it really is.
But I can find out what it offers in breeding if I'd fucking cross it to this other line that I know it ain't.
And then all of a sudden I see, well, fuck, it's not showing nothing that I know this other one did.
So it's got to be coming from that or the combination of it. Let's work that way.
Do you ever find that some male plants don't tend to give much off?
Like you see a consistent representation of the mother, but then other times that same male might dominate over another cross that you get.
Have you seen that or do you get that sometimes with the males that you use?
Yeah, I seen that. It was just different lines.
It probably would have been even cultivar specific, but my angel and my guavoji, which weren't anything related.
My angel bred very much more true for the traits I was looking for than the guavoji.
And that's why I didn't release and continue in that direction with that line.
Because they were giving me a lot of the mother profiles without the medicinal side I was looking for.
So it was hiding itself in the crosses. I wasn't getting the fire.
He's got it right there. It's not that they weren't great, but they just on the medicinal side.
For me, those are more head stash weed because of the guavoji. It's a grape wreck.
Avalon fire ogee. It's a 88 grape wreck, which as we knew was a train wreck in our area.
A short squat plant, very dissimilar to the other train wrecks later that was passed.
That was very creeper like and thin, wispier buds, higher leaf decalics.
This one we had was very different. It finished in 56 days. She didn't stretch.
This cat brought it to us when we were in high school. It was the first plant I remember smoking in high school with a name.
It was the grape wreck. I started high school in 1988.
The homie Chris that I mentioned earlier that was growing with meat and shit.
He's the cat that knew the dude that brought the line here or was the first guy to grow it that we know of.
The dude was about 10 years older than us. He ended up finding some kids in high school that as they graduated were getting houses.
He was setting them up to do some grows. He had 7 dudes growing for him.
They were supplying specific people with herb at that time until they got busted one day.
Before they got busted, one of the homies that I'd been getting the herb from for almost a decade, he hits me up and he's like,
the landlord's coming by dude. I need to borrow 100 bucks. I'm like, whatever dude, come over.
He stops over and he gives me this shopping bag from Safeway, one of them plastic bags.
Inside of it there's 13 grape wreck clones. I'm like, what the fuck?
I'm like, dude, you know what you're doing, right? He's like, dude, I need the money.
He takes the money and bounces. I never bought another bag of grape wreck again after that shit.
I kept that cut until 2012. I used that plant along with the Avalon Magic plant, which is a,
what is it, the F4 blueberry crossed to a Landry's Afghani, crossed to Fire OG.
That was my Guavo G man. I love that plant. I ran that through a lot of patients.
They love the smoke. It gets you high as shit, basically. It lasts for days. The cure is killer.
I had a lot of Ross family. I had a partner that used to rent a house from me. His name is Danny.
He's a well-known Virgin Island Ross album, him and Army and Pressure, all these cats.
They were smoking my herb and they did love that Guavo G. That was the one they always wanted besides the Skywalker.
That gift of the gods was probably one of the darkest purple plants I have ever grown.
It was, I forgot what I was going to say. I just scared my own.
You were talking about God's gift was one of the greater plants.
Gift of the gods.
Gift of the gods.
Gift of the gods.
That thing was one of the darkest, most purple plants. Insane purple. Like evil.
Like evil, dark purple. Or like the witch from Snow White or Sleeping Beauty.
This isn't your Prince or Barney purple.
No, no, it's like evil, dark purple. Like priest purple.
We had a question from Peter the Savior, Mr. Longpipes earlier in chat.
Asking if either of you two have run the same strain.
Actually, let me go up here to Mr. Toads real quick. It's a little fuzzy but I see purpleness there.
Hold on, hold on. This is pink. I want to show pink to folks here.
This is my Space Cush grown by Lurch Grows Zach Branson from Build a Soil. He grew this out.
Here's another shot real quick. It comes from the Space Cush side.
It's something that shows in quite a few of the hybrids around weeks 3 to 5.
This is some of the dry herb of it that finished on the pink side.
That's awesome. It's like fruity pebbles.
Yeah, that really does attain the neon.
It's a trait I like to show people. It doesn't do it very often. That's something I want to show people.
But it's something they like to dive through and try to find.
Oh, there's that Bob's Cheddar right there.
In case you want to see every pack that you've ever made.
Cheddar has a bunch of my gear. I'm trying to find the gift of the gods that he's talking about.
I have to go so far back on Instagram.
I've been so jealous this whole time. Every time you mention a stream, he's like, oh, here's a pack of it.
Oh, here's a pack of it. Oh my gosh.
I guess if you keep doing good work though, you're going to be like Cheddar one day though.
You just got to keep putting in the good work.
That's the cool thing too. To have a whole library from one breeder. That's so cool.
This is the Pure Kush LA from Kev and the Bubble Kush grown side by side.
In 2016, I ran these in an outdoor setup, in a greenhouse setup, and in an indoor setup.
So that I could see the different expressions from plants that when tested show that the comeback is related.
This is a breeding stock.
I just began the reversals on the Bubble Kush and my Mud Bone, which is Mud Bone to Angel.
Or Bubba to Angel.
So I'm working these lines right now.
These are lines that are killer for MS and other, I'm telling you, multiple sclerosis.
They work good for cancer, eating disorders, and hopefully, I'm going to be able to get rid of some of these.
And hopefully, they're going to show the same properties in the hybrids that come from them.
So that we can offer those other structures and the other plants people love with the medicinal properties they don't already possess.
Now, if I'm thinking of working on, you know, just across myself at home.
And just kind of working that and documenting that.
What do you recommend?
Or what are you kind of doing as far as just like your documentation?
Is it a picture every other day?
Is it, you know, the little crayon tracings with the leaf under the piece of paper?
What are you doing there to kind of stay consistent?
That's a gift to the crowd.
What was the Savior's question?
What's that?
Oh, Peter Longpipes, the Savior.
He was asking if Cheddar Bob and Mr. Magpie, if either of you, well, if you guys have run the same lines for Mr. Toad before.
And if you have, just curious, you know, what results came?
Whether they were different, different environments?
I don't think we have.
I don't know if we have.
Like, I know Cheddar's run a lot of them.
Like, right now is the first time I'm running them.
I'm running the Robbers Creek Congo Testers to Space Cheese.
I'm running Haze for Days, Proud Mary, Gone Joji.
Space Kush number one.
One Hitter, Quitter.
Angel Sister.
I think that's it.
Oh, and a Broken Bones, which is like a mystery one.
Awesome. Awesome.
Could be one. Now it's about 15 different crosses that have been in Broken Bones.
Wow. Wow.
And I know Cheddar Bob, you've had quite a lot.
There is actually, but do you have the Bob's Cheddar, sir?
Broken Bones right there. Free seeds.
Yeah, that's what mine's from.
I got, from my three, I got one female that I really, really like.
I haven't finished it yet, but so far it's like, it's fantastic.
It's almost on week five and it's just squat and same thing.
It's like a reverse Christmas tree and stinks to high heaven.
Like I'm excited for that one too.
Nice.
I do not have any Bob's Cheddar in an actual package.
Not yet. He's getting more coming to him.
Awesome.
We just talked about it today.
We did.
Talked about it today. So.
Exchange addresses.
Oh, snap. Is it kind of like weekly communications you guys do just through like an Instagram or something?
Just like check in once a week.
It depends on if it's football season or not with me and Cheddar Bob.
Yeah.
I'm not even going to ask. I sense there's sensitivity here.
We'll stay away.
That's why we're brothers, man. That's why we bonded.
Yeah.
We bonded over a hundred dollar hand job.
I'm not going to ask who is giving and who is receiving, but I'm glad you're here.
I love it, brother. I love it.
That's a good inside joke to leave people hanging.
That's why we have a line called Bob's Cheddar.
You know it messed up, but you don't know what it's about.
Let your imaginations run like the salmon of Gavin Ostro.
Isn't that the Swallows?
Damn.
It's the monastery. Anyway.
So, about that local sports team. No, wait. That's how we got here.
Pinecone.
What have you got coming up, Mr. Toad?
I know right now you've got a lot of offerings on the Daga.love website.
What's in the works for you?
I've got stuff coming to Daga. I just sent them today.
I forgot to send Peter the tracking. They'll be there next week.
I'm also sending stuff out next week out to C-10 now.
Both places will have something different, so nobody's battling out for prices
or they need to get to one spot or they'll be there.
Stuff is coming and going.
A lot of the stuff will be the Space Cheese Crosses at the moment.
That's what's there instead of the old Space Kush Crosses.
People keep asking me to add some of the old Space Kush Crosses,
but I prefer to add what I can continue to work with
and what I'm actually able to do continuations with
because I lost my Space Kush line when I was six.
That's why I'm putting the fresh seed stock up there.
It allows me to increase the seed size of the packaging.
I increased everything by 50% that's new on there.
Everything will be 15 seeds when you buy a pack on there or more.
You might end up with 16 or more.
You still get the same freebies that are coming out there,
except for now they're going to be newer stuff that will be crossed
to the Space Cheese on random.
Your Broken Bones now could be one of any of the new crosses that I've made,
even if it was a tester that made it or not.
There might be something special in a line that wasn't worth going to the public fully,
but it could still be there.
Or maybe there was something I didn't want to release to the public
because I just don't.
Like the Kim 4 Space Cheese, I'm keeping those for me.
That's just how it is.
Right now the pure Kush to Space Cheese,
even though I'm going to have some folks test it,
those are for me.
The seeds that Todd had sent me with the Roadkill Skyline,
Skunk Cross to Space Cheese,
those aren't going to the public at all, anytime.
You won't see me with Skunk on packaging in any shape or form.
Not because I don't believe the stories or anything like that,
but because it's someone else's work.
I'm putting respect on the plant and the men that made it
and the folks that have done the work by not trying to be the next dude
to replicate what was replicated after the replication
during the replicating years.
I just don't want to be that guy.
We've got enough dudes doing it.
One more time.
It's just not me.
Can you replicate that?
I'll send some seeds to some people so they can fuck with them
just so they can see because maybe something will come out of them.
You never know.
Maybe it'll show you that the breeding of two plants
that have a similar parentage isn't going to produce
what you're looking for and you can quit looking in mine stuff for it.
Or maybe you're diving in mine to find a specific profile.
It's not going to show up there.
I can tell you that but you don't believe it.
So you're going to look anywhere.
Life is like a box of chocolates.
You never know what you get.
Here I've got some stuff.
Is it showing there?
I do.
It looks like we've got some stuff up here on Daga Garden right now.
We've got the bobsled.
The new ones that are going in are government cheese.
That was tested by Jen's Garden.
I'm also sending in some more hazelnuts.
The haze for days because everybody keeps asking for the haze for days.
What else did I send in there this time?
It's all new ones.
There's three new ones in haze for days.
Let's see if I can't remember.
Once I package them.
I've packaged up six different lines so far.
I forget which ones I sent to who.
I've got one-hitter quitter but that's going to the other side.
Over to Seeds here now.
They're getting the one-hitter quitter and the NorCal half-goon bobs chatter.
If people are looking for those, they can go there.
You've got the Corey's Crush and the Ghost of Mary Jane.
The haze for days are coming over to Daga's Love.
That's awesome.
Right now, up here on Daga, it looks like you've got 18 products available already.
That's just going to be added to as well.
I try to send three new tested lines in every month or so.
Maybe six weeks at maximum.
Unless I fall and break another leg and then you've got to wait.
I'm just joking on that one, guys.
For real, I try to do that so that I'm not just overloading every seed bank with my own gear.
I look like I'm the hype boy.
I'm trying to put stuff out there that I show have been tested.
I put them out there in limited enough numbers so people feel like they have something special.
If everybody's growing it, I'm the next white-labeled jackass and I don't want to be that dude.
I don't want to be a guy that's reproducing too many of everything and trying to flood the market with everything I have.
I'd rather have something that is special to people for a specific reason.
They buy my Congo Space Cheese Cross because they are looking for properties from that Congo.
But they want their own version.
Something that's going to be new and unique.
They want a Geno Hunt.
Something that they can then pheno-hunt in their garden to find expressions.
That right there is the Congo Space Cheese.
Can you turn to the… I don't know if you can hear me, Mr. Magpie.
There. Thank you.
So this is the… I'm sorry, Mr. Toad.
What were you saying there?
Roberts Creek Congo to the Space Cheese, Mr. Fremont right there.
And what you're seeing is a lot of the Congo on that taller one for sure.
Okay.
There, that's like a stack and that's tight.
She stacks. She's greasy.
She smells.
She's going to put on trichome coverage all the way to the tips of the flowers.
So she's great for concentrate makers.
And she's great for those pets that don't want to trim it all the way down because she's got all that cannabinoids just covering every last square inch of her.
She's such a beautiful plant.
And she makes nice crosses.
Man, look at that.
That thing is just freaking filling up.
Like, holy cow.
What week are you on, Magpie?
What'd you say, Rob?
What week are you on right now?
I got to double check. I think this is day 35 or 36.
Okay. Four weeks, roughly. Four and a half.
So that could go anywhere from 10, 12 weeks depending on how hard that Space Cheese Malon does the influencing on there.
I've seen him cut two weeks off some crosses easily.
But it's on those plants that are long, long flower.
So they're kind of easy to do that too when you cross in something like that.
Even the Polyhybrid. If you've got a line that's an eight week line and you cross it over to the Haze genotype that you found, that's a 14 weeker.
You're probably going to get some stuff that's 10 weeks, right?
And 11, 12 weeks. Now you can do your selection through there to find the profile you were after.
This feels like it's going to get some powder.
What was that?
It's hard to see in this light. Color.
Oh, yeah.
It'll start to show at the end if I should have sent you some pictures of Gene's guard.
It's hard to see on the video, but that one of the six is starting to go pinky purple on just the very edges of the bracts.
Okay. That's so sexy, man. I love the face.
I'm still running HPS. So even though I turned off the light above me, the overcast of the light is...
There's some of the monster hazes.
Yeah.
See what I mean? That's my ceiling there. There ain't much room.
They don't look amazing right now because they're getting beaten up by the fans and they're getting smashed into lights.
But these are just for fun.
I hope I finish them. But even if these don't go all the way, there's a blast to grow.
If I have to run them twice to learn how to run them in here, you see what I mean?
I have to keep adjusting because even over the course of a week in flower, these things will grow half a foot.
Good Lord. That would be out of my tent in two days.
I've seen it.
I've seen that plant grow half a foot in a day.
I popped the seeds, something about the haze. I saw the devil-striated leaves.
I popped these three weeks after I had popped other ones and they outgrew everything in the room.
This one here is the small one.
But when you look at the branches that aren't getting beaten up by the wind, she's stacking up nice.
Yeah, you can definitely see the potential.
She's going for a long time, trust me.
I'm trying to remember what Kevin said. He went 129 days with a haze.
Oh my God. That's an art form, honestly, man.
It teaches you you don't know shit about cannabis. That's what it taught me. I didn't know shit about cannabis.
That's what I learned every time I talked to you, Mr. Toad, is that I know fuck all.
And that's your haze for days?
This is the one-hitter quitter. I have eight females of the one-hitter quitter.
That shit's bomb.
So, it's pretty cool because I was telling you, Tony, that I found my haze seeds from 2006.
And as I remember from back then, dude, they grew just like that.
The same formation.
So, these might be like... And that's all it was called back then was haze.
That's what I got as seeds from a buddy.
I'm trying to dig into some of my old ones from the 90s.
And nobody wanted it back then because it smelled like cat piss.
People gave that back to me. They were like, dude, I want my money back.
I'm like, whatever, dude. No.
And they're like, dude, it smells like... Do you have a cat? Did it piss on it?
And I'm like, no. What are you talking about?
There's an old forum post with Neville that says that about the haze when you do some research.
There's an old forum post with Neville that says that about the haze when you do some F2ing or Sib crossings.
That cat piss is a profile that can pop out of the hazes.
He wrote about that years ago. I think it was Mr. Niceforms. I'm pretty sure.
Which is interesting as well because these are Jhalabad, Afghani, Nangarhar, Tora Bora.
It's a mouthful.
April 2019. These came back from Afghanistan.
My buddy grew them out and he didn't like them because they also smelled like cat piss.
So it's cool that I got a haze that smells like cat piss.
And apparently there might be something in these Afghanis.
100%.
Well just look at 707 Seedbanks cat piss which comes from an Afghani line.
So that's where people with experience understand that.
What you smoked in Connecticut in 1988 and some dude that smoked in LA in 1993 and they both had the same name wasn't the same weed more than likely.
Even though you're both chasing it.
You probably had some weed some dude called it because it sold better like a motherfucker.
He couldn't call it. I don't know what the fuck it is man. Here it's 800 bucks a pound.
Yeah we've got that cake.
Before it was piss now it's cake.
It's piss cake. New strain coming soon. 2022.
Fermented cake.
Fermented cake batter.
You could get cat piss out of some plants by the curing process.
So like today you can't get cake out of curing shit.
So you're getting that cake out of stuff because people are doing Cib crossings and in crossings on lines.
And they're getting allele frequency increases on those specific traits for those.
And pretty soon that's what they're going to breed for and you're not going to be able to get nothing else for them.
And that's OK for that breeding specifically for that.
It's great because now you've got a plant that passes two traits.
But then it's also something that's going to be susceptible to specific issues in a garden.
Because you've inbred it to a specific point without introducing the rest of that gene pool.
That has the ability to fight off powdery mildew on some of the gene.
Has the ability to grow larger than the rest of the gene pool.
You just fucking want that one plant that you found because that's all you had.
And that's OK.
But you wish it was something else.
That's when you start diving in.
Get some more seed.
If Cheddar found something great in the Bob's Cheddar that he'd loved.
And he's like man can I get another hundred seeds of that so I can dive into it.
I send him a hundred seeds and I hope he dives into it.
I hope he finds something in my work that makes him want to do his own work.
Or to introduce into like magpie.
My stuff in trees maybe.
It's cool you say that Tony because you know I think I've had this conversation with you before.
But what I honestly I've been thinking about like trying to run or set up some sort of testing facility for breeders.
You know where maybe maybe through you know Wi-Fi or something you have this big building set up and they can actually control the environment or something along those lines.
But running running a bigger operation for just testing breeder stuff.
Like I think that would be fun.
It would be awesome.
I wonder if there'd be a way you know usually things happen when you can make money.
I wonder if there'd be a way to monetize that.
That would have to come out in the end.
But well I mean you're getting early access to potential.
Like if you know what you're doing too right.
Like you're getting early access to what's coming out and you're getting all that free seed like seed isn't cheap.
Like Brother Bone is cheap considering but I mean not if you're buying a thousand packs.
Inexpensive.
Inexpensive.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That's a good one.
Yeah good one too.
And that you know it makes it possible for a lot of people again we mentioned earlier.
You don't realize the difference until you go from like playing on the AstroTurf until you go to playing on real grass.
You're like well the AstroTurf kicked ass.
I was happy with it but now that I'm playing on real grass.
Holy shit is there a difference.
It makes selecting a lot harder.
Like I went from almost never finding something I wanted to keep to now like that whole room like even the plants that I overwatered a little bit.
The reason why they're not out of there is because even the ones that aren't going to do as well and aren't going to show their full potential.
They smell amazing.
They look amazing.
Like the only thing that's really getting super beaten up in there is the haze.
And like I said like he told me ahead of time he's like don't veg it four feet high.
And what did I do.
I vegged it four feet high.
I just wanted to see what it would do.
It was fun.
But what I figured out too is I figured out which one of my phenol's flowers quickest.
I figured out which one of the two that flower the quickest stack the most.
Which one and the two that stack the most.
One of them stacks more compactly and it's not growing like it stopped stretching.
Two of them haven't stopped.
One of them stopped stretching two weeks ago.
It hasn't stretched anymore.
It moves around.
They're viney the haze.
So they like to find their own place like a haze will sway like a giant building.
Right.
And it'll find its way.
I only had to pin up one of them and that's because I messed up the one night and I was watering half asleep.
I had to be up for work in two hours and I didn't move the pot back over and I had left it in front of one of the powerful fans all night.
So it had just pushed it over with the weight.
But it's staked up with one three foot bamboo for that entire plant.
And that's it.
You know what I mean.
So like even that.
That's what I like to like even from the first time I reached out to him.
He's always encouraging me like when I said it would be cool to breed one day right away.
He's like we'll do it.
You know I mean just just figure it out and just try it.
And like now I've never kept a male before.
I have males that I'm keeping because once I have enough males that I like and I want to run to run a whole room.
I'm running a whole that whole flower room.
I run the whole thing is males just one entire cycle because I don't know anything about him.
I want to know what the males do in flower.
What do they look like when they actually finish because even when you see people run them most people don't run them till they're actually done.
I mean does it rather than not.
Does it does it rising up matter.
You know does it show color at the end.
Does it do something cool at the end.
Did the turt profile change dramatically.
That happens with females all the time.
So I think it'd be sweet.
Like imagine a 20 by 10 room is full of males.
I've never seen that before.
I think that'd be fucking awesome.
It would be awesome but it made the back of my throat get itchy.
Right.
Just like thinking about the pollen already.
And that used to scare me and now you know what I thought of it's like yeah the next run after I do that might go crazy and I might get real pollen on everything.
Then you know what I'll do.
I'll have a shit ton of hash and I'll have a shit ton of seeds in the jar.
And if anything ever goes wrong I have a jar of all kinds of crazy random crosses in my stomp jar.
You know what I mean.
That's fantastic.
There you go brother.
Right.
And it's just I think that's super cool.
So like I have I had seven or six haze males sorry that I narrowed down to four just through veg.
Because two of them I just really didn't like how they grew.
Not didn't like but like out of all of them they weren't favorable.
Out of seed and then in clone they did the same thing.
And one of them and one of the ones that I was kind of like oh I kind of like this one.
It changed its structure a lot in clone.
And just the way it was growing it was a lot more of a hey I'm going to go.
I could already look at it and it's like you're going to try to go seven feet to the right and just do whatever the hell you want.
So let's just select away from that.
And like I said I don't really know what I'm doing but I'm just picking as I go.
And then I have four Martha's Orchard males from Mr. Trees.
And after Toad was encouraging me to start looking at males I reached out to Mr. Trees.
And I said you know like him and Mr. Toad were the first ones that I watched.
Like you know how FCP was doing like background stories almost.
They had like you know a three hour thing with each person.
Like I watched Mr. Toad's and like his first one bro was like emotional.
Like if you don't feel emotional watching his first interview then I don't know what's wrong with your clone.
You know what I mean like just why he breathes and what he does is just super cool.
And then same as Mr. Trees.
Yeah Mr. Trees what is this just the same way like he just loves the plants.
He's got his like pan thing that's really different.
So I kept that one the Martha's Orchard because it's the one of his that shoots out two to ones.
And one to ones and all the weird ratios.
So I figured hey I really like the way they grow and potentially who knows.
Maybe they could shoot out some cool chemo guys.
Chemotypes.
Totally I want to go here real quick.
We just had the question in chat.
Just some of the ones that we've talked about tonight.
Like I know we've mentioned the El Viejo Del Norte.
Yeah I'm running that one.
We've mentioned the Ghost of Mary Jane.
I didn't realize there were two pages in there.
Yeah there's two pages on there.
Some of those are the old across ones.
Scorpius and then.
Yeah Jensgarden did those.
The Scorpius was Maui Waui to Angel.
That thing produced some killer plants that had some tropical like tropical punch Kool-Aid flavors that grew massive old buds.
Okay we talked about Bob's Cheddar there.
Name for the onerous cat from the East Coast that we all loved to hate.
Salty.
And that would be the guy.
Love the close ups.
Dubidge. Dubidge isn't on the list.
I love Dubidge.
Dubidge that's another one that was named for my pitbull who passed in May whose birthday was yesterday.
Dubidge was his nickname.
He would have been 15 yesterday. His name was Cleveland.
He was the best friend a man could ever have.
He lived a good life.
I named that and One Hitter Quitter which is on Dogga.
It's the only one that doesn't have pictures because it's the way I consider that line is I hope people buy it and dig through it and name something after a lost pet and then pass it on to the next person.
It's a killer line.
She stinks. She's high resin potential.
She's the coolest dark horse.
I have 8 of those females running and they smell so good. They're so sharp.
That funky cushy just that dang.
Like that movie theater parking lot dang.
There's the Gonjil cheese.
Those will be coming back right there.
Cherry pie space cheese. Those are coming back pretty soon.
Some of the stuff that are out of stock will come back.
That are on the space cheeses.
The Bob's cheddar. If they're not at Dogga, they will be over at seeds here and now.
The two guys that have helped me out. That's why you got these two and not in every seed bank that you'll see out there.
It's some folks that helped me out that I'm trying to go back and return the favor by not putting my stuff everywhere on the market.
And also some of the other new crosses I have will end up over at Dutch Bloom spot once they go through testing because he Dutch Blooms passed me.
He sent me some cuts of some of the stuff he works with. The black walk gold, the black walk fruit, the shesh money, Cuddler and the Catholic school girl.
And I used those to do some crosses to space cheese this year and they're going into test mode this week.
I just sent some stuff out today and the rest of go out next week to start testing.
I also did a cross to the Pam from Mr. Trees. He sent me some of his crosses to work with.
And I crossed one of the Pams that I grew out here that I liked to the space cheese.
That one's going to go through some testing or just may end up as the majority of the broken bones.
So if you end up getting broken bones at a specific time, if it does come with the Pam to space cheese, I will have it written on there so that you'll know.
Sorry, I also did it.
Mowwy and Angel. Oh, shit.
Mowwy, wowy, Angel. Yeah, she grows big old buds. She can show colors.
There's a Kim 91 space cheese, which is called vintage cheddar. There's a Kim 4 to space cheese.
There's a Kim D to space cheese called I smell OG. That's the Magi. Three Kings to Angel.
What else has he got here?
That's Los Veteranos cross to which one of Levi's from pistol positive.
It's one of the crosses that we've done together. I sent him some of the Magi and he put it into his work.
What do you got there? 44 D's AJ sour diesel to Angel.
Breeds nice for those diesel turps on the male side.
Kitty Hawk space. Kush F3 to Redwood Kush F3. It's named for the submission.
They took to space. They called it Kitty Hawk.
It took some tree seeds to space and some of those seeds were brought back to Earth.
And that was the name of the mission. Ridiculousness. Red. That's a Icarus OG and Redwood Kush F3.
Redwood Kush F4. That's the F3 to the F3. That's where that line there, the Redwood to Redwood and El Viejo.
They're the ones that will show that route restriction issue. It comes back to the Hindu side on there.
And it comes through on both of those because their continuations through. I did a filial generation to the F4.
And on the El Viejo, I took the Redwood and outcrossed Angel and back crossed into the Redwood to see what would happen.
And that's where it verifies to me that it's coming from that line. Angel has never showed it in any cross.
I've done over 200 crosses, not a single one's ever shown it. So by introducing him into the mix in the Redwood, it verified to me where I believed it was coming from.
So if you do grow the Redwood, just be careful with it. If you have issues, let me know. And if you have to, I'll send you some other seeds just in case.
But the stuff that comes out of there doesn't have any route restriction issues can show some of the best medicine.
There was cuts going around my area in the 215 days, and that was some of the highest paid herb in my area, period.
People would not give up cuts of that line for shit. If you had one, you coveted it.
Yeah, but he said, oh yeah, but rather put it down here. Ghost OG Kim Dog River to Los Veteranos.
I passed the Ghost OG Kim Dog Special Reserve number four to Levi at Pistol Positive.
Those are seeds that came to me from Kevin Jodery when I did the Wonderland Seed Series in 2017.
When I thought I was dying, I sent some stuff to Levi and to Lucas from Eclectic Elements and told both of them to do some work with him.
Because there were lines I wanted to work with, and I knew those guys had the ability to do the work without just fucking doing stupid shit and trying to continue some seeds that were passed to them.
Exactly. These are my friends. That's why I made the line called Friends and Raindrops and Baby Bubba. They're all named after these guys.
Do you just have a peanut shell floor of seed packs at your feet right now?
Yeah, pretty much.
I keep them all here to cuddle with.
Here's another question. Mr. Toad, do you feel Bubba and Pure Kush are related to Hindu?
Are they related to Hindu? I believe they have Hindu in it. Yeah, the structure is very similar. There's some Hindu somewhere in the line there.
They're both related to each other when tested. From what they can tell, they can't. As far as I know, they couldn't tell if they're sisters or if they are like mother and progeny.
Or if they are some form of an outcross of one another or S1. I haven't had anyone prove that. Kevin's the one that showed me tests that say that they're related in some form.
That's why I grew them next to each other when I had them before I started to breed with the Pure Kush because I'd been using Bubba for 15 years.
When I got the Pure Kush from Kevin, it's not that I doubted him. I just needed the experience from the plant to let my eyes know what Kevin was saying.
When Kevin tells me it's going to do this and has that ability, I need to grow it and replicate that to know that I'm getting what he sees.
The crosses that I get, I'm more than likely going to get from those plants in my hybrids.
I'll be able to dig through those or offer them to people because the cut's not available to everyone, but the genetics can be.
That's where we can make S1s like Treez is doing. He's made an S1 of that same plant.
If you put some of those seeds out there and you get some, now you have the ability to dive into that seed line to find out where is that power coming from that can help the Parkinson's patients and the MS patients and the person that's got Dravet syndromes and has seizures.
Something in there can be steered specifically. Is it a terpene combination to a specific cannabinoid profile?
Is it all of that together? Is it something that's breeding true through the line and it doesn't matter?
Can I grow any seed that comes from that plant and get an amount of that medicinal property so that I can offer those to anybody and it doesn't matter?
If you're sick, here's some seeds. If you don't want to pay, I have crosses to something that works. If you're sick, just take them.
If you want to buy, you can select whatever you want. I get people all the time. Today I sent stuff out to a vet. He wanted to buy seeds.
I'm like, you're not buying seeds from me, brother. My dad taught me better than that shit. You're already paid with service.
If I can offer you something without a selection, I will. Or if you have a medicinal reason, you tell me and I'll try to steer that selection to that.
But they're free. You don't have to pay shipping, none of that shit. I'm not into that kind of crap.
That's how I started and that's how I want to go out. I don't want to be known for it. I just want to remember myself that I always did that shit.
If a vet hits me up and he's like, I got some money, I want to buy some seeds. I'm like, nah, homie, here, take these seeds and do whatever the fuck you want with them.
Breed them, make F2s, say you were the breeder of the line, give them to your friends. I don't care what it is. I just can't take that money from them cats.
You're muted yourself, Chad.
Thank you. There's my one time.
You could have done it without it, but you couldn't.
Everybody knows I do it at least once an episode, but I just wanted to say bravo to you, Mr. Toad, for doing that.
You are the type, you know, those are the types of person that I like to hang around, that I try to surround myself with.
It's the people who would do it when nobody's looking. You do it because you know it's right or that's just what you believe.
And you know, that's a great example of it right there. So hats off to you once again, sir.
Hats off. Thank you.
Oh, and I remembered where I was going to go before you said that. And I was just like, good guy.
But with the S1. So let's say, you know, I found something that helped with a particular issue I have.
And so I S1 it and I'm searching for a stronger expression of what I found in the original.
So I plant a hundred of these seeds and I find one that gives me that stronger version of what I was originally looking for.
Would I then S1 that again to reliably kind of bring that particular expression into the fold that I'm looking for?
You can. It doesn't mean that it's going to do it.
It's going to do it because of the cultivar you're using and its status as a homogenous line is going to make whether or not that S1 or S2 or S3 is going to be easier to turn into a line that does that.
If you're starting off with a very, you know, there's dihybrids and trihybrids and tetrahybrids.
I brought this up the other night in comments where people are talking about stabilizing lines and then they don't understand that they just bought a cookie cross to a sour diesel cross.
And they have a plan out there that has multiple parentages that have multiple parentages.
And the like on the dihybrids, you end up with 16 genotypes out of that cross.
That means you're going to get 16 different genetic expressions of the original gene pool from the first F1s alone.
Just the F1s. If you go to a tetrahybrid, I believe it's 81 if I'm correct. There's 81 different genotypes.
So everybody out there that says that the breeder's not stabilizing and nobody's doing the work, you just bought seeds that were literally only going to give you that.
And you can't be mad at the guy that made them because all he did was make them and offer them.
You could have just walked right on by when you realized that what he was offering was going to give you 81 different genotype expressions in the F1 and you only bought 10 seeds.
So there's no way you're going to breed for that line true with 10 seeds. You're not going to find the true expression of that line out of 10 seeds.
It's just a line that made seeds, which is cool. And it's probably got some killer weed in it.
It's not breeding stock though, right? You might find something you want to breed with. It's not breeding stock.
Okay, that's awesome. That was like a two for one answer there. The math totally made sense there.
Because yeah, again, most of us are buying 10 packs and not even all of that are popping all 10.
It might pop three, it might pop five, save half for later and see what we can find.
So yeah, even with the best of intentions, there's no way we would even hit half of the expressions that are possible from that.
And then if we were like, oh, well, this one was great and I pulled a male and then we cross them again and then we'll have like 161 flavors or whatever next time, that would be a potential.
I know my math is wrong, but it gets bigger than the original 81. So interesting.
And again, that two for one there was the breeding stock. Now I see why that wouldn't want to be real breeding stock.
Because how can you reliably breed anything when you have that much if you can't do the numbers?
Again, I'm a home person, so different story. I'm going to cough.
And that's where it goes into, like when I made my post earlier about when we all shared what the show was coming on tonight.
And in mine, I put in there about the testing part where I didn't fully understand it.
And it comes down to that exact point where people are buying these blinds that don't have the potential to produce what they think they're after.
When they want to use them to breed with, they're not what they should be choosing if they really want to have a successful breeding program that's shorter and easier to do.
It's not that you can't breed with them and that it's going to suck. It's just that if you're trying to get predictable outcomes, you don't start with the most polyhybridized line unless you're only looking for hybrid vigor.
Now that's a great plant to work with, but you're going to have every plant in the line looking different.
And they're going to all have a different expression. And that's fine. I've got seed stock that does that.
People are aware of it by them and they're like, awesome. I've got 10 chances of finding something special.
Instead of having 10 chances of finding something that I hope is as good as the parents because that's all that's available in there and it's all bottlenecked out.
You might get all the shitty fucking genes in your 10 seeds from this Afghani lander.
He's a dude that only bought 10 seeds and made 100 seeds and he's got limited release.
Because he fucking didn't make enough seeds. I grow in tents, but my crippled ass was able to produce a shit ton of seeds this year.
So your breeder that you support should be able to do it and be able to back up what he's doing and how he's doing it.
Showing you how he's doing it these days. In the old days we had to hide.
Today we can show what we're doing and how we go about doing it. Why do I send a cut to Cheddar Bob?
How come Mr. Magpie got multiple crosses to the same cultivar I used to breed with?
Why do I put two of the same crosses in different breeders or different testers hands at the same time?
It isn't to put a contest against them. It's to show that they produce in two different environments that aren't the same.
They're not watered the same, they're not set up the same, they're not in the same geographical location.
The humidity levels are different. What comes out of there is plants that look repeatable on the phenotypes and genotypes that they find.
From a testing point it's cool watching other people test the same strain.
There's another person testing the one I'm testing and they don't look the same.
I've talked to them and we're getting some of the same notes.
If you put them right next to each other you wouldn't immediately say that's the exact same thing.
Which is really cool to see too.
It is and it's cool that you also have that sounding board too.
It's more than just one person you can go back and forth on.
In a talking shop you're in that casual conversation and you pick up that missing ingredient.
People like phenohunting. That's why I increased my seed.
I call it genohunting because you really aren't phenohunting anything with one grow.
You only saw one expression.
We know phenotypes, the expression of environment and genes.
We're really hunting genotypes out of these seeds that we're popping.
We're looking for a specific genetic expression that these cultivars hold.
This specific one plant that we're going to select out of there.
That's what our keeper is. It's a new genotype from a gene pool that we're looking for.
Now we take that one plant and we should add it to an outdoor or two different indoors to see.
Does it change it's phenotypical expression? Is it highly plastic? Does it have plasticity?
Does all of a sudden she start to have thinner leaves when you put her in a hot room?
Does she stretch out extremely when it goes into a hot environment?
Or is she stable for her traits? The leaf structure stays the same?
She does not begin to stretch more? Her bud structure doesn't get all larfy?
Are the traits that you're after repeatable in different areas?
Are the phenotypical expressions that you're after stable?
Or are you getting these wide variants from the exact same clone based on those environmental cues?
This is when you start to do your pheno hunt.
I'm not calling out anybody these days, but in the 2015 days when I ran the club,
people were buying one pack of seeds. They ran it one time and never again to run the seed line
if they didn't find that keeper in that one pack of seeds.
Sometimes they're buying five seeds. Sometimes they would come in and see if they could just get three seeds
that were free because I used to give out free seeds.
They could come in and I would give them three seeds that had no label on them.
You could go grow them in your garden and do whatever you want.
But they're going to use that as the basis to their whole future of saving cannabis.
It's not in there, brother.
That's just ignorance too. I think with the education coming around,
we realize that it's kind of a matter of numbers on some of them.
I'll admit, early on when I buy a packet of seeds, I thought it was going to be the exact same thing as the clone that I had.
I really liked the clone, so I wanted to buy some seeds.
It's all a learning process.
Speaking of learning, we got a question from Bud and Lather here.
Can you expound a little more on related lines versus land races and IBLs from different parts of the world, please?
That one's Mr. Toad territory right there.
I can give you some information. I start with land race and wild ecotype.
I separate those two into two different categories.
The land race would be something that's been driven by men in a specific locale for specific traits and expressions in those areas.
The wild ecotypes would be something that's collected that hasn't been steered in any direction by man.
Nature has done the watering. It's done the selection. It's allowed the males and females to go through.
From there, you got lines that are a genotype in that wild ecotype.
You've got a specific gene pool. That ecotype is the collection of the genes available.
Those breed very heterozygous for the traits that they possess.
You're not going to get all purple from all of those cultivars.
You're not going to get all fast finishers from all the cultivars because they possess a very large sampling of genetic offering from that gene pool.
When you take those now and start to line breed through breeding individuals that are related and offer homozygous traits for the ones you're after, the purple, the tall, the fast, right?
Once you start to combine those alleles and get an increased allele frequency for specific traits, now you get lines that start to become better for true breeding traits.
Not better breeding stock because breeding stock can be anything.
For me, the wild ecotype would be better breeding stock because you can pull all of the available cambroids, all of the available terpenes, and all of the available expressions.
Once you start to get to that Landrace selected style, now you've removed the stuff that can't make it in that specific area.
The plants that can't handle the high heat are removed from the gene pool through selection.
The ones that are too tall for the garden and finish way too long for our area are removed from the gene pool and become smaller and smaller.
As the Landrace becomes more specific to each area and each group of people, each tribe,
you end up with something that's better for passing the traits that it has been bred to express.
It's not going to give you the full genotype of Afghanis because it's from Afghanistan.
It's going to give you the repeated homozygous traits that the people that have handled it for that time period have steered it towards.
These become lines that are great to add to something else that you want those desired specific traits out of.
It's going to happen faster. Instead of diving into that wild ecotype that originally offered some of it,
now you dive into a line that has been line bred to give you those specific traits.
It doesn't matter if it carries terpenes along with it or if that plant also has that hybrid vigor or something.
If you're looking for density and purple, in this plant no matter what passes density and purple, introduce it to your line once
and then line breed for the traits that it passed and combine with the other traits that you were after.
It just becomes a numbers game. You start breaking down the Punnett Square and doing the realization of the parentage of those plants.
It's easier for you to steer towards the traits you're after and it's going to happen faster and more efficiently
than if you just went willy-nilly with what somebody told you was there.
You can buy 10 seeds of a cross that says ice cream cake or you can buy 10 packs of seeds that all say ice cream cake
and select through those that all have that ice cream cake and breed for your ice cream cake.
It'll be much easier than just hoping it comes out of the 10 seeds you got.
Do the actual work for that cultivar, the terpene profile, the structure, the medicinal effect they're after,
and then be proud of what you've done and offer it to people.
Share the information on how you got there.
Offer the genetics to people so that they can introduce it into their lines.
Or if it doesn't do all that, be 100% true with it.
Tell them it's a polyhybrid that's going to offer you expressions from both parents and we hope you find something great.
Just be true about it. It makes everything we're doing easier for me because I'm not just a breeder.
I also buy gear. I want to know that the guy I'm getting shit from is truthful about it as I'm trying to be.
100%. That's a huge piece of it.
I think a lot of people enjoy, not that they enjoy seeing people's failures,
but they enjoy seeing the process and that everybody is human.
Those are things that come up along the way.
I think honesty and transparency, which you have, is a big part of that.
I saw this question here. I know Cheddar Bob, I know you've worked on the growing side of cherry pie.
I'm not sure if that was the cut from Kevin Jodery.
Maybe you can speak to growing a little bit.
Mr. Toad, have you worked with cherry pie in some of the crosses?
Cheddar got his cherry pie from me.
Okay. Sorry. Well, then there we go.
It's in the god eulogy I'm running.
Okay. The question is, what to pay attention to as far as growing or breeding with this particular strain?
It's a famous one for good reason, but in the Pacific Northwest, I haven't seen it for a long time, oddly enough.
To the question though, Cheddar Bob, I think you were muted a second ago when you were talking.
Yeah.
Any tips on growing it?
The only thing I've really noticed has been to make sure there's lots of air movement through the canopy.
I'm growing in a scrog, so it's a little bit different than growing just in a pot in either one branch or a low stress training.
So, yeah, besides that, everything's been pretty optimal.
I have noticed, you know, if that center of the canopy doesn't have quite enough air movement, that she tends to kind of hold moisture pretty well.
So, yeah, besides that, it's pretty easy to grow.
The outdoors was, I mean, I didn't have to do anything to it in the earth boxes and it came out phenomenal.
That was the one that was out in the earth box outside?
That was a pretty plant. I loved watching the progress of that one.
And I mean, I was worried about it being so tall when it started flowering for it to have enough food to sustain through flowering.
I mean, it really did. And it took the weather here in coastal Maine really well.
There was very minimal bud rot. There was very, very, very minimal PM, which on most people's plants around here, they were decimated by bud rot and decimate like early in the season.
So, I mean, it really held up well to the environment out here.
Cool. And indoors, you know, you did say that there was kind of the microclimates and a little more moisture, but indoors, did you notice any PM issues or you got to it fast enough with defoliation and air movement?
I don't seem, I haven't seen any PM in my tents. I don't seem to have an issue with that. So, I don't know.
Okay. And I guess maybe Mr. Toad, was there anything to note breeding potentially with that strain? Do you see certain traits that are dominant? Well, I guess that'd be what you cross it into. That makes a difference.
Well, so far I've crossed her into two different lines. I did the space cheese to the cherry pie, which is Gonjoji, named for the cherry pits, took to space, and then returned to the Gonjoji Temple in Gron, where it produced flowers within four years.
Instead of the usual 10 that it takes those lines to produce flowers and fruit after being produced from seed. They took, they went and did 4,400 revolutions around the earth as part of the whole mission right there.
I also crossed it to the ghost of Poho Real, which is Mary's cherry, and they're not related. The reason I do this cross is to find out exactly what I'm going to get from that cherry pie. She passes her cherry gas profile very easily from what I found.
She seems to increase the amount of terpenes that the crosses are producing. She's going to finish quicker. She holds her weight very well. She, again, like Cheddar Bob said, she's going to be able to handle high humidity levels easily.
This is proven through Cheddar Bob's growing, but also through Kev who passed me that cut. It was something that was grown in his own personal garden for those specific reasons to be able to handle the higher humidities of the area he's in, up in the Humboldt Redwood areas. Those things have their own climate. You guys don't understand humidity until you've done ran through the Redwoods.
You will understand what a rainforest is. We have them here too, folks. It shows that that plant has the ability to do exactly what Cheddar Bob's talking about. Part of me passing him the cherry pie with that Bruce Banner was to see which one he would select to grow in his area.
To find out if he was going to let his mind tell him, I want that diesel side of that Bruce Banner. That's what I'm craving. I've heard a few people say that this plant has the potential to handle my kind of weather. A smart grower would grow this plant outside, really. A guy that thinks he's going to make a plant do what he says would have grown the Bruce Banner outside so he could get more weed.
He'd have something that he could probably pass off better because of the diesel parentage to it. It's a killer plant, but it can't handle where he's at outside as well as that cherry pie. It wants my environment more than his environment. I wanted to see how he would select. He did great by doing that because he succeeded.
Like he said, the people around him growing other lines grew plants that weren't tailored for his area. Now he knows I should dive into some of those crosses and I'll be more successful. I'm not the only breeder doing cherry pie crosses. There's other guys out there. Stray Genetics has some killer cherry crosses out there.
If you want something similar to those cherries, you can dive into the work done by Collectic Elegance, Mean Gene with the Black Lime Reserve side of things. Those plants are going to handle. Or the Royal Cush. These are all plants that perform similarly in areas that are similar to what Cheddar Bob is showing. That can be on the cooler side. That have a higher humidity level. That you need to finish quicker.
They have great market impact based on the color that they can produce and their progeny. The bud has a very high calyx to leaf ratio making what you could offer to your patients and to the public and the recreational side something easier to offer.
Swaggy shit isn't going to sell yet until we can educate the people on it's not what it looks like that's producing what we're after. It's the plant. Until then we have to have something that looks magnificent when they go to the party. You can get that out of these lines. Take those and breed them into what you're after or grow them in your garden and you're going to be more successful.
So instead of fighting the feeling you go with the flow. Make beautiful music with the plant. Together you succeed.
That's crazy. The Gonchoji I'm running is finishing the fastest in the room. Two of the three I'm running are starting to show color. Where they show on the tips of the bracts a tiny bit when they first start.
I had a dream the other night that I was growing some like actual you know when the flowers in late flower turn that bright red yellowish hue. I woke up and I was like holy shit. I'm pretty sure whatever I grow next or pop is going to come out like that. It's going to have that red hue to it.
That would be cool. I love a good fade.
Yeah, yeah. It's beautiful.
It is. I've never had a paint cultivar myself.
I'm working on some new space cush crosses. So I'm hoping to be able to pull that out. My mom has demanded that I start growing space cush again for the medicinal properties that it brings her.
I told myself I would never do it again because I didn't want to try to replace my angel male or the females that were there. I was just going to pop seeds and grow them whatever came.
She's like you need to find me that medicine again. So I need you to dig through some seeds. So right now I'm doing the best I can at running the space cushes as I do some reversals and regular breeding with the mud bone, the bubba, the pure cush, the cherry pie, the star dog, the space cheese females if they'll take the fucking pollen.
They don't like pollen. They're similar to the mac like that. I've done two years worth of pollination and have less than 200 seeds on. At this point I'm at eight different females. Eight females that were clones of the same two plants and a total 200 seeds.
The other plants around it have given me on average 20,000 seeds in those pollinations. These plants don't want to give me but like 20 seeds at a time. I've done it with three different males. I don't believe it has anything to do with them being related. It has something to do with the plants pollen tube formation possibly. I don't know. It's been perplexing.
I've been trying to find cultivars that I can get to pollinate those on a massive level. I haven't found one yet.
Interesting. Yeah, that could be a reason for it.
I'm gonna self them next. If they don't self then something's up with those plants. I've put them in other people's hands.
I've put one into someone's hands. He doesn't breed so I don't know what's happening there. I'm gonna put a cut into Eclectic Elegance's hands because he tried the weed and he appreciates it quite well. I want to see what he does with it. I've told him he can work it no matter what. I don't care.
I want to see if he can get a pollination. I don't know what happened. I've done it indoor under different lighting sources. I've done it outside twice. No, more than twice. I did it in two different types of outdoor environments. One early in spring where I still have enough dark to flip them. I fed them inside and put them outside and pollinate.
Also, I do it during the natural lighting environment. When nature decides they need to do their shit, that's when they do their pollination. I still, no matter what, I can't get pollen to drop on them.
How's the Cherry Pie at selfing? Is that one that you've tried reversing?
I haven't tried it myself. She can be easily coaxed into producing stamina flowers. She should have no issues at reversing. You just have to know that you need to watch those seeds.
If I make some S1s of the Cherry Pie and offer them, and I show you guys a test grow, say Cheddar does the test grow and I send Magpie a test grow, and do them at the same time and nothing happens, the rest of those seeds could all show homorphidite.
You have to be aware of that. You just have to be aware of that because that plant can do that. I've sent it to a few people and some people have no issues. Then all of a sudden it'll do something. Some people have issues when they get it.
When they figure out that it needs something different, treat a little less water, or maybe just something in your garden is triggering it. Kind of like the Gorilla Glue, when you don't put enough light, some of the bottom will start to throw some stamina flowers. I've seen it multiple times. That cherry will do similar things.
It hasn't shown in the progeny. So far I haven't found a single stamina flower in the Cherry Pie Crosses that I've done.
Awesome. Awesome. And again, that's just a benefit of testing too. I've seen what you're saying happen there. I'll go along with that.
We're a little bit past three hours right now. I just want to make sure that we have enough time to give everybody a good wrap up. I know, Mr. Toad, you said that you have a few new things coming to the Daga.love. It's Daga.garden now. I'm confused as to whether I say Daga.love or Daga.garden. Daga.love still takes you to Daga.garden.
Yeah, I think I've said that enough now that I see a guy named Diggity Dank in the chat. Sorry, Diggity Dank at the Daga.garden.
Leg Daga.
Daga. But yeah, if you could, please just, you know, I want to give everybody a chance to give their shout outs and their wrap ups. But one more time, what did you have kind of come in or what can people pick up from you now?
What would be something that's maybe good for like a tent grower? Maybe something that might be good for an outdoors guy or even like a commercial or a little bit larger scale person, if you have any recommendations for those.
Right now, let's see, if you're going to be an indoor guy, I would steer you towards that one hitter quitter. It's a fast finisher. It's a shorter plant. It's going to produce killer profiles that are similar to the star dog line, which breeds very true for what it has.
JJ did killer work with the star dog line. I used that Corey cut and it produces a lot of plants with the star dog traits. It's beautiful. I love that plant. It's named after my pit bull that passed away.
You will find something you like in there. I guarantee it. If I have to give you another pack to find it, I will, but you will find them in those seeds. They're beautiful.
There's also the NorCal afgoo that's great for indoor. It's going to finish in under nine weeks. So far, I haven't found nothing over nine. It's throwing peach snapple profiles that come out of there so far in multiple different test gardens.
A lot of colorful flowers, purples with a little bit of magentas that are popping off of them. She's got a very large trichome head like the afgoo mother. So she's good for making concentrates when you're doing sifts.
Or if you want to catch something in the larger bags that you're going to actually produce something with a high amount of oils when you're doing your rosins and pressing. Those large heads hold a ton of essential oils.
What else do I got out there? We've got the ghost of Mary Jane coming. That's a ghost OG cross to space cheese. That thing is throwing some killer colors. She's nice. Jensgarden did a killer job on her.
We've got the Cory's Crush, which is the Topanga Canyon pure cush customized space cheese. That one's going to be a killer plant that has that classic OG structure on many of the plants that you're going to find in there.
Stretchier, lankier. They're going to take a little longer to finish around 10 weeks to 11 weeks on some of the phenos depending on if they lead towards the space cheese side or the Topanga pure cush side of things. There's days for days that's coming back again because everyone keeps asking me about it.
I will be sending those in every randomly so people can get stuff. Everyone has seen the pictures of that out there. It's killer stuff for you to do. Lion breeding work in specific directions and do some hybrids that are going to give you true hybrid vigor. Have the ability to have genetics that have shown proven status on the market.
If you do enough seeds of those you will find something worthy of breeding that you can produce world class cannabis. Collect some stuff from me. Collect some stuff from any one of the breeders on Dog11. Cross them to those plants and you will find magic in there. I'm telling you. Plants that will take you back on a magic car ride in history.
Let's you sample stuff that your uncle smoked and your grandfather and grandmother smoked all the way to what you hope to pass to your children. There's stuff out there from all these breeders. Don't just look me up when you go to Dog a Garden and Seeds here now. Make sure you guys give a look at everything out there with an eye at thinking if you're going to breed how will these two pair up.
Do some research on what you're looking at. Maybe you'll see someone else has done something similar and you have predictable breeding. There's some haze for days there. You see that double serration. That's a picture of the mother and the father that was used through selections. The space cheese also shows a double serration in her profile and her leaf structure.
If you go to Tony's IG at Filialfeel you can see the 18 foot haze plant blowing in the wind. It looks like an old Japanese ninja movie. That was crazy.
They won't be able to finish where I live but I'm definitely throwing one outside next year just to see what it does.
Breed with it.
Start to select for cultivars that might have the ability to offer you a higher amount of returned product based on the amount of trichome coverage that plant is starting to have.
You'll be able to see that out in the sun where the UV can drive that haze to produce qualities that you're not getting inside. When your plant goes to 10 feet in the room when your lights are hanging at 8 feet. The whole top of that plant is missing the whole light spectrum. It's as anorexic as it can be.
That's some abiotic stress happening to that plant right there. It's not showing any issues above the fucking light line. There's a lot of stuff that's happening to that haze in an indoor setup that would never happen outside. It shows stability through that.
You take those, clone them, put them outside and see which one is giving you that faster finish with the denser structure even outside.
That was my plan too. I'm going to run a couple runs. I'm running this run now. I'm going to pick my favorites out of it and run them again. Then next year I'm going to put some of each outside and then take my clones back off the outdoor ones to revitalize them in the sun too and pull those back inside.
I keep them inside for a year but then they won't be two years inside with no sunlight.
Not being a person that's had the chance to grow outside, I've heard a lot of people do the revitalizing.
Even if they don't finish for you bro, honestly just to grow them outside, it's so wicked to watch them go. A small outdoor plant is like a massive indoor plant. It's crazy. The runt of the bunch will be 7 feet tall. It's crazy.
One day, one day.
I do that too. I reset outside. Every year I put plants outside to reset.
That's where I got the idea from. The way you explained it, it made so much sense. Just to revitalize it and remind it that it's not some weird little indoor creature. It's got all these traits and all these different things that are getting set off.
I figured if I'm going to keep something for a long period, I don't want to keep it inside for 10 years straight. I'm not even really seeing what it can do. I'm just seeing what it can do in an artificial environment.
It does not just make gold more precious?
My climate where I'm at too is super, super hard on plants. If you can finish something without bud rot and without PM here, you're winning. I've finished two plants. I've grown outside two years now and I've finished two plants that didn't have any issues whatsoever.
I don't care. Like I said, Chad, it's fun. Even if it ends up in the compost pile, I don't care. It doesn't cost that much. You throw it in the ground. That's why I said to Tony, my neighbors think I'm insane. Right before the winter came this year, I was literally outside top dressing my entire fucking back lawn.
Because I'm going in ground. I'm going to put plants in my backyard. It's going to be a Christmas tree. It's going to be so dope. Oh my God.
Yes, Anthro is true.
That'll be awesome. I'll have to try it. I'm sorry. I'm just losing my shit at fucking Cheddar Bob Smeagol impression right there. That was too spot on. Like the fuck is going on?
I love the brawn and the grendel.
Anthro in the comments on YouTube are saying Hayes grows in waves with the first wave that gives you CBG. This is true. I've shown this in the test reports on my Hayes for days at 62 days tested indoors. She came back at 24% THC and 5.7% CBG and 4% CBD.
Right. So now that that CBG we know is a precursor cannabinoid that can become some other cannabinoids. They're not 100% sure if it only becomes THC or it has the ability to become what's one of the other novel cannabinoids are out there.
So now you get this plant.
Sorry. Is it? Aren't they all like that though? Like if you pull it early, aren't they all going to have CBG and not really much else? Or is it just with certain cultivars?
No, not all.
Yeah, it's a pretty, but doesn't mean that you're going to test for a high amount of CBG. How many people like if you have to grow it only half of a flower room, right? Because the Hayes at 62 days is only halfway done.
So now let's say you take one hitter quitter and you only grow it halfway through the grow. It's not coming anywhere close to those numbers. 24%, 5.7 and 4%. So now you're growing for efficiency. So you only have plants that you can grow for 62 days.
We both know that a Hayes or a Hayes hybrid can fill a 15 foot room, right? And a one hitter quitter can only fill a six foot room. Now you need to plant that can produce an amount specific of these cannabinoids that you're after, right?
Which one do you pick? The one that can fill the whole fucking space or the one that can only fit in the closet? You go for the one that's going to give you the most amount of cannabinoids you're after that can produce the largest amount of them. And then when you have that cultivar that can do that halfway through its flower cycle. Now you don't have to run a Hayes 129 days if you're after those cannabinoids specifically. If you were after the flower to smoke, you have to.
If you're after cannabinoids and medicine, now you can take those and process them and turn your room over every 62 days. 62 days. Now you got CBG, you got THC and you got CBD from one cultivar. Where in other systems you're going to have to run three cultivars to get those same exact numbers, right?
How many other plants are giving you 5.7 and 4% on CBD and CBG that are going to fit in that exact same amount of area and fill the exact same amount of space so that you can put them in the same area and have them perform correctly. Now you have one plant that can fill that whole specific area and grow at a pace that's got almost no veg time, right?
So it cuts down on your electric bill because of the veg cycle. And now you only have to flower it halfway through. So you basically just ran it at 12 and 12 for two months and you removed them from the room and have another one ready to go in there. So every two months you're pulling Hayes out of the room for their essential oils.
You've got six crows in a room where you usually have to go 10 weeks when you have to grow other cultivars for two months that's a little tiny cultivar to fill that exact same space on the actual size and scale, right? So it comes down to knowing your cultivar, knowing your system and knowing what you're after when you're on a commercial size. That's a plant that's commercial.
So people want to, I go, what are you after? These days people are after cannabinoids, they're after terpenes and they want to do this efficiently. So you can steer that through a plant just like that. Breed it to something else high in THC-V and something that's got CBN that's popping up a lot or THC-A and now you have a cultivar that's going to produce even more cannabinoids on this level that's novel.
You have a plant that becomes novel in the system because no other plant's doing it.
This is a lot of you can even pull it off.
Those oddball ones have a lot of medicinal value too, right? Like they're doing testing on all those different ones, right?
Yeah, yeah. And they're pressing it. So they turn it into a medicine. We start to regulate and it becomes a pill. It becomes a tincture that you can give to someone, an elderly patient, right? So you can take the THC and put that in the vape pens for everybody vaping.
Yeah, it'll work off.
You can take the CBG and CBD from that exact same plant and give grandma a pill or a topical that doesn't get her high. And it all came from one plant filling three different sections of the market.
And smoking isn't glamorous on the medicinal side.
Yeah, technically burning anything into your lungs isn't good, right?
No?
For isolating, you know.
Yeah, there we go. Better term there. But I think that's going to influence a lot of the flower that we see. And that might not be different.
Well, it already is, right?
It is a little bit.
Think about washing. I never even heard someone really talk about washing in terms of a strain until the last few years. Now everyone, like, if you look at a post on Instagram, one of the first few comments, how does it wash? How does it wash? How does it wash? Right?
Exactly.
Which I get.
Well, there's a problem with that.
The yield thing doesn't really matter just because with my medical license I can produce more than I need, right? But I can understand that. If you can only have four plants, like you're an average person in Canada and it doesn't wash, it has to be a thing, you're screwed, right?
Yeah.
So I totally get it.
It's important, but that open buzz structure might not be something that I as a flower person enjoy.
No, but for hash, for hash it's perfect.
I'm so excited to wash the haze once it's done.
Even if it doesn't yield great, the high on it's going to be so different and so unreal. It's going to be fantastic.
Yeah. It'll go into the head stash.
Oh yeah.
That's not shared with many people.
I already smoked all of my haze fucking rosin I made this year. I turned that whole 18 foot plant into rosin and smoked that shit. The first hit I took off that stuff, I was done.
Oh my goodness.
That's not ash, right? That's flower.
Cheddar bombs got a clam chowder.
Yeah, that's just flower.
That's haze, you got like...
It's a massive clam chowder.
It makes good, I think it makes killer medicine in a concentrated form. It's old school stuff.
Because for me, haze isn't something that I really enjoy in a joint. It's just not something I want in a joint.
But the hash, it just reminds me of the old days of smoking when I was younger.
My other mother used to smoke hash. That's all she smoked. She would not smoke buds almost.
I can't barely remember her ever smoking any kind of herb. She had her own little hash pipe. I still have.
She would just take chunks of hash and stick it in there.
When I started being able to smoke with her when I was 12, she'd give me the hash pipe and be like, here, don't tell your mom.
I'd fucking puff that shit and give it back to her and bounce.
When I proved I could handle myself, when I didn't turn into a dumbass fucking 12 year old and had hash, that's when I was able to come and start to smoke around the adults.
It was just a passage of adulthood. When you were able to hang out with the rest of the potheads without being a bug up somebody's ass, that's when you were fucking grown up in my part of the woods.
Have you washed any of that Robert's Creek yet? I bet that's wild once you wash it.
I just finished smoking that the other day. I pressed that into Rosano's.
Everything I did on my side this year, I did all for breeding. Everything had seed in it.
That's the beauty of it. You still get hash.
Yeah, but the sift from it is top quality. It tastes just like it. It might be a little less, but I take that stuff and I sift it out.
Then that stuff gets pressed on my press. I run it for five minutes at 170 degrees with the plates barely touching the bag.
It's no pressure at all. I get it warmed up and then I'll press it down for another five minutes. That's basically what I get.
I haven't tried pressing hash yet, but I used to press nub. That's the same thing. You want to get it all greased up and warmed up.
If you just go at it right away, you just blow the bag right away.
This year, that's all I've been smoking is rosin from the bubble hash that I've been making or from the sift.
Originally, last year, I found Frenchie's old videos and I tried making it right away. That's how I do it too. I got bad in it too.
Now with the hash, here's the thing. You kind of want it to oxidize for it to start to decarboxylize.
Oh yeah, it gets so much better with age.
The hash will start to become more car- In the old days, we used to take that shit and wrap it in like six or seven layers of fucking saran wrap and put it in a ziplock and put it in your shoe and walk around in that shit.
Some of them really just start to melt as they cure. This was a ball six months ago. No pressure, no nothing. Just melting down to itself.
That's what I do when I wash. I take half of it, same as this one. This is sitting in a cold, cold too. It's not room temperature. It's cooler than that.
Sitting in a steel container right in the corner of the room, the dark corner.
Some of them, you get the difference in how they age. That's what I've been doing. I take half of what I washed.
I do the glass bottle and then I take it, split it in half to keep half of it out so I can smoke on it.
And then I put half of it away and then every three months I open it up as quick as I can. I take a small chunk off of it and seal it back up.
And just to see in every single strain so far, I've done nine. Every single one has only gotten better with age.
This one's got 16 months of age on it now and it's so good I don't even want to smoke it.
I don't want to not have it anymore. It's so good. It just keeps getting better.
This one I already had opened and I just triple bagged it so I can actually open this one.
But this is from the first outdoor flower I ever grew. It said it was Cinderella 99 but now that I know it was from a company that it wasn't Cinderella 99.
It was a white label bag of seeds but it was a fantastic flower.
And it's still sticky and it's not hard. It immediately just pulls apart.
And like I said it's got 16 months of age and just with a little bit of the heat from your hand you can turn it right back into a temple ball.
And like I leave this for a minute it'll instantly oil through like that and get shiny again.
And like the smell gets better. It gets stronger. Like I have friends at work that won't take ash from me anymore.
I'm like hey you want to smoke a bowl? They're like what is it? I'm like ash. They're like nope.
Yeah we've smoked your ash before man.
And that's what I mean. Once you kind of get it it's not hard.
And this is the reason I picked both of these dudes as testers was they're ash loving.
They're going to take my strains and tell me about whether or not what I'm making is good ash.
I'm a hash head. That's the first thing I loved smoking was ash.
I want my shit to be good for ash.
So both of these guys with the um they love hash.
Like Cheddar's been proving it through all his presses.
And you're seeing MacPyro. I mean what's the what were the chances that both of these guys whip out fucking vacuum seal bags with nugs of fucking temple balls that are melting inside their basements and shit.
Right? Like who has that shit?
Obviously these guys in multiple.
That's rad.
It's the East Coast thing.
There we go.
It is.
We're made different.
That's right you guys need your bolt.
Oh no. Okay. No I'm not going there.
I love you guys. I love you guys.
I don't need mine anymore.
I understood the assignment. My balls can drip from bacon.
You're done.
I don't need them. I'm done man.
I'm fucking I'm about to elastic band them myself.
Shit.
That's a good one.
What uh.
You know what stops abortions? Vasectomies.
Yeah.
Or a hundred dollar hand jobs. Those could stop them also.
That's a possibility.
Depends where those hands go after.
That's an expensive hand job.
Yeah. Depends where those hands go after.
That depends on whose wallet that hundred dollar bill is coming from.
Whether or not that's an expensive hand job.
Oh 100%. If Uncle Chad's got one.
Yeah. Yeah.
I'm writing the checks over here.
I don't think he can pay those kind of things with checks anyways.
Oh man.
That's what Bitcoin is for isn't it?
Isn't that the whole point of it I'm pretty sure?
Oh.
Man.
The escort has proven her mental status.
If she's taking bitcoins from a dude for a hand job.
You need to have some real money.
Real money motherfucker. Right now.
That's innovation. You can't even hate on her for that.
It's like good for you.
But the bad part is you're supposed to buy bitcoins.
You gotta choose which days you're getting your bitcoin.
You don't want to be giving too many hand jobs on the bear days.
You know?
Oh Jesus.
It's like trying to jerk off a polar bear with a pair of sandpaper mittens.
You just don't get anything done.
Who even puts those words together?
That's awesome.
Joe here asked about my wash process.
My brother says the same kind of shit in the comments all the time.
Yep.
Okay I'm sorry you said there was a question.
Someone asked about my wash process.
I was going to tell him I have.
You used to start behind the ears and then where did you leave it at?
Yeah.
Cannabis Tony. Cannabis washing.
Two different styles.
It depends on if it's for smoking and inhaling or if it's for an edible.
I do two different ways.
If it's for an edible it's going to be in just one bag.
I'm washing everything through.
I put a 220 in to collect any contaminants.
Everything else goes in the 25 so I've got as much full spectrum hash.
Single source as possible.
That's a little insensitive Joe.
What am I missing?
That's how I would go about doing that.
Like I said before I used to have a company called 250 Farms.
We specialized in edibles.
I did candy bars, glycerins.
I did carrot cake, brownies, lemon bars.
I did corn bread.
We did chocolate chip, double chocolate chip.
We had a double fudge.
I did all kinds of shit.
At that time I wanted my hash to have as much full spectrum from a single cultivar that I could.
I had my one space clips tested.
That was then given out to specific farmers under the deal that they would give me their trim back.
Back in the 215 days not a lot of people were making hash.
It was a secret.
You didn't want to tell somebody that because the next thing you know you didn't have nowhere to drop your hash off at.
You keep the price up.
You didn't tell everybody back then.
That's just how growers were.
Since I'm working for the club it was easier for us to get quality hash through me.
I wasn't telling everyone what to do with it.
I would get the trim back from the cultivar that I had tested which came back at 54% THC.
That was added to all my edibles and weighed out portions.
That's how all my bobble hash was done back then.
It would be decarboxylized prior to being washed when it was for edibles.
Something similar to what Nick Risden does where he puts the herb in jars and heats it up for a specific amount of time before he turns it into an RSO.
You can do the same thing with your bobble hash.
If you're going to use it for edibles you can heat that up in your oven and decarboxylize it.
Then wash it and use that same concentrate in your oils.
Me being someone that cooked since I was 14 I just took the recipes that I knew and added the concentrate to it.
In the early days there wasn't the science of what they pass out now.
Everybody knows exactly what they're doing with everything because they're getting smart.
At that time if you didn't know how to cook you didn't know how to put the weed into a cookie without putting the weed in the butter.
That was a way to get mold.
We all know now we got powdery mildew, we got fusarium, we got gray molds and people are making butter out of that shit.
I tell them you bring that butter in here after 7 days of sitting on your counter.
If it doesn't have any fucking mold I'll buy all your edibles.
Every time that shit would be moldy and people were like why is he doing that?
I was like well you've been in here asking me about powdery mildew the whole grow right?
You've been asking me how to get rid of gray mold the whole fucking time.
You're in here asking me about contaminants and I know we're on your plant and you're out there putting shit on it to get rid of it.
I don't want that shit in my edibles.
You don't want it in your edibles.
You wouldn't eat it if someone else made it.
Look at that.
I'm telling you.
If they don't know how to get rid of the mold off the other day.
I opened it and I'm like it's a little bit of mold but it's just a little bit.
Now go through and use water to act as a solvent on the buds that you're washing.
It washes most of the contamination away and leaves you with the concentrate that's an oil that is in bind with the water.
Now you have a cleaner concentrate that can be added to your butters and to your oils and to whatever fat that's in that recipe.
It can become more bioavailable in your body than just eating a bunch of green ass butter that tastes like shit.
Now it takes away from the quality of the edible.
You can also use vegetable glycerin.
I use vegetable glycerin on all my tinctures.
It doesn't affect diabetics.
They're blood sugar levels so that's why it was in there.
We used to make diabetic cookies with the same thing.
You could use that as your sugar source and your fat source.
We used to make hard candies the same way.
So instead of having the flavor of some flour, which a lot of stoners will say I love that shit.
A lot of people that are dying don't want to suck on a fucking green leaf their whole fucking night.
So you make a clean concentrate and put it in there like a bubble hash or just something that doesn't have all the chlorophyll.
It makes that edible much more palatable.
Yeah, concentrates make the best edibles hands down.
It's accepted by more people also.
When a grandmother that's never had cannabis comes in looking for a cookie that's got CBG in it.
But you also soaked it in fucking 17 pounds of plant matter.
She's like I don't want that shit. That's not what I was after.
I wanted to just taste a cookie and have the effect.
Instead you gave her this thing that tasted like the lawn and it already made a bad effect on her.
It was a bad experience from the beginning.
Instead of making it here's a sugar cookie that she makes herself that just happens to have cannabis in it.
And she's like well shit I could do this at home.
Instead you gave her this poisonous flavored fucking water.
Fucking cunt.
And she's pissed off now.
She's aggravated.
She don't want to come around the plant no more.
She's already pissed off and you haven't helped yourself or her.
I'm telling you.
That made me puke.
That's what I took into account when I started making edibles myself.
Was not just how potent I wanted the edible to be.
But how much.
So say I was using butter.
How much butter do I need for how much concentrate I want to put in to make it not overpowering on the butter.
So I found the sweet spot.
When I make peanut butter cups.
100 milligrams.
But split up into a recipe that takes a full cup of butter.
Hits the sweet spot where there isn't a flavor but there's enough potency.
Because you're using enough butter where it's not like one tablespoon of butter to one tablespoon of hash.
And same when you use concentrates because you're getting less flavor.
If you take that into account too.
So like if you're going to use butter look for recipes that take you know half a cup of butter or a cup of butter.
As opposed to you know one tablespoon or just a little bit.
That's one thing I found that helped to get rid of that taste.
Because even if you don't like.
Even if you like the taste of flour.
You might not like the taste of hash or you might not like the taste of decarbed hash.
Decarbed material doesn't necessarily taste that great anymore.
No but if you decarbed the plant matter before you make the hash.
A lot of that flavor gets washed out in the wash of the water.
Water is the natural solvent.
I just decarbed my hash itself before I make it.
Yeah that's what a lot of people will do that.
And it gives that flavor back to the hash.
Because now it's concentrated on the concentrate.
Instead start with the flour material.
And use the water as what nature intended as a solvent.
It's going to remove a lot of that.
That's how you can put smoke flavor in water right.
It's the same principle here.
So you're taking contamination away from the plant.
Which is the flavor of the decarboxylation from an oven.
That's if you choose to use heat.
Yeah that's a really good idea.
You could decarboxylate cannabis with light.
You could leave that stuff under UV light for an extended period of time.
And do the same thing and never get that flavor from heating it up.
So there's different ways to decarboxylate cannabis.
A lot of people don't share that information.
So if you don't want to do that, heat it up.
That's great.
I used to be doing enough material to where I would end up with 3 pounds of bubble hash at the end.
And then that bubble hash was turned into all my recipes.
So I would already make the butter.
So my mom who was doing most of the cooking would be able to just reach in and grab butter that was pre-weighed out for milligram doses.
Where the cookie was going to give you 94 milligrams and you got 2 of those no matter what.
Yeah that's what I do.
Pre-make a bunch of butter and then I dose it.
So each cup of butter has 5600 milligrams or whatever.
You know what I mean?
Yep.
And then we would do that.
We would put oils.
Like if the brownie recipe had oil in it.
So you just put oil in a bottle and fill it with hash and make sure you shake it up.
But I used to just do each bottle because it's hard to make sure that a 32 ounce bottle has got the exact same amount of hash in every half cup.
So we would just get little half cup servings and put that in there.
My mom could take that, shake it up, put it in a recipe.
She'd end up making 50 fucking cookies or 50 fucking brownies.
Or I'd come home and make 50 candy bars or we'd make 50 Rice Krispie Treats in each flavor.
Each one of those came with the exact same amount of hash that needed to bring it to that specific milligram dosage.
Where I was doing 94 milligrams for every cookie and you'd get 2 cookies.
The chocolate candy bar was 397 milligrams.
You could get double doses on everything.
And if you really wanted to talk to me on the side, I would make any strength that you wanted.
Especially for the terminal patients.
I would have made any terminal patient any strength they wanted.
I'd let them suck on a whole fucking chunk of hash if they needed to.
Yeah, it's not hard to up the dose, right?
The only thing that negatively affects it is just if you get the flavor.
But like you said, I never thought about that to decarb the material ahead of time.
I got to wicked idea because then you wash out.
You get a lot of the turps out in the wash, right?
Yeah, if you're making edible, you kind of don't care if it's going to taste like anything.
You can add turps back to what you're eating.
So you're after that concentrate.
So you're going to mask it with the recipe.
And the best way to get that out of there is, like I said, the universal solvent.
You want it to taste like nothing as close as you can, right?
Yeah, and that's why I use a concentrate.
So the more you concentrate that concentrate, the smaller amount that you need to put in it so you have less flavor affecting it.
So you could go from Keith, which you would need a lot, to a bubble hash, which you need less, to say a rosin, which is even smaller amount, to the shatters we used to have, which you get up to like 90%, right?
Yeah, I've tried it with a double quarter.
If you were testing a bubble hash at 50.
Shatter works really good for edibles.
I've tried it with a bunch of stuff.
Yep.
So now you can just tailor it.
If you don't care about the taste, put a lot in.
If you do, you can concentrate it down and put that in the same recipe and dose it out for the person that needs it.
And like I said, if you're going to a senior that's just coming to cannabis, they don't want to taste all that weed in there.
They're scared of it.
They've been told their whole life it's bad.
So you want to hide it in the recipe.
Yeah, the taste of it sometimes.
Yeah, to a new user too, I find the taste of it sometimes, like if they can taste the pot in the edible, they automatically assume it's going to be stronger than you told them it was.
Because if they can taste it, oh my God, it's so powerful.
Like sometimes they'll get that.
You almost work yourself into like a mini panic attack, right?
Getting freaked out about it.
It's because everything's so strong now too, right?
Like if you didn't smoke for 30 years and then smoke something now, I'm sure it would blow your head off, right?
I don't know, it just kind of depends.
Like I said, I guess.
Yeah, it depends on where you're getting it from, right?
I just mean like brick weed wise.
Yeah, if you were smoking brick weed.
Yeah.
But that also could depend on what generation you get that brick weed anymore.
I think in a couple places, man.
I haven't seen brick weed in years.
I've never seen it before.
Man, my buddy's dad used to move that shit down in Palm Springs.
The worst thing I've ever seen was the Bee Steers.
Sacks.
Oh, I've seen bricks, bricks, bricks.
I'm talking hefty bag, the 55 gallon hefty bags.
He would have a room, a whole room filled with those and shit.
We'd come over there and say, you got any weed?
And he'd go grab a bag of like Wonder Bread, a whole loaf and throw the bread in the trash and tell us to fill the bag up so we could go in the room and just fill up bread bags full of fucking weed.
We'd do we were smoking pressed weed.
Fuck until our lungs felt like they were falling out, dude.
Like I'd rather have a Marlboro than this bullshit, dude.
Just burn in a word.
They were falling out, Tony.
Dude, we found roses in there.
I found scissors.
I found roaches.
I found fucking bandages, dude, dude, knives, talker trucks.
Did we found so much crazy shit in the pressed?
We did just crazy shit.
Crazy shit.
His dad used to move all kinds of shit that he would bring green bud from Humboldt down to fucking Palm Springs in L.A.
And then he'd turn that into fucking other things.
He'd get way more money off the pressed weed than he was getting off the one pound of green bud.
So he'd take a pound of green bud and make 9600 bucks at that time.
Then he'd buy a fucking, like I said, a room full of fucking brick weed.
And now he turns that brick weed into fucking like $20,000.
And then he turns he goes and buys a couple ounces of some shit that most of us ain't fucking with these days.
And now it turns that fucking into fucking 30 or 40,000.
It comes back home with a Porsche, right?
And he does this every fucking year.
And we're like, what the fuck's going on with Terry?
Uncle Terry's fucking balling.
He like come back with banging every year, dude, all off a fucking leaving Humboldt with some pounds and knowing how to hustle his ass off in the right fucking areas.
It's crazy.
Yeah, it's crazy.
Some of the prices like I used to hear from the States and stuff like it's been expensive up here at times, but like are expensive is nothing like your guys is expensive.
Yeah, he was getting 9600 and in the 80s.
The most expensive I've ever seen like I've ever paid personally is I paid 3800 one time when Cush like Cush first hit here like the real stinky old school like stink up the world cuz.
And I remember 3800 was like insane.
Like people are like, get the fuck out of here.
I'm not giving you that much.
And then I hear you guys talk about prices and it's like that's not.
Yeah.
Chase says he found condoms and rocks in there.
This would have been this would have been 93 when I'm talking about is specifically the year that this room was filled with bags, fucking brick, weed and Bammer 93.
I would have found a condom.
Someone's getting beat up, dude.
I don't give it.
If it's if it's I'm the only one in the room, I'll punch myself in the face.
If I can, I'll run myself into the wall.
Something wrong with that.
So that those weren't tricones is what you're saying.
That's what I was gonna say.
That's what you mean.
So the tricone.
How can we try to go man to squiggling around and moving her to the microscope?
This is terrible.
I got nothing.
You beat that one.
Try to beat it.
What do you got, brother?
They don't seem to be sensitive to UV light.
Oh, geez.
Superior genetics.
All right.
Here's your name.
On that note, guys, we're gonna we're gonna wrap this one up.
I apologize.
I've got computer card issues that basically after about this amount of time, I don't see anything on my screen other than a hundred.
Oh, you need.
Oh, Tony.
OK, there is.
That's not like.
But the blank or the box went blank.
You need to upgrade your your Tandy computer there, Chad.
Fucking Mac, dude.
Seriously, I'm not.
This is their bitches.
I'm switching because of this fucking incident.
I've already switched off my iPhone.
I got a Samsung or I don't even know what it is.
I thought I'd pay thousands of dollars for a computer that overheats all the time.
Mother fuck, dude.
It can't be me tonight because I upgraded my goddamn Internet.
So I went from two gigabytes to 70.
So it's one of you guys tonight.
No, you've been good tonight, bro.
Like, no, you're not.
Time you just dropped out was the only issue you've had all night.
This has been like the best ever.
Yeah, yeah, it really has been.
It's a new toad.
It's a new day.
I'm going to sign off.
It's totally the future.
I'm going to start signing off.
Let me tell Chadder thank you for everything he's done.
Yeah, guys, absolutely.
Chad, thanks for having me on.
Mr. Magpie, it was nice to see you.
Yeah, you too, bro.
Thank you for your time.
I don't even have to say anything.
Thank you for your time, Chad.
You can find me at cheddarbub13 on Instagram, on Cannabuzz, and on YouTube.
And remember, it's with two T's.
Oh, I didn't do that.
I didn't do that.
He went like that, and it just.
Damn, that was that Lost Boyz shit right there.
There we go.
Oh, shit.
Okay.
Well, thanks for joining us, Cheddar Bob.
Always a pleasure.
Always a pleasure.
I appreciate all the help you've done for me, Cheddar Bob.
And I will be getting a package out to you next week.
So thank you again, brother.
Awesome.
And how about yourself, Mr. Magpie?
Where can people find you or maybe follow some of these things?
Because I know a lot of people are hot on Mr. Toad's work,
so they're going to be looking at your stuff and be like,
all right, what can I expect here?
Yeah, I post all the time.
And like I said, mostly gear I'm running right now is Mr. Toad's.
So I've got a good little sampling of the Space Cheese Crosses going.
I'm on Instagram, MrMagpie420.
And, yeah, that's where I basically post everything.
I posted – I'm going to do it more.
I posted when the Dagger University first came out, I was posting on there.
I just – when I was first doing it, like I messed up a couple of my posts
trying to get it squared away, and then they sent out an email saying,
we're working some bugs out, but she's going to work.
So pretty cool.
Cool.
That's awesome.
And I do – I have the Instagram for you and Cheddar Bob in the show notes as well.
So anybody who's curious and wants to look them up, just go down to the show notes.
And I also, Mr. Toad, I put both your regular account and your backup account in there
because I am one of those persons who always thinks he's getting the right one,
but I always get the wrong one, even when I'm like, no, that's the wrong one,
so I'm going to do this one.
Well, people kept tagging his backup account too
because he was banned off Instagram there for a bit.
So, like, unless you typed out his – like, literally his full name.
Like, you know how when you type at and then you start typing letters?
His, like, it got to the point where even when you type the full name,
it still wouldn't give you the drop-down, so you just had to hope you spelled it right
when you were doing the post.
It was getting real there.
So I think people were just getting frustrated, so they started tagging his backup account.
Nice.
It's working now, though.
It's working now, though, A-Toad.
Like, as soon as I type in F, both your accounts come right away in the drop.
So whatever happened, you did it.
Guess how I got that to happen?
How's that?
I removed every hashtag on every post I've ever put on Instagram
because I went back and found out that I had, like, three that I've been using,
and they're all shadow banned.
They're all hidden.
Once you get one of those, you basically become shadow banned in the search bar.
So once I removed it from there, after a specific few amount of days,
I started to become available to other people.
Yeah, we're trying to get it.
You type it in partially once, and all of a sudden it starts to come all the way up,
and it's worked for about four other people that have done the same thing.
It's a pain in the ass to go through.
I had to go through 6,000 hashtags to find all the ones that were banned and remove them.
And then I'm like, you know what?
I'm just getting rid of them because that's how they track you through Instagram
is the hashtag on the post that's either been tagged by Instagram through the logarithm
or through the buster-ass hater that's reporting your shit because he don't like what you're putting up.
So by the time one of those happened, they track you by that fucking hashtag that you added on there.
So me using my normal hashtags ended up causing me to become shadow banned of people,
and it also causes anyone else using it to do it because I got shadow banned by it.
Like, Haze for Days now is shadow banned.
You guys can look that up.
If you keep using Haze for Days, it's going to continue to keep you in being shadow banned.
So just put Haze for Days with two Zs or something or add another letter after it from now on.
That's how you know you're doing good, though, man, because people just hate on you so bad.
Like, you hit them with the real knowledge, and they can't fight it,
so they just go full, like, ninth grade freak out.
Yeah, totally.
I just—Peter's in chat here, and I was actually going to mention, he started finally popping back up
because when I go to tag Budgasm, I used to have to type it all out,
but within just the last, like, week, it started to pop up again when I do the BU.
Peter's was banned forever.
He's saying mine's banned, though. He's like, even Chad Westport I have to type out in full.
Who the—
When I did the post tonight, all your guys came up immediately.
I don't know if that's just on mine or—
That's wild, but I'm Chad.Westport on Instagram, just in case.
But, yeah, Chad.Westport.
And again, all my gear, the new stuff's coming to Dogged Love and to Seeds Here Now.
Dogged Love's getting four lines, and Seeds Here Now's getting three.
They're all going to be different at both places, so you don't have to choose and pick your favorite.
You should support both of them.
They've both done good stuff for different people for specific reasons and different fundraisers here.
We all know what Peter's doing for everybody, so hit up Dogga.
Support all the breeders on there because there's cats that are coming on these shows, giving you guys information.
They're treating you like they wish that they were treated in the early days.
If we would have had the information that we're getting now,
we wouldn't have ever had the CalMac days, guys.
We'd be way past that shit.
We wouldn't be arguing over Indica and Sativa.
We would be teaching each other how to line breed for specific mutations that are novel
and telling each other to steer into this version of a plant from this guy
because he found novel cannabinoids in his version of that line, even though it's the same genetics.
He dug in there deep enough and has line bred them to give you THCV instead of just THCA.
That's what these panels were doing is good for.
This is what the testers being open is great for.
Cats like Peter and Chad spending their time to give you the information freely
with a little bit of a comedy twist is something we begged for back in my day.
Begged for someone else to talk to about weed.
I'm telling you, you don't know how often I wished I had someone that I could talk to
that I wasn't afraid was going to turn me in and I was going to lose everything I had
because I was talking to the wrong kid about cannabis or the wrong fucking dude that shows up.
Today you can talk to anybody about this plant and you will make your world better by doing so.
I'm glad that you have and you have made the world better, definitely.
One thing that's big to me as a person is lead by example.
I think you're really doing that.
Walking the walk, talking the talk all at the same time.
You're helping a lot of people become better growers.
You're helping people learn about breeding, some of the pitfalls and some of the advantages
to look for and watch out for.
Because you can't stop people from making bad decisions,
but at least hopefully you can educate them and try to make them get better decisions.
Quit breeding with cookies.
No, sorry.
That was Tourette's.
I'm going to sneak some cookies into those seeds I told you that were the skunk species.
I'll send you cookie havers.
I found my 10 different packs and every single one is just cookies on cookies on cookies on cookies.
No, no. I joke. I joke, though.
I do want to send you some seeds, brother Chad, from some stuff that we talked about.
So give me an address and I'll get some stuff out next week.
Hell yeah, brother. I will happily.
You got a chem cross too, right? Uncle Chad loves chem.
I think I sent you the chem 4 space cheese, Mr. Magpie.
It's one I'm not releasing.
I believe I sent that to you.
And Toad's 91, which is chem 91 to Ghost OG Chem Dog Special Reserve.
I believe that's what I sent you in the testers over to Peter.
So when they land, you'll be able to do the same thing we did before where you hit them up and just pay shipping and those should have killed out to you.
So there's the testers that we talked about and a whole bunch of other packs for you to dig through.
And like I said, since you've tested for me, if you do want chem crosses, you just tell me and I'll put them in a pack.
I was talking about for Chad there. He's a chem fan too.
Chad can have them too. Chad can have them.
That's a way for me to tell you thank you for what you've been doing.
I appreciate it, brother. They'll definitely all see water sooner than later.
That's awesome. No, no, dude. Absolutely. Absolutely. My pleasure.
It's a beautiful give and take and that's what I think this community is.
We learn so much from each other. We thrive on each other.
And it's not something that we can do all by ourselves.
I'm going to take Mr. Magpie's experience with something and make decisions off of it.
It's good stuff. But I really love the community aspect.
And again, thank you. Thank you both for coming here tonight.
And, you know, Mr. Toad, people love you, brother.
That was an evil laugh right there. That was an evil laugh.
I can't say the comments, so I only imagined it.
I'm reading Dan says Sneak Chad a cookie cross in the pack.
I do have a – it's got cookies in it like three different times.
It's the Catholic school go across from Dutch and Blooms.
It's got cookies on both sides of the pear.
I'm going to grow it. I'm going to be like, dude, this is the keeper. What is it again?
Is he Chad off camera just ripping leaves off and stuff?
It's not growing right. I'm going to have to call it. I don't know what's wrong with it.
Oh, fuck. No, man. I've grown plenty of cookies in the commercial.
And I swear that's – people have smoked my arm hair because of cookies.
That shit is sticky. It's good.
It's good, Reed, but I understand what you're saying.
It's went to a spot where we wish it wouldn't have.
It's going to happen again with everything eventually with something in the 8-year.
It's going to go super crazy up here. I haven't seen it.
I know you guys have been dealing with it for years there. Just cookies, cookies, cookies, cookies.
I forget who I was listening to the other day, but they made an absolutely good point.
It's transitioned from cannabis to a lifestyle.
It's now a lifestyle brand and it's interesting because you have a lot of people associating cookies with cannabis,
but you also have the stores.
I mean you could go – and this person said it's like you could go into Foot Locker and get a cookies hoodie.
That's a little bit weird. That's a little bit different.
He's like, I've got my 12-year-olds wearing cookies pants.
Am I supposed to be mad that cannabis is now marketing?
It's a lifestyle thing. It's gone beyond cannabis, but that's another conversation.
But yeah, you always got to –
Well, because they're trying to be Budweiser, right?
Like that's their – I'm not saying they're that big, but I just mean like that's their idea.
They're trying to be like here's the same jar in every single state, right?
They're the biggest and most recognizable brand of cannabis.
Yeah, even people that don't smoke know what you mean when you say cookies now.
Yeah, yeah. But I'm going off on Mac. I'm going off on cookies.
Boy, no. It's one of those nights.
But we'll wrap it up.
Those Kim Crosses are nice, brother. He says they sound nice.
They are nice, brother. Trust me. I've done a few of them.
They're killer.
The pictures I've seen of them, they look phenomenal.
I can't wait. I'm typing out my address right now.
Is your computer on fire yet or what, Chad?
Dude, it –
Smoking out the ears?
Yeah. You know, you're making me angry.
I think if you hit it hard enough, it will fix it like that.
You remember how you used to fix like old TV or a VCR?
You just give it one little boom.
Yeah.
It's not reading the disc. I'll just give it a smack.
No, no, no. All right.
Well, while I can still see the end broadcast button, I will hit the end broadcast button.
But, hey, everybody making it this far, thanks for tuning in and thanks for catching the replay chat.
I love you guys.
It's fun watching and trying to interact a little bit, but it's fun watching you guys.
So thanks for being here.
And again, thank you, Mr. Toad.
Thank you, Mr. Magpie.
Appreciate you all. Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
You guys rock on. I'll go ahead and hit the end button here.
