I hit the wrong button.
So we're live early.
Sound of a gun.
I'm so not ready for live.
So we'll just hang out and people will join us.
And, yeah.
It's a beautiful day in the neighborhood,
a beautiful day in the neighborhood.
Won't you be mine?
Won't you be fine?
Won't you be my neighbor?
Bidoo bidee doop dee doop dee do.
All right.
So, yes, again, I completely accidentally
hit the wrong button and went live when I wasn't meaning to.
So thanks for joining.
And I'm just going to be dead air, dead air,
doing stupid shit for a second here.
We can get started.
I'm going to turn that light off.
Hi, all.
Thanks for joining.
Let's see, we're going to turn this light on.
All right, there we go.
1.30.
Again, people join.
I totally screwed up.
And I was just trying to get a cool picture.
And I hit the wrong button and went live by accident.
And it's just, I've done that before.
It's a real pain in the butt to just delete and start over.
So we'll just hang out for a minute.
And I've got to plug in.
I've got to do some other things.
We should turn some music on for you guys
instead of just watching me be an idiot.
I want to get high.
We should all get high, huh?
That's a great way to start the show.
I've been working on one of the things that happens.
I love smoking hash.
But when I smoke hash, then I don't even
know it's harder to test weed when I'm breeding.
You know what I'm saying?
But I got my pipe.
There's some buds.
There's some hash in it.
So we'll do that.
So yeah, when I wake up in the middle of the night
for a couple hours, I'm like, no, don't.
Here, here's something cool.
Let's check this out.
I've been using this.
So I had two different MRIs in a week.
And the results were inconclusive.
You can see the fucking lump in my hand.
That's the size of a marble right there.
And they were thinking it might have been a tumor.
And now they're like, oh, there's nothing there.
We're not going to open it up and cut it up.
They didn't give me a cortisone or nothing.
And so I'm getting a month of disability.
But the only relief I've gotten is taking this hash ball
and rolling it in my hands.
And it's the only relief I've gotten since this thing
started fucking happening was this big ball of hash
that I used for just I was working the hash out.
And I was pushing on it on the table.
And I felt some sort of a pop of some sort.
And it wasn't.
My hand's still fucked up.
I had to shovel snow to get to the doctor.
And who's a grommies, he says.
So again, I started by accident early.
So just kind of hanging out until everyone
get to that 8 o'clock.
And now I'll have a long run.
But here's a cool thing.
Who's ever heard of Everett Roos?
So I was thinking about it.
And Escalante, I got this shirt at my last 2014.
I think it's probably the last time I went and sold artwork.
But Everett Roos is a dude from California back 100 years ago.
Got himself some mules and headed out into the Southwest
and literally lived with villages
in Navajo and Hopi and stuff.
And went around and met the tribes.
And he did wood block cuts and drawings and stuff.
And he would go into town and trade his artwork out
for supplies.
And he went out and disappeared.
But they have Everett Roos days now,
where you head down into Escalante
and there's art shows and rodeo and other things.
And I used to do my artwork at that.
I think it's so cool you all come and hang out.
But I know you're here because you get to learn something.
And we have our little theater practice.
I think it's really awesome, though,
everyone comes to hang out.
We're going to take some bong out here.
And I've been having fun all week,
working on projects like I talked about last week,
learning myself more AI artwork.
That's some fun shit.
So I've been working on slowly, procrastinating
as little as possible, but working on slowly
getting my Utah's Best Artist page together.
So I've got a few seeds up on there.
And I'm going to go ahead and just,
today we're going to go through some seeds.
I got to plug this fucking phone back in for a minute.
I'm going to sit here and chat for a while, too.
And oh, so James, here's the, let me see.
Let's see, can I do, what if I block?
Yeah, this ain't working for shit.
I don't know.
Let's do this.
So that purple dragon, one of the mothers of the next round
that I got.
Let's see right here.
No, number 12 down there.
This is number 18 in my hand.
Crunch.
Snap.
Oh, see, I had a lighter a second ago.
Hey, what are you guys smoking?
I got a letter from someone calmer than you are
on Instagram.
And that guy probably has more, has collected more of my seed
than anybody and pretty much has everything I've ever released.
And I ended up sending a bunch of shit
I didn't release as a thank you and support over the years.
But one of the last notes he sent me was, dude,
that breath of red dragon's too strong.
I can't smoke it.
I told him, take less.
Frosty, no-till wedding cake.
Wedding, nice, right?
So what does that taste like, Dirty?
Those things, when I hear those words,
to me it just sounds like frosting.
I don't know why.
I get a lot of stuff that just tastes like freaking cake
batter.
What's that?
Oh, you should smell it.
This is some fresh frozen from last year that's been aging.
But it's totally, um, shit.
I wish it would focus on what I want it to, when I want it to.
Anyhow, totally recrystallized butter,
just pure hash, fresh frozen.
I still have a lighter a second ago.
Sorry, everyone.
I totally wasn't ready when I hit the go live.
I was just trying to get a photo.
So there's more of you here.
And I'm just a little slow on getting going here
because I wanted to get going before I got going.
It's all good.
I'm just kind of crumbling that off of there.
That train wreck or time wreck?
I've never heard of time wreck.
But that is the flavor, right?
OK.
Here's, um, oh, man.
So those purple boards, I selected that purple
so it has flavor.
Usually purples are just like fucking cardboard, right?
And, um, but the most of where I've gotten the PCK to,
as well as Chris Robertson,
and done some work on it as well,
only the super dark ones in the PCK
has that fucking cardboard flavor.
And then you get into the, um, fuchsias and pinks and oranges
and flame colors in the PCK and the tachiki stands, right?
And that stuff tends to have a whole lot more floral to it.
It's pretty awesome.
I was showing my Instagram post.
I showed this stuff here in part of one
I was trying to describe,
how people are always chasing the same thing
and the inbred and the big names and stuff.
This is literally a volunteer that grew my backyard here.
Everyone look at this is going to go,
walk, and the same thing this dude said,
that looks like a shake on a stick, right?
But, um, this is the stuff I was talking about.
That's the Chuck Connors All Stars, right?
It smells like burnt rubber and pine neem, okay?
And is quite wonderful to smoke
and produced an amazing hash as well.
And, um, just stop chasing what everyone else chases.
So it was, was it Neville Goddard was telling the story
that I used as a sign by,
is telling about, um, small town
and, um, fella stops every day to set his watch
by the big clock in the clockmaker's window.
And, um, one day the, the clockmaker was out front selling
the washing the windows off and,
and happens to ask the guy as he stopped by, he's like,
Hey man, I've seen you for years,
setting your, your watch by my, my clock here every morning.
And I was just wondering why you do that.
And he says, well, you see, I'm the foreman at the,
at the factory and I want to make sure my clock is,
and my watch is set so I can pull the whistle
at the right time every night.
And the clockmaker says, well, that's odd
because I've been setting my big clock in the window there
to the whistle at the factory for years.
Right?
And, and like literally, so this guy,
the guy looks at my, looks at my pictures of my baby plants
and they had, they had diatomaceous earth on them.
Cause there's a couple of aphids in there
and a couple of other soil stuff
that I'm not so happy about.
Howdy Lugo.
And, uh, the, uh,
yeah, it's like, bro,
your assumption of the diatomaceous earth being,
he thought it was DM,
I'm sorry, PM.
He thought, he thought it was, was the,
the mold powdery mildew.
And like, I don't have powdery mildew in cannabis here.
It's too dry.
I get it in cucuberates and I get it on tomatoes,
but there's never been the strain of it that survives here
cause it's too dry.
And so I explained it.
It was like, man, your assumption that this is bad weed
is the same as your assumption that that was PM.
And that's just kind of how it is.
It's, it's, I don't believe in look, but again,
so I was also comparing the difference in,
so this is someone else's, this is exotic genetics
and it's called the woe,
but it doesn't even,
after being curing for months, it's still,
it's got a beautiful commercial dense flower.
And I only dry trim that, right?
So there's not, there's leaf on the inside of the bud,
but it's a solid dense nugget, right?
Anyhow, that pack of seeds though,
goes for a lot more than mine do, I think,
in there fucking,
there was,
I don't know, 13 seeds in the pack.
Someone gave it to me.
I figured I'll go ahead and see
what other people are producing, but it was,
I think it was, it was like seven Herm females
and one that didn't, something like that.
I made seed from it,
and then this one here that I just showed that,
that was a volunteer, popped up of the ground where,
but I might use it in the future for that structure,
just to see if I can't bring something
from one of these open flowers
in that flavor interpreting profile
into one of these commercial structures that people want.
And I'm not saying the rest of my stuff,
you ain't gonna get good flower from,
but that's the epitome of the difference.
It's like, it doesn't got a whole lot of flavor to it.
And I get high, it's just, it's like, there's nothing,
it's just a super generic,
I'm not that high from it stuff when I do.
So I don't know.
It's a, or there's nothing,
where's the quote?
Minimal chirps with high THC,
and nothing special to the high,
it's boring and old, whatever,
but beautiful commercial flower,
and for people who don't smoke a lot,
that's fine, I'm sure.
All right, so, it's probably past the time
I would have started, no, we're right there.
Right about eight o'clock,
so I'm right at the time I would have started.
We'll go plug in for a minute, let this thing charge.
Take it from there,
see what I can talk about, sitting in my chair.
Bada bing, bada bing, cheers Brian.
Howdy bug.
Zaboom, zaboom, cha-pop, cha-pam.
Boom, cha-boom, cha-pop, cha-pam.
So I gotta plug this phone in,
I'm gonna hook it in so it'll be bouncing around
for a second.
If I didn't need to plug it in,
I would have just plugged it in.
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
I'm gonna hook it in,
if I didn't need to plug it in,
I would have just gone down right to the seeds
or sitting out on my feet and shit.
Come on.
Sorry.
Doo doo doo.
Into your little spring-loaded holder.
I don't need this here.
I didn't bring the other shit up, did I?
No.
Hooray, everyone's here today.
Man, I totally meant to have the gnomes come along too.
Doopy doopy doopy doopy do doopy do do.
I could totally be the gnome though
with the pointy hat, right?
Put on a blue coat with a big old belt.
Seed gnome.
I don't think I have the list there.
This sucks, I'm always discombobulated.
I got fire.
I'm gonna do a little burnt offering, how's that?
So, I'm talking to my pop,
he's caregiving, his wife's on the way out.
He's talking about the same kind of isolation,
monotony, doing the same thing,
how stoked it is when somebody comes to visit him.
And,
I don't know.
If I didn't have all my plants growing,
I'd probably head out and give him a hand.
I'm not working, I'm on disability at this moment.
No, not disability.
Workman's comp for this lump in my hand.
And then the ski resort didn't offer me any light work.
And so unless they do,
I stay, if they offer me work and I turn it down,
I can still get medical benefits, I guess.
I don't know, I've never dealt with this stuff.
It sucks though, but I really don't really have
my right hand anymore because I went to get a job.
So, gonna do what I can.
And we're gonna talk seed.
So yeah, I'm getting the Etsy page populated.
I'm not getting that done as fast as I'd like to,
but there's several land race on there at this point.
And I'm just gonna keep loading them on.
I have a ton of different varieties.
And I wish I had that plugged in
and didn't press it early already.
Cause I'm trying to figure out what to do
in the interim at the moment, sorry.
We can go ahead and we'll just open up
a little bit of soils from the book
before we can deep dig, gnome dig.
What's this?
Important facts to know, just where I open it up to.
They say when you open your Bible
and you got a question, the good Lord will answer it
when you just open the page and all that.
So here's the soil science Bible.
I have no idea.
Important facts to know,
the force is causing soils to retain water.
The terminology for water, water potential,
matric potential, plant available water,
field capacity, permanent wilting percentage,
mass water content, saturation percentage,
volume water content.
Three, the approximate amount of water held in soils
in different texture at their field capacity
and their permanent wilting percentage.
Four, the water available to plants from soils.
Five, how to measure water content on a mass
and volume basis and depths of water held in soil.
Six, how to estimate water contents
using tensiometers, resistance blocks, and neutron meters.
Seven, the relationship of evapotranspiration
to evaporation from water from a pan of water.
From a pan of water.
Eight, understanding evapotranspiration
and what causes it to vary in amount.
Evapotranspiration is the movement of water
from ground to air through roots,
xylem, phloem, and stomata.
It's literally the evaporation from the stomata.
That's what that word means, evapotranspiration.
So transpiration is the movement through the body
out through, like we transpire when we sweat.
The rates of water flow saturated
and unsaturated soil conservations in centimeters per hour
and some methods to retain more water on and in soils.
Pretty cool, right?
Opened it up to a nice page, didn't I?
Rock, rock, rock, rock.
You know Animal from, what is it, Muppets?
Wow, water retention forces.
I wish I had my glasses around.
Let me see, I think I have a pair on behind.
Right behind the curtain here.
There's a pair, all right.
Let me see.
Professor Alex, when I was in prep school,
I had a pair of gold lens, no, there was no lenses in them.
They were just gold frames.
I popped the lenses out and when I wore those,
people knew that there was doses available.
The professor was ready to teach pretty much every Friday.
Once upon a time ago in a century before this,
decades before that, soil serves as a water reservoir,
but a leaky one.
When too much water is added,
the excess runs off over the surface
into deeper or into deeper layers.
Why does the soil hold some of the water
yet allow part of it to drain deeper?
Water is held in soils because of the attraction
between unlike charges.
A positive ion attracted to a negatively charged ion,
see figure of four one, chemistry diagrams.
Figure four one caption states,
polar water molecule H2O,
because of the nonlinear positions of the H plus S,
water is polar.
Water has one portion that is more negative than positive
and an opposite side that has two hydrogens
which are more positive than negative.
Polar means there is no center of zero charge
from which there is an equal charge at some distance
from that center in all directions.
You guys have heard me talk about polarity
and solvents, haven't you?
Let's repeat that and get back to it
because water is a polar solvent.
Water has one portion that is more negative than positive
and an opposite side that has two hydrogens
which are more positive than negative.
Polar means there is no center of zero charge
from which there is an equal charge at some distance
from that center in all directions.
All right.
What?
What?
Freeze frame if you need to come back.
Crazy fucking shit.
This is, but the chemistry.
So I had to learn all the chemistry
before I ever got to take chemistry.
So I used chemistry when I took chemistry
because I already knew it.
Kunalini, Kunalini, Kunalini, Kunalini, Kunalini.
Yeah.
Polar means there is no center of zero charge
from which there is an equal charge at some distance
from that center in all directions.
And B, the bonding of water to itself
through hydrogen bonding is shown.
The hydrogen of water in soils
may bond to oxygen ions as soil mineral surfaces,
thereby holding the water tightly to soil.
So the H of water in soils may bond to oxygen ions
of soil mineral surfaces,
soil mineral surfaces,
thereby holding the water tightly to soil.
Water tension, soil water tension.
The bonds in B become more rigid,
less flexible in colder temperatures, ice or snow.
A distance between molecules is shown
for illustration purposes.
In actual shape, molecules are adjacent to each other
in close fit orientation
because they're like in electron balance overlap, right?
Okay, so that's figure one.
Back to, again, the positive ion attracted
to a negatively charged ion, see figure one.
The positively charged hydrogens of water
are attracted to nearby negative charged ions,
such as oxygen,
even to the oxygen of another adjacent water molecule.
This is the water tension.
This is explaining why flat earthers are wrong
when they talk about the water doesn't fly off the earth
because it has hydrogen bonding,
the strongest bond known.
All right, so let me get to it
because it says it here, where was I?
Right, so positively charged hydrogens of water
are attracted to nearby negatively charged ions,
such as oxygen,
even to the oxygen of another adjacent water molecule.
Such most soil minerals are composed of 70 to 85%
by volume of oxygen.
Hydrogens of water bond strongly
to these surface oxygen atoms by adhesive bonding.
So hydrogen of water bonds strongly
to these surface oxygen atoms by adhesive bonding.
In parentheses, the attraction of unlike molecules, period.
The hydrogens of water are also attracted, bonded,
to oxygens of other water molecules,
including those already absorbed
to the soil particle surfaces.
And that's where I stopped before.
The attraction of the molecules for each other
is cohesive bonding.
Such bonding leaves between the two molecules
through a single hydrogen atom is called hydrogen bonding.
H-bonding.
When fatty or oily substances, which are low in oxygens,
coat the soil particles,
water is not attracted to and held to the coated surface.
Such soils are called water repellent or hydrophobic.
They are formed in nature under many plant covers
and after forest fires,
which tend to vaporize oils and resins
and drive them into the soil
where they coat soil particles
and cause them to resist wetting.
So the other place that that can occur
is in organic soils
when those oils and fatty materials have broken down
and you have like humates in various different levels
and you have like there's pine needles and stuff
and all the waxes and cuticles of that shit
is not in the O layer versus the OA.
You end up having, when it gets so dried out,
those oils get excreted out and separate
and then they're coating the surface
and it's really hard to re-wet a really dry soil that way
with organic matter in it.
But let's see.
Forest fires tend to vaporize oils.
So, and this is even in areas
that have high VOC plant material,
you end up having lots of,
you can have VOCs, volatile oils just come out in the air
when it's above 90 degrees.
Terpenes basically is what we think of them as primarily,
the things that we smell.
But when you walk through the forest on a hot day,
you can even smell like oils coming out of the bark
of some pine trees.
And that's kind of what's going on there.
So yeah, so it says when the VOCs and resins
are driven into the soil where they coat the soil particles
and cause them to resist wetting.
Something else that happens in forest fires
that causes hydrophobic soils
is the complete soil particle sterilization
and decarbonization and really, really,
really super hot areas like burn piles
and cat piles and things like that,
or underneath where a large log smoldered for longer
or a root stump pit.
And that all turns to like white ash
and it sears all the soil around it.
And that stuff needs time.
And I've described how you can just rake in
or have a handful of soil that's still living
and throw that into material like that
and it'll bring it back to life just fine.
And that's something that, okay,
we can do and understand that you really,
like if people talk about doing all this IMO collection
and stuff and putting the wind out,
and I've said this a few times,
it's like there is,
not everything's airborne all the time.
And a lot of the things that we want in our soil
are never airborne.
They're always in the soil
and everything is always in the soil,
even if it's dormant or not.
And grabbing soil and some leaf litter from a natural source
that would help the environment
is one of the best ways to just transfer all of this stuff.
Like it's really neat,
all the fancy boxes that people make and the rice,
but it literally only captures a small.
And one of the neatest examples I'll grab right here,
and people, I've sent this stuff out to people
and I gotta find some and I'll send it out some more,
but sourdough, right?
And I got the, this is, I started making sourdough
99, no, 89, 89, 90,
when I first started making sourdoughs.
And that was on the coast of California.
And so there's certain moisture environments
and the salt air there and all that stuff
that allow various microbes,
various yeasts to exist out there
that don't normally exist other places, right?
And I just happened to on a warm moist,
oh, starting to dump snow outside, sweet.
My yard got 18 inches on Wednesday, Thursday.
But those bacteria, the yeasts and the sub yeasts,
so there's, to get really sour, sourdough,
there's a couple of things,
you gotta have the right yeast strains
that are gonna make that alcohol content
that smells that way.
And then you've gotta daily replenish your feed for them,
daily replenish your feed for them, right?
And so I captured, I put,
so my porch right here, the wind's blowing is a leaf.
It's a low pressure zone in my porch.
And there's, unless it's a South, I mean a North wind,
if it's a North wind, I'm getting pressure coming in here,
right, and debris comes in.
But if it's a South wind, it's a low pressure zone
and things will fall out in the low pressure zone.
And so I put a capture for sourdough out.
And basically it's just one to one,
100% hydration of flour,
or you can even do 200% hydration flour into water
to do a capture.
And then you let it sit for a few days
in a warm enough spot and let it keep rolling, right?
And then you feed it every day.
And so I start making pancakes and shit.
So I'm out back in the restaurant.
I got a good food source going again.
And the probiotics of true sourdough,
where I'm not putting any yeast in
and it takes two days to get the bread to rise.
And you got to prep your loaves a couple of days in advance.
It's proper food, right?
And, but eating flour otherwise, right?
We ended up having all these issues
that we have in society now with protein content uptake
because it hasn't been properly.
Well, I was just chatting with somewhere.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, awesome.
Sweet.
We'll just roll this right into.
Biodigester and Mad Max pig gas.
And it was this guy had a 55 gallon drum
that I just watched making pig gas.
And then he was, and I'm like,
man, this would be a really cool thing
for someone who's into eco-friendly glass blowing
to see if they can't get a methane torch going pig gas.
Right?
So he's literally taking a 55 gallon drum
and setting up with a drain plug
and release valve and then a usage valve.
And then there's gotta be ways
we can figure out to pressurize it
and more of what it is.
He's getting a pretty good flames coming off.
And so what was he doing?
He's putting in,
if it's a 50 gallon drum,
he was putting in like
15 pig shit and five gallons of water,
mixing that up and then letting it sit for two weeks.
And then he's got gas for another two weeks or so.
That was pretty neat.
And that's, so if you ever watched Thunderdome,
Mad Max, right?
That's what's going on with the pigs there
is they're collecting that methane
and producing energy in controlled ways
to run that town, barter town.
Right?
And yeah, so I've killed,
I, temperatures and stuff,
I ended up getting fucking green mold into my,
if I don't keep with it every fucking day,
let's forget about it.
And it sits for a week,
all of a sudden there's fucking green mold
growing up on the top of me.
It's really hard to keep it.
So I ended up,
something you can do with your sourdough,
if you've got a good one and,
or if you need some, hit me.
I should put some of these on the,
the heart of the Utah's best artist page on the Etsy.
Is, I took it and you spread it really thin on parchment.
Right?
Just thin, thin it out on parchment
when you've got, you've got an excess
and it's good and stinky, right?
And then just put that in your oven.
Don't heat it up.
Just allow it to be high or put it in a dehydrator.
Right?
And allow it to dehydrate.
So, but the day I collected that,
I'm sorry, the day I collected that,
my sourdough, I couldn't have collected that
most days of the year here.
It's too fucking dry.
Okay?
So it was literally a nice spring.
I think it was early March
and we had a nice South Chinook blowing.
There was snow, moisture.
There was a wet system coming in from the South.
So we had this like tropical, warm, moist flow going.
Okay?
And that's when I put out my, my capture
and ended up getting the best sourdough
I've ever fucking had.
Right?
And I actually was making it during COVID
and taking it to,
you end up making so much of it
and I take it to volleyball sessions
and people are like, dude, you need to start a bakery.
It's like, I don't want to fucking start a bakery.
I would love to start a bakery.
I would love to have the capital to put people to work
utilizing the recipes I have with a bakery
and a restaurant and do my emix concept
where all the fucking, all the gas from the bread rising
gets pumped into my greenhouse
where I grow the food for the restaurant.
Right?
Emix, ecosystem mimicry, energy cycling systems.
So that's the big shit.
It's totally a great way to utilize one of these concepts
and you can utilize it as,
I would love to have something like that
to heat my greenhouse with right now as well.
Right?
And I've described to you guys some of the concepts
I've designed for palletized compost systems
for heating greenhouses and or even your house
or hot water systems, wherever we can keep them frozen
through the winter and keep them in a cold barn
and pull them out and put them in the warm barn
and blast them with some air
and run water through your tubes.
Right?
Excellent, excellent, excellent.
Hey, did you guys know I opened a Discord?
Let me, let me if I can find that.
I opened a Discord.
I don't know a shit how to use it yet.
We're going to get it going.
I got some people following me.
I'm going to go accept a whole bunch more
from Instagram right now.
Let's see, I'm turning it on.
Let's see, where is my Discord?
It's down there.
I got nine requests in there.
Um, so Hardy Gear pound 6353.
6353 Hardy Gear is the Discord server that I've opened up.
And once I learn how I'm going to start putting,
I'll be, I literally opened it up to learn
how to use the mid journey to do AI art
and produce labels and posters and t-shirt art
that I was talking about this last week, right?
How, um, what was it?
So having a background in art,
I'm able to use better art utilizing AI
than somebody who may, may not.
There might be people come in
and just do crazy with it, right?
But it's the same thing as the fat skis.
I've been skiing my whole life.
And so to me, skiing just like the new equipment
is super, super simple.
And, but you took today's kids
and put them onto some of the old gear
and they wouldn't know what to do with it, right?
And I can still put that gear on and have skills,
but I can't do what we do today on those old skis.
Right, I can do what we used to do on them
because that's the limits of them.
This morning I was playing with Japanese Sumi-E brushes
for calligraphy.
I was doing calligraphy,
doing calligraphy in the doctor's office the other day too.
So yeah, Party Gear 6353.
Somebody said something,
let me see if I can bring that up.
What did you say?
All messages are visible.
Where'd that go?
Oh, it's not.
No, show me the message.
There they are.
Excellent, Red Primo, Roto.
I just made some gummies.
You know, I'll tell you what,
the raw Fico gummies to me,
they taste like shit because that acid.
And so I think, you know, for the raw,
I'm gonna keep that in the
fill form with the coconut oil.
Yeah, and I'm gonna figure out gummies.
I'm just starting to do gummies.
Didn't work that great for me.
Big shit in the barrel, three bar valve.
There you go.
Exactly.
Heat the greenhouse with the methane.
I saw a comment that I'm not seeing now.
Oh well.
CBD can be good for nerve pain.
THCV is the one I understand.
And I bet the CBG, right?
But depending on what the nerve pain is and caused by,
right, you're gonna have different answers
for what's going to help fix it.
Okay, so like where I was a month ago
after my body got overworked,
I had multiple pinched nerves from bone on bone
and crushed neck and all that shit, right?
And so like smoking and eating weed
just kind of helps me be friends with it
when that shit's aggravated.
And I have to let my entire body just stop
and relax all hypertension, muscle hypertension to,
yeah, THC is an upper, THCV, I'm sorry.
It can definitely keep you awake.
It's a Krebs cycle stimulator.
More than anything is the way I understand it, right?
But there's something about the THCV
that helps reduce nerve swelling as well.
And so it could be all sorts of things
like getting the metabolites through
because the Krebs cycle of the energy
is getting taken care of.
I don't actually know how that one works
and I would like to know more.
I do know, I started learning more about it
when I have a lady in Florida I had sent some seeds to
and she deduced it had THCV
and made herself brownies from FICO with it
and told me it was gonna be the first time
she'd had brownies in like 20 years
because her diabetes was so bad.
And I'm just like, fuck, she's gonna kill herself.
No, no, don't.
And she's like, yeah, no, it was a huge amount of THCV
and it basically replaced her
a major quantity of her insulin usage, right?
And so I understand it as CBDV is something
I've never heard of before this conversation
but there's a lot of things I've never heard of.
I know what I know and I know it like 96%, 94% correct
most of the time and then I can be wrong
that little bit is just kind of how
I regurgitate information.
So yeah, we were talking about, oh, emix, right?
And so this kind of stuff we're just talking about here
is concepts of emix, right?
We're talking about water tension in the soil
and getting the microbes into there
and then you can utilize any sorts of compost to get gas,
right?
You can have a bio bag is another way
and even here at the dumps, so for like 20 years ago
they started the concept and they started putting
the dump in Salt Lake was concrete line to dump
and they put a plastic line and they kept it
and they got a full on methane generator out there
producing electricity for the east side
of the valley residents and stuff.
And so stacking multiples of things together like this,
is what the emix concept is ecosystem
mimicry energy cycling systems.
Try to read the chat there and get the story
from what I'm saying.
You've got like fish going, right?
And you've got worms going, you got a biodigester going,
you got food coming in, you can use your humanoid,
there's so many, you know, mirror on the matrix
or they're saying hookahs on dog has got a lot
of the minor cannabinoid strains.
And so that's like one of my greatest laments
about my situation is not having any sort of testing to know
but the fact of the matter is I'm doing the work
with the primaries that I know have the things
that get lost through inbreeding, right?
And I'm back crossing to, this has been my primary mode
of operation and teaching about breeding for years.
And there's a whole bunch of other folks who are doing this
in places where they can, and it's become a huge breeding
trend at this point.
And I'm fucking stoked to have been part of inspiring
that when I had the thousand people
in the land race traders club on the Facebook, right?
And so here we are like seven, eight years later
and it's kind of a normal thing to take now
polyhybrid super strains and back crossing them
into land race.
And I'm stoked that other people are doing it
because there's no way I can do all of the diverse.
There's thousands of these different land races, right?
And so even if it isn't merely just an inspiration
that I've put out there or even being a part
of that inspiration, right?
I talked to a very specific group of people
through the probiotic farmers alliance.
And we had a kind of an offshoot group
that came out of that, you know, through the PFA.
I had, it was, I joined when there's about 5,000 people
there and was their top contributor teacher
through that program as it built up multiple times
to over 40,000 people.
And they kick out a bunch of folks
and it would build back up again.
And, but it got to where just like too polluted
with their industry shills, whatever people pushing button
people wouldn't let me teach proper.
And that's one of the reasons I don't even bring guests on.
I got my own platform right here.
I can dance, I can dance, I can dance if I want to.
Everybody say, if you dance.
So, but eventually it got to the point where even,
even after I just left that group
because it got to where I like was,
there was so much negative energy coming to me
and people were like, you taught shit,
and shit like that.
Like, and like I had a few people would back me up.
Just like, dude, just let Alex teach.
And they like couldn't even deal with this shit.
It got to where I had to have Luna delete
every one of my comments in there and every one of my posts
because someone was going through,
like from two years before and finding any post I had
that had anything to do with cannabis
that was outright and they were repoting it to the Facebook
and like, like I was going to get kicked out
from fucking Facebook and I wasn't even in that group
anymore for posts from three years before.
And like, fuck, just delete everything, please.
Hurry, all my learning's gone for all those people.
And I would have people who were like CEOs
contact me privately, like, dude, you got to keep up.
Forget those people, just keep teaching.
And they'd tell me a story about someone that learned
from me and it's like, fuck, okay.
So that's why I persist is there are people
who aren't assholes who hear what I'm saying.
And hopefully you just learned something
from me so far this morning.
What I'm going to do right now is,
I guess I can move the cord maybe.
I'm going to normally do this.
What's up, Rodden?
Spring exo-minox is getting close, yes.
You can dance when you want.
I went dancing the other night.
Patience is the manager at a bar
and I didn't plan on staying, but they had a really awesome,
really awesome band started playing.
Anyhow, so if you didn't catch that before,
though, the Discord is Hardygear6353.
It's case sensitive.
Already set, so Elizabeth is saying,
already set seeds to naturally grow in the wild.
Keeping cannabis wild for 20 years plus.
Excellent, excellent.
I think we've chatted somewhere else, haven't we?
BFA got a bit too, yeah.
Well, there's Quanish.
There was all sorts of Trump folks
that I had to deal with in there
at the beginning of the Trump.
All right, now I got the freedom on.
It feels so good to just let the hair flow.
Good morning, Laurie.
Here's some artwork for you.
I can't see what you're seeing at the moment.
Maybe I should turn this around so I do.
Here, here's people like,
what are you talking about, new skis, old skis?
Shit, sorry, there it was, there it went.
Do this again, oh, there we go.
All right, here's the difference.
So actually, this is kind of newer style,
but these are actually still 20 years old, right?
Pretty cool graphic.
And my daughter's out in the car.
But so, look at how skinny this fucker is.
And that's, they're like, it was way longer.
Let's put them next to each other here.
You can really see the difference, right?
And so like, this has got this platform underfoot,
and this doesn't.
And it's just the difference in technologies that are,
and that's like, we talk about technologies
and cannabis and stuff, like,
people are breeding under different strains
than they used to now, right?
And stuff that was bred under other lights
doesn't necessarily work.
Hey, you know what?
I love you.
The Salt Lake City Airport, I tell you what,
you should see some of the dumpsters around here
in the springtime are full of skis.
It's hilarious, we throw out skis around here
that like, you'd be selling them on,
on the eBay or whatever.
So, some of you may or may not know.
I don't know if I ever told this story.
Here, let's go on a little adventure into time and space.
Longboard, shortboards.
Here we are, this is the Shillam, Wenatchee.
Love the town of Wenatchee.
This is the town of Wenatchee.
And so, to give you perspective,
this right here is our test burn.
Here's my, let me zoom in.
That's my brother.
So, he's in his 33rd or 34th year as a firefighter now.
This guy right here is Doug.
Let's see where you go, where my finger, there we are.
Doug, he's the boss.
Got his schoolmates, schoolmate,
but they were my bosses too.
But this guy's still fighting fire too.
He heads a hot shot crew, California.
But old Doug, he used to talk about
when they used to go four days of hotline, whatever.
He taught us how to burn.
And keep up the front was what he taught us.
Anyhow, so bulldozer line,
you can see it goes off behind my brother there.
And where that actually is, boom.
So, this, 180 degrees, boom, we're down.
I'm looking here, that's down here.
So, this ridge comes across, ridge comes across,
and then it goes up, boom, bulldozer line, boom,
bulldozer line right down here.
So, this picture right here, you see this dude.
That guy's an underwater dive welder,
cowboy rodeo and chainsaw firefighter.
Anyhow, it was backfiring, utilizing it.
And I had this guy, Ty's got in his hand here
is two and a half gallons of diesel and gasoline mixed.
And the flames were like four inches tall,
and then they were a foot tall,
and then they were 20 feet, and then they were 80 feet tall.
And I was buried underneath that for nine minutes.
My brother, he watched it,
was trying to figure out what to tell dad,
because everyone knew I was dead.
But because I studied fire as a science,
I knew what to do, and dug a little teeny shallow dish
for me to breathe under.
And as a prisoner force firefighter,
we would love the hotshots to come in before us,
because they would make a little trail for us to follow,
and one foot ground, yep.
Now, you know, so yeah, we're getting down to the middle,
so you know about the humus and the humates,
and right, so I had inmates that were considered
a hotshot crew when I ran the inmate fire crew.
And thank you for doing the work when you did it.
Chainsaw Firefighter sounds like an interesting movie.
Nice.
What's this?
Guys, I'm showing you some tile work, right?
This is my floor I put in years ago.
I've never shown this to you guys.
This is some, this is a story.
This is the story of my interactions
with Native American tribal members and their spiritualities.
So on this side here, we have the mail rain,
heavy thunderstorms.
You got to do some polar work?
Nice.
That's the hardest, people don't know,
that's one of the hardest jobs.
The first sawyer and puller are some of the hardest jobs
on the crew, period.
Yep.
That's how the job is.
I got cut teaching somebody how,
right there in the web of my hand.
I wish I still had the glove to show people.
I was teaching someone how to run the chainsaw firefight
and they cut my hand.
Luckily, it was just, it was a training day.
So, this in the center is a Chumash,
California native sun symbol,
or designed after, okay?
That's what that one is.
I used to have it in a t-shirt form,
but so that used to be like in the rocks
of a impainted cave.
Right, that's just it.
The guy I was training,
he was cutting a thousand little pieces out of the bushes
instead of trying to teach him how I can bend the bush over
and he kept the base of the bush
and I've already got it all in my hand.
He, yeah.
And then around the outside of the sun symbol,
we have back here is two eagles
and they're circling the sun.
This is the way the changes.
So here we have,
which had this word.
I remember, I think that's the female.
That's the female clouds over there, female rain,
light, gentle, subtle rain,
and soaks the earth.
And then we have the fair weather creamless
where there's just not enough heat and moisture
for them to rise up into.
Here's the male rain with the lightning
dropping down the sides.
Huge black clouds.
You know, they're light on top,
but the bottom is black
and massive alligator tears falling out.
Ooh, yeah, ship fires, a whole different thing.
I did get trained in various house fire
and chemical fires that we didn't do.
I didn't do anything other than train.
I never did any structure fire or chemical firework.
Anyhow, that's, so my whole studio at one point
was done up like a Kiva.
The theme, I just totally overbuilt my house to that style.
Anyhow, that's not what,
we were gonna look at seeds.
Let's see, we're gonna look at seeds.
Oh, that's not gonna work.
You know, yeah, we'd run into,
on big forest fires in California,
we'd run into burnout trailers and,
oh, thanks, why?
You know what, there's something else in there
I'll show you guys that goes with that whole theme.
I forgot about, it's been so long.
Trim on the doors here, let's see.
So I lived in Mesa Verde
and I ended up getting the blueprints
from the CCC where a copy's up.
So I'm gonna turn a little more light on here.
Let's see.
There we go.
And I used those blueprints to figure out the design.
This is a stain, so I actually got blue mancus clay shale
from the area that I did this on some of my woodwork
and where I actually would crush the rocks
to use for the pigmentation, right?
Yeah, so again, this is from CCC.
I'm copying the CCC work,
the colonial Spanish CCC style
from Mesa Verde National Park, right?
And then so you would see stuff like this
in New Mexico and the Southwest as well.
But that's kind of some of the earliest
American traditional style where this originates from.
So I did the whole floorboard.
So all this wood, and you can see here,
it's all textured and stuff.
All this wood comes from post-consumer waste.
I was doing carpentry work and would take this scrap
and bring it home and totally re-saw it
so I could use it for this kind of stuff.
So here's the entry to this room here.
It's got cats sitting in the doorway.
You ever sit by a campfire at night and just look out?
Meow.
There we go.
So yeah, we've got thunderbolts and stuff.
You know, all this stuff's hand carved
with chisels and shit and the whole floorboards
and all of this stuff.
There's another one around here.
A couple more over here.
Let's see, I got...
Oh, sorry.
Enough light over here.
This one's the best.
So this one's to the toilet room, right?
And it's the thunder mug.
So, right, you like the thunder mug?
This is the door jam to the thunder mug,
covered with bolts of lightning
and then the red rock canyons.
Beware of the thunder mug.
And the closet's just got a pretty simple...
I think I...
Yeah, anyhow.
But this stuff's all textured and then painted.
There we go.
Me ugly mug again.
Anyhow, the versions, sidetracks.
Here, maybe if some of you have seen this, I'm sure.
But very soon I'm gonna get this
into a very large canvas in oil paint.
This is an early pastel.
Does that say 07?
I can't see down in the corners though.
Where'd the date go?
Fuck, can't read that for shit.
I think it says 07 or 05.
Anyhow.
Imagine this all, all the shadow work
and everything in here and then the trees and the edge.
That's all sacred geometry pattern work, right?
All right, so depth of field and...
Various art forms.
Through mortise and tenon, right?
This is more of that Southwestern style.
And then adzed.
So this is a oak tree from California that died on its own.
I got a bunch of beautiful woodwork from that stuff.
And yeah, anyhow.
All right, all right, all right.
I need like a different YouTube channel
for each one of these things,
but here I get this fairy all right here.
Cat's begging me for food right now.
We're gonna feed the cat real quick.
Yeah, there she's heading up.
She just wants to go out, it's all right.
It's snowing.
You going?
She's going, all right.
All right.
Let's see, what are we gonna do?
What are we gonna...
Smoke them if you got them, right?
That's it.
I think that's a good idea too.
We should go back and smoke some more.
Oh shit, nope, don't do that.
I love grunge.
Painted, wherever you saw those oil paint, I painted.
No, that wasn't oil paint.
That one I'm gonna oil paint it.
That was a pastel.
So if you haven't seen,
you haven't seen artwork, I'll show you in a second.
I'm gonna smoke some weed.
We got a ton of artwork right here by the seat
where you can see paintings behind me.
All right.
Cushmant, I think that's in this.
Check out what the woe is.
I think that's in that shit.
Thanks, Chris.
What do we got here?
Oh man, Topeki Thunder.
This is one we need to get out to the people.
So it's kind of a lost string.
And so I have Feminize and that's gonna be going up here.
Just a little, just a little jar.
And, but this one, I keep getting people requesting.
They both like the intense, loud nose on it.
And let's see, I should finish the one I packed before
with the little hash out there.
And it's a really uplifting sativa type with a good potency.
It's kind of a haze type of thing, I think, right?
Again, never, I haven't grown anyone's dedicated haze strains
anything with that name on the label of the pack
when I got it.
But there's conjecture that there was some early Neville
haze or something maybe went into breeding this.
There's also all the people I've talked to you
from New Zealand say it's a lost genetic
and any research I've done on it,
I've seen different pictures of different things
that don't really look like what I've got
and different people's stories.
Okay, so the way this one came to me,
the Topeki Thunder was when I had that land race
greater traders club.
That acquired quite a bit of genetics here
and as we're getting into the post prohibition.
And fella from New Zealand was asking to trade with me
for some of my modern hybrids.
And I was saying, hey, I just want land race.
You know, I'm not super interested in,
especially because you guys are getting unindated
with North American genetics.
You know, I just, if you got anything
that would be land race considered.
And so I ended up getting three things
that were New Zealand local hereditary stuff.
And one was a younger kid who's contacting me,
was tripping out seeing like,
whoa, man, you're using my genetics.
And I'm spacing the name of that one off the top of my head.
I'm sorry.
The Te Puke Thunder is another one.
And again, I've been told that was a lost train.
And then the Wairunga River is another one.
And that one, they're saying I spelled it wrong.
And then they realized like, oh wait,
no, that's a whole different Wairunga than Wairagonga.
Right, so there's a whole bunch of these tribal names
for the place that are a little confusing.
And so it was apparently the Wairunga River
is more of a sativa or a hemp type of thing
with maybe seven, 6, 7% and a lot of fiber to it.
But apparently the guy who was the steward
of that plant genetic was killed in the raid by the police.
And I have like the last males.
And so I now have a hybrid of them going.
I'm about to pollinate and roll that one.
But the Te Puke Thunder, I've got also as well,
I've got three, ended up getting three females.
And I've run through multiple, multiple runs.
And there's like the slightest of senescence,
banana issue, and that's like under stress even,
and but outdoor and stuff, no problem.
Nice, dense, long koalas, not the hugest flowers,
but everybody keeps asking for that Te Puke Thunder.
And so I got to present it as what it is.
It's like this guy who, so, oh,
so some other New Zealanders like,
how'd you get all this shit, bro?
That stuff doesn't exist.
And I'm like, well, I did it in trade.
They did a little research asking around their community
and found out that apparently the dude I was chatting with,
it was like super recluse off-grid dude.
And he got the stuff he sent to me
from a dude who's further off-grid.
And yeah, anyhow, that's the story and I'm sticking to it.
It killed every medicinal plant.
Yeah, no, it is, still happens in places, right?
We're winning the war.
I've had machine guns held on me for less than that.
I've had machine guns held on me for less than that.
I have been taken into custody
by all three federal governments in North America
for personal cannabis, right?
It's, yeah, luckily things are different, right?
And that's why I'm building that
Utah's Best Artist page up again.
Again, so it's Tree Love T-shirt,
party gear,
seed and accessory by Utah's Best Artist on Etsy.
So it's gonna have my stone pipes,
it's gonna have print on demand.
I've already got people asking,
I'm showing some of the art that I'm producing
and people like, dude, make that into stickers.
And it's set already, I've had some people ask me
and I don't have a commercial license yet
for utilizing the programs I've got for producing the art,
but I've had people asking me to do some artwork
for their cannabis companies
and that's something I've always wanted to do.
So this is gonna be cool moving forward.
Wait, I was gonna smoke
and then we're gonna get on to some other shit here.
Yeah, I know, the bong needs cleaning.
Original pics of what?
So that was one little bong hit
that Purple got three hits
with a little piece of hash on it, right?
Oh, so nice.
But what do I want?
Should I just stick on that?
I think I should.
Controlled substance.
I don't know if people know,
but I need to start putting more,
once I get into digital art here,
I'm gonna start posting it on my other art page on IG,
someone on chat there.
So when I say this, people on chat,
it takes a week or two,
some people don't even ever get to see the chat
for whatever reason, I don't know,
but it takes about a week for the chat to process up
and then everyone can see the chat again.
So someone's asking if I have a couple other,
I have Utah's Best Artist,
and there's actually, there is some print demand,
I haven't touched a bunch of shit,
there's a couple of different platforms I put,
there's Utah's Best Artist years ago,
and then there is the IG page,
Utah's Best Artist,
and then there's Alex Hardy or Alexander Hardy,
which has the Lorax, right?
And then there's Tree Love T-shirt,
which I haven't put shit onto yet,
I got the idea of a year ago,
and just, I ran out of money,
and couldn't, also my hip was still fucked up,
so it's, we're two years out from my hip,
and it doesn't really bug me a whole lot
unless I ski on ice.
I got to see Red Hot Chili Peppers here in Utah
when I first got here.
And here's the funniest thing,
I almost got fucking arrested tailgating in the parking lot,
that's the, and that was up in Park City even,
at the Canyons Ski Area,
with the Park City West,
so I'm gonna hit that purple dragon again.
Utah doesn't suck,
there's sucky people in Utah.
Gotcha!
They mean well, they just don't know any better.
I think Christ said it on the cross,
forgive them Father for they know not what they do.
Right?
I don't know.
There's actually some actual saints
who are good people here too,
but, yeah, I'm not promoting Christianity,
I'm just quoting Christ.
Did you know
that Utah has brought more equality to America
than any other state?
There's some other stuff,
but one of the most recent one right now
that ultra conservatives just hate
is the freedom of same-sex couples to marry.
Right?
And that literally came out of Utah,
and I knew the guys, they sold your hummus,
and get this, get this guys,
the people who sued the federal government
so that they could get married here in Utah,
the American Jew and a Palestinian immigrant.
No, it's weird,
there's layers of oppression in Mormons,
and Mormons outside of Utah
are a lot different than Mormons in Utah.
But did you,
Matt's off-road recovery is fucking awesome.
And I still wanna know, is Lizzie his daughter?
Or does she just work for him?
What's funny is all the idiots that get stuck off-road,
that guy makes a living off of.
They kinda know me just from making comments,
because I know all the places they go and shit,
and I comment, yeah.
You can't find a lover, your brother,
I don't know that's about.
Why did LDS dump pot loads of money
opposing same-sex marriage in California?
Oh, yeah, well, I mean,
yeah, it's weird because there is,
church doctrine is quite oppressive against gays,
but there's a hell of a lot of people who have gay kids.
There's a lot of youth on the streets
who die where they're driven out
because they're colorful people, right?
It is pretty crazy.
And it took me 10 years to get them
to stop knocking on my fucking door
and living here at this house.
I'd been in Utah for seven years before I found out,
actually, out of assignment as a firefighter in Alaska,
stationed in Nevada, when my mother said,
hey, go check out your ancestor's graveyard.
And it turns out I went to the wrong fucking place
a bunch of times, and it was the family name
that was sealed in the temple back in 1800s and 1860s,
whatever the fuck it was.
And apparently my ancestors were Mormon handcart pioneers,
and I had no fucking clue that missionaries
had brought my starving ancestors
out of North Wales and Ireland
and turned them into, you know,
give them lands and priesthoods.
And the second generation of Irish Catholic wives said,
fuck that bullshit.
You guys ain't getting no poo-tang
till you come back into this gang.
So that's why I never really heard about that.
You know, and it's weird because, yeah, I'm a Gentile here,
and there is different,
there's different benefits to,
my dad just told me the other day,
go join the Lutheran church
just so you can have some friends to hang out with.
Like, pop, I got a church, it's at Alta.
I just gotta buy a fucking pass and go ski every day.
Then I don't get anything done.
Nice, nice.
Yeah, they looked like me.
The dog days was saying he had hired,
there was definitely higher security.
There was Mormon security.
They had a guy that, his name is slipping me right now,
that was basically a murder and thieving
in the name of Mormon.
And there was definitely, they murdered,
there was massacres, there was some horrible shit.
And when you point out to any of them,
like, hey, this is all false, here's the proof,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
and they'll say, but the church still does
a lot of good around the world.
There are the first places to get rid of cannabis.
And we're gonna be in the last places
to ever have it as recreational.
River and the mountains are my church too, totally.
Yeah, decided to buy a bag of cigarettes.
Decided to buy a bag and I thought a little harder
sometimes, right?
It's like killing people coming through the land.
And it's because they were going through,
it was kind of, there was a mountain meadows massacre.
And there was another one down south.
And they tried to say it was Indians and shit,
it's fucked up.
Some of the cool stuff though,
is like the Spanish gold that they gave to,
that the Indians gave to the Mormons
and then that stuff, that's fun,
going out looking for the lost Spanish Mormon,
sacred mines for the Utes and all that shit.
I don't know, skin.
Like literally here, it's going away,
but I got a big ass fucking hematoma
from a needle the other day.
I got a joke, I got a joke.
Well, they think, they thought they were the chosen people.
So it's just like, the whole story kind of emulates
the Israelites going through the desert
and then a whole bunch of the landmarks around here
are the same names.
We've got the River Jordan and all that shit.
Oh, so I used to drive taxi late night,
snow taxi up in Park City, but I drive,
people do the airport.
And so you're coming down and you point out the route
that they took down Immigration Canyon.
And I tell the story, it's like, so it's middle of July
and there's thunderstorms going off.
And there's all these, you know,
there were Brigham Youngs out in front of the wagon train
praying along and then you have the guys breaking trail
and they're like a hundred yards behind him.
And the valley opens up before them
as they come down through,
sorry, I'm laughing because there's someone commenting
about the Egyptian hieroglyphics in the Grand Canyon
that I've never seen.
And so the Mormons are coming down through the valley,
opens up in front of them and they see this big desert
valley, they see the salt flats out in front of them,
they see the Great Salt Lake and it's June.
So it's like thunderstorms, late June, July, I'm sorry,
it's July 20 and the thunderstorms are exploding.
There's lightning renting,
they smell the brimstone fire and salt flat,
just nasties in the,
there's Brigham Young falls to his knees,
throws his hands up to the heavens and prays out,
oh God, this place is shit.
But the lightning cracks and thunder roars
and all the people a hundred yards behind him hears,
oh God, this place is it.
And before he could stop him,
they like charged down to the valley
and started building the temple
and so now we have Salt Lake City.
Ba-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da.
So yeah, I have a thousand works of art here.
Who knows this one?
Let's see, I'm gonna turn it around,
better picture this way.
Is that a rock face?
So I was showing myself talking to the shaman earlier,
this is the bottom of Mooney Falls and Supai Reservation
and the other waterfall is Havasupai Falls.
Right, so I've been to sweat lodges
and that changed my entire concepts of what religion is.
I was already leading up to what I had,
no, I almost became a Jesuit priest myself
and even after again, I went into a monastery
where my daughter was born and that didn't happen.
Here, what's this?
What's this one?
E pluribus unum, from many comes one.
Right, what do we have there?
The great bejeweled locus of capitalism
that sucks up everything which it stands upon
and leaves a great abyss at its base.
Do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do.
You might see something completely different
when you look at it, huh?
I keep teasing you because we're here to see seas.
Supai's Rad, apparently they just opened it back up
after three years, I saw a little clip came up.
We're at eight billion.
We're at eight billion here.
Here's my religion, the buffalo and the ant.
One day I was walking through the valley of the Yellowstone
when I came across the carcass of a great silver bison.
It had just fallen dead before me.
I saw it from the far side of the valley.
It shook the ground as it fell.
As I approached, so did a singular ant.
The ant said, wow, look at all this food.
There's no way in all of eternity I can consume this food.
But the ant goes up and eats a little bit anyhow
because it was hungry.
And then it takes a chunk and bites it off
and hauls it off.
Now that he's bitten that food,
he's put off a pheromone that says,
hey, we've got food over here.
And the wind blows and stirs through the grass
in the valley of the Yellowstone.
And there, a hundred yards away,
was an anthill with a hundred thousand ants up in it.
And they caught whiff of that wind and they followed it.
And as that other ant went back to his home,
another hundred thousand ants discovered
that there was a mountain of food to be had.
And a hundred yards away from that,
another hundred thousand ants.
And within a couple of hundred yards,
there's literally millions and millions
upon millions of ants.
And they all get a test of whiff of that pheromone
blowing in the wind that says, hey, we got food.
Let's eat it.
Right?
Now, 48 hours later, you come back.
Some other beasts might have pulled up
and they're like, oh, we've got food.
Some other beasts might have pulled it apart,
spread it around.
Some maggots might've got into it.
But for the most part, the ants have eaten it.
It's reduced to sinews and bones.
Right?
Now we think about when we consume, right?
There's no way I can consume it all.
My one personhood driving into the, from the store
to purchase the vegetables or the food
that's pre-processed and packaged
and transported halfway around the world
in plastics that was extracted from an oil well,
fought a war over and burned out the native tribes.
There's no way that that food,
that meal is going to affect the rest of the 8 billion people
who also have to go acquire that piece of food.
And light it over a stove to burn it again, heat it up.
And then they open up their house and let the heat out.
And there's 8 billion of us and growing.
And I'm the seventh generation,
or my daughter is the seventh generation
from the first folks who came from the old Europe
to here to America, right?
And like her seventh generation descendants
deserve everything that she has
and everything I had and everything my dad had.
But how do we do that?
And that's not to mention the millions and millions
of things that exist in the web of life
that create the existence we're able to enjoy, okay?
Like I've said this before,
is it your belief that this was done in six days
and a day of rest magically with a wave of a wand
by some dude that looks like me on a throne of gold
in the celestial realms that didn't exist
until he perceived them?
Or if that process of the bearded man on the golden throne
who just might be a programmer on a hypercomputer
in another dimension spent billions of years
creating three star cycles to bring together the mass
that is accumulated into our solar system
and the seeds of life that blew in upon solar winds
in the form of a fungus.
They evolved over time to become this cognizant being
that possesses a spiritual entity within it.
It's still bigger whether it was magic in six days
or the billions of years than any of us deserve
to destroy in our own greed, right?
And that's my religion.
Do unto others as you would have done unto you
is the one thing that pervades all the others.
And it's really the basis of what I always wanted,
what I've always wanted.
So look at that here.
People, if you don't know what this is,
you might think you got a bad deal on a pack of seeds.
I got feminized now in the Hindu Kush, right?
Oh shit, it's upstairs.
I used AI to create the product description
for some of these, this Hindu Kush.
The, it's still, I haven't populated it
or published any of the, but it's Utah's best artist
on Etsy.
What's this?
Hindu Kush by Breath of Purple Dragon.
I believe this is a feminized.
Gateway.
Check it out.
We talked about that last week for a second.
If you don't know what the Gateway process is,
check it out and like listen to the CIA report on Gateway.
Like I spent years figuring it out.
Oh, here's an interesting.
That's a square of Dr. Dream right there.
Spiders from Mars, square of Dr. Dream,
all cure FF1, Breath of Purple Dragon.
Heavenly loud phenotypes, heady, scum, piss,
funks and fruits.
Green to purple flame, 60 to 80 days,
possible mold resistant, Indica dominant,
OG hybrid, six feminized seed from 2019.
So I'll have like one offs like these available.
I gotta make sure I have some for me to grow again.
But I'm trying to figure out the whole program,
how to do proper discounts and stuff.
But yeah, it's gonna definitely,
we'll have discounts on things.
You got some spider from Mars gonna get going?
Excellent.
Don't move, cure Breath of Purple Dragon.
Those of you who wouldn't touch femmes,
couldn't understand why.
Well, most of the sources here,
and most people wouldn't touch,
their breeders wouldn't touch femmes.
And it was crazy because feminized seed
has been since the mid 90s,
the highest selling seed banks.
And people will actually would buy something else
if they couldn't get the one they wanted in feminized seed
because just limited space and prohibition
and all that shit.
Most people aren't into breeding.
And so, but we can look at stuff,
there's so much misunderstanding and misinformation
in the entire community.
People literally thought it was a GMO process
and not having an understanding of what was going on.
But back in the day before I was in communication,
I was totally living in the dark.
And with information we had from the 80s and early 90s
was that we forced rotalization
and made feminized senescence seeds.
That was where you looked for the dingleberry
and you plucked it out and you got the pollen out of it
because you only had your cut going forever.
And we didn't have access to seed
unless it showed up in a bag.
So, and that's one of the things I've been working on
trying to get work back out of Dr. Dream All Cure.
So it makes money, it makes sense.
Well, that's the other thing.
The tough thing is people just don't even know
how to make a proper femme.
You can make money off them a lot quicker
than it making sense.
You gotta do the stress testing
before you find one that's ethylene stable.
And then it's like, so the Breath of Purple Dragon,
so that one I utilized for this whole breeding process,
they've made so little seed
because the damn thing is so ethylene stable.
I put it through all the stress testing processes
and I couldn't get it to fucking pop a ball
and show any stress results.
And then there's,
I was using the silver and I couldn't get it,
I couldn't get it to fucking produce.
I had to tease out the fucking pollen.
It just wasn't reversing.
And so I got what I got,
but it wasn't what I was expecting when I ran the project.
And I've had this happen a couple of times,
particularly with these PCK lines,
drying techniques from 74.
Dude, they're trying to bring out
different flavors and stuff.
It says they're just all sort of getting them all.
So my uncle tells me in 78,
and this guy, we call him Uncle Mike,
he was my mom's first cousin or whatever.
The super weed, the best drying process they had back then
was they would take a big old bundle of wet weed,
wrap it in newspaper with dry ice,
and then put that in a black plastic,
put a line of pit,
put the black plastic bag in,
put the paper wrapped wet weed and dry ice,
put another plastic bag on it and bury that with soil.
So it'd leak out the sides and suck off into the earth,
and they would dig that up after two months.
And that was the super weed in 78.
That's how it was.
And they would pick it early so it wouldn't get pollinated
because there was fucking pollen
blowing around everywhere back then.
And then figure out flowers with all the dry ice,
burying it all, those fermentation ideas.
Yeah, they'd take the whole plant and mash it up.
What's this?
I started putting some funny names on some of these
for these labels.
What's this one though?
Pride of Nephi, right, local Utah names.
Beautiful Mountain.
Right, why?
Forgot about that one, huh?
Um, this one is Breath of Green Dragons, St. Bernard.
So I decided all that St. Bernard shit,
I'm gonna put those things on there.
I have thousands of these seeds.
I'm gonna put them on there for really fucking cheap.
Really fucking, like $20, $25 packs
that you can get discounted, right?
I'm trying to figure out how to list that.
I literally have thousands.
What can I sort of expect with Hardcore?
If you looked at last week's video, Laura,
there's definitely various phenotypes, right?
Everyone basically says you can expect
to not have to worry about it,
especially if you have it in the ground.
It's really, really drought tolerant
and it can feed itself, right?
I'd say, I've had it run as late as October,
the first year, but the second year it got earlier
and earlier, and so I think mid-October,
especially if you've got it in a nice environment.
That was getting frozen without any light
from September 15th on, right?
It doesn't get any direct light
when I grow it on that gorilla spot
that I showed in the last two weeks.
But nice, hardy, strong plant.
Excellent root systems.
Anyone else in here who's grown it
throughout some info?
So hey, Laura, one of the things I plan on doing
with my Discord that I'm talking about,
I don't have that number with me right now,
it's up on the computer,
is I'm gonna have a discussion page on the Discord
where people can hop in and chat
and it'll be a long-term talk, I think,
about each genetics line that I offer.
I never went back and planted into a fire,
but I used to go and Johnny Appleseed
all over the fucking place.
Thanks, why, yeah, yeah, no, that was,
and again, so that stuff was just throwing
Dr. Jirga that hardcore out on the mountainside, right?
I bet your seed collection against my,
I do have a couple of full Monty packs.
I got some packs of like,
I don't know, 60 or 70 different varieties
in a single pack.
This is Jalalabad, Afghanistan.
So I'm putting everything on there,
like 80 bucks for the basics,
and then my house,
my house genetics are gonna be a bit more,
and then I'll have stuff for the last,
but like all the land race,
I'm putting on a base price at 80.
I was gonna do 100, but it's like,
you know, I'd rather do more volume
than, and get rid of it and move on to other,
get rid of all the seed I've produced.
It's gonna be discounted.
It's gonna be, here's my funny one.
Gideon Staff.
Girl's Gone Wild by Trident of St. Bernard.
Yeah, this is my procrastination too.
What about Bob?
Ha ha ha ha ha.
Dude, no, future cannabis project
is like one of the worst procrastination tools out there.
Better to have, see, yeah.
Have to use logic reasoning to think
a perfectly shaped seed, grown perfectly,
if that relates to better growing plant without,
no, perm traits has nothing to do
with the shape of the seed or how it's grown.
It's purely genetically in tuned.
I've taught this before.
I'll give a quick one now.
There's two, that's what the plan is,
to have each different seed offering
or parent line maybe as a discussion thread, right?
But so, I got some bulk feminized.
There's genetic studies I found from the early 90s
that were done in hemp because hemp was always illegal for.
And basically, there's two main genetic lines
of cannabis that interbreed just fine.
But in pure lineages, this can be separated out and found.
And there's one that has a true male
that identifies as a true male
with a genetic male marker, right?
And that's true breeding male lines
and they will never have hernia in that genetic situation.
And the females are true females
and they have a true female presentation.
And so, you have your male marker.
You have your, I just learned this chord too, Lori.
So, don't worry about it.
We can send me a message somewhere
and we'll get you walked onto it.
We don't need, yeah, we don't need to know discord.
You don't have to.
It's just a tool for people who wanna use it,
who can get to where I'm gonna start
presenting this information.
If you wanna know about my seeds,
it's gonna be a place I'm gonna
get more information out there.
So again, the genetic variation,
you have the one that's true male,
presents true male, it has a true male marker.
The other one is a female,
or I'm sorry, is it has males
that don't have a genetic marker that present as a male.
And so, they're truly females.
And this is the ones that when we talk about
there is a possibility of environmental variation at birth
that changes sex of the seed or determines the seed sex.
This is that genetic half of the entire
genome of cannabis species that is,
does not have a male marker, is female, expresses as male.
And those intermixed towards the other
or and within itself has the hermiegenetic female.
That's exactly it.
That's a turgid he's saying it in chat right now.
So, and that's where when we're looking for these ones,
it's literally, it has to do with,
it's not though, because a male,
it's not really a genetic female.
A male, XY is two, or two Xs, right?
It's basically, it's almost a female, right?
The Y and two Xs, right?
So, it's missing one, distress
in its ability to remain ethylene stable, okay?
And so, the way we create her in creating feminizes,
we find these ones that are stress stable,
and we try and put them through all these stress tests
is switching light cycles and nutrient cycles
and root binding them and turning the lights off
for a few days or starving them or overfeeding them
or swinging from plain water to acid water
and fucking up the pH and everything
that any beginner could possibly do
to shock a plant and cause it to go
into ethylene instability and put off male flowers.
And you find the ones that are stable at that point,
then you hit it with the silver compounds
that go in and block the copper
in the ethylene production cycle,
and then it's not able to,
and it produces the male flower parts, right?
And so, even in both of these genetic lines,
the male flower information is in the female, always.
Okay, the mother carries that information.
There's absolutely no correlation
between the shape of the seed, the grow pattern of the plant.
I'll take that, I'll take back.
So, he's asking if there is or isn't.
And so, in general, if I handed you 100 random seeds,
you'd have a hard-pressed time to say,
this one's this, that's the other, okay?
But if you've been growing land races forever and shit
and you've gotten used to Thai seeds come out,
these little teeny little black round ones, right?
And this variety, we know a lot of Chinese hemp
are these big, huge, fat ones, okay?
And then, right, so you get these different forms,
but literally, when I'm reading,
I'm looking at seed variations
and I put color markings on a single plant
and I'm putting multiple males on a single female,
and I look at the seed afterwards,
I see that the male changes the color pattern
and the striping on the seed,
but otherwise, the female's dictating the size and shape.
Yeah, the perfect belly button doesn't...
No, you know, it was healthily grown.
It might be fully formed.
They're always gonna make healthy plants,
but yeah, that doesn't necessarily mean the runts.
I always tell people to keep your runts around
until you exhale because the runs quite often
be the best thing in your entire stock, okay?
Did I show that one off?
Oh yeah, so...
Jalali bug, Gideon's death,
all right, what else do we got in here?
Malawi gold, Malawi gold,
I want to smoke Malawi gold.
Oh, here's another fun Mormon name, Amaluk Orange,
but that's the electric orange, F1.
Hindu in pure form.
Do I have...
So the base genetic for this,
I searched for five years and found a guy,
Soma Shalomalomas or something like that from Spain,
and we were buddies for the longest time
and we made a trade and I got seed
that I believe to be a good pure direct line
of Hindu Kush at that point,
and then I never...
I got some stuff I think from Nazarian
that I've never hybridized the two of those back together,
what I'd like to do, but so yes,
I do believe to the best of my knowledge
I have a good pure Hindu Kush line,
but it's been inbred by...
Back I kind of did an open pollination,
I did a little hot pollination
and then I did some separations and pulled out.
Man, they don't wash the same way.
The land races, you really got to take some time
in digging through them and select to find,
I'm trying to keep these as much as a pure land race.
I think they make a decent...
Oh, I just had Hindu Kush hash out the other day,
but a lot of the land races just don't...
I think Nazarian's got some line
on what stuff they've gotten modern and selected
or whatever, but you got to sort through and find
and then inbreed a little bit for...
And again, I've discussed this about land races
and how there's different...
There's feral, there's stuff that's grown near feral
from the field, the field just came direct
and then there's stuff that's been refined after that,
multiple generations or a little bit.
And so you get into the refined stuff again,
you're gonna have...
And so the Hindu Kush I got...
I can show you some of it, couldn't I?
I open pollinated it and then I did single males,
single females, and then I bred all that together.
I ran like 300 of them and I selected six
and I inbred the six of the best
into the hybrid, into the feminize seeds I got.
And then I have, I've got,
but I'm not gonna present them until I run.
I've got a bunch of those six with the single
or double male.
And then I also have Hindu Kush that I had like 30 females
and a dozen males from that 300.
Again, so they're gonna be, I'll be on my Etsy,
is where I'm gonna be selling everything here.
And it's gonna be just USA to start with, apologize.
And then once I get that rolling,
then I'll see if I can't figure out
how to get international for everybody.
So it's really, I put it on Kyber and Chitral
are like right next to each other.
You basically go in, it's kind of really similar.
Putting those back into, I'm gonna look orange.
And then the Kush, the purple dragon.
So those are just, those are some packs that I had made up.
But some of the stuff that I really wanna get going.
Wow, I've gone long, haven't I?
Etsy is Utah's best artist.
There's T-shirt, a Tree Love T-shirt
and Hardy Gear seed and accessory by Utah's best artist.
This one's Peanut Butter Souffle by Breath of Red Dragon.
And I have a name for it somewhere that I called it.
What's Etsy, right?
Yeah, I've had a store there forever.
Nobody ever fucking bought shit from it.
So it's been idle forever.
And like I sold like some garlic or something.
And then the lady wanted her money back
cause she said it showed up broken into pieces.
Like, how do you eat it?
Whole?
Yeah, yeah.
So Peanut Butter Souffle by Breath of Red Dragon, FF1.
That's a fucking dumper, right?
What else?
Here's a great one.
This one here is regular seed.
GMO by, so this one, what am I calling this one?
Zac Astani Funk.
GMO by Zac Astani Blue Line regulars.
It's for artists primarily.
I've seen a couple of people putting some seeds on there.
And so I started, you know, the DEA says it's legal.
I haven't, I need to really talk to Kevin
about what we were talking about,
putting them on the virtual Wonderland seed nursery
on the cookie site.
Here's a bunch of Hindu Kush.
This is the ones that I've got,
like the select ones that I inbred, I believe.
So I have here, yeah, round one, number six, Super Piney.
No, it's not an Instagram.
Originally, Etsy originally was straight up
handmade and vintage only, right?
So like I collect vintage glass
where 50s and earlier type of shit.
And you could sell things like that
or I could have a vintage tie sale,
a store where I go to the thrift shops
and buy vintage ties and pick something out.
Or originally I had, you know,
I literally have fucking boxes, stacks,
piles and drawers of artwork, right?
But like, so vintage, that's like 120 year old rag doll.
Right, so you can sell something like that.
But now it's totally, everything gets degraded, right?
And I heard one time they said like,
oh, Etsy has more people on it living in America
that call themselves artists
than there are citizens of Australia, but didn't find it.
Yeah, so the store's not even,
there's nothing there in the store at the moment.
I don't know how to put up a link on,
I'll try and put one in here and later.
But again, there's nothing even there at the moment.
It's just, I'm populating and I haven't published.
So it might not, if you do it all one word,
I think is the other thing.
Utah's best artists, all one word, sorry.
But Ernie is suck.
Yeah, I don't know how to put a link on here at all.
I don't know if I can type a comment
or put it like in this mode.
I'm going down to two hours right now, holy shit.
What else do we got?
There's some paintings on Dogga.
I haven't sent him any in a while.
I need to send him some too.
It's the fireplace.
What am I doing?
What's this one?
Oh, that's the Hindi Kush here, no.
What am I doing?
Sorry.
I'm doing a deep dive into seeds.
The cat's in the seed bin.
Uh-huh, there, there.
Look here, this is what you fucking want.
You want a dumper?
Can I get the fucking focus?
Grape pie, FF1, Hindu Kush, open, feminized.
So I hit several of those sticks.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, I hit seven of those six females with silver
and reversed them into each other
and then put a couple other girls around
like this grape pie.
Grape pie is a serious fucking dumper,
insanely awesome terpene profile.
Doesn't produce shit for,
it has a ton of leaf and not a lot of flower.
So when I've crossed it, this should be fucking awesome.
It should open a big, huge, dumping, stink fucking,
the Zakhustani rock candy.
That's slurry cane by Zakhustani Kush.
Is it a regular?
They're fucking another awesome,
people are requesting that for medicine.
There we go.
First round, number C, open, feminized Hindu Kush
from last year.
So that's the feminized Hindu Kush.
Number six, that's the super piney one,
if I remember right.
Open fem, 1B, open fem.
So they don't necessarily all got great.
Ah, but here we go.
This is kind of, I'm kind of bummed.
I think I got better seed in the packs here.
And that's, it was the bummers.
They didn't come out like dark and people freak out.
I'll do pressure testing, squeeze test,
and some germination before I send any of these out,
make sure they're good.
But the Teipuki Thunder,
this is one I'm real excited for folks to get.
And again, I never got no mails out of that,
so I couldn't make any mails out of that.
What do we got here?
New Mexico land grant squared.
So I crossed it to Afghan, the Amadure Valley,
and the PCK, and then I grew them back into each other
in a couple of generations after that.
Yeah, this, so I'm not in,
I'm not in, like everyone else uses like a,
a freaking video editor program,
and I'm just live on YouTube.
Okay, so yeah, I can't put any of that shit on there.
Here's some great stuff.
Crap Kush, Chris Robertson, Afghan, Pakistan.
So yeah, I don't have, I don't have a freaking,
if one of the moderators could do it, that'd be awesome.
And then that's crossed by monkey balls or deep chunk.
So chunk of monkey crap, right?
Chunk of monkey crap, Kush.
How's that for a fucking name?
Chunk of monkey crap.
Crap Kush, Chris Roberts, Afghan, Pakistan, Kush.
By monkey balls or deep chunk is chunk of monkey crap.
Boom, so that's a regular from two years ago
that nobody's ever got,
and I haven't even super cleaned them out yet.
I have tons and tons and tons of all sorts of fun shit
that, there's a Blackwater by deep chunk.
They're looking for the link to my Etsy page.
If you could find that rotten,
that would be freaking awesome.
There's this monkey balls inbred.
But you can get those, you can get monkey balls
directly from the man who breaded them himself still, right?
Here's Mad Catz, Afghan,
and that was pretty much a land racy Afghan
that is preserved and crossed it into monkey balls
because that's primarily Afghan as well, right?
This again, it's not even, am I running out of battery?
No, I'm lying.
I wonder how come I died out for a second.
Anyhow, so all sorts of shit.
So we had like 20 different packs of stuff.
Zakhastani wine, that's Zakhastani Kush by the,
great pie.
Afghan, New Mexico land grant breeding project.
Here's the, I got six packs of feminized
New Mexico land grant.
What's this?
Oh, Ote Pote.
Otepe Pote, that's the one.
That's the other one from New Zealand.
So, High TACV, primarily the Malawi gold,
the Nigerian Yoruba Bantu,
and then there's also,
there's also the Afro Tiva.
And if any of those are left up on with Peter's site.
Yeah, I need more info.
Right now, it's not even populated, guys.
So I'll post up links, if not, on this page
when I get it fired up.
I was hoping to have it fired up this week.
I've been dealing with my fucking hand.
You can see the fucking thing sticking out there
and dealing with the fact that I thought I had a fucking job
to get through a couple of years and I don't
and all that shit.
And so it's not under Hardy.
I'll tell you what we can do here.
We can stop looking at this shit.
I'll go upstairs and I will bring it up
and we'll all get to take a quick look at it
and you guys can see what I'm talking about.
And I'll do it the lame old man way I know how.
All these things I'll be putting on in there.
Again, Peter's got room for so many
and maybe things have gotten better.
He was having a hard time getting stuff restocked
and all this stuff.
And I have way fucking more than
like he can possibly load.
He's got all these other folks he's selling seeds for.
Shit, I need to be selling my own seed.
And so, well, I'm gonna,
I'm just gonna open up my computer here
and cause I have to find it and 4860.
And there it is.
So I'm working on the Hindu Kush one.
I can't save it just, can I save it just yet?
Okay, I gotta do a couple of things
before I can save this.
That one, I wanna go, sorry folks,
to, I gotta process something
and it's gotta finish processing
before I can get to where I need to be
to give you the information y'all desire.
So, apologize.
It's me being a slacker but it's the realities.
I was having a talk with my dad about this yesterday
about like,
just getting into the fucking,
stuck as a fucking in a rut.
Fill out required fields, what's left?
Term policy.
Where is it there?
Oh, apply.
What was that?
And like, yeah, I'm stuck around the house
trying to heal my body.
I get stuck in the fucking,
trust me, I deal with,
you got anxiety, you get anxiety,
you get like how to,
starting to realize, like,
try not to think about it
because I've lived my whole life
without ever doing a budget.
Can you imagine that?
I've never had a regular income.
So like, how do you,
you live for the day, live,
you know, if you stress about tomorrow or yesterday,
then today sucks but today's the present.
So just to live it like it is.
I've had two job offers in the past two weeks,
up and with ski passes,
both of which I had to turn down
because my hands fucked up.
Doing the same thing, kitchen.
All right, can I save it now?
Yes.
All right.
So,
where am I at?
Shop, shop, search, dashboard.
Shop manager.
Okay, so,
ah!
It's like a lost followers, that's weird.
Oh, it's people favorite.
Okay, so,
it has my name, Alexander R. Hardy,
and it has Utah's best artist is the shop name.
I wonder how, but where's,
how do I view my shop?
Let's see.
View your profile.
So, maybe I, yeah,
because the shop doesn't have anything in it right now.
I don't even have,
the shop isn't active.
Here, this is what it looks like.
Maybe see, boom.
Boom.
Come on, reverse.
Reverse.
There we go.
All right.
So Etsy.
Um,
this is my Utah's best artist emblem.
Me hiking with my backpack full of oil paints.
At dawn, picking out beautiful imagery.
All right, so,
I know someone followed me the other day,
so it's not impossible to find this.
And I'm gonna follow, oh, here we go.
Etsy shop, Utah's best artist.
And then that's like my, you know,
the reference for me to look at it.
So, but again, no items listed at this time.
So,
let's see.
You know, what's right here?
Yeah, I'll put some,
I'll put some sourdough packs on there too.
Sourdough yeast packs.
I sent a bunch of those out,
and it's the funniest thing is I didn't tell people.
And I'll be putting some veggie seeds.
I'll put corn seed.
I'll put all that shit on there, right?
It's like,
and my artwork, et cetera.
So, whatever I got is going.
And there'll be,
there'll be, again, I do this.
I collect it, but I can't keep it all.
Check this fucking thing out.
This is beautiful, right?
Fucking nine inches.
I found similar.
It's seven inches.
And so, this is either like 40s, 50s,
or maybe into the 60s.
It's 22 karat gold gild.
There's no maker's mark.
But it's like, okay, you can put nuts and candy in there,
but imagine putting it full of whatever.
You can have it for a pinch tray.
You can have it for a,
I don't know, but you know.
So yeah, I've got to pass these.
It sucks.
I can't, I haven't tried.
I have good use of these two fingers.
This one a little bit.
In the morning, this one, not so much.
This one, not at all.
This one, not at all.
And today, like right now, that shit hurts, right?
So, but yeah.
I got prints of that,
but I can get a good photo of this shit
and also just have print offs.
I can turn some of my artwork into shirts and stuff, right?
Or not.
Some of these, that probably shouldn't be a shirt,
but maybe it could be.
Imagine that as like an all over clothing, right?
Hoodie for festie.
Like what the fuck's going on there?
That's an alien I saw.
That's what the fuck's going on there.
You know?
Antique, oh wait.
That's it right there.
Here we are.
But, but,
let's see.
I'm gonna do this again.
Can you hear the wind?
It's howling.
Well, Maria.
Should be Hardy gear on,
on Daga.
It was two, almost two feet.
I did a whole, on my personal,
personal YouTube, I did a,
I did like an hour of shoveling snow.
Moving this camera around up close
and getting some, some, some ASMR sounds
away with the fuck of the snow shovel.
But it's been blustery.
It's a beautiful day.
Yeah, here's Plumeria kicking back in.
I learned at the end of,
in the fall that I could chop that fucker.
I still got some, some cuts of it.
Hooked the guy up yesterday, came by.
I met him out, he was a horn player at the band
and I invited him over.
Hooked him up if,
yeah, I need to see in Peter some more gear.
I got us, so one thing also I was pissed about
was I'm gonna find a foot shear
because I can't use the big heavy duty pliers I got.
So we're going to the restaurants,
they like throw away all the fucking chef shirts
and pants, coat hangers are stainless steel.
So I started grabbing them all and
I started grabbing them all and I got San Pedro.
I guess I could probably put San Pedro cuts
on there as well, right?
And I want to make pokes,
little three packs of pokes for 10 bucks, right?
And play that game.
Recycled material pokes.
I see so many people selling pokes for,
for different glass on them and shit.
And
hey, here's a neat one.
Spring gardeners,
if you need a little bit of heat in a cold frame,
especially those folks that got snow storms
and shit right now,
dollar store candle will burn for multiple days
and keep the inside of a fucking greenhouse from freezing.
By the way, good little CO2 addition to a program too
if you have a really cheap budget.
So,
so
I was looking here and there's some,
there's some more antique glass or vintage glass.
So I got four of these.
These are ice cream,
ice cream dishes.
Those are probably gone.
Check this one out.
Here's a,
it's nice to,
used to put this stuff on, on eBay
and I stopped using eBay a little bit ago.
I should get some eBay going back again.
Beautiful little fucking hand painted vintage gold.
Each glass is a little different.
So when you're drunk, you don't need it at the right one.
Right?
You know,
uranium glass.
So I definitely will be putting on,
hold on a second here.
This isn't,
this isn't all my uranium glass.
You too, Lori.
Have a great day.
But I have,
these are all
what they call glowies.
And the specific,
my attention span.
Yes, I am highly ADHD.
These are all vintage glow in the dark uranium glass.
They totally,
in your black light just fucking fly.
Man, there's all sorts of cool shit here though.
Look,
don't play with explosives kids.
This is,
this is actually a tool used so people can ski.
And that's what we call,
I think that's the 40 millimeter.
No, that's a 70 millimeter howitzer explosive head.
Right?
Orange Fiesta wear, right?
Man, I'm always constantly learning.
I do have,
excuse me, I have just a book I'm looking for right here.
I thought it was right here.
I don't see it, sorry.
I got, I got books all about antique glass
and collecting and the different styles of stuff.
Here, I'm like, I was showing the bottles, wasn't I?
These are actually going as a gift to some,
my first wife saw them.
As soon as she saw them,
I knew I was going to give them to her,
but I've been holding off on it.
Is this bitching?
Old carnival glass,
depression carnival glass.
Afternoon, big champ.
All right.
One more artifact here.
Square nails.
I see red and orange from gold in the glass.
Did you see, I like,
I got marbles with colored, all sorts of colors in them.
I love, that's all chemistry, right?
All mineral chemistry.
Repurposed uranium blasts into bongs and bowls, right?
Not sure if some, it would be cool to see glowing under.
It really is, it's kind of fun, novelty thing.
Oh, it wouldn't hurt you to smoke out of it.
The thing is, so about the glass,
one of the things I learned,
like the modern Brasile kit is totally different from,
and so they've got to like blend it
with a lot of heat and time and use,
it might create a whole new color with it
because it doesn't necessarily stick together.
It's got something to do with the density of the silica
or, and I don't know exactly, I'm not a glass blower.
It was always one of the hardest things to get to learn
when I was young.
There was a glass studio at the college,
but again, you really had to put your foot in the door hard
to get into it.
And I had other shit going on
and never really pulled that off.
But there was a colony actually of glass blowers
just up the coast a little bit from college.
There was plenty of cool glass back in the day.
My friends know it.
Been talking whole show to see your chat ban.
I didn't do it.
Didn't see it happen.
Might've happened from a different show.
I don't know.
Uranium and bombs, no thank you.
It's pretty encased in the glass.
I don't know how it's coming out, the thing.
And then, so the uranium has different kinds,
there's different isotopes of uranium, right?
And so it's not the radioactive isotope of uranium
that creates a bomb or nuclear power.
I have paperweight.
I got a couple of them in marble collections.
This is a neat one.
It's kind of a trip because it's like straight up.
This one here, it's so fucking Utah.
But it might not even be Utah.
Now I look at it in this light,
I always thought that was black
and it's totally looking blue in this light, isn't it?
Interesting.
Interesting.
The, what's up?
Silver dragon.
Silver dragon.
The pink, the pink is,
the pink is Chinese Feng Tse.
It's like a 3% two to one.
If I remember, 10% two to one, something like that.
It's really low, really low carbon weight.
So it's an old traditional natural
hemp medicine fiber seed plant.
Tastes like fucking dove soap when you smoke it.
Kind of uplifting, true medicine plant.
Silver dragon.
I don't ever remember making a silver dragon.
I really, I, celestial dragon.
The pink is the hybrid to the, is the celestial dragon.
I don't remember any silver.
There's brown dragon is Sheila Pothi.
Had your son smoking on some of that yesterday.
Yeah, the celestial dragon,
not a whole lot of that got out.
I think I sent some of that out as trades through the,
or like cost of postage type of thing
when I had the traders club going.
But other than that, I don't,
I don't think very much of that.
Yeah, brown dragon is Sheila Pothi by Dr. Remalke.
Celestial is pink.
Gold dragon is Malawi gold.
Red dragon is Nigerian, you're bound to.
Green dragon is,
I don't know, Dore Valley, Afghan Kush.
Purple dragon is Pakistani Chitil Kush.
Yeah, then there's some other stuff
and I'm coming out of it.
So the dragon series is primal.
So Henry Kissinger Phoenix is Hindu Kush.
And the spear of milk and honey is Hindu Kush as well.
From that original.
And like, I just kind of slowed down on it
because I wasn't getting it.
Hopefully as the future comes forward,
I can produce more of these land race reproductions
and hybridizations and bat crosses.
So again, it's like pretty awesome to see
that there's so many other people
doing that kind of stuff now.
So many different variants and the truth
and the original matter of why we do this
is because there's all this lost profiles and producers
and they might not be beautiful plants.
And I try and express this,
that it's not necessarily a dense bed
that you can settle in production
and sits in a fucking storage facility for two years
that really want to be looking for
when we're breeding this way.
We're looking for stuff that takes care
of individual's medicinal needs
and personal psychological and physical stabilization
through proper plant chemistry.
Or growing into your environment, right?
With the least amount of energy inputs.
So that's the kind of stuff that,
the kind of thing that we, the hardcore, right?
Or any of these land races should be able to adapt
to quite a few various positions on the globe
in elevation and latitude.
Hopefully I can get some ones for the people that dump
and want the dumpers too.
You know, that stuff, it's all part of like doing.
But I'd like to get all that stuff back out there
and then bring in a little bit of capital
so I can do it some more.
As well as some other things I'd like to get done.
And the more I can set it up as automated,
like one of the things I've wanted for the longest time
is a small automated tarp system.
So I can take off for a few days in the summer.
I've been pulling tarps for a while and I can't leave.
Right, so I can take off for a day or two at the most
without really having an instrument system
if I want to do a production or not test stuff.
Everything's got its place, right?
Indoor.
I want to learn how to do the replays in one and a half feet.
That's kind of cool.
Pain relief.
Man, I tell you right now, the one that's helping folks out
is that exact same rock candy that I've got
at a certain cut up.
I can't remember how many I fucking ran through
to find the ones that.
Thank you on the compliment on the drums.
So for me, and again, different kinds of pain,
depends on what your pain is.
Someone's saying Jack Herrera for pain.
I never tasted it, I don't think I know of.
I don't think anyone's ever handed me a piece of weed
and said this is Jack Herrera.
There's, depending on what you're doing,
you can get a lot of pain relief.
There's, depending on what kind of pain it is,
that whole, I recommend people do the FICO and eat it.
There's Pakistani Kush.
It's Pakistani Chitil Kush inbred,
like 12, 13 generations from Kandavajian seed pack.
Chris Robertson handed me like 50 of them.
I just seen a question on, let me check something
so I can see that question again.
It disappears off my screen, I can't see, there we go.
When they gonna work, not, oh fuck.
Yeah, Piper's all, sorry, yeah, they're not gonna,
they're not, I had to call the Workman's Comp people
and say hey, I don't know what the deal is,
I'm out of work for a month now,
so they gave me a month of back pay
and said that the corporation has to offer me
a low, a light duty job or,
and if I turn that down, I get shut off of the free money.
But they don't, you can see the fucking lump there.
They did three, two MRIs and a sonogram
and I had no more information when I walked out
of the doctor's office yesterday
than I did when I, a month ago
before any of the talking to a doctor.
It's fucking nuts, they're just like,
oh, there's something in there
and just like keep stretching and,
so yeah, rare genetic disorder with pain.
More painful than most cancer, every day, all day.
Yeah, if you haven't tried eating it yet,
try eating it raw, zebra.
You know, I had no pain, right?
And that's topical, raw topical was the first thing
that fucking changed my life in ways.
And then when I started eating the stuff,
the FICO raw extract and that stuff,
it's helped so many other people with various issues,
it does not help everyone.
Some people really need to find that right genetic,
like I'm saying, the Zacchostanny rock candy
is really helping some people.
And just like, when I take it,
you've heard me describe it,
it feels like it's peeling off my skull
and then zipping the back of my spine
and it goes down and it feels like my fucking toes
are on fire and there's light shooting out
the tips of my fingers.
But again, you gotta be in that kind of fucking pain
and a screwed up body to get that kind of result.
You know, and so, you know, results may vary,
especially because it's, the presentation right now
wasn't F1 and so digging through and finding it,
I don't think I ran very many to find the one,
there's like two or three that did that out of the group.
Yeah.
That's one of the problems I got
is I make too much to fucking,
I got way more than I've never,
I've tested like Friends of the Offspring and all that.
Here's a cool one.
Oh, oh, oh.
Okay.
Not quite the world's smallest oil painting.
See, can I fill up the whole screen with it
and have it in focus?
But what is that?
Here, let's see.
Meow.
Except for it's, yeah.
That one's 24 by 36.
This one's two by three.
Excellent, excellent, excellent, cool.
Well,
root balls.
Someone's asking about root balls in chat
and I think you want them like really clean.
I think the people who actually do commercial production
of root extracts are using hydroponic roots
that are already clean to start with,
but you wanna get all your soil off of them
before you operate them
and it's best done when they're still moist.
And yeah, here is a little bit of,
a little bit of
visual love.
This one's titled,
I Met God and the Guy Walking Through the Woods
and the Guys of a Three-Toed Bear.
And it's a painting of the Redwood Forest regrowth.
Anyhow, we're like what, two and a half hours in?
Peace out, folks.
Have a great day, appreciate you.
Thanks for hanging out.
Go out in the world and make it a better place
with the meat suit you was given to do it in.
We'll do it again next week.
I think kinda maybe the same thing as Sav with the roots.
You might have to do some research on that
and get back to us all on the roots next week.
That's a good idea for next week's show.
Peace out.
Same bat channel, same bat time.
