Okay, so today what we're going to do is I'm going to show you how I will prepare this
plant to move it from veg into flower.
And what I mean by prepare is taking off some of the lower branches, taking off some of
the side shoots, and really trying to send as much energy up to the top of the plant,
but also account for the stretch because this thing is going to stretch a lot.
And I know some of these lower limbs, they'll never see the light and nobody likes trimming
larf.
So we're going to take it off.
We're going to send energy up to the top and we're going to avoid trimming larf.
So win-win for everybody.
That is kind of a simplified answer.
Well, that is a simplified answer to the overall theme of what we're doing here.
There's a lot of hormonal interactions within the plant when you remove leaves, when you
remove branches, redistribution of hormones and auxins, it causes further growth, side
branching, a lot of different things, but you don't necessarily need to concern yourself
with that.
Pretty much this is something that you're going to want to do because of lack of light
penetration.
And again, I probably go a little bit heavier because my tent is so tight.
I have things butting up against each other and there's not a lot of room for diffused
light to come in from the side.
But again, I grew this skunk number one last time and it's super stretched on me.
So I know I'm going to have about a two or three times stretch.
Pretty much anything from here below can be taken off because after all of this stretches,
I've got one, two, three, four and five main terminal shoots on here.
There's some down here, but again, those are never going to see the light once everything
else stretches.
So I'm going to get rid of them.
I'm going to bring their energy up and no larvae to trim.
All right, let's go in for a closer look.
So what I've done just as a visual reference for everybody is I've attached a twist tie.
It goes along through the plant here at this level.
We'll kind of pan down now.
You see it there still at the top.
You see the bottom of my pot.
You see that line that I've drawn.
We're going to leave it right there and I'm going to do a little chopping.
All right, we'll start with the easy stuff.
As I said before, I've got my line in here.
Everything down is probably going to go because it won't reach the light.
That doesn't mean I'm going to chop this branch off down there.
There's still plenty of it above the line, but this branch, good healthy looking branch,
plenty of side shoots.
It's something that's going to grow bud.
As a new grower, one of the harder things to do is to chop something that's going to
grow bud.
But trust me, you don't want the bud from there.
It's going to be larvae, very airy, non-desirable is what that means, but it's not going to
get enough light.
So I'm going to take my clippers, which are sterilized before each plant.
I'm just going to take it off right at the stem.
Oh my goodness, it looks naked, but that's okay.
Now I will say, if you're like me and you run a perpetual harvest and you don't keep
mothers but you do do clones, this is a great time to take your clones.
When you're cleaning your plant up, getting ready for flower, you have lots of these awesome
side shoots.
These, if you cut it right, you strip it down, makes an excellent clone.
So this is a great time to do that, but again, here's another branch.
It's never going to reach when it has the proper stretch on the top, so we don't need
it.
We're going to get rid of it.
There's that.
It's big fan leaves.
We don't need them.
Get rid of that.
Okay, so we run into a situation now where we have stuff below the line still.
Let's get closer in on this and you'll see how I approach this and cut them.
So again, there's a lot of ways to do this process.
There's a lot of factors from the amount of foliation on the plant, whether you strip
off a lot of the leaves.
This plant, not very leafy.
I don't need to do that.
But also the lights that you're using and the amount of penetration that the light gets.
That's very important for how deep it's going to go through your canopy.
And I tend to run a pretty tight setup, like I said, so there's not a lot of light coming
in from the sides.
So I'm going to clean up this stuff and I'm just going to start doing that now.
Again, I've got my line in through here.
That will give you guys, again, that visual reference.
So when I'm doing this, I always just kind of cut it.
It can go in here.
I can even take that leaf off.
I just cut it.
And again, if you wanted to make a clone, you've got a great clone right here.
So good time to do it.
But I do not like trimming larf, so I go pretty heavy.
I have no mercy for these lower branches because I know with the stretch that they are just
not going to reach.
They're not going to get the right amount of light.
This thing is close.
This thing is actually, the top of it is right at the line.
I'd rather not.
I'm going to just take it off.
So let's send that energy elsewhere.
This one, big, big one.
But you know what?
It's below the line.
I know it's not going to reach.
And I'm going to get in here.
There's a lot of little ones.
And this is, you know, again, it's a heartbreaker.
It's a spot that's going to grow a bud, but it's not going to be desirable.
It's going to take energy away.
So again, another nice looking clone.
If you wanted to have a clone, this is the time to take them.
But yeah, it's just not going to be super beneficial to you in the end.
I'm going to take this lower stuff off too with the leaves, kind of clean it up.
And you know, I like to do this after I've watered and fed the plant.
I want it to be strong when it's going through this type of stress.
The stress, you know, you don't want to take the entire plant, but you can take a decent
amount off without causing too much of a skip in the beet for the plant.
You know, I give this maybe three, four days.
It's going to be right back on pace with where it was going.
And I do have another skunk number one, same size, hasn't been cleaned out.
And that is kind of a test.
So we'll see how much this promotes and stimulates growth and stretching just from redistributing
all the stuff that was in these lower branches.
So you can see it's a little bit cleaner right now.
I'm just going to kind of do a little turn around here.
Oops, cutting in front of the camera.
Bad poise, maybe.
Why don't I just spin this beauty?
Give it Vanna White style.
Oh yeah.
All right.
You, right there.
You're right at my line.
One, two, three, four, five nodes away from the top.
I'm just going to take you, because I know I'm going to have five or six more nodes by
the time we're done.
So goodbye.
Same with you.
Goodbye.
And again, you want to make sure that you're clipping it right at the main stem.
Sometimes if you don't clip it in the right spot, it'll just grow back.
And that's not what you want.
So get out of here.
You you're so close, but you know what?
Get out of here.
You you get out of here too.
Everybody make like a tree and leaf.
All right, one more.
Again, like I said, I tend to go chop happy because I know how much this plant can recover
and I know how much more new growth it's going to have.
That is looking pretty good to me.
Let me just give you guys a pan up, pan down, and you'll see.
Holy crap.
That looks so much different from what it did before.
But you know what?
It promotes airflow, which is great.
And see, I got my line right there.
Everything is hanging out above that line.
Everything below it.
I still have some leaves to help transpire, to help photosynthesize.
But that is a dramatically different landscape than when we started just a few minutes ago.
You can see from above, she's still a nice, healthy, full looking plant.
We got lots of lots of bud sites are going to grow and be nice.
So we've got that going for her at least.
And there she is.
That was my process of getting a plant ready to go into flower from veg for my tight tent
with not a whole bunch of light penetration because I'm not using a whole bunch of wattage
in there.
And that's fairly common for a home grower.
And combined with the known stretch of this plant, I went pretty high.
But as I said, you see the line, everything below it is clean, everything above it.
Once this plant stretches, it should still be getting good light penetration.
And that's the key to good buds.
So thank you for tuning in.
This is Chad Westport.
I hope you enjoyed the process.
And please send us your tips.
I'd love to see your videos and who knows, maybe we'll even play it on the show.
So thanks guys.
And I'll see you next time.
