Nice. And what do you roll in?
Some of my gas and aid. It's the last strain that I want to award for in Colorado.
Oh, cool. And what what contest was that? Did you have a grow off belt? Is that what
I saw?
I have a grow off plaque for second place and potency and then a medal for third place
at the connoisseurs Cup.
And you until three months ago lived in Colorado.
I moved out here. Yeah, the end of last year. So yeah, a couple months ago, like four or
five months.
And for those who don't know where here is, here is Los Angeles, right?
Yes. Yes.
And it's actually funny because I heard the rain and then I was like, fuck, I have plants
that are outside that I need to bring back inside. So before I started this stream, I
like ran outside, grabbed all the plants, brought them back in.
I'm trying to revenge some male Thailand race plants.
Oh, nice.
And. All right. So so you're you're you're smoking. So you brought do you in addition
to all your other belongings like did you bring like pounds of weed with you out to
L.A. or.
It was crazy. I just like left it in Colorado and then a bird just dropped it off, you know,
here. And yeah, it was just a couple of my favorite strains that I didn't want to leave
out there.
Amazing. And did you grow up in Colorado?
No, I'm actually from Jersey originally.
You're a Jersey girl.
Yeah. Jersey girl.
My dad grew up in Fort Lee right across the GW Bridge.
Yeah.
OK, I grew up in like South Jersey near like Atlantic City, but I was up in New York like
a bunch of bunch all the time. My family had season tickets for the Yankees and I was always
at Broadway and stuff. So I was up there a bunch.
Very cool. So I'm just getting my my big epiphany recently was that if I just dab that my wife
does not smell it and complain about it.
So that's fair. I get that from my neighbors a lot, too. They rather me smoke dabs instead
of like smoking, you know, volcanoes or joints. But I don't care.
We have Point Pleasant, New Jersey in the house.
Oh, yes.
So and you guys met where you met at the Puffco event. Is that what you said?
I met her at the Puffco proxy event.
The one at what do you call that place with like the geodesic? Is that where it was?
No, it wasn't there. It was. Yeah.
Yeah, it was that like a it was like a like a warehouse, a warehouse in downtown.
I was at the 91 club or something or different.
Because they had they had do you know the event I'm talking about, like the festival
kind of event they did?
The one that was at like the Vortex?
Yeah, the Vortex. No, no, no, not the Vortex. Not the Vortex. But anyway, that's it's not
a critical part of the conversation. But all right. So. All right. I'm trying to remember
who I got to give a shout out to the guy who gave this to me.
I keep blanking on. I'm going to send this link. I can just send the link that you sent
me to anyone. They can just join up to watch you.
No, no, no, no. That that would be to join on camera to watch. They can just go to YouTube
dot com slash. At FCP two. So that at sign if you go YouTube dot com slash at at sign
FCP two.
Cool.
And yeah, let me just so up in Grass Valley. Honey Butter Rosen. That's what I'm smoking
on.
That's nice.
If anybody knows who they are there, I think in Mendocino. Let me see. Yep. Mendocino.
So anyway. All right. So so you grew up in New Jersey. You're a stoner girl. My am I
am I getting warm?
Actually more of a plant nerd before I started doing cannabis. So I've been into horticulture
my whole life and I had a landscaping business back there and I just really care and love
about plants. And then I went out to Colorado in 2014 for the Cannabis Cup and my mind was
blown. I was like, this is how people live. They just get high all the time. This is a
lifestyle. You can do this. Yeah. I just packed up my car and left.
I like the impulsiveness. That's actually how I ended up in L.A. I I met a girl and
two weeks later I was in L.A. and living here.
Always meeting a girl. Yeah, that's fair. All right.
But now that's awesome. So because I whenever they did I think it was the 710 Cup in Denver.
Do you remember that? What year that was? Was that 2014 or 2013 or?
The Cannabis Cup? Like the High Times Cannabis Cup?
No, not High Times. It was Grassroots California, the Hat Company. And then Adam Dunn had whatever
his clothing company is or what. I don't know if the clothing company still exists, but
I went with my friend to that and I was like, this is awesome. This is like it's a big party.
And instead of drinking alcohol, everyone's smoking weed and like everybody is super nice
to each other. And like it was the most courteous like three, four or five hundred people I've
ever seen in one place at that point in time. Yeah, that's how I felt, too. When I went
out there, I was just like, wow, everyone's so kind. And like being from Jersey, like
everyone's nice ish. If you know somebody or, you know, it's a rough area to grow up
in. And I went out to Colorado, which is like, cool, I'm going to move here. And I
just bounced.
And so did you like what was the like, did you start working there? Like, did you like
what was the because you were into horticulture in general, you weren't were you growing weed
at this point or not yet?
No, I never thought about growing weed or being in the industry at all. Really. I just
I smoked some horrible weed, you know, I just had seeds and stems and whatever else.
And I liked smoking every once in a while, but it wasn't a big part of my life. And then
a friend said to come to the Cannabis Cup just to see it, just to see the culture, see
the lifestyle and everything. And then while I was there, I ended up meeting Black Dog
LED and just really started liking those guys. I had a ton of fun and I ended up working
the booth immediately and just kind of picked up like the three taglines about Spectrum
and just started talking about the lights. And then at the end of the show, the CEO offered
me a position if I came out. So I was like, all right, tight. Bye. And I didn't start
with them immediately. When I moved to Colorado, I worked at a dispensary called Native Roots
for a little while just to learn more about, you know, cannabinoids and terps and all that
kind of stuff. All I knew was sativa and indica. I didn't really know anything else about the
culture or cannabis in general, but I got a lot of education there. And then after about
four or five months that I jumped back to Black Dog and then I was with them for eight
years. Became very, you know, one of the owners in the company and loved it and just, you
know, worked my way up there. And I still do like some social media and marketing for
them, but I just wanted to do something different. And that's why I decided to move out here.
The culture out here is so different, like the Green Street and all the parties, you
know, there's something you can do out here every single night. There's three things you
can do out here every night. And I kind of wanted to be a little bit more closer to that.
Yeah. So I totally, but is it five times to turn it on? You're muted.
You're muted.
Five times to turn it on, two times to get it to get it heated up and three clicks to
change heat settings.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now that's what I thought. Okay. So I. All right. So I did the five times.
Okay, there we go. All right.
Delicious.
As they say, it looks yummy.
That's Tangy Cookie Burger grown by Yellow Dog.
That sounds fire. That sounds super fire. The cross sounds nice. I love burger. Burger's
always nice. Nice.
Let me look for Yellow Dog.
So then what? So did you start growing like Yellow Dog Family Farms, maybe?
Oh, clean, organic, sun grown cannabis handcrafted in Nevada County, California.
I don't know if this is the right Yellow Dog, but I'm going to follow him back.
I followed him. I followed him also. And I mean, he's he's he's followed by a couple
a couple of good people. A couple of good mutual followers of mine. So.
And then the.
The washer was.
Honey Butter Rosin.
OK, so so in so you're kind of working in Colorado and getting into the scene and then
when did you start growing? Were you growing? Did you bring like your basil plants and all
your other.
Yep.
Your horticultural children.
I have plants that I drove from Jersey to Colorado that I propagated and kept alive
for so long and then I drove from Colorado out here.
So, yeah, I grew I drove out here with probably 40 just like tropical and fruit plants, and
then I didn't really have any strains that I was super in love with.
You know, at this point, there's new strains every couple of weeks and I kind of wanted
to start growing some new stuff out here.
So I didn't bring any of that. I brought a lot of seeds that I collected over the years.
I have a lot of seeds from like Masonic and Cap and Cali Connect and a whole bunch of
places. This is actually a little Cali Connect seed that I popped recently.
So.
We can actually go like that.
There we go.
We're both like.
OK, so when you first started growing in Colorado, what was it like?
Were you living in an apartment and a house?
Yeah, it was an apartment.
So working at Black Dog LEDs.
Yeah. So they kind of were like, well, if you're going to talk about LED lights and
growing, you need to learn how to do it.
So they sent me home with an entire kit and just said and four plant four clones.
And they said, set this up, figure it out, learn how to set a D.U.
and an AC and all these fans and filters and figure it out.
And I went home, got super high and worked on it for the next five hours.
And then I killed one clone that first night.
But then I was able to flower out those other three plants.
And that's kind of how it started.
At this point, I've grown hundreds, thousands of.
I ran all their research and development grows for the eight years that I was there.
I have a YouTube series under Black Dog LED teaches people how to grow transplant, set
up their grows, all that kind of stuff.
And I actually have a YouTube series when I did the grow off of like taking people
through the entire process and what I decided to do.
That's sick. Very cool.
That's super cool. It's like I really like plants and being in front of the camera.
So it worked out pretty well.
Perfect. And so your first grow, what was it?
Did they also send you home with a tent or were you growing like in the closet or.
Yeah, I grew in tents.
I was always really small, dialed in environments.
So I've grown in everything from like that specific one was a two by four tent.
But I've grown in areas as small as one foot by two and a half feet.
And that was a closet like a little cabinet grow.
And then I've grown all the way into my biggest room was a 12 liter, 108 plants.
And that was a whole hemp room.
But I've grown at this point over 700 tropical plants, every THC, CBD, pure hemp,
all that kind of stuff, you know, a whole bunch of fun stuff.
Very cool. And what are some of the other plants here like did you also bring plant
non cannabis plants to L.A.?
Yeah. Are there any plants that started in New Jersey that went to Colorado and then
came to L.A.? I do.
I have a cute little one if you want me to grab it.
It's called an oxalis.
You're like, yes. OK, hold on.
It's purple. So it's kind of cool.
We like our plants.
I got a lot of plants grow up.
I should just kill the video.
So what are you smoking?
Max. What am I smoking on right now?
Right now, I'm about to go in on some archive, archive a lemon peel.
This is.
Hard to see, but just a little white.
Your back lighting is very nice, though.
I need to get that ring light.
Once the ring light comes in, Peter, I'll have that overhead light that just comes
down and be looking like an angel, like an angel sent in from heaven.
All my turps will be glistening.
This has a very distinct lemon nose is like, oh, my gosh, is such a fire
strain. OK, so have some for you, Peter, to try.
Have some for you and for Otis and everyone for everyone to try.
Excellent. So because it's nighttime, they're actually closed and they look like
little moths.
Yeah, but from the top, there's three leaves and they open during the day and
then they have a nice little lilac flower.
So it's a little bit of a flowery, a little bit of a flowery, a little bit of a
little lilac flower that blooms a whole bunch.
Everything's really small right now because I like cut down everything.
Just be like, all right, cool.
Hope this like one cutting lasts.
And then I also am a huge fan of like smart pots and fabric pots.
So I got cannabis on my house, plants, everything in them.
So interestingly, but you keep that plant indoors, right?
Because fabric pots that size drive me crazy outside
in L.A. in the summer because they just it's like dry out, dry out, dry out.
So you got to go bigger.
But yeah, inside there, I love them.
Yeah. Outside, I normally did like five
to ten, 15 gallons, depending on what I was growing.
But I did like just a whole bunch of herbs and tomatoes.
And I do grafted tomatoes in Colorado.
So I had a different root stock that was bug resistant.
And then you graft on whatever strain that you want so you can get bee feeder
or Roma or whatever kind of tomato that you want.
And it makes the plant like three times as hardy.
And you get 600 tomatoes per plant for the season.
So the plant you just showed us, what was it?
An oxalis. It's OK.
Let me let. Oh, I.
Yes. Oxalis triangularis.
Yep. And then there's is it a wood sorrel?
Oh, I don't know. That looks cool.
Yeah. All right. Here we go.
But if you can see the flowers, they're just really, really cute,
little dainty flowers.
Yeah. I'm going to show everyone the.
Don't take care of your banger, everyone.
Cute. Yep.
So like these are the flowers.
Those. Yeah.
Those like flowers that are in the middle, like the really. Yeah.
Yep. And then at nighttime,
they three peddled thing closes up or each pedal closes up.
So you'd have like three moths on each.
Yeah. So here's a good one.
Where's my camera? There we go.
So that's the top of it.
Like that's three. Yeah.
Each side. And yeah, it's nicknamed like a moth plant
because it just it looks like little moths right now.
That's cool. And what did you like about that plant?
Like, is it ornamental or like.
Oh, yeah, I think it's pretty poisonous.
No, I think it's pretty poisonous.
They're not making like teas out of it or something or.
Absolutely not. Do not drink.
No, I just really liked it.
It was from my master gardener class that I took at Rutgers.
It was one of the first plants that I ever learned to propagate.
So just since then, I've been probably Dr.
James White there.
Does that name mean anything?
No, I'm going to send you.
I'm going to send you a video when we're done.
It's he's the guy who does research on the rise of Fiji cycle, which is like
microbes getting sucked in through the roots of the plant.
And then basically the plant like.
Eats away as much nutrients as it can before killing that microbe
and then spits it back out to like come back to life and gather more nutrients
from like beyond the edge of the roots and then go
and then it gets sucked back into like near death again.
And then it gets spit back out to like come back to life.
It's a nature sponge. I like it.
Yeah. When he was describing that, I was like,
that is really fucking cool.
It's savage. It's like the microbes are.
I don't know if they get sucked in or if they like come willingly in,
but it's like the rat that keeps getting zapped.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, it's crazy is, in my opinion, the living soil
has like taken over and especially a lot of hash makers are using it,
because in my opinion, that the tastiest hash that I've had
came from like single source living soil kind of stuff.
And like. And by the way, if you're into living soil,
you're in a very safe space right now.
I think pretty much ninety nine point nine nine percent of the people watching.
But I'm sorry.
Las Vegas. There she is.
All right. So that plant made it from New Jersey all the way to L.A.
Yeah. Any others? Proud of it.
Um. Are you in a house right now or an apartment?
Yeah, this is my apartment.
OK, I was going to say, do you have like a balcony or anywhere
you can put any pots like in the sun?
No, I can't put them in the sun.
But when I moved in, I said, hey, can I put plants out here?
And the guy was like, yeah, you don't really have that much room.
And I'm like, how far off the wall can I put plants?
And he's like, I don't know, like 12 inches.
And I was like, and to where?
Like this, this place or like this door or whatever.
And he was like, OK, like here.
I was like, cool, thank you.
And then I'm going to make like actual
I like I have a garden out there at this point that is just a flower bed.
Basically, little does he know who he just gave the green light to
to like do whatever she wants to this space outside the building.
OK. And I have so many gardens that people just want my skills.
So I go to their houses and just make up flower beds and like
or vegetable gardens like I have one going with like kale, switch, chard,
green onions, strawberries, just a whole bunch of stuff.
And I like trade my services to different people for things like that.
So like that house specifically is like my personal trainer.
I'll go there and work out and then work in his garden.
Like it works out really nice.
And now he's getting fresh vegetables.
Other people like I just I like restoring gardens
or if there's any land that I can actually use, I'm using it
like for either cannabis or plants or something.
Yeah, no, I love that.
I with like preschool or like my kids.
Friends, dads, each year, I convince a couple of them
to let me grow in their yards.
And but I want to like start to take over their whole gardens and be like,
let me bring in my array of wacky plants.
Yeah. And if they're not using the steel, like, why not?
You know, it's better.
What you'll like about L.A.
is that plants basically never die because there's no winter.
OK, that means bugs never die.
I've never been fighting aphids and whitefly in in January in my life.
It's four degrees in Colorado right now.
I'm used to everything fucking dying.
And then I start up again in spring and I'm out here spraying like IPM already.
It's kind of weird.
Yeah, I have white flies on my catnip
that I need to get more under control.
And then I actually have.
If I can fire up the microscope, I pulled a leaf off
some ashwagandha and
it has a lot of red spider mites.
Oh, wow.
And I was like, the only upside of you guys is that I can
put you under my microscope and
and show you to the world
and then and then have an IPM expert talk about like what they are and how to
prevent and fight them.
Yeah.
For outside, honestly, one of the best things I say is to plant plumeria.
It does really well out here.
And spider mites like plumeria above cannabis even.
So in my like cannabis gardens, we had tropical plumerias by it,
because if you're going to have spider mites,
I'd rather them go work on that than my cannabis.
So I always suggest this.
Wait, is this hold on?
Let me.
I'm on it. OK.
This. Yeah.
That thing's beautiful.
Yeah. And they're all over California.
Right now, they look they're dead, like there's no leaves or flowers on it.
But yeah, and they smell incredible, too.
Yeah. Yeah, that's like.
That'll come to me, the plant that we have all over.
But this is that's now it'll it'll.
Give me give me five to 30 minutes.
It'll pop back in my head.
But OK, so.
In Colorado, in your tent with rocking your black dog LEDs,
bio Ag, silica, the silica product.
Sorry, I'm reading the chat.
There is. Ion 14.
And then there's also a liquid one, too.
But I was in the middle of asking you a question, right?
Yeah, something in my head.
Oh, yeah. So in your tent.
So you started with those.
What was it? Three three clones or whatever.
Yep. And.
And then what kind of stuff did you like to grow?
Like, did you did you just constantly want to explore new and different stuff
and just be like, look, I'm going to do this.
And I don't know, maybe you could take all that time
and explore all the different stuff and just be like, let's see how you grow.
Let's see how you grow. Yeah.
There you have stuff that started to become part of the stable.
There were a couple of strains that I grew all the time
because I was doing research and development.
So if I was doing something, you know, with a new nutrient line
or a different light spectrum, I had to be growing with it
at least as much of the same environment, same strain, all that kind of stuff.
back, you know, decade ago. And I love the blue dream is such a classic.
Do you so?
You're muted.
This is from eternal hash out of Bakersfield, California. We're going to hopefully have him
come on soon. Cool. That's smoking right now. Yeah, that's what I'm gonna take a dab over now.
This is what we're gonna we'll have this on this train will be on for us to
get it. I will be smoking that out of this at some point is what you're telling me. Excellent.
Yes, yes, you will.
Conceptually, I like where this show ideas going. I'm like, I think pretty much every
week I'll just be smoking really good hash. Yes. Hey, great. Me too.
Alright, so were you when you first started? What kind of was your grow media? Were you hydroponic?
Or were you soil from the get go? Or?
I use sunshine number four with a little bit of extra perlite.
I tested by 15 different nutrient companies, everything from advanced nutrients to
oh my god, emerald
harvest. Damn that dab got me high. But a whole bunch of different nutrient companies. I love
success. I'm kind of a fangirl of them. They're out of Denver. They are the three of light guys.
technique if that means anything to anybody. But they wrote a book that really kind of taught
people how to get three pounds of light. And this came out you know, five, six years ago when people
were not doing that, you know, the standard, you know, two pounds of light was was good and anything
less was, you know, okay, mediocre. But I kind of have a like recipe that I learned from them. And
I've just been doing the same way. That's how I won all the awards that I did. I kind of every
plant that I grow, I do the same technique of just topping it a whole bunch, vegging it out,
defoliation. And, you know, I've gotten 3.62 pounds in a four by four off of four plants before.
And then just, you know, better numbers from there. So I like a lot of good quality weed.
As opposed to the heady Karen who likes his weed mediocre.
Come on, are you talking about smoking on some good butter?
So that's cool. So you've pretty much consistently grown in the same grow media for
since 2015 ish, right?
Yeah, I have, like helped out and worked in some grows and deep water culture. I've cleaned out a
lot of them because being a grower, half of it's just being a janitor. So one of my first jobs was
emptying out a deep water culture and just undoing all the roots and the plumbing and everything. That
was interesting to see. But I've never like done a grow that way. Scientifically, you are going to
yield more if you do hydroponically than in soil. In my opinion, again, I feel like living soil is
your lowest yielding. I haven't seen people pull down crazy numbers because I'm all about pushing
the plant as much as possible. I want to control the environment 100 percent. I want to be feeding
them 3000 ppm when I'm watering, you know, ppfd of 1500. I want a super controlled steroid
environment to be pushing my plants as hard as I possibly can. And I'll flush for like 10, 14 days
to make sure that I get like a really tasty product out of it. But that's just how I grow.
And in terms of like what type of amendments you're adding into it, like what have you been
exploring? I've been hearing a lot of cool things. I see a lot of, I mean, I've seen people do like
the cover crops with clover to add nitrogen and like all that kind of stuff. My buddy Miles over
at Weed should taste good. He's all about the fermented teas and living soils and all that.
Oh, there we go. My baby. Yeah, he's such a good fucking awesome dude. Awesome dude.
And the other guy that he's working with, Hash should taste good out of
Denver as well. He's one of my buddies that I was saying the tastiest hash I've ever had
was from him and it was all living soil, single source in Denver, all that kind of stuff. So
yeah, I've definitely seen some amazing things out of it. I just have been a fan of salts and all that
kind of stuff for a while. I think my growth style is definitely going to change now that I'm out in
Cali. It seems like everyone kind of uses Athena and Govita. I mean, I'm never going to go away
from black dogs because they're the best. You, V and I are. But I just kind of I'm excited to see
different strains. That's my biggest thing. I'm really excited to grow some new strains out here.
And what's so here? Yeah.
What what's what are you growing right now? Like what do you I assume you have something that's
almost ready to harvest? No, that would be a bad assumption. I only moved into my apartment a
little while ago and I literally just got the tent up two days ago. Okay. Yeah. And I'm still looking
for strains. I was gifted some teens, but I'm having a hard time transitioning them over and
I kind of want to just scrap it and start from fresh and or just grow out the seeds that I pop
because those are looking really good. They're just seeds. So they take an extra bit of time.
And what are they seeds of? These ones are Cali Connect. And it was one was a lemon tart and the
other was 181 something. Sorry, I'm blanking. But it was just a couple seeds that I threw together.
Oh, I have some Mesa seeds too. Some blueberry Wilson and Wilson C vitamin, I think it was called.
Something weird like that. But I'm not a huge fan of seeds. I rather have a clone. My buddy has a
banging clone business in Oklahoma. And clones are legal to ship all over the states because they
don't contain any THC. So fun fact. That's pretty awesome. That's pretty awesome.
And so what what clones do you have going? And where were you picking the clones? Are you picking
the clones up from friends or? Yeah, these were gifted to me. But I'm saying I have to grab my
notebook because the names are so crazy to me. They're like Carmel Valley times Carmel tsunami
wedding cake hanging out with like, I was like, what the fuck?
That's what I joke about like the weed that comes through the LA events. I'm like,
what's this? And they're they like describe it like that. And I'm like, okay.
I know that's I'm like, so not super lemon haze. Got it. Like it's not. I'm just like a kind of
old school and want a blue dream with super lemon haze and old school gorilla girl glue like,
you know, that kind of stuff. But I'm also blown away by some of the stuff that I see. Mills,
Proving Ground, I've seen awesome stuff out of there. I like West Coast Cure stuff.
SF can like there's a lot of companies I've seen.
Product. And then there's some booth that I was like, I did thank you, but no. So I've seen this
full spectrum out here. That rip burn my nose. Oh, it's like hitting back here. I hate that.
I like right. I feel like me taking dabs is kind of like eating McDonald's like
you eat enough where you're like, that's really good. But then if you go, if you cross that,
like if you too much McDonald's, you're like, I mean, I haven't eaten McDonald's in years,
but I remember when I was eating it, you'd have that like fine line between too much and
just right. I feel like I'm an asthmatic. So like sometimes if I do too hot of a dab,
I'm like, hold on, I need my inhaler now. Yeah, I'm dying. This thing, this DABX really does hit
anyone out there watching. DABX is the way. I have a Puffco proxy sitting next to me right now.
But no, it'd be cool to get all the, what is there? There's the DABX, the Puffco, the
Focus, right? Yeah, the Focus part of the, the Focus part of the Dr. Dabber.
Mr. Dabber too. Yeah, there's the Mr. Dabber, the Dr. Dabber.
There's like, there's a couple other, there's the Honey Badger.
I need to get that back from Otis. I think I get, I know. Yeah, no, I gave him a Honey Badger.
Oh man, the Honey Badger is awesome. He was supposed to review it.
It was just really dirty. The one that I hit had all this reclaim in there, so it was just
fucking gross and made a big cloud of smoke. I was like, all right, I don't want anything to do
with this, but I have heard it's a good product. I just had a shitty experience with it.
I'm close. I'm very close with the Honey Badger team. They are great people and the Honey Badger
is a great product. I really like them too. My roommate back home has had one for like three
years and he is like a diehard lover of it. He will tell you it's the best thing he's ever had
in his whole entire life, but it's very different. It's very different. It's only four. It's,
it's very different, I think, than like these kinds of devices because you're using like a
nectar collector style nail. Yeah, but I mean like that's the only, I use a nectar collector for my
dabs. This is like one of my pieces back from Colorado and I just like take tiny little baby
dabs. They're the smallest little dabs in the world. So for me, this works. A gram of rosin
will be a month plus for me. So I always like have enough when people gift me stuff. I'm like,
oh, thank you very much. This is great. That's, that's lit. I smoke a gram of rosin in like two
days. Yeah. So now on the other hand, I can smoke an ounce of flour in a day. I could just smoke
a joint like a, you know, yeah, yeah. I guess I don't have a lighter. So I'm using a torch.
And so have you, have you like started to connect with people here locally? And by the way,
you should come. We're going to do a session on Sunday. Absolutely. In Santa Monica.
I met her through, when I, when I met her, I met her with the Fresh Press dude that was on
Tuesday. And when I sat down, that's how I met, that's how I met Pepper is he was sitting with
her and then he introduced me. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've been going to green street a lot.
That's kind of been my like main place that I try to hang out. Just like getting close with like
Jason Beck and Jason Penske and like all those guys. Does Jason Beck hang out there? Yeah.
Really? Cause he has his, he has his shop, right? Yeah. So he has his podcast. It's a news network
high at nine and that runs like Monday through Friday at 9.00 AM I believe. Right. And it's
out of green street. Yeah. I used to pretty, when it was the state of cannabis ones, I used to
broadcast them onto the FCP. And then I think at some point I was like, this is too much effort.
Yeah. So like going to all those events have been awesome. You know, meeting different
growers or this or that. I mean, just yesterday I met the clone manager of Glasshouse. So like
that was cool. Had a nice long conversation with him. Talked to the guys at Mills about nutrients
and stuff. They gave me enough nutrients to sponsor one of my grows. So yeah, I met that guy.
Yeah. What's his name? The guy in that back corner office? Like Lenny or Lowell? I don't know.
No, he, he hung out. Or ADD. Yeah. I got to look it up. But the one night I went there for the auto
flower cup, he hung out with us while we smoked. And he was like, I'll give you samples of stuff
to give out. So like, I was like, yeah, I don't think that people who watch my stuff would want
mill samples. It's a lot of living soil. Yeah.
Type people. Yeah. Oh, I get that. And like, I know one of the amendments that they gave me
samples to try was dynamite. Dynamo. Dynamico. Yes. Thank you. Did they give you a stick? A
dynamite stick? No, I didn't get a dynamite stick. Just got a free thing. Let's see if I can find one.
Dynamite stick. Yeah. I didn't get any explosives. Yeah. I didn't get any dynamite stick.
Yeah. I need that.
When I was in Vegas this year, I met the gentleman that runs that company, I guess.
Yeah. So here's the.
Oh, okay. I do recall seeing those, but I don't believe I got one.
I thought it was a clever product. I was gonna say, yeah, great marketing. Good job.
That is great marketing. That is great. That is lit. I just got a pack.
But yeah, I just, I don't know. I haven't really decided like essentially how I was going to grow.
I figured kind of go with what I know in the new environment and stay with the same nutrients,
try to get some of the same strains, but. And then I got, these came in today, which are like,
I think they're called myco sticks. So I don't know if you can see that. Hold on.
I am way too high to be on the controls right now, but that's, you like stick that into the soil,
and that like next, you know, through the roots and it just slowly starts to break apart.
I thought it was clever. That's pretty cool. That's super cool.
Interesting. I would just want to make sure that it disperses like evenly. I don't want that,
whatever it is to build up in the soil, like right in that one area.
Well, it's just mycorrhizae. So it's just looking for some part of the root to
attach itself to and then spread out across the root system itself. But.
Nice. Yeah, he was, I think, I feel like his name was Sean, but I'm not really great with
names all the time. He was really. That's getting closer to my memory of what his name was.
I totally don't remember. Like Shane or Sean or some shit. Yeah, there you go.
I don't remember what he looked like. I don't really remember his name,
but I do remember that I met him. He reminded me of Kramer and he had long curly hair. That's what
I got. Right. I think so. Yeah, that's great. Yeah. So that that was the one time I've I've
been to Green Street. OK, I go at least like once a week and then there's a cookies in the
backside, right, because I had to park back there. Is there I know, sorry, a Med Men, Med Men.
Oh, OK. On the backside. Oh, I don't know. I was parked across the parking lot, paid $15.
There's a there's a dispenser right there. I'll go buy some sessions.
No, don't buy Med Men. I agree. Please don't. I actually had a T-shirt I made years ago with the
the face of Adam Bierman, who started Med Men. And it said, like, don't be a can of bro,
like the pharma bro. And I had his face as the kind of poster child of the can of bro.
Martin Savage is a Martin Martin Shkreli or something that's savage.
Yeah, there's a lot of I mean, California is definitely different than Colorado when it comes
to plant growth and MED and laws and the traditional market legacy market. All this
interesting legal shit like no med. You know, it's just a different kind of medical, you know?
I don't know. Are you more excited to be in the California market or less excited?
Um, I'm excited because I love learning and trying new things and always like challenging
myself. So like, I'm here for it. But some of the stuff I hear I'm like, what? Like,
and that's almost on the daily when people are like, Oh, yeah, you can go into dispensary and
buy, you know, eight grams of this. But like, there's no regulation. So you can just literally
go from dispensary, dispensary, dispensary and just buy up a whole bunch of shit. And
that's interesting to me. Um, I hate that the out here the edibles are so like, small dosage.
Eating wanna 50 milligrams and then a 20 milligram of THC CBD. Oh, that shit hit perfect.
And like now I'm out here eating all fucking candy bars like trying to get the same high.
Now it's funny I uh, were they I had to put them up high because my kids.
So each one of these is 100 milligrams.
I think they're just chocolates.
Those are from Lady Livy.
Did you give these to me or someone else? I gave this I gave this to you.
Are you did? Yeah, I get it. I get it. You at the last at the last FCP session for Christmas.
Because I have. Yeah, I've like stuff I got at the grassroots event up in
Grass Valley last but anyway, all of this stuff. It's all candy. And I'm like, fuck my kids any
candy they see that they don't like ask questions. They're just like, like they eat it as quickly as
they can. So I'm like, all right. I'm like, 10 milligrams like I'd be like, but like if my kid
ate 100 milligrams, I'd be like, all right. How long till her mom notices?
Two seconds and yells at me. Yeah.
Are those the hazelnut? What are those?
Let's open it up.
The packaging looks exactly like something I had in Colorado. That's why I'm like creeping on it.
Oh, yeah, it says splash solvent lists. And the lady live. Livy. Yeah.
Yeah. That's the name you said like, yeah, I actually think she's out of I actually think
that she's based out of either Denver or Los Angeles. A lot of these live. The
lady. Yeah, with like three V's. Yeah, she's actually from
I think the hat she used was my friends. I think I have those if those are hazelnut,
if their hearts and they're really pretty.
I'm going to open this imminently. I'm looking for my.
Yeah, the label on there is quite on there. I don't know whether I gave him I either. I had
I had I had some matcha strawberry and matcha ones. I had some peanut butter and jelly.
I had some Reese's peanut butter cups. I also had some is Lucy cheesecake. So it was a collab
for 50 brewing. It was a collab with one of their beers. It was like a tangerine pineapple beer. So
she like basically turned the beer into a like sauce. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's this is a woman
in there. These are all painted. They're all hand done, like extremely crazy. Like they're gorgeous.
They're going this is a gourmet edible. Very cool. Yeah, they look really pretty.
I'm just going to rip this thing apart. Yeah. Yeah. You probably did have these before because
they are she she does like they are she kills it. Personally, I think they're the most insane
edible to me because they say 100 milligrams, but they're at least 200 a piece. So I think one of my
homies. Yeah, that's the peanut butter and jelly ones. And those are painted hand painted. Yeah.
And like when you bite into it, it has a cross section. So it literally has like jelly peanut
butter. It has it has a cool picture. I can send it to you, Peter. She can see it.
They just eat it. I really want to eat that, but I also don't want an additional 100.
Right this moment. Is each piece 100? Yeah, they say 100. And I think they are at least 150 each.
Like they they are they are underrated. Have I have eaten 100 and you get 150 like that's going
from like a good time to like we're going to sit down and like talk about our feelings.
At the Sunday session I have I have a couple packs at the Sunday session. I'll bring one
and you can have one. OK, cool. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I would be super down for that.
Yeah. So like the edibles have been interesting. I get a lot of gift bags at like different,
you know, events that I go to and stuff. And some of the stuff I kind of just gift along.
And then some of the stuff is really great. You know, some tincture companies and fun stuff.
There's a lot more product out here. It's a lot bigger clientele. There's a lot bigger plays and
bigger grows and all that kind of stuff. So I am excited to be out here for all of that.
You know, Colorado kind of had one event once a month. And like I said before, out here,
you can be doing something every night. And I'm also like just excited to be out in L.A.
Like I love comedy. So going to the comedy store has been like a dream come true. Watching movies
out here, you know, with like some people in the movies, like going to screenings and
shit. That's pretty cool. Yeah, I've always wanted to have like comedians come to the
events and like do some kind of like have bands playing comedians doing comedy.
There's a dude that does weed comedy out here. A weed panel discussion.
OK, yeah, there's a company called Cannabis Capital.
I don't know. It's like an hour from me, so I don't know areas very well yet.
But they do like different game shows like Are You Smarter Than a Budtender?
They'll do like weed events, like comedy shows or just like actual talks and lectures and like
things like that. And then there's another dude, Zach Miller, has outdoor comedy. I think he calls
it like hemp comedy. And you just go and smoke and watch stand up, which is like my favorite
thing. I didn't I love going to see stand up. But then I was like, what? Fucking smoking weed
and watching stand up. So much better. So much better. Peanut butter and chocolate.
Weed and listening to music. Yeah, it's amazing. One of my favorite things to do.
So did yeah, it didn't or for me, it didn't snow, but it did hail.
Yeah. And I was looking out the window with my one year old and like he was pointing at it
and I was like, you know, I think she thinks it's just rain. And I was like, no, those are like
ice cubes. That's crazy. It's crazy that it hailed. It hailed near you. That's insane.
That's yeah, that's all. I heard that from somebody else, too, that it was hailing by them.
I'm in Burbank and it was blue skies, white clouds, not a drop of rain. It was a gorgeous day.
So it's snowing just north of Palm Springs.
But at elevation or.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Is it at elevation or is it Palm Springs level?
Yeah, is it? Yeah. Oh, that'd be crazy. Yeah, it was just in Big Bear for the first time ever
this past weekend. I love and I didn't see it all.
My. Like on Saturday, I was supposed to ski with my four year old
and then she didn't want to ski. And then finally, at like the end of the day,
I convinced her and we're just going to go on like the baby slope. And so I finally convinced
her to go. We like drive over there. The parking lot is still totally full. And then I put her ski
boots on and she's like, these don't feel good. And I was like, what? I was like, no, they're
not really supposed like their boot. They're not going to feel like your fluffy shoes.
And but she kept being like, no, they don't feel good. So finally, we just went home and then I
went to the ski shop, got her new boots. And then the next day, which was Sunday, she was like,
I also don't want to ski today. And I was like, and I was like, but we're going back home tonight.
So now that was my Big Bear trip. But I'll be psyched to ski it like because it's close. It's
like two and a half hours from here. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like as good as any East Coast
mountain I ever grew up skiing. Okay. I've never skied or snowboarded like all my time in Colorado.
I never did any of that shit. Really? Yeah. My heaven would be living like
between like 10 and 50 miles from some ski place on a farm.
Yeah, it sounds lit. I would love to like live in a commune or like some kind of like
community area. Well, if I build that commune, will you come? Oh, 100%. Okay. 100%.
That's what like a lot of my friends like that's why I want to like do that and offer services of
gardening, you know, everything up in like Grass Valley. I love Grass Valley. Okay. We got to
listen to him. I love Grass Valley. I was just there like, I was just there like two months ago.
Grass Valley is a great place. Great town, great vibes, great people. There's a lot of good artists
up there. The Chambers, the Chambers project is up there. Ralph Stedman has some insane art
up there. Oh my Lord. There's some crazy, crazy, crazy, crazy pieces of art. Yeah, do you fucking
work for this city? Like you're very excited about it. He's a smart person. Mars and one,
Mars and one has some very good art there too. Now, I look, it was like a cool,
I don't know. It was like a
a teensy tiny Austin maybe like a cool, like just a cool or like where did I hang out?
Mars one kills it. Where's Vanderbilt? Vanderbilt's in, what is it, Nashville?
Or like parts of like New Orleans or something like, like small, smaller but cool and
yeah, it was a cool town.
Good restaurants.
We have Vanderbilt's in Nashville?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like years ago, I, because we were building this
software company and
my two partners, one was a computer science professor at University of Illinois
and the other one was a computer science professor at Vanderbilt and they had built out this
computer vision technology and so anyway, we would always have our like team meetings in Nashville
and so like I'd just be like solo going to Nashville, staying there for like three, four days,
like staying in a hotel and then like at night you go into the restaurants and the bars
and it was cool.
Nice. I always heard that was a cool area. I've just never been.
There's, I haven't been anywhere in California yet really. I went up to the Emerald Cup so like
that was the only thing that I kind of done but besides that like I want to go camping in like the Redwoods or go to, I was gonna call it Jonah Tree, Joshua Tree.
But yeah, like there's a lot of cool stuff I want to do here. I'm excited. I'm excited to be here.
Thanks for having me.
We're excited to have you here in our little town.
Thank you.
Thanks for having me.
We're excited to have you here in LA. We'll treat you well.
Max, you're talking, you're muted.
Oh yeah, I'm muted. I'm really high.
Yes, as am I. All right, well I will take one or two more rips then we can call it a night.
All right. I'm chilling.
I gotta wait. I gotta wait. I have to wait for a couple hours. I have a buddy coming over.
I'm gonna be here in like two hours so I think I'm bringing over some new hash for us hopefully to review.
Excellent.
From Masonix.
I like it.
I like Masonix Headstache a lot.
Yeah, I literally just killed a jar of the Masonix Headstache Honey Bananas.
That was like the last dab I just took out of the dab extractor.
Yeah, that's what I've spoken on. I love that shit.
Does it say who grows it and who washes it?
No, it just says Masonix Headstache.
Masonix Headstache.
The guy who, my buddy Lorenzo, who is bringing over the hash, he is washing it.
For the Masonix Headstache?
Yeah, for Masonix Headstache. He washes it.
Is he the only one who washes it?
I think it's him and I think two other people that also wash it.
But I know that he is part of the team of washing this Masonix Headstache.
I guess my question is why wouldn't you put up the names of the...
You know, it's like this stuff shows who the farm was and who the guy who washed it was.
I honestly don't even understand why people don't do that.
Because when I was also in Portland over the weekend, we met with some kid.
And he presses hash with passion for hashing.
And he does fresh press jars.
And on the hash, it doesn't have this...
The kid that was over, his name is Nick.
He presses for him and he doesn't have his name on the jar.
We were all talking about like, why don't you have...
You should be getting clout. You need to be having your name on the jar.
You're pressing, you're putting all this work in. Why is your name on here?
He's like, oh, I don't care. I don't care.
I personally said that you should be on the jar.
It's just nicer to have you on the jar and know who else is in the commits.
I don't know. He said that personal preference is a boss.
Just wants to leave just the one name on there.
Personally, I like it how you have the whole team on there.
I like to see the multiple members of the team watching.
It's cool to see how you have everyone putting a helping hand into it.
At Lush Cosmetics, they have who fills the jars of the lotion that they made.
They have a little picture and bio of everyone that does things.
That's cool. That's super cool.
It is nice to actually know who's behind the company, what their mantra is,
what they actually stand for and that kind of shit.
You vote with your dollars.
If you're just spending money on whatever, it's nice to know as much as you can about the product.
I love how tonight we've had a lot of people in from all over the country.
It's quite nice.
Are there comments and stuff? I'm not seeing them. I guess because I'm a guest.
No, you can go to the mic.
You see private chat and then you see where you see comments.
Nope.
Okay.
How about them apples?
Someone also was talking. They were saying, someone said to you earlier.
They asked you, Mr. Gray asked you earlier.
Have you, do you ever done SIPS, Sips or Earth Boxes or City Pickers?
I don't know what any of that is.
And then someone else also said to you later on, Dr. Leba Alone said,
Dr. Leba Alone said, Pepper, you're welcome to Vermont and New York.
I have two farms.
Oh, cool.
Yes.
So if you had like a bigger garden than the tiny front of the apartment,
what would you want to be growing out here in LA?
I would love to, what do you mean? Like strain wise or plants or everything?
No, no, no. Like garden plants.
I love.
Like in your front yard of LA that you will someday have.
Yeah.
What would you plant?
Okay. I don't know the name of half the stuff I like,
but there's a plant out here does really well as like a barrier and shrubbery,
but it has like these flowers that are in clusters.
And then the tiny little bitty flower.
And there's probably like tiny little baby flowers,
like 50 of them in this like cluster of flowers.
I'll send you guys a picture. I have no idea what it is,
but I love like hibiscus because they only bloom for a day.
And I feel like that's so poetic.
Like, you don't fucking look at me right now.
I'm going to die.
So I'm always like, I like hibiscus.
It's very attention seeking.
Roses, roses are crazy out here. Like everyone has roses.
There's a rose called the Joseph and the Technicolor Dreamcoat Rose.
And it's like a tie dye rose. And I've always wanted to grow that.
I think it's the coolest thing.
And then just like, honestly,
like Plumeria and Blackberry seem to do well out here.
I want to do as much food and edible plants as possible.
Passionfruit does really well out here.
Everyone does succulents and I'm like, they're cute to look at,
but they don't really do much for me. I'm like, okay, that's fine.
I'm excited to grow like peppers and tomatoes and all that kind of stuff.
Like I was saying before about grafting tomatoes,
I've grafted one cannabis plant that had 13 different strains on it and
flowered that out at one point.
So I just had one rootstock and it was Blue Dream because it's hardy as
fuck. And then every three weeks, I just grafted a new,
just a couple branches onto this like fragrant plant.
And there's a YouTube video of it too. And when you flower it out,
you can see the different structure. And it was like a really purple,
like I can't remember any of the strains,
but it was like something that was just super purpley next to like,
you have like a wispy tie, something over here.
And like a fat cola over here.
And the colors were just so different between like a dark green,
a lime green, an orangey green, a purple green, you know?
So what year is that?
That was probably 2017 at the Indoexpo in Denver.
Those were a lot of fun.
Those were like a kind of cannabis cup and we could bring plants to it.
So I would grow like a whole bunch of weird Frankenstein-y plants and then
bring them to the show just to like,
people that have never even seen a cannabis plant can see like some crazy
shit. That's the one picture of me with like the belt behind me.
There's like all these crazy plants and stuff.
That was one of them from that show.
That's far.
Yeah, someone said,
I have some poppies growing outside right now.
I just planted some morning glory.
Cause you can do some wacky stuff with it.
I just looked into that a whole bunch and I have a lot of information on
that, but apparently it hurts your stomach more than it's worth it.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
They said that a lot of people said that it felt like food poisoning and
the high was not as comfortable.
Like it just takes you out of it.
If you get too high,
you're going to feel like you're going to have a stomachache.
And so I don't know if that's true.
I don't know.
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
Well,
we'll find out.
Yeah.
We'll find out on a Sunday.
We'll find out one Sunday.
Right?
It's not, you're gonna have a bad time.
Like that's just not gonna be fun.
But they're beautiful and they grow well out here.
We'll find out.
Yeah.
Please give me some time.
We'll find out on a Sunday.
We'll find out on Sunday.
Right.
Yeah.
Actually at my cousin's house,
I actually have family out here.
It's one of the reasons I moved out here.
He has a whole fence of morning glories.
And I asked the other day, I'm like,
hey, can I come in to harvest like all those seeds?
And he was like, yeah, absolutely.
Why?
I'm like, to their seeds, to grow other plants.
Thank you.
Yeah.
But legit, I mean, I do wanna do that.
Like at the farmer's market, I'll take good seeds from,
I'll be like, that tomato is delicious.
Like I'm gonna grow some of those in my yard.
I'm excited to go to like farmer's markets out here
and see if there's a whole bunch of like local tomatoes
or local, I mean, citrus is huge out here.
I'm guessing tomatoes probably don't do well
because it's so dry.
Like the water, you have to keep them somewhat watered.
Mine are pretty good.
I need to plant some for this year.
What are you gonna plant it right now, Peter?
A lot, yeah.
I mean, I'm looking, I have like catnip, Peruvian mint,
mullein, marigold.
I have some specific type of tobacco growing right now
because I'll do like one at a time
because I wanna make more seeds of that one thing.
So I don't want it to cross pollinate with other stuff.
But Romanesco broccoli,
yellow toothache plant, which is a wacky like-
Yes.
If you bite into it, you're like, whoa.
It's the craziest thing.
I remember being at the farmer's market.
The guy was like, hey, pick this, eat it,
move it in your, I'm like, what?
And I did it.
I was like, oh my God, my teeth feel amazing.
Yeah.
Toothpaste plant or toothache plant, yeah.
You have like asparagus that's starting to shoot up
because it just keeps coming back.
You're good looking, get rid of it.
Yeah.
Well, fortunately they're in like self-contained pots.
Like I think one's in like 65 gallon pot
and one's in like a 45.
And then I have like different,
I'll do the radishes one at a time too.
So like I need to go back to Daikon
because I've given pretty much all
the Daikon seeds out to people.
Then I have like watermelon radish
and the Luobo radish and rat tail radish.
That's sick.
Lots of like Asian leafy greens,
choy sum, Han Sai Thai, Tatsoi.
I like Shishito.
Oh, that's, I like Shishito too.
Shishito's great.
Shishito's great, they're great.
So you, obviously all these things that you grow out,
you just, you farm these and eat,
like with your, eat yourself and eat with your family.
I eat, but then I also grow a lot of it out for seed
to give away to other people.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So.
That's super cool.
I have a lot of vegetables.
That's awesome.
I'm like looking at walls of vegetable seeds
right around me.
That's awesome.
How do you like squash?
But that's what's cool about doing stuff in California
because like at some point of the year,
something's giving off seeds.
Yeah.
Okay.
No, and that's awesome.
That's why for me, it was like,
I just immediately started doing landscaping jobs again
and back home, I would have to wait till, you know,
April to even find my clients to start working in May,
you know?
But I'm curious, even just like squash and watermelon
and things on like vines like that,
how they do out here as well,
because the heat and just space.
So pumpkins, like all that.
Someone is asking,
can we grow saffron in SoCal or indoor under LEDs?
You can grow it indoor under LEDs for sure.
It's just temperamental as shit.
What's the saffron like belt,
like where in the world is it most get cultivated?
Is it Spain or something?
Yeah, I'm not sure.
Black dogs are designed to be like noon at the equator
though with a light spectrum.
Iran is the largest producer of saffron in the world
and has over 90% saffron production worldwide.
Things I did not know.
Yeah, right.
Hot and not humid at all and just hot and dry.
Dry.
Saffron's the most expensive like, okay, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like by weight or something.
Yeah.
That's crazy.
Yeah, I wanna grow like somac.
Do you know what that is?
Like the Persian spice.
Right, I've heard of it.
I've heard of it.
I've definitely heard of it.
It sounds familiar, but.
I'm growing quinoa.
I have quinoa, barley and,
buckwheat growing right now.
Interesting, okay.
Is it your first time growing those?
I think the buckwheat I've grown,
like I rotate through grains.
So I've done like sorghum and Sonora white wheat,
which is kind of a drought resistant.
And then farro and other kind of,
like I just go down the grains and then I come back.
But yeah, that stuff's taking up a lot of,
they're like that high in the front yard.
Do you have, these are all in like beds or containers?
A bunch of beds and then a whole bunch of pot,
like the 65s, the 45s, the 30s.
Basically I would always, as like my compost finished,
I'd like build out a new something.
And so that's kind of like,
it'd be like exciting when I got to put together
the next bed, because I'd be like,
I get to plant shit in here.
Yeah, that's great.
When I was in Colorado,
I lived in one house for about three, three and a half years
and I had pots every inch of that property,
the front yard, if there wasn't grass growing,
there was a smart pot on top of it, the backyard.
And I just had everything growing as much as possible.
I loved it.
I love having space.
That's why like out here right now being in an apartment,
I'm like, all right, who's got a garden that I can play in?
Because I'm going to need some more soil in my life.
Yeah, I'm trying to think,
a lemongrass I have outside.
I have a little mint, lemon balm that like grows,
like it's in the mint family, it's crazy.
There's a dog gone, it's like scaredy cat or dog gone it.
You know what that is?
I have that growing.
It smells like the stankiest, most delicious weed.
Like when you rub the leaves and then smell your fingers,
you're like.
Oh, fire.
It smells great.
Is it a herb?
It's no, it's like a, it has like thick leaves.
Actually I could pull up a picture of it.
Do you make like a tea with it
or does it have any like apothecary?
Well, supposedly it keeps cats and dogs away.
That's why it got its name.
So whatever it's smell is, while I like it,
I guess cats and dogs do not like it.
I used to spray a fox piss around my perimeters.
All right.
And it has these, these are the flowers.
They're funky looking.
Do you see that?
Oh, it's like a, it's an Instagram page.
Yeah, right, we're looking at hashtag.
Oh, right, right, all right.
All right, so let me kill that.
Yeah, this is the other thing that freezes up.
Mutant Brita.
There we go.
Hold on.
Mutant Brita.
Can you see that?
Yes.
Yes.
So that's the flower and then.
Oh, okay, okay.
The leaves look like that.
All right, that looks very familiar.
Oh yeah, yeah, I've definitely seen that.
Definitely seen that.
I have not.
I love the flowers, they're so funky.
Yeah.
I'm very happy.
And they flower like all year long for me.
Look at them.
You see that picture in the bottom left with the cat?
The like, right, isn't that a cat?
Yeah.
Okay, that's fair.
I like the little sign.
That's funny.
It also looks like it's gonna kill the cat
if the cat eats it.
Tyler, this guy Tyler from Family Tree Seas
gave that to me.
He would always bring cuttings up here and stuff.
Like he gave me a dragon fruit plant.
Yes.
Like, yeah.
A lot of stuff.
A lot of cool stuff.
Like wacky stuff that he's into.
Yeah, your garden sounds awesome.
Yeah, literally.
Yeah, it does, it sounds sick.
I wanna get some like San Pedro to start growing
and stuff that I can just have right in the yard
and like no one in the neighborhood really knows what it is.
Yeah.
That's cool.
But all right, well, should we wrap it?
I mean, it's up to you.
Up to you, dog.
Up to you, I'm up.
I'm gonna go to bed, but...
It appears like, yeah, I'm going to sleep.
It's funny, because when I put my kids to bed,
like if we weren't doing this,
I would be sound asleep right now.
Oh, for sure.
Because when I put her to bed,
I'm like, there's no downside to me falling asleep.
And like, if I wake up at midnight,
I can just like watch Netflix or like do some work,
fall back asleep, wake up at like 5.36, start again.
Yeah.
But yeah, so we'll have you...
Well, actually, yeah, if you can come Sunday,
you should definitely come.
And if not Sunday, we'll do them.
I mean, like the Tuesday night sessions.
Yeah, we're back on.
We're back on.
We are back on for this Tuesday, right?
We're back on for Sunday
and then we're gonna do something Wednesday.
So now I'm trying to decide
if I really wanna do something Tuesday too.
But if not this Tuesday, then it would just be next Tuesday.
But like this Sunday.
Yeah, Sunday from 10 to 11.
Maybe skip Tuesday and then do the following Tuesday.
Perfect.
Perfect.
And then also tomorrow night,
tomorrow night, Fresh Press is gonna come on.
Okay.
That's Friday night, right?
Yeah, Friday night, tomorrow, Friday night,
tomorrow night, Friday night.
I'm just finding out now.
Tomorrow night, Friday night at nine o'clock again.
And he's the guy who came to the last session, right?
Yeah, he's the one who came to the last session.
He's single source, full single source.
So yeah, he'll be on tomorrow,
talking at nine o'clock tomorrow too.
So we'll be on again tomorrow night live at nine.
And will we be smoking his hash?
I have his hash.
I can, if you-
If you-
If you, Peter, if I can see you tomorrow,
I can drop you off.
If I can see you tomorrow, I can drop you off some.
I would be glad to give you a jar of his hash.
We can, yeah, we can figure something out.
Yes.
Although I do like the convenient meeting spot
of the post office that I have to go to every day.
Yeah, I got you, I got you.
That is a very convenient meeting spot for me.
We can figure it out.
I mean, I'm not gonna be up to too much tomorrow.
So we can definitely, I can definitely ride over there.
If not tomorrow, no worries.
I mean, he's gonna be on tomorrow.
So I might as well see you tomorrow.
And Peter, where are you around LA area?
I'm kind of like the Santa Monica area.
Okay, and that's where the thing is on Sunday?
Right, that's exactly why it is where it is.
Cause it's really close to where I live.
And that's the thing I like most about it
is that it takes me about eight to 10 minutes to get there.
It could be like the most rush hour time of the day
and it still takes me eight to 10 minutes to get there.
Cause I don't have to cross any highways.
You're lucky.
Which is like.
You're lucky.
I'm like, I'm sure it's gonna be like an hour for me.
Yeah, for me it's like 15.
For you it's easy too.
Yeah, for me it's like 15 to 25 minutes.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, yeah, it's not far from me.
Yeah, I like the location.
This place is great.
I love this place.
The guys are great.
The one doing the front of the barista, he's great.
He's a nice guy.
He's full of spirit.
Yeah, he was, I told him this time too,
I was gonna bring him some herb.
He was talking about how he smokes a little
but he's like just getting into smoking herbs.
I was like, I got you.
Yeah, and I felt bad
cause I forgot to bring stuff for him last week.
And that's why I was like,
we will give you so much weed that you'll be very happy.
Yeah, I literally told him,
he's like, yeah, like an eighth last week.
I was like, you will never buy weed
from a dispensary again.
Oh, Peter, he literally said like an eighth
last time I went, I said, oh, I said,
I'll bring you a quarter.
I said, you'll be good for months.
Right.
He said really.
No, but all of us bringing him stuff.
Yeah, he'll just be like.
Right, I just want to shock and awe.
Yeah, I love it.
He's also gonna start smoking a whole bunch more now
that he knows you guys.
I love it, I'm all game for it.
I'm all game.
Yeah.
I love it.
Cool, cool.
All right, well, it was super nice meeting you guys.
Peter, this was lovely.
Thank you so much for having me on.
Johnny HB needs to pull up on the,
he said he's gonna want to make a,
it's 45 minutes from Huntington Beach.
Yeah, always make a Tuesday session.
That's what the HB stands for.
People drive from much farther.
Like the mop and the metro from like.
Oh, it's insane when people tell me where they,
I'm like, wait, isn't that like two hours and change away?
They're like, yeah.
And I'm like, and after this ends,
you have to drive back to there?
They're like, yeah.
And I'm like, that's amazing.
Yeah, literally.
Thank you so much for coming.
I love it.
I love it when I hear that.
They're like, yeah, I drove an hour and a half
to come here.
I'm like, wow.
And I'm like, and you drove an hour and a half
to come here through rush hour.
So you drove an extra like hour and a half,
hour on top of that.
Like four, like I was like.
Yeah, I didn't really think about that with a start time.
Yeah, 100% because of the people.
I mean, ideally I'd do them late,
like eight to midnight or something.
Yeah, but they don't, even if when they end
at whatever 10 o'clock or whatever they're supposed to,
we don't ever leave until midnight because,
I mean, people leave, but whoever wants to stay,
it's always such a good conversation.
You can't ever leave.
They got like a big house.
So what's funny is this venue is across the parking lot
from where my oldest daughter went to preschool.
So like I know all the preschool teachers across the street.
It's fire.
And then like at night and that's, yeah.
Like, so at night we'll be like smoking in the parking lot
where like the next morning,
like all these little three and four year olds
are gonna come in holding their mom's hands.
It's the circle of life.
I'm gonna do a, I'll do a stash.
I'll make sure to do a stash and dash.
I'll leave some of those truffles there.
Oh God.
Just spread them around the parking lot.
Is it like a restaurant or like what's the venue?
So it's a recording studio.
What?
I just said cheers.
Oh cheers.
It's a music recording studio
that I used to have a space in before COVID.
And it was awesome.
And we'd have like, I'd film,
like I just work out of my,
I had a kind of like the size of my garage
and I could work in there.
I'd bring people over to smoke and film stuff.
We'd have parties there, like with bands playing.
And then COVID hit just as it was like, this is awesome.
And so it's that space.
And then the front, where we used to enter,
they, during COVID at the end,
they turn it into a coffee shop.
And the coffee shop is right across the street,
remember from the preschool.
So imagine all the parents dropping their kids off
and being like, sweet, the coffee shop is like 15 feet
over there that has good coffee.
And there are lots of like, it's all kind of small,
it's all like other recording studios,
like creative agencies.
I think there's some big food content production company
that's in that.
It's like this complex of like funky,
well, you've been there.
Like, I don't know if you walked around at all.
It's like you walk in and just, you look around
and it's just like little perfect little nooks,
like these little like hidden nooks with glass,
with glass, high glass walls with like,
they remind you of like Moroccan little benches,
like couches that you just sit on the ground
and just like vibe.
It's like a vibe, it's a full on vibe.
Like it's full on just like.
And I had those Moroccan pillows in my space pre COVID.
So like when people would come in and we'd sit and do stuff,
it wouldn't be like sitting in chairs or on couches.
It would be like sitting Indian style on these pillows
and having like a little coffee table in front of everyone.
So it was a cool spot.
And so now they have the coffee shop downstairs.
So like Sunday, it's like get your coffee,
roll a joint, listen to music.
And that's, so my lesson learned from last time
was bring our own sound system.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause what they had there was,
remember they had the record player?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Two record players.
Yeah, Vince was killing it.
Vince was killing it with the record.
No, no, no.
But they had the two record players
and then the records they had available to play
on the record players, it was like the worst music.
And it was like, but there's nothing else to play.
So you just have to pick like the least worst of the worst.
And I was like, if I had my like JBL here,
and my computer, I could just like play something.
Yeah.
Compared to like the old.
And I was like, but I don't.
So we only have this vinyl.
I was like, we should bring our own vinyl.
Like I like the record players.
I have a vinyl collection.
So I would be more than happy.
Like you have it with you right now?
Yeah, bring some vinyl.
Cool.
Yeah, I got stuff like from Jimmy to Incredible String Band,
like a whole bunch of like weird trippy stuff
to like newer stuff like Primus or Puss in Fur,
like a whole bunch of crap on vinyl.
So yeah.
Yeah.
All my vinyl is on the East Coast
in a basement in Rhode Island.
Oh, I carried mine on a plane as my carry on one time.
I was like 50 pounds of vinyl.
I just carried that shit.
I'm like, this is my carry on, let's do it.
Underneath the seat, like I carried that shit back.
It's dedication.
Yeah, I carried it to enough places that I was just like,
I'm happy leaving it.
Like I'd love to bring it out to LA
if I had the space to like,
almost like create like a library of like all my vinyl.
So that's, and then to just have like some techniques,
like you could like go in there and be like,
like to your, well, you guys don't have kids,
but be like, I'm gonna go in there, leave me alone.
In a couple hours.
Yeah, we don't have to tell anyone to leave us alone.
At least I don't.
With my turntables and my vinyl.
You should go to Otis's house for that.
Does he have a big vinyl collection?
Yeah, and his father at their parents' house,
I think their house is like-
I'm sure his dad, right?
Yeah, he's got a huge vinyl.
They got the recording studio there.
Yeah.
Yeah, Otis is always like, yeah, just come by,
come do something.
He's like, you can just go in there and chill.
Like, no shit.
No, I told him we need to bring his dad on a show
to just talk music stories.
Yes.
Yes.
So Otis, if you're listening,
in addition to bringing back the,
what was the,
the like straw thing?
The dab, the dab-
Honey badger?
Yeah, the honey badger.
And get your dad on.
Honey badger is great.
They're-
Otis is listening.
They're good people.
The honey badger are great people.
Yeah, where are they based out of?
Las Vegas.
Okay.
Yeah, I actually, when we were at the last Las Vegas,
I made a good connection with them.
Very good connection with them.
Like my roommate back home from South Carolina,
he's a very big supporter of them.
His girlfriend asked for like,
this year he ordered something from them
and in the description it was like,
it's my boyfriend's birthday.
Like make something crazy.
And then this year at Las Vegas,
we like brought that up to them.
They're like, that's the first person we've ever had
ask us to do something like that.
They're like, we remember you.
They remember like they said the South Carolina,
so they are honestly tripping out
that a supporter has had it for like,
yeah, he's on his ninth battery
of just him losing it off the boat,
dropping it, smashing it.
I think he's lost like three in his own lake,
like where his parents live.
Just like dropping it off the boat or on the jet ski.
It's like, but they're durable.
I like them.
And they just released like a new product,
a miniature honey badger.
I don't know, I haven't seen it that often.
Yeah, the one I saw was a little bit like cumbersome,
not horribly, but.
Yeah, it's like, yeah, it's like.
Yeah.
It's definitely bulky.
Yeah, it was like this,
but just like with an extra like pack thing out here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, literally, it's a hundred percent.
I was looking for some of the,
cause I think I have,
I think not the, maybe the Mighty.
Oh, from Stortz and Bickle?
Stortz and Bickle.
I'm trying to remember what I had here.
Anyway, as I was saying a long time ago,
I'm ready to go to bed.
All right, all right, all right.
But so tomorrow night at,
what time do you wanna?
What time do you wanna go at, eight or nine?
I could probably do eight.
Okay, so let's do eight.
Yeah.
Cool.
And that's with fresh press with no vowels, right?
Fresh press.
F-R-S-H-P-R-S-S.
Fresh press.
Fresh press.
Right?
Yeah, fresh press.
Fresh press.
All right.
Cool.
Well, have a good night.
Cool.
And I'll see you tomorrow
and hopefully both of you on Sunday.
Yeah, definitely.
Yes, yes.
You already know, yeah, you already know.
Yeah, you already know I'll be there.
