That's good to get your calcium supplements.
A little magnesium supplement as well can be good.
All right.
So I see lots of people joining.
Matt, Tim, and Cedric, and Sergio, James.
We got Habanero in here.
I forgot to turn my volume down on the iPad.
I've got the YouTube thing going in the background.
I see Peter poking around.
He's got his laptop popped.
Looks like we got Comfortably Numb and Wah Buddy joining.
Every Reddit post, add more CalMag.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Wildfire Cannabis.
Elite GP.
Strong Style.
Koshin Arms.
Fantastic.
Chris, I see you jumped in the clubhouse room as well.
We got all sorts of people jumping.
We got folks jumping on YouTube, jumping on clubhouse.
I see we're all ready to go, Peter.
So I'm just going to go ahead and jump right in.
Go for it.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
So welcome, welcome, welcome, welcome to Hota Herbs Grow & Tell, a space for discussing
caring for the plant that we love.
Many of these things are obviously applicable outside the cannabis space because we are
talking in many cases general plant health and nutrition, especially a lot of these conversations
recently.
But Hota Herbs Grow & Tell is all about getting together as a community, talking about ways
to care for this plant that means so much to so many of us.
And I imagine if you're listening to this conversation tonight, the plant means a lot
to you too.
So joining me as usual and almost always is my good friend, Nick from The Rooted Leaf.
Thanks for coming.
Nick, how are you doing tonight?
I'm doing well, doing well.
Thanks for having me on.
It's a pleasure to see some familiar faces here.
And then I'm looking forward to getting into this content.
We've usually historically had pretty good questions on YouTube.
So this is a fun series that we've done for a couple of weeks in a row now, and I'm looking
forward to the next few as well.
Yeah, absolutely.
Cochinarm, it's what plants want.
Absolutely.
We need some Brown Dough.
Cow Mag is like Brown Dough, right?
Anova's on here too.
Good to see you, Robert Gaines, Bobby Unagi, all these guys jumping on the YouTube.
So fantastic.
Thanks everyone for joining.
So as I mentioned, Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell is a community event for getting together,
talking about the plant, talking about ways to care for the plant, talking about what
we're growing.
I just popped a fresh batch of seeds, three a batch of seeds, really it's three seeds.
It's not really a batch.
I have very, very small batches in my very, very small limited plant count here in Massachusetts.
So I popped three seeds on the full moon because it is the full moon.
And I've been trying to pop a couple of seeds, about four seeds every 30 days or every full
moon pretty much, right?
To try to get my rotation going again because I like to run a perpetual grow.
I have a veg tent and I have a flower tent and they're both five by five tents and I
try to pop seeds.
I usually work with a lot of regular seeds.
So chances are I'm going to get some males in there and not all of those plants that
I'm popping are going to make it to the final stages but grow them out and then rotate
them into the flower tent as there's space.
And it keeps it fresh.
I get fresh flavors coming down all the time.
I'm harvesting only one or two plants a month.
So as a home grower and doing a lot of these things myself, it makes my harvest time pretty
easy and quick.
I don't need a lot of storage space to dry the plants because I'm only harvesting one
or two at a time and it keeps that supply always rotating.
And I do like to see those different stages of plants in the same tent at the same time.
So that's something I also enjoy.
Nick, have you worked at all with crop rotation I imagine?
Yeah.
And I'm actually just trying to find some seeds right now that I'm going to be popping
here coming up pretty soon.
I've got some shark shock and I've got some nevel skunk.
Both of those are Mr. Nice genetics.
And it helps to keep a good rotation going.
That way you can always discover new phenos and new genotypes as well.
And you can keep pushing your understanding of cannabis plants.
If you find a real winner, it makes sense to always have it on the back burner and reserve.
But sometimes when your rotation is limited to a couple of plants, it does make sense
I think to cycle out that way you don't get the strain grain.
Yeah, it's I get very rarely do I find something that I don't, you know, that I want to just
keep smoking, keep smoking, keep smoking all the time.
Usually I like to rotate, have different plants, different flavors, different effects for different
times of the day.
So keeping that rotation going is a good way to have a variety of things saved as well
because I do, you know, I don't smoke through everything because I do constantly have fresh
supply coming to.
So it gives me the opportunity to build up some back stock of some different flavors
and effects.
So these are some seeds from Van Strain.
And he's a New England breeder.
My dog is going crazy right now running around the house.
He's a New England breeder and he puts together some really, really interesting stuff.
I'm excited.
I haven't had a chance to grow any of his stuff before.
So I'm finally getting into some of the seeds that he gifted me.
And this one's actually called Surround Sound.
So I'm excited to see how that comes out.
I still have a couple plants that are now almost 60 days old.
So three plants that are almost 60 days old and I'm waiting for them to show sex right
now.
Really just waiting for them to, I like to let them naturally show.
And usually within that 60 day time frame, they usually start to show sex.
And you know, that's when you can start weeding out.
Males tend to show first from what I've seen and then the males will pop in.
I don't know if it's because the males just take longer to show or if it's because I'm
just trying to be optimistic that they'll somehow pop that magic hair and turn into
a female.
Andy, you know what's interesting about that too is I just had a discussion with this topic
with someone the other day and it was along the lines of how fertilizers and nutrition
can actually impact, like if you're growing from regular seed, if you give those plants
a lot of phosphorus early on in veg, you will have a higher percentage of males.
It will be statistically significant too.
It's not going to be a small amount.
So there is something in the way of some of these macronutrients and some of the effects
that they have on the genetic expression of plants.
Calcium is certainly a great one for us to talk about because it doesn't really get much
better than that.
I mean, I don't know about you, but I'm not a big fan of potassium, but calcium is a good
one so I'm excited.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
It's really interesting and I'm looking forward to diving into this too because I've been
thinking about some of the crossovers with Korean natural farming, which I like and follow.
One of the primary ingredients that we use during the end of the maturity cycle when
the plant is flowering and blooming and producing, basically it's in that reproductive cycle.
We add calcium into the primary mix that we're applying and calcium is a great thing to add
for those fruiting bodies because you need it for adding weight and for the cellular
walls that you're building and constructing in that fruit as it's growing.
It's interesting that it's not mobile.
Some of the applications in Korean natural farming, whether you're doing things based
on a root drench approach or a foliar approach, may or may not be as effective when applying
things like WCA.
Fortunately, I tend to do more root drench in the flowering cycle than foliar.
I tend to cut out a lot of the foliar.
I keep foliar more in the vegetative stages and that's really where the magnesium is going
to come in more than the calcium.
Yeah, and I'm glad you touched on that topic about the mobility of calcium.
I think it's one of those things that it can be a little bit difficult to talk to people
about sometimes because there's this long-held conception that calcium is not a mobile element.
Besides that being untrue, which we'll get into a little bit, we'll discuss what exactly
is meant by mobility and more specifically how calcium actually is mobilized and does
move across plants.
Before we do any of that, I think it's important to understand something about calcium and
it's that calcium is not only a macronutrient for plants in the sense that it's required
for plants to take up calcium and then use that calcium to build cell walls, to build
additional cellular structures, so on and so forth.
As you mentioned, perhaps some types of trichomes like systolithic deposits and non-glandular
trichomes are typically very rich in calcium deposits and you may actually find some species
that precipitate silica inside of those systoliths.
I think maybe that term technically is called a phytolith at that point.
At any rate, there's this interesting property that calcium has which makes it unique and
it's that it's a signaling element.
It's much like a hormone.
Scientists for the longest time have been trying to figure out what exactly calcium
is doing inside of plants when it acts like a messenger because when they try to observe
as calcium is being metabolized by plants.
To back up one step and say that calcium is immobile, it waters back this idea that calcium
can behave in a broad and complex way because the idea then is it's carried passively in
the water and once it's at the site where it needs to be deposited, it becomes deposited
and that's the end of the story with calcium.
It couldn't be further from the truth.
The quickest way I can briefly summarize it is to say that calcium moves in waves in
plants in the exact same way that neurons fire in the human brain.
In other words, there's a lot of complex messages that are being sent and for the past 50 or
60 years, botanists have been trying to decode what are very cryptic spatial and temporal
based calcium signals.
In other words, calcium is sent out in response to things such as mechanical stress.
If you take your scissors for instance, after you, let's say you're working on a mother
plant and you decide you're going to take some cuts to propagate the next generation,
you may, when you take the cut, you may be one of those growers that trims the outer
edges of the leaves.
By trimming the outer edges of the leaves, what you're doing is you're promoting a calcium
release in the plants and that calcium will flow in a wave at the point of origin where
your scissors met the leaf tissue out through the rest of the plant.
These calcium waves as they spread across various cell to cell, organ to organ and tissue
to tissue, so on and so forth, they spread chemical messages that up-regulate and down-regulate
pretty much all aspects of primary and secondary metabolism.
This is kind of the holy grail for botanists that are studying calcium-based signals is
how exactly does calcium in its movement spatially and temporally across space and across the
course of several minutes across time, what is it doing to plants and how does it work
with plants?
The longer they've been studying this, the further they've realized, hey, these calcium
waves that are very much so fundamental for plant life are actually forming very complex
intracellular networking patterns just like in the human brain, you've got neurons that
form physical patterns.
Well, it turns out that calcium can be propagated in waves with these patterns that are in place.
These patterns are what encrypt these broad physiological responses.
I'm talking about everything from circadian rhythms to sugar metabolism to the formation
of secondary metabolites such as terpenes and cannabinoids, which is specifically where
calcium for cannabis growers, as you mentioned, Jason, having the availability and presence
of calcium for flowering plants is going to do you a lot of good because that's a signaling
element.
It's basically telling the plants to up-regulate proteins that are associated with making terpenes
and making cannabinoids.
It sort of participates in this grand orchestration of carbon metabolism.
It's very interesting, I guess.
There's something we'll get into.
I'm going to kind of wrap up my thought here and then I'll pass it back to Jason.
But one of the things I do want to get into specifically is how the roots in the soil
interface with beneficial microbes and fungi and where calcium binding enzymes, the presence
of calcium, is fundamental and required for the formation of that symbiotic relationship.
Because if you have plants that have been genetically modified with some knockout genes
and they are prevented from making these calcium binding proteins, they will not form beneficial
relationships with microbes or fungi in the soil.
Calcium is that spark of life that initiates the relationship between microbes and fungi
with the plants in the soil and also within the plant on its own molecular sort of genetic
basis, it up-regulates and down-regulates so much.
So yeah, to kind of summarize, calcium is mobile.
That is all.
Thanks.
Absolutely.
That started going right off the bat.
I think CalMag is a big whipping boy of the industry and that's why I loved that you wanted
to get into both at the same time as well.
CalMag is one of those things that just is bottled together because they can be.
Not because they should be, but because they can be.
One of the conversations I've had in the past that I really enjoyed was a conversation with
Uncle John from Cutting Edge Solutions.
We've talked about him before on the show.
He's a tremendous voice in the cannabis community and has been doing just awesome stuff for
decades.
He's an OG before he started his company.
It's one of the last only independent nutrient companies that's been around as long as he
has.
One of the first things he did was that creation, his products, he separated out magnesium and
calcium because that was one of the things that he identified and started working on
when he was basically the hole digger back in Humboldt County.
He became this person who was responsible for helping put together these mixes that
would be put into the holes in the ground before the farmers would plant their crops.
He started at a very young age and hung out outside this farmer's fence until he eventually
got the guy to let him in and start working.
His first job was just digging holes and putting nutrients into the holes.
One of the things that when he started his company, he wanted to make sure was to separate
out the calcium and the magnesium because calcium is something that is pretty prevalent.
It is everywhere in the soil, in the ground.
Calcium is something that isn't necessarily as frequently found in the same places.
The concentrations were all wrong for a lot of these products because it didn't give you
the ability to adjust those levers.
Yeah.
We've done something similar for our company.
We looked at doing a separate calcium product and a separate magnesium product.
What we found was that our calcium concentrate, it was about 7% calcium in solution, maybe
a little bit higher.
What we found is that it actually created a little bit of a magnesium deficiency.
Our ratio for our product, CalMag Fuel, is now a six to one ratio of calcium to magnesium.
We've actually found that to be pretty good.
The reason specifically is because when you're talking about indoor cannabis cultivation
that's really intensive, what we're talking about is putting the plant under a certain
amount of stress that it has to deal with, light stress for instance.
There's even some other positive stressors like CO2 being present in the air.
When you put these stressors on a plant, it has to find a way to deal with them.
One of the ways that plants deal with higher light stress is than they would otherwise
experience in nature, AKA a sealed flowering room indoors.
Maybe you've got 1,000 to 1,200 watts of light on these plants.
One of the things that they do is they produce chlorophyll pigments.
At the very center of a chlorophyll molecule is magnesium.
There's a magnesium ion.
Typically outdoors in nature, what happens is that the plants don't take up as much magnesium
because the density of chlorophyll across the leaf surface isn't as concentrated as
it could be with an indoor cannabis production facility where the plants have access to basically
unlimited light.
In fact, oftentimes it can be too much light.
You're always on this tipping edge of just being able to handle the light intensity and
having that be too much.
What this does in practice to a plant is it forces the plant to concentrate more chlorophyll
molecules on the same surface area.
In other words, if you looked at a cross section of the plants, you'd see that the chlorophyll
pigments of a plant grown indoors under an intense light situation, the chlorophyll density
is going to be higher.
Just like if you were growing a flower, you would expect the trichome density to be greater
in an indoor sealed flowering room that has way too many PPFDs and way too many DPMs of
CO2 in the air.
That's the other good point here to bring up about magnesium is at the center of chlorophyll,
magnesium exists.
Its job is to take light energy and then pass that light energy down a series of protein
complexes where it eventually gets transformed into chemical energy.
Chemical energy is how plants grow.
That's their bread and butter, but they start off with light energy.
Magnesium captures the light energy through chlorophyll, but there's another enzyme called
rubisco.
Rubisco is a little bit less known about perhaps, but it is the most abundant protein on this
planet by far.
It's very widespread in nature.
Rubisco only has one job really inside of a plant leaf.
That job is to suck CO2 out of the air.
Ironically enough, magnesium exists at the center of rubisco and it exists at the center
of chlorophyll.
Here's this interesting role that magnesium plays because yes, the plants need it in a
small amount relative to something like calcium, potassium, nitrogen.
Maybe it's one to one or somewhere around one to one with phosphorus at the end of the
day, but magnesium has a disproportionately large impact on energy metabolism in plants.
Again with chlorophyll, chlorophyll is the pigment that takes light energy from the sun.
Rubisco is the thing that takes CO2 out of the air.
That's a very important process because that's what chlorophyll powers.
That's the whole point.
The chemical energy that plants create is then used to convert CO2 out of the air.
They need to capture the CO2 molecule.
They just want the carbon.
They're not really interested in the oxygen as much, but the carbon is what they're after.
Again, with an indoor intensive cultivation type of environment where you have high CO2
levels and you have high light levels and you have a high nitrogen load, assuming we're
talking about a grower that's watering nitrates or has an abundance of nitrogen available
for the plants, those are the exact kind of circumstances where you're going to get magnesium
deficiencies if you don't keep those levels in check.
Like I said, the CalMag ratio I think is pretty important, but it's not just the ratio between
calcium and magnesium.
It's also what form is that calcium in?
If we're talking about a calcium nitrate, which is one of the more popular conventional
chemical slash synthetic forms, it exhibits a high degree of solubility in water.
You can add a lot of it in solution and the plants can take it up.
Whereas if we're talking about something like a K and F based formula, we may be dealing
with something that is more along the lines of eggshells and vinegar.
Maybe a little bit lower solubility overall for something like that.
Again, the form factor is absolutely critical.
I'll get into that here in a minute, but I want to pass the mic back to Jason.
Awesome.
Great stuff.
Great stuff.
Yeah, no, this is a great conversation.
I do want to take just a quick second and give a quick plug to the Future Cannabis Project.
Thank you so much, Peter, as always for producing the show, getting the simulcast going for
our friends on YouTube.
Got a really active crowd out there tonight.
I don't think I can keep up and pay attention to the conversation, so we'll try to bounce
back and forth as best as I can.
It's going to be a really great conversation going on on YouTube as well, but thank you,
Peter.
If you're enjoying the conversation tonight, please click on the little green house, Future
Cannabis Project, if you're here on Clubhouse listening to us tonight.
If you're on YouTube, make sure you follow and subscribe to the Future Cannabis FCP02
and the regular Future Cannabis Project channels.
Thank you very much for producing the show, Peter.
Let's get back into cow mag.
As always, I'd like to do a little bit of a quick overview of those minerals, doing
a little Wikipedia and a little reading.
I actually started tonight with looking at Jeff Loewenfels to see what he said about
calcium in his book.
I happen to be reading through Teeming with Nutrients right now, so it was good to skip
a little bit ahead of where I was reading and check out what he said.
I did a little, of course, the normal Googling and just basic stuff that I normally do.
One of the things that we've been talking about as we present each of these nutrients,
or at least more recently, was we were talking about the atomic number and where they sit
on the periodic table.
It's interesting.
These are the two main elements, magnesium and calcium, that are not on the same side
of the periodic table with most of the other macronutrients and nutrients that we talk
about.
Carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, sulfur, silicon, which we just talked about, all those
are on the other side of the chart.
Some of them are nonmetals or metalloids, but this one is actually ... These are both
alkaline earth metals.
I thought that was interesting for the conversation tonight when I was looking at the atomic number
of magnesium being 12.
We had carbon, which was 6, and silicon, which was 14, those last couple times, but magnesium's
12 and calcium's 20.
I thought that was a nice spin for us tonight.
Magnesium, we'll start with magnesium.
Calcium always gets the first bill.
It's just not fair because without magnesium there is no photosynthesis.
There is no life.
One of the things that I was looking at was the chemical magnesium in cells when it's
the center of a chlorophyll molecule.
You have a single magnesium atom, and it's like C55, H72, N4, O5.
You have all of these other molecules wrapped around and bound to this one single magnesium
molecule in chlorophyll.
That was one thing that definitely caught my eye.
Again, it is an alkaline earth metal.
Its element produced in large aging stars from sequential addition of three helium nuclei
back to the carbon nucleus.
Stars, part of aging stars, magnesium occurs naturally in combination with other elements.
It has invariably two oxidation states.
The free element metal can be produced artificially and is highly reactive.
That's also something that was interesting between the two was that calcium was something
that they were talking about, was not something that they would use in a lot of preparations
other than things like cements and coatings because it is so highly reactive.
That was also something that I found was interesting about these two chemicals.
It's the 11th most abundant element in the human body where calcium is the fifth most
abundant element in the human body.
Magnesium is responsible for ATP, DNA, and RNA, which is really important in plants.
Hundreds of enzymes require magnesium ions to function.
Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common laxatives, antacids, and to stabilize
abnormal nerve excitation, blood vessel spasms, and such conditions as eclampsia.
Calcium, on the other hand, and we'll jump back into the plant stuff very soon, I promise.
Calcium is atomic number 20, as we mentioned, and also an alkaline earth metal.
It is a reactive metal that forms a dark oxide nitrate layer when exposed to air.
Its physical and chemical properties are most similar to its heavier homogulous strontium
and barium.
It's the fifth most abundant element in the Earth's crust and the third most abundant
metal after iron and aluminum.
Carbonate is the most common form and it's found in limestone.
Again, it's very big in the human body.
It's the fifth most abundant element in the human body.
As electrolytes, calcium ions play a vital role in physiology and biochemical processes
of organisms and cells in signal transduction pathways where they act as a second messenger.
In neurotransmitters released from neurons in contraction of muscle cell types as cofactors
in many enzymes and in fertilization.
It's a very big part of fertilization.
Calcium ions outside the cells are important for maintaining the potential difference across
excitable cell membranes, protein synthesis, and bone formation.
Everybody knows you need calcium for good strong bones and teeth.
That's kind of the high level overview.
Where would you like to dig in?
Do you want to start with the periodic side of it?
I think that's kind of an interesting thing since we highlighted that the last couple
of weeks.
Yeah, and maybe first talk about the reactivity of calcium and magnesium and even potassium
to some extent.
The easiest way to differentiate between calcium, magnesium, and potassium is yes, they've all
got the same sort of charge on it.
It's a positive charge.
They're quote unquote minerals.
Potassium has a single charge on it whereas calcium and magnesium have two charges on
them.
This allows for a greater diversity in terms of roles of reactions.
If you've got two sites for reactions to occur as opposed to just one, it can make things
a little bit, increase the plasticity of these reactions.
I find it funny that you, I think you just read something about fertilization and specifically
like when a human egg is fertilized by a sperm cell.
It's a little bit funny because there's this epigenetic sort of calcium wave that moves
quickly across the cytoplasm in that instance.
In the wake of that wave, there are cellular processes that are activated that actually
initiate life.
All of you who are listening, you can owe your existence actually to a calcium wave
that propagated and started to upregulate all of these other processes which eventually
led to you.
Ironically enough on the tail end of life as well, it turns out that one of the more
common causes of natural death is an irreversible failure of calcium wave generation in the
heart.
That's what stops the heart is when these calcium waves cease, so does life.
Yeah, calcium is an interesting one.
I do think I want to focus a little bit on the form factors of calcium because it just
seems like, even the term CalMag is just such a ubiquitous term.
It's almost become its own product because it just typically refers to something that's
a nitrate-based CalMag.
Nitrate-based CalMags, they have some significant metabolic disadvantages in terms of how bioavailable
they are truly for the plants bioavailable versus what some of their effects are in like
the mid to late stages of flowering when growers are typically trying to reduce the nitrogen
loads.
If your most common source of calcium is a nitrate form that's readily available, it's
fairly inexpensive, how can you continue to get the calcium nutrition that your plants
are looking for without necessarily contributing some of the nitrate load?
This is where some of the amino acid-based CalMags can come into play too or some of
the organic acid-based CalMags.
When you start putting minerals like magnesium, for instance, or calcium for that matter,
or even potassium in with amino acids, really that's a lot more biologically relevant molecule
for plants.
There's this concept of bioavailability.
I think oftentimes it's confused with solubility because you can put calcium nitrate in water
and you can dissolve it and it looks like a clear solution.
You water it to your plants and you think, wow, this food is available for the plants
to take up.
It is available for them to take up in the transpiration stream.
However, there's still chemical processing that has to be done.
The plants can't just take up a nitrate and say, wow, this is exactly what I need.
They have to convert the nitrate.
They have to cleave off the oxygen because the nitrate is NO3.
Plants don't really have a use for that.
They've evolved mechanisms.
This is a separate side topic here, but this is C3 plant metabolism and how over the past
couple hundred million years, C3 plants like cannabis have actually evolved this evolutionary
sort of advantage to process nitrates readily.
What happens is the nitrates get taken up and then the plants have to use energy.
Going back to the chlorophyll pigment with magnesium inside of there, as soon as that
light energy is captured by the magnesium and then converted into chemical energy, the
plants take that chemical energy and they use it to convert nitrates, for instance.
You'll see NO3, there's oxygen in there.
What about CO2?
It also has oxygen.
It requires chemical reduction because it's fully oxidized.
What you're asking the plants to do is do extra work in order to actually make something
that was soluble relevant for their biological pathways.
The processing of a nitrate converts it to an amine group and that amine group is combined
with an organic acid to create an amino acid.
This is the functionally relevant form of nitrogen for plants.
Processing less nitrates and more amino acids is a better way to look at nitrogen nutrition
inside of plants for their primary and secondary purposes.
The next question is, it takes time and it takes energy for plants to do that, but what
if you were to provide them with the amino acids?
Would they have some distinct metabolic advantage for that form versus something like a nitrate?
The answer is yes, because these amino acids also interface with the minerals.
The minerals themselves can be bound in a certain way.
All of us have heard of monosodium glutamate.
Well, that's glutamic acid.
Basically it's the glutamic acid sort of salt form of it.
That's what the glutamate is.
Just like calcium nitrate, it's the calcium salt of nitric acid.
If we're dealing with inorganic acids like nitric acid and phosphoric acid and sulfuric
acid, we'll get nitrates, we'll get phosphates, and we'll get sulfates.
But if we're dealing with organic substances like amino acids, we're going to get amino
acid complexes.
Glutamates, for example, are a good one to talk about.
Glycinates are another one.
I think the glycine in particular is a commonly utilized one.
But these amino acids, again, because they're relevant for plants and their primary metabolism,
by binding minerals to that, you eliminate a whole bunch of other work that the plant
would have otherwise had to do.
There's a net gain in the overall energy that the plants have because they were able to
access this mineral that was chelated or complexed with a molecule that is relevant
for that plant's metabolism in that moment.
And with that, I think I'll pass the mic back to Jason.
Let me give it a little supercharge direction, taking away and again, saving energy.
I think we talked about that again last week as well, which was with the silicon can basically
replace the carbon energy that was being used.
In this case, we're talking about saving the energy to allow the plant to absorb that calcium
and take advantage of it at a faster rate.
There's also something to be said about how these calcium waves actually move in plants.
Something that people have been studying for a long time, trying to figure out, well, if
calcium is mobile, which it is in plants, and it spreads all of these signals to the
plant that up-regulate and down-regulate and result in cells being...
I mean, calcium is like one of the pinnacle messengers of plant metabolism.
Without calcium, there is no possible formation of symbiotic relationships in the soil.
It's like this thing that's required.
And so when scientists have been studying it over the past few decades, they've realized
it's the information in the waves.
The waves move spatially across the plant from the top to the bottom or the site of
injury across the rest of the plant, and they move over time.
And so as these calcium waves flow from cell to cell and minute by minute, there's changes.
And these changes are extremely, extremely complex.
It's like trying to decode some pretty highly encrypted stuff.
Well, there's a lot going on there.
There is.
There is a lot going on.
Yeah.
And the point of how calcium waves move across the plants is that calcium sort of enables
its own release across the whole plant.
And so it's not so much that a single wave will generate this movement of calcium across
the whole plant.
It's that a single wave will continue to push calcium forward and forward and forward and
keep a concentrated sort of center of rich in calcium ions and sort of propagate that
forward across space and across time.
And that's kind of the hard part to understand is, you know, the closest understanding that
we have about these calcium waves is that they behave very similarly to human neurons.
That's why there's this kind of thought about or discussion about how there's these messages
that are being passed from cell to cell across time.
And if you knock out some of those calcium binding proteins, oh boy, you can't do anything
with the plants.
I mean, they collapse.
There is no possible cell or life associated with the plant.
You know, particularly for some of these knockout gene studies, what they've determined is that
calcium regulates the expression of carbon metabolism as it pertains to other nutrients.
And so if you're deficient in calcium, for instance, the whole plant down regulates its
metabolism of magnesium, of potassium, of nitrate, for instance, of sulfate, of phosphate.
So having ample levels of calcium is critical for making sure that your plants have an enormous
appetite and can actually yield pretty well overall.
Yeah, the definitely some of that is covered in when I was reading some of the stuff from
Jeff Lowenfeldt.
And I think the calcium is important in cell division too.
So calcium is found in large concentrations in young, undifferentiated meristematic cells
that are dividing.
And this is why calcium deficiencies first appear in the growing areas of the roots,
shoots, and young leaves.
And the result of the deficiency is that they become malformed in some cases because it
doesn't have the proper energy to make the reactions happen that it needs to happen.
Yeah.
And the interesting thing about that too is it's a little bit off the beaten path
here, but the whole relationship between calcium and...
Well, let me take one step back and say, how does a plant actually use energy?
Most people know it's ATP or something like that, right?
And magnesium, as you mentioned, magnesium transports ATP around.
So what people refer to as ATP is more accurately referred to as magnesium ATP.
ATP is the sort of chemical currency, the energy currency for plants.
Whenever some chemical reaction needs to happen, there's typically a transfer of phosphorus.
And this transfer is...
The process is called phosphorylation and dephosphorylation to kind of pass these phosphate
groups around.
You see this all the time with terpene biosynthesis.
It's actually how these isoprene units, like the C5 building blocks of all terpenes and
all cannabinoids, how they get linked together from head to tail is specifically through
phosphorylation, because you need that high amount of energy coming into the system.
And then when it leaves, it catalyzes a rapid change.
And so the transfer of phosphorus group, phosphate groups, I should say, through phosphorylation
takes up a significant percentage of the metabolic work in terms of what's actually being done
in the plant.
There's a lot of phosphorylation happening.
Phosphorus is recycled in the plants.
It can kind of be reused.
But the important thing to kind of pick out is that phosphorylation itself is actually
activated by calcium binding proteins.
This is true both in humans and it's true in plants.
And in humans, these calcium binding proteins in the brain are responsible for memory formation,
which is a little bit unique and interesting because calcium also has effects on root architecture
in the soil and how the roots grow through the soil are kind of, you know, in a certain
way can be represented by how human neurons form in the brain.
So there's a little bit of a connection there.
And, you know, don't quote me on this.
I'm not 100 percent sure because I don't study human biology as much as I study plant
biology and physiology.
But I'm pretty sure the proteins, the calcium binding proteins are similar, if not identical.
So there's that for you too.
Yeah.
And I mean, that again, that makes sense, right?
Because that's where you have the most meristematic cells being created is within the brain.
Right.
That's that's how those neurons are getting created.
Those are those cells before they decide how they're going to develop.
Right.
That's what we use in tissue culture.
We're trying to grab these meristematic cells and then giving different signaling to generate
plant off of that signaling.
And I think it's similar in the brain as well.
So yeah, no, absolutely.
And again, back to the, you know, linking things back to K and F, it's interesting
that, you know, the primary one of the primary, again, primary tools is is FPJ is fermented
plant juices and fermented plant juices are made from the tips, the new growth, the just
the brand new life that's happening at the tips of the plants and the in the in the weeds
and things that you're gathering.
The best stuff that you're trying to collect is that new growth.
And it makes sense because you're trying you're grabbing the places that have the most rich
calcium deposits because calcium is found large, you know, concentrations in those young
undifferentiated cells.
And there's there's almost like a calcium concentration of supplies and in various organelles
and vacuoles and endoplasmic plasmatic reticulum.
So it's plants kind of store calcium, especially to to provide it for that new growth.
So it's there as those cells are born.
Yeah.
And they store calcium in some pretty interesting places.
One of those places is right outside the nucleus of a cell.
There's a little envelope or a little membrane where there's some calcium that's stored.
And that's the calcium that interacts directly with the DNA.
So when there's like transcription factors that come in and say, hey, we need more of
these proteins produced or we need more of those proteins produced.
Let's say we're talking about the proteins that regulate cannabinoid biosynthesis.
There's a certain point in the plant's life where it starts to activate those more and
more and more because the plant starts producing these terpenes and these cannabinoids.
All of these proteins that are what are called transcription factors, well, maybe not all
of them, but most of them are regulated sort of directly by calcium.
And I think it's safe to say that all of them are indirectly regulated by calcium, because
even the ones that are regulated by potassium, which is sort of the grand orchestrator in
terms of just sheer number of proteins, they're flipped on or flipped off like light switches.
Potassium definitely orchestrates more than calcium.
But keep in mind that calcium activates those potassium binding enzymes, too.
So there's this really fascinating relationship that plants have sort of developed with this
mineral over time, calcium in particular.
And same thing with magnesium, to be fair.
As I mentioned earlier, it's considered a micronutrient, but it has a disproportionately
large impact on energy metabolism and energy transfer in the plants.
Quite literally is the horsepower element, I guess you could say, in terms of being able
to take light energy and also being able to take carbon out of the air.
And if you didn't have those two things, I'm not sure exactly how you would define plant
life anyways.
So it's almost like magnesium fits dead in the center.
But yeah, there's that.
No magnesium, no photosynthesis.
It's interesting that both of them mentioned that they're activators of enzymes.
Magnesium in the role of activating enzymes for ATP, which also plays a key role in respiration
of the plants, their ability to breathe and to take in some of those atmospheric nutrients,
as well as the fact that it's also, again, finally magnesium is needed for the creation
of DNA and RNA.
So you can't create life without magnesium.
It's definitely super important there.
From a calcium standpoint, yeah, it's part of that cell division.
So when you combine those two things, you need the DNA and the RNA for the cell division
part as well.
So they're definitely things that tie hand in hand.
Yeah, yeah.
And along those lines too, calcium is required for the formation of cell walls.
And so everyone knows during the vegetative stage, if your plants are really healthy,
really green, really dark, it probably means that they have adequate supplies of calcium.
And I'm assuming, of course, that we're talking about more or less a high intensity grow here
where you need adequate supplies of all these nutrients coming in.
Otherwise, you'd create deficiencies.
So what's interesting to note is that calcium, it's a little bit so interesting that calcium
acts on its own behalf in the sense that a little bit of calcium is all it takes to activate
a very large appetite within the plants for calcium metabolism.
And I think one of the better examples of that is with the cell walls.
Because the cell walls themselves are basically, they're largely composed of sugars and there's
a variety of different sugars.
Most of them have some kind of functional groups that interface with calcium.
And so if you were to kind of take a cross section of a leaf and zoom in, what you would
see is that calcium kind of sticks sort of like you mentioned earlier, Jason, making
cement.
This is exactly what plants are doing.
Their cell walls, they're trying to use calcium to make cement.
And so they cross link these pieces of calcium with these sugars, these polysaccharides.
And there's different flavors of these polysaccharides.
I don't think it's important to understand them specifically so much as understanding
that there's a large variety of them.
And some of those are like pectic acid residues, for example.
If you guys have ever had jams or jellies that are really thick, they add pectin in
there.
And that's what creates that coagulation like effect.
Now pectic acid also binds to calcium.
And so if you're trying to give the plant a specific type of calcium, one of the things
that plants are capable of determining or sensing is what is that calcium tagged with?
What is it being carried in with?
If it's nitrate, that calcium nitrate goes down a different path.
If it's an amino acid based calcium, it's going to go down a different path when it
will be processed.
If you have calcium with pectic acid residues and chelated and complexed in a true solution
that's available for the plants, what you're going to find is the plants will turn around
and dump that calcium right back into the cell walls.
Because as you're giving a foliar spray of this, let's say for lack of a better phrase,
this soluble calcium pectate for the plants, or that has these organic acid residues, these
cell wall residues on there.
What happens is the plants would otherwise make that exact same molecule using calcium
and then make the cell wall out of it.
But if you can deliver that to them, they have a different way of processing it.
And so when it comes to calcium availability, I find it a little bit ironic how in the cannabis
industry in particular, growers overuse calcium.
They overuse calcium nitrate.
And the issue with that is that calcium nitrate, A, you can only use it so far into flowering,
and then B, it requires additional chemical energy to be spent by the plants.
And so you're not really doing the plant any favors.
That can result in the formation of hollow stems.
And hollow stems are something you want to avoid if you're trying to also avoid pests
and powdery mildew and disease pressures, things like that.
And I'm a firm believer that it's the flavor of calcium that you deliver to your plants.
If it's bound with the right...
If it's chelated and if it's complex, if it's tagged with the right residues, what's going
to happen is a fundamentally different reaction of that calcium than something like a nitrate-based
calcium.
So with the CalMag that we make, we're using orange peels and stevia leaves, and we're
kind of processing and recombining the pectic acid residues out of the orange peel and giving
the plants basically the building blocks for cell walls.
That way they spend as little energy as is required to actually transform that into its
final sort of deposited form inside of that cell.
Whereas if we, again, if we gave them a nitrate form, man, they would go through completely
different biological pathways.
It would be handled by different enzymes, transported differently.
The whole thing would just be completely different.
And it has to do with what that calcium comes with.
It's not just the calcium itself.
It's calcium and how it fits into this larger orchestration of plant metabolism, both sort
of primary and secondary.
So not to get too deep into your proprietary preparation, but is that a calcium citrate
then?
We've got, on our label, actually we have the guaranteed from...
I'm sorry, the derived from statement.
So we guarantee 6% calcium, 1% magnesium, and that's going to be derived from calcium
fulvate, calcium acetate, and yes, a little bit of calcium citrate as well.
We're making our own organic acid complexes.
And again, the whole point is here that the plants would otherwise suck CO2 out of the
air, which takes time and they have to take up water from the roots.
They have to take in light energy.
They had got to do this crazy transformation, all this chemical reduction and blah, blah,
blah, only to finally get the spot where we could simply supply it passively to them in
the transpiration stream.
We've done the chemical reaction for them already.
All of our chemical processes, our chemical reactions, they're modeled directly after
how plants would otherwise naturally do it within their own sort of biological framework.
And same thing with microbes in the soil.
These are reactions that happen in line with plant metabolism.
The plants would otherwise do it.
So by doing it for them, we give them a sort of a building block that is extremely relevant
for certain things.
For example, disease resistance.
I find it a little bit ironic how cannabis is a macro...
Cannabis is a hyper accumulator of calcium.
Also, it takes up a lot of calcium.
In some instances, you may be able to get the plants to take up more calcium than even
nitrogen.
That I don't recommend, but I have seen some cases where that number has been pretty close
to a one-to-one ratio, if not like 1.1 calcium to one nitrogen.
You can do it.
It's not the most ideal thing, obviously.
Cannabis being an accumulator of calcium suggests that it should have just naturally a good
defense system in place.
But what happens towards the mid to late stages of flowering is a lot of growers experience
powdery mildew and disease pressures.
I would argue that to a certain extent, these disease pressures are actually just a reflection
of calcium deficiencies.
Because again, going back to the cell wall, calcium does afford this mechanical and physical
property as a structural component of these cell walls that every single cell in a plant
has.
It prevents the bugs and the diseases from physically breaking in.
So if you have inadequate supplies of calcium or if your calcium is not cross-linked the
proper way, you get these little weak spots along the cell wall.
The plants walking across the cell wall will notice a little soft spot inside of the tissue,
and that's what they exploit.
They find the really weak spots in the plant's growth and then they attack that.
So again, growers who are always struggling to combat molds, mildews, disease pressures
in those mid to late stages of flowering should probably look at ways to increase calcium
without increasing nitrates or phosphates or even sulfates to some extent.
So that was kind of one of the inspirations behind why we created the type of CalMag that
we've got, because it's got no nitrates or phosphates or sulfates or even carbonates
or animal products for that matter.
It's just a plant-based, low molecular weight, organic acid calcium that ties directly into
those signaling pathways.
One of which is remarkably fascinating to me, but we haven't even gotten into yet.
So before we fall down that terribly deep rabbit hole, one of the things that's coming
up on YouTube, which I think is important to jump into right here to do a little sidebar
is, so how would a person go about front-loading calcium early in veg?
Is it using a lot of crab meal and fish bone meal?
What would be the way to do that?
I know Chad is commenting on here that my good friend Brandon Russ talks a lot about
front-loading calcium, but he never really mentioned the methodology.
So that's the question to you.
How would you go about front-loading some calcium?
Yeah.
So calcium is such a difficult one to talk about effectively in terms of front-loading,
because most of these forms...
Okay, so let me back up one step.
If we're talking about a conventional form like calcium nitrate, there's probably not
that difficult...
It's not going to be that difficult to supply the adequate amounts just because it's so
soluble in water and is pretty safe for use in veg.
You could push the EC pretty high.
Your plants can deal with it.
They have this evolutionary mechanism through their C3 carbon metabolism that lets them
take up excess nitrates that would otherwise kill C4 in cam plants.
So this is a distinct benefit, and it's exploited in this industry.
I think as far as front-loading calcium from an organic source goes, that's a little bit
more tricky, because if you're looking at something like calcium sulfate, gypsum, you
can go to Wikipedia and type in calcium sulfate and look to the right-hand side.
There's a little table that pops up.
It'll tell you the solubility in water.
Calcium sulfate, gypsum, not very soluble in water.
Very, very poor solubility.
So you can buy all the gypsum you want.
Gypsum is drywall.
Calcium sulfate is drywall.
You can have...
Absolutely.
...a drywall, and you can water that drywall for 10 hours.
I promise you there's going to be very little calcium that actually gets mobilized.
So why are we transforming drywall into an agricultural form, calling it gypsum, and
then telling it to people on the basis that watering drywall is going to release calcium?
That's a load of BS.
If you do the math, it ends up releasing about two grams of elemental calcium per gallon
of feedwater.
I think it's like 2.6 grams of calcium per gallon of feedwater, which is not that much
if you really think about it.
It's not enough to actually satisfy what plants need later on, especially in flowering, which
presents this issue of, I can't get enough calcium to my plants.
What do I do?
Well, if you front-load something like calcium sulfate, your limiting factor is how much
water do you have to dissolve that calcium?
Because again, for every gallon of water you give your plants, you're going to get 2.6
grams of elemental calcium, and that's in a perfect world.
That's not considering how other nutrients get in the way or how pH affects the solubility
and uptake of calcium.
So long answer short, I would say, without too hard of a sales pitch, obviously we make
a pretty good CalMag product, CalMag Fuel.
But I would say the best way to do it is fermentation.
If you have the ability to ferment things and make compost teas, I think the organic
acids produced...
Because again, whenever you ferment, you're producing organic acids.
The plants would produce those organic acids anyways to make their cell walls and to complex
calcium and to do work with calcium anyways.
So by creating these ferments and these organic acid complexes, you're doing two things.
One is that you're increasing the solubility of calcium.
Again, going back to gypsum calcium sulfate releases 2.6 grams of calcium per gallon of
feed water.
The calcium chelate that we make for CalMag Fuel releases over 350 grams of calcium per
gallon of feed water.
That's over 150 times of extra calcium that you're getting in transpiration stream just
passively.
That's not a small increase.
It's a very large increase.
And it happens through some of this fermentation chemistry that, again, plants would otherwise
of the calcium with because it's so soluble in water.
That's specifically it.
To give you some kind of contrasting example, let's back up one step and look at CO2 in
the air versus sugars inside of the plant.
The CO2 gets scrubbed out of the air.
It's not very soluble in water.
If you've ever opened a can of soda on a hot summer day, that CO2 wants to leave.
And if you leave that soda out for even 15 minutes, there's no carbonation left.
So the CO2 naturally does not want to hang out in water, but plants need it to be solubilized
inside of water because water is what they use to fundamentally transfer all of these
minerals and soups of good organic acids and sugars back and forth.
So what do they do?
They scrub CO2 out of the air, which is not very soluble in water, and they convert it
into something like sucrose, which is incredibly soluble in water.
Now they have a flavor of carbon that can easily be passed throughout the whole plant.
It's very soluble, very easy to load, very easy to pass around.
This is what the plants are also trying to do with calcium, is they're trying to take
it out of that sulfate form, which is not very soluble, just like CO2, and they're
trying to create it in a form that makes it soluble, that it can move in these wave-like
fashions that are not only important for plant life, but actually end up defining plants
from the very first moment that they have to the very last things that they ever do.
So I would like to take a quick second to say that we have absolutely nothing against
the construction industry and drywall in general.
We seem to be picking on drywall a lot lately as something that you don't want to make or
something you're trying to avoid and don't use it for your plants, and I think that's
the thing.
Use it for what it's meant to be, drywall, and not something that you want to use for
your plants.
But I did want to say I have nothing against the construction industry, and I'm sure Nick
is fine with the folks that make drywall as well.
So we are at the 10 o'clock.
We've hit an hour, zipped by as always, very quickly, and I want to take just a second
to relight the room.
So welcome, welcome, welcome to Hoat Herbs Grow and Tell, Episode 6.
Tonight we're talking about cow mag and what plants think of the more cowbell approach.
I love the whole cow mag, cowbell meme thing.
Anybody who follows me on Instagram sees I've been posting multiple edited memes about
cow mag.
It's one of those things you can go, just go Google cow mag meme, and there's just dozens
and dozens of them that pop up.
It's great.
I love it.
So thank you all for joining.
If you are enjoying the conversation, please, and you're here in Clubhouse listening, please
click on the little greenhouse and join the Future Cannabis Project.
There's a whole bunch of different speakers, including some of the folks down below, like
London, who I see right at the top, who hosts different rooms all the time through Future
Cannabis Project and several other amazing cannabis podcasts that are going on throughout
Clubhouse.
If you're listening in on YouTube, please make sure you subscribe to both the Future
Cannabis Project and FCPO2, the Future Cannabis Project O2 channel.
I am joined as usual by my good friend, Nick, and this episode, as always, is produced and
made available for simulcast through the Future Cannabis Project and my good friend, Peter.
So thank you both for joining me as always and helping me get this thing, keep this thing
moving.
So without further ado, let's jump back right down that rabbit hole.
So you were about to take us off on a separate path.
Do you want to get into that?
I think there's something worth mentioning about calcium and salt stress real quick,
too, because that's one of the things that maybe we should look at, and maybe also some
of the physical properties that calcium has in terms of soil chemistry.
By and large, calcium does help the physical properties and the chemical properties of
soil.
So having it present in there isn't necessarily a bad thing.
I certainly don't want to just smash on calcium sulfate or gypsum as an amendment, because
in the right context, gypsum is a great, fantastic soil amendment.
But if you're looking to amend the soil so you can build soil structure and you can have
sort of a place for slow release things to occur, that's great.
But if you're an apple farmer and you're concerned about bitter pit because it's going to make
you lose $5 million in your crop this year, you can't afford to just trust drywall and
expect it to dissolve rapidly enough to release that calcium to the plants.
So if your focus is on calcium nutrition for the plants, I don't think calcium sulfate
fits very well.
If your focus is on a more holistic approach to soil health and maybe having a trace amount
of calcium in there, gypsum, maybe even calcium carbonate, lime, to kind of counteract the
acidity of peat, which I know is a common practice, that stuff is fine.
But for lack of a better phrase, let's not larp here and pretend like that's the most
available form of calcium to the plants or even the most biologically relevant form.
It's really not.
So there's something that we have to be careful of there.
But the other thing besides the calcium nitrates is that there's...
Big ag conventionally sells really, really cheap calcium chloride salts.
And the reason that I think that one is a little bit contradictory too is because as
researchers have studied all these crazy effects that calcium has on plants, one of the things
that they find to be abundantly clear is that these calcium waves that I've been talking
about, they're one of the very first signs of the plant responding to sodium chloride
stress.
In particular, it's the chloride ion that they have to deal with because chloride in
low concentrations is a cofactor for certain reactions to occur in the plants.
But we're not talking about a very large amount of cofactors.
In fact, if you just walked around and you had slightly sweaty palms and you just touched
the leaf surface of your plants, the amount of sweat that you transfer into the plant
may actually be enough chlorine for their dietary needs.
Again, they don't need a whole lot.
And typically what they do need can be supplemented through the water that they get.
So let's say you have a well and the well water that comes out is very high in sodium
chloride.
This sodium chloride can start to have effects both on the soil where it reduces the porosity,
reduces the particle size, creates all kinds of bad physical and chemical interactions
in the soil, and ultimately just leads to a lockout of life.
So plants have this internal mechanism, they've evolved these internal mechanics to deal with
salt stressors.
And one of them again is initiated by calcium waves.
So if you don't have adequate supplies of calcium in the plant tissue, it cannot adequately
deal with the salt stress that it's being exposed to.
And then what happens is you lose the permeability of the cytoplasm becomes a little bit too
great and you start to have this leakage that occurs between the inside of the cell and
the outside of the cell.
And as this leakage occurs, you have some pretty catastrophic events.
You have minerals leaching out of the cytoplasm, you have the cell physically collapsing, you
have the vacuoles doing all kinds of crazy stuff.
But if you have calcium and the right amounts of calcium, the plants have a much better
chance right off the bat, the very first crack at it is going to be a lot stronger in terms
of being able to fix it.
So that's why I think it's a little bit ironic that calcium chloride can sometimes...
It can be used, but what you're going to run into is the limiting factor of how much chloride
can I spray on the plant before it starts to burn the tissue.
And the answer to that is pretty low.
You may actually want to spray something like calcium sulfate, you may actually end up getting
a little bit more calcium because at least the sulfate isn't going to burn the plants
as much as the chloride does.
Awesome stuff.
Awesome stuff.
So you did mention a side hole that you wanted to go down.
So I want to make sure we have time for that.
You mentioned an area we hadn't even talked about yet.
Yeah, that was specifically the way that calcium waves are responsible for initiation of symbiotic
relationships in soils.
I don't want to get too far into it, but the general idea is that there's enzymes within
plants that are kind of looking, they're always trying to sense what's coming in from the
outside and sometimes what's coming in from the outside can be a message from a microbe
or message from a fungi.
Those two produce secondary metabolites.
And some of the metabolites produced by microbes and fungi will come in and they'll sort of
infect the cell, for lack of a better phrase.
They get inside of the cell and then they activate a response within the plant to form
a relationship.
And so there's this actual architecture that exists within the roots as far as it pertains
to the relationships that they form with bacteria, for instance, and the nodes that are formed
and the nodulation factors.
Those are also controlled by calcium, by the way.
So on the one hand, there's something that the microbes do.
And then on the other hand, there's something that the plants do.
And the plants have to basically accept, they create a receptor site, for lack of a better
phrase, to accept the relationship and to actually allow the fungi or the microbe to
successfully form that relationship.
It kind of takes two to tango in that context.
And so what has been discovered is that these calcium binding enzymes within the plant,
those are the ones that are responsible for the initiation of that symbiotic relationship.
And if you don't have that calcium binding enzyme, you can have the microbes and the
fungi present, but they're not going to form the relationship with the plant.
It depends on calcium signals.
So this is, for me, it's very, very important, partially because there's a lot of calcium
that can freely exist in the soil, where it can contribute to some of this stuff.
And in smaller concentrations, all it takes is that single spark.
Even if the wave doesn't propagate forward very far, it just has to go far enough to
actually allow this relationship to be formed.
And then maybe the plants get access to more and more calcium, and they can start taking
up more and more nutrition overall.
So yeah, that was that little rabbit hole I wanted to go down.
That's awesome.
It's very, very, very interesting.
I mean, I guess that's a large portion of that rhazophagic cycle.
I know I pronounced that, I butchered that.
But where the fungi is basically coming into the cellular wall and then being jetted back
out to kind of repeat that cycle over and over again.
So very interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah, you know, calcium is one of those that, again, when we first started this conversation,
it was so easy for us to just assume that calcium is this element that's kind of taken
up and makes cell walls.
And to some extent, it can contribute to trichome cell wall formation as well.
But it's entirely different to try to think about it from the context of, hey, it interfaces
with plant DNA directly.
And it activates all these crazy processes, like forming symbiotic relationships, for
instance, or even activation of defense pathways.
It's the movement of the calcium waves across space and time, as I mentioned earlier, that
encodes all this crazy information that basically gets the entire plant to respond as a single
organism because otherwise the responses are localized.
You know, if the plant can't communicate within its own sort of cellular network, it doesn't
have a chance to form an organism wide response.
And so typically, when you see these organism wide responses, what we're talking about is
secondary metabolite biosynthesis.
You know, in other words, the plant needs to produce some kind of compound that will
ward off a particular disease pressure or some kind of stressor.
You know, and oftentimes in cases of the sunlight being too intense, those calcium waves can
induce the metabolism of additional calcium.
Because again, going back to the cell wall and the rigidity of the cell wall, with a
really thick cell wall, the plants are going to have an easier time resisting excess light
energy or excess heat stress or something that would otherwise dehydrate the plants
from the inside out.
They stand a much better chance at it.
So it's not just like it has this, you know, one dimensional way of being metabolized by
the plants.
It's really that calcium activates its own metabolism and it does literally everything
from controlling circadian rhythms and trigger metabolism in plants to forming cell walls
to forming relationships and symbiotic networks with microbes and fungi in the soil to forming
cell walls for trichomes to actually participating in the genetic expression of those enzymes
that do produce the terpenes and the cannabinoids.
I mean, there's just so much from start to finish.
You can't separate calcium from any of it.
Yeah, I mean, it even transports substances across the cellular membrane.
Yeah, and you know, to some extent, I think people who assume calcium is not mobile, you
know, there was some research probably done in the 1950s or 1960s where some researchers
injected some, you know, calcium into the cytoplasm after a couple hours.
They maybe compared it with potassium if I recall correctly, but they compared it with
potassium and they noticed that the concentration of calcium in the cytoplasm did not change
whereas the potassium did.
So obviously they went forward with the assumption that potassium is highly mobile in plants,
which it is, but they also went forward with this idea that calcium is not mobile in plants.
And I think that that is an archaic thought that's kind of stuck around for a little bit
too long because the mobility of calcium actually defines plant life.
If calcium weren't mobile inside of plant tissues, then you would not really have a
plant.
You wouldn't even have a plant that is capable of responding to anything, any kind of stressor
or even, you know, to some extent, the circadian rhythms responding to the sunlight.
Those are calcium binding enzymes and the calcium waves that are propagated forward
in space and time, those in the wake of all of that, that's where your primary metabolism
happens.
That's where photosynthesis happens with magnesium and even to some extent the function of the
stomata and the water, the passage of water through the xylem and out of the plant, that's
also regulated by calcium.
And yes, the actual guard cells themselves do kind of swell closed and open back up as
a result of potassium fluxes, but it's the calcium that's regulating those potassium
fluxes specifically.
So it's a very, very important element.
I think another thing that was interesting and I was reading in, and of course it always
comes up because we talk a lot about the chemical makeup and the chemistry and how these, some
of the bonds that are happening, but there's, you know, some of these things have to do
with the ionic forms of essential nutrients required for plant uptake.
Calcium requires nickel, funny enough, which is just something that I don't hear mentioned
very often.
And there's some of the things that Jeff was talking about again in the book were, you
know, that the, you know, ions in the soil are located in two places.
First the cations are located in the clay and humic particles that hold the negative
charges on their surfaces.
These negative charges attract the positively charged nutrient ions and absorb them on the
surface.
And then second, that the negatively charged nutrient anions usually remain in water solutions
and do not attach to soil particles in most instances.
One exception is phosphate, which often adheres to clay particles despite them being negatively
charged.
Calcium is not really one of the main ones he focuses on, but I thought it was, you know,
as you might expect, different powers of charges on nutrient ions result in stronger or weaker
attractions to soil and root surfaces and different solubility in water.
This is why a calcium ion with two positive charges binds more tightly to a potassium
ion, which only has one.
Note that two anions leach out of the soil faster than cations because the former are
more readily dissolved in water.
Yeah, yeah, and that cation and anion balance, it's as hard to balance as the plants try
to regulate.
Like you mentioned with the humic acid, you know, it has these anionic sites, these negative
charged sites.
So opposes attract, right?
If those minerals, these cationic minerals, calcium, magnesium, potassium, if they've got
a positive charge and they meet something that has a negative charge, they kind of want
to hang out around that.
They want to participate in that.
And so this is how humic substances have soil conditioning properties.
They start to complex and chelate and make available some of these minerals that are
otherwise just in a transient state passing through with the transpiration stream.
If we're talking about calcium nitrate, that NO3 has a negative charge on it.
And like you mentioned, it doesn't adhere to the soil nearly as well.
It actually repels from the soil because it has the same charge.
And so it gets repelled.
This is precisely why nitrate runoff is such a big problem because you can't get nitrates
to stick in the soil like you want them to, or like you need them to.
It'd be much better to have that nitrogen become a constituent of an amino acid than
it is to measure it downstream several hundred miles at the Gulf of Mexico.
If you're growing along the Mississippi River, this is some real stuff.
And you can see the effects from space.
It's not a small thing.
It's no joke.
This is a very big, very big problem.
So what you want to try to do is find ways to deliver minerals to your plants that have
the charge balance thing kind of figured out.
Nitrates don't have the charge balance thing kind of figured out.
I would say if you're looking at something like a ferment, again, we use...
We make a fulvate fraction with calcium.
We make an acetate fraction, a citrate fraction.
These are forms that are extremely conducive towards soil chemistry.
In fact, acetates are the most abundant metabolite in all of nature.
So they actually get factored into every single organism that lives in the soil.
Whereas nitrates, like, you know, not nearly as much as acetates in terms of biological
relevancy.
Again, if you're looking to supply forms of nutrients that remain available for plants,
have that soil conditioning effect, what you're looking at doing is kind of like what you're
talking about with the humic substances.
You want to try to find ways to condition the soil, improve the ability of that soil
to hold those minerals.
This is what's referred to as the cation exchange capacity or CEC.
You want to improve that because that will allow your plants to actually uptake more
mineral nutrition throughout the day.
If you can get your plants to take up more water and more macronutrients in any given
24-hour period of time, and if you can sustain that across the whole lifespan of the plant,
that's how you increase yield.
That's how you increase quality, specifically the water metabolism thing.
That's how you increase quality.
That's how you get more terpenes and more cannabinoids.
Awesome.
All right.
So we are at 20 after.
It's 1020.
Oh, I love he's flashing the cowbell up there.
More cowbell.
Thank you, Peter.
What I need to hear, I like what I'm hearing, but I'd like some more cowbell.
Got to get that cowbell.
Was there anything else specifically from a CalMag standpoint you want to cover before
we open this up to the crowd?
I would say treat calcium like a macronutrient.
Treat calcium like it's one of those things that's going to make or break your ability
to grow some of the best weed that you've ever grown.
It's probably going to revolve somewhere around this calcium element and how calcium interacts
with the rest of the plant in terms of facilitating terpene biosynthesis and cannabinoid biosynthesis.
Calcium is a really important one to pay attention to.
That's all I want to stress.
So we did have just one question.
So when I mix full power, which is a fulvic, with calcium nitrate in water, do I actually
create calcium fulvate?
No.
What you have to do is look at the strength of the bond between nitrates, fulvates, acetates,
citrates, whatever, even phosphates, if you wanted to go with a calcium phosphate.
You got to look at what holds the stronger bond.
The easiest way I can describe what I'm talking about is if you took some magnesium sulfate,
which is epsom salt, that is very, very soluble in water, and if you took calcium nitrate,
also very, very soluble in water.
Take calcium nitrate, magnesium sulfate, add those two in solution, what happens is the
calcium displaces the magnesium.
Because as Jason mentioned earlier, if you look at that periodic table, calcium is bigger
than magnesium.
Magnesium is a smaller version, so it doesn't have the same grabbing power.
Calcium has more grabbing power.
So calcium will grab the sulfate off of the magnesium, which again, epsom salt, very soluble
in water.
Calcium sulfate, not so soluble in water.
So what happens is this replacement reaction occurs where the calcium from the nitrate
meets the sulfate from the magnesium sulfate, and it locks out that molecule.
So you get calcium sulfate physically precipitating out of the bottom of that solution.
You can do this, it may take a couple of minutes, but you'll definitely precipitate some calcium
sulfate as a result of that.
So the bond that's formed, that calcium sulfate bond, requires a particular amount of energy
to break apart.
If you just simply add fulvic into gypsum or fulvic into calcium nitrate, I don't think
you're creating, you're not contributing enough energy to then break that bond apart and transfer
it to something that is stronger than that nitric acid sort of stability constant, if
that makes sense.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
All right.
So Jody, I tried to pull you up.
I don't know quite what's going on there.
Anybody who'd like to join us up on stage, has some questions tonight for Nick or myself,
or wants to chat about CalMag, feel free to raise your hand and we'll bring you on up.
Big John is listing out a whole bunch of stuff.
All the things that he's using.
What about Bob says, thank you, Nick, for your information.
He appreciates that.
And really, really important.
I think we, CalMag being, I think, the first of the main ingredients or nutrients, macronutrients,
micronutrients that we've covered, is I think a really good place to start.
We've talked about carbon, we've talked about enzymes, but jumping into calcium and magnesium
as opposed to nitrogen or potassium or phosphorus first, I think was a great place to start
because they really, those other things aren't going to be as useful if you don't have these
two to start with.
I think there was another question.
Something about research paper on calcium waves and pulses.
Yeah, there's a couple of good ones, actually.
There's one written by the Journal of Experimental Botany over at Oxford, and the article is
called Calcium is Life.
So if you just go to Google and type in calcium is life, type in JXB afterwards, because JXB
is Journal of Experimental Botany.
So if you just Google calcium is life, JXB up will pop up an article.
It was written in 2018, I believe, August, towards the end of the year.
That's a really great overview of calcium and our understanding of calcium and these
waves.
I think it does a really, really good job of explaining the waves.
But there was a paper written in 1999 that is actually one of the best that's ever been
written.
It's a French paper and the translation is Calcium is Life.
That's why this article, Calcium is Life, is written in quotes in JXBs because it's
kind of a throwback to that article that was written in 1999.
The link to that article is actually available in the second paragraph of that JXB article.
You'll see it's written by a guy named Trehuavas, 1999.
So if you just click that up, we'll pop the Google Scholar link and you can access it.
It's called Le Calcium C'est La Vie, Calcium Makes Waves.
It was published in Plant Physiology.
That one's pretty good.
Other ones, just generally speaking, that I would recommend, you would want to look
at articles that deal with calcium and plant defenses.
Maybe if you look specifically at calcium waves, you'll find a very specific section
of information about it.
But anything to do with calcium signaling, calcium as a secondary metabolite, or calcium
in plant defenses, things of that nature.
All right.
I think Alex also came up here from the audience.
How's it going tonight, Alex?
Going well, just absorbing as much information as I can.
Thanks, Nick, Jason, Peter.
Killing it.
I have a quick question.
I'm curious.
So I know calcium nitrate and silica don't really mix well together when diluting out.
You have to be really cautious when doing that.
Is there anything else with any other forms of calcium that don't mix well with other
nutrients, macro or micro?
Or are there any things to avoid when feeding with calcium?
Thank you.
Yeah, that's a good question.
How can we avoid the lockout issues that can be created from calcium and maybe some of
these other compounds?
Silica obviously makes calcium silicate.
We were talking about drywall earlier, which is calcium sulfate.
Turns out fireproof drywall, for those of you guys that do ethanol extraction, you may
have a requirement for blast proof or fireproof drywall.
That's calcium silicate.
So it's even less available to plants.
So yeah, calcium has this weird...
Because it's big and a lot bigger than magnesium, it can have adverse reactions.
The problem is that when calcium has these adverse reactions, it tends to create forms
of calcium that are not very soluble in water.
Calcium sulfate, not very soluble.
Calcium silicate, also not very soluble.
The next form is calcium phosphate, which is what your bones are made out of.
This happens when calcium and phosphorus meet, which can be a little bit of a snaggle tooth
for some growers because some people like to feed really heavy amounts of phosphorus
like mid-flowering.
There's arguments for it.
There's arguments against it.
I would say that there's some special relationship between calcium and phosphorylation activities
that specifically guide the two together as a single as opposed to just one or the
other.
But the irony there, or the funny part there is that they're both required, but they can
both lock each other out at the same time in the soil.
And calcium phosphate, again, it's what your bones are made out of, so it's not going to
be very soluble.
I would say the best thing to do is to try to, again, get more biological activity happening
in the soil.
Use some organic acid or amino acid based chelates.
Humic acid does a great job of conditioning some of that, so it may over time eventually
complex the calcium and pull it away from the phosphates and the silicates and the sulfates
that are in the soil.
That type of stuff can happen.
And to some extent, too, those sulfates, silicates, and phosphates are soluble.
They're just sparingly soluble.
So they're not really good forms of nutrition like that.
I hope that answered your question there, Alex.
Alex S.: Yeah, that was a great answer, Nick.
Thank you.
All right.
Do we have anybody else that wants to come up here, or do we have any other YouTube questions
going on?
I did want to quickly mention Dave Martin added a nice little gem on top of that, which
is the Mulder Nutrient Chart shows the basic interaction between newts.
So if you look up the Mulder, M-U-L-D-E-R Nutrient Chart, you'll get some great stuff.
So thanks, Dave, for that little bit of added value.
Jody, I can't for some reason get you to come up.
You might have to leave and come back.
For some reason, it's not letting me invite you up, even though I tried to bring you up
a couple times.
So we're at the 1030 mark.
There we go.
Jody's up here.
I wanted to just quickly remind everybody that if you are listening in and enjoying
the conversation, please click in here in Clubhouse.
Please click on the little greenhouse and join the Future Cannabis Project, or click
on any of the folks up on stage, or folks in the audience as well, and give them a follow.
The folks in the audience are also great people to follow because they obviously, if they
can sit here for over an hour and a half listening to a conversation on calcium and magnesium,
they're probably your kind of person too.
So I would recommend following some of the folks that are down in the audience as well.
And if you are listening in on YouTube, please make sure you subscribe to Future Cannabis
Project and FCPO2 channel, as well as follow myself, the Future Cannabis Project, and Nick
as The Rooted Belief on Instagram.
So Jody, how are you doing tonight?
Welcome.
Good to see you, my friend.
Hi, Jason.
Jason.
Nick.
I've seen that invite to pull me up, but man, it's like, how do I even walk up here,
you know, to try to stand on stage with Nick's talent is like, Nick, I guess what I'm saying
is I want to thank you for taking the time out and putting this knowledge and stuff out.
And some of us are just being a sponge right now.
Me and my daughter and some of us, we're beginning to learn to work with living soil.
We're really new at it.
So to be able to tap in with you, I remember the first night you popped in here somehow,
I landed right on your page.
You're just a couple of us.
And every time I have an opportunity to see you to speak, I wanted to say, you know, thumbs
up and thank you.
You was referring to something there, though, it sort of caught my attention that you was
talking about positive and negative charges like eons and ions and stuff like there and
having that magnetism or a draw of a connection to sort of get excited and see what's going
on down there around that.
I sort of would like to maybe understand what that concept was.
What was you saying there again?
You remember that that part?
Hmm.
When when was I speaking about that?
Was that like an hour ago or was that a little bit more recent?
No, it's been more recent in the last 20 minutes or so.
OK.
Yeah.
I mean, I think the point and I appreciate the compliments.
Thank you.
You know, people like you are, you know, the reason that doing something like this is possible.
I think if I was just looking at myself in a mirror talking about this, then it would
be sort of another day in the life of Nick.
I do that all the time.
I definitely appreciate the audience and the opportunity to kind of share this information,
have people come up, ask questions.
The thing about the cation balance in the soil is that when you have certain things
like humic substances in the soil, those humic substances hold minerals that otherwise just
get leached away.
If you have really sandy soil, you can't really hold too much of a mineral charge.
What that translates to directly is because there's not enough mineral nutrition for the
plants that they're not going to grow as big.
There's this idea that, hey, if you can increase the mineral nutrition available for your plants,
that you can also subsequently grow larger plants.
They have access to more of it.
And it's just this great big giant balancing act.
Because if they can take up a lot of minerals and they can take in a lot of carbon, they
can grow some tissue really, really fast.
Especially if you optimize the characteristics in the soil, like you get the biology just
right so that the rate of calcium as it releases doesn't spike the pH up, which can happen
with some, like lime for instance.
The reason that soils are limed is to progressively raise the pH over time.
But if you figure out and dial in that soil chemistry, you're going to end up at a spot
where the conditions under which those minerals are released to the plant, those conditions
are balanced in the sense that they don't displace the chemistry to drive it up in terms
of pH or drive it down in terms of pH.
They're going to keep it neutral, going to keep it level.
This is the type of balance that you want to achieve by having the right flavor of carbon.
So I hope that was in line with your question there.
Yeah, I'll ask it this way too.
I've heard of talk about grounding.
Grounding to your plants to the outside earth if you're indoors.
And when we're talking about attracting minerals or making them, I don't know, bioavailable,
have you ever been around that concept, grounding your plants with copper wire, plant to plant
all the way through to the outside earth again?
I have not heard of that specifically, but I imagine that there is probably something
to it as far as the sort of generating reduction power.
But again, the interface for plants is they must convert electrical energy or light energy
into chemical energy.
And that's where I think I'd have to learn a little bit more about it, but there could
be something there for sure.
I have definitely seen that, Jody.
I'm just trying to remember who I saw using the copper wire grounding, especially in raised
beds is something that I have definitely seen.
Can't quite remember who off the top of my head.
I think another thing to remember is that you're trying to create good soil is a balance
of sand, silt, and clay, humic materials, and good biology.
And all of those things are interacting.
And when you have a soil that's too high in sand, you're not going to be able to create
the proper sets of aggregates.
And the aggregates are, if you pull up some roots or you pull up a plant and there's some
roots or you're digging down the soil and you see these groupings, these compounds where
lots of pieces of soil are starting to bind together.
And those are like environments of biological life where you have all of those different
compounds being exchanged.
You have biology, you have the different connections and those interactions are not just biological,
but they're also taking into account those negative and positive charges that are being
balanced off of those different mixtures of medium and nutrients that are present in
the soil.
So I believe that's also part of it.
And those aggregates are also what helps build better soil retention, moisture retention,
water retention within the soil as well.
You want to create aggregates.
That's what you're looking for.
You're trying to create more of that interaction where the humic and the materials are starting
to bind together, those materials, and create that beautiful sea of life that you're looking
for.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Calcium does have that nice effect on soil chemistry, soil structure, the porosity of
soil, the ability of that soil to breathe air in.
There is some relationship between like when, if you're growing outdoors, for example, you
know, the air is about 78% nitrogen gas.
And so if you've got these micropores in the soil that first get hydrated and then when
the plants take up that water, the water has to be replaced by something else.
And so typically it creates a drawdown of air from the above ground space.
And so as this nitrogen gets pulled into these micropores in the soil, if you've got the
right structure, you've got the right biological activity, you start to have these nitrogen
fixing microbes that start to do all of this work and they proliferate and they kind of
require and depend on calcium as a structural component in the soils to make sure that the
porosity is there, that the sort of right characteristics and conditions are being
maintained.
Again, with the sodium and the sodium chloride, if you start to put too much sodium chloride
into soils, what happens is a cascade effect where you start to alter the physical and
the chemical properties of the soil.
You will see a difference in the physical structure and the porosity and the density
and how soft it feels.
And then obviously there's major, major chemical differences.
And so working the minerals in the right balance into the soil is a huge, huge component of
having the right kind of environment for anything to happen as far as root initiation goes in
the soil.
So calcium is definitely vital for that, for sure.
And I know Jolly just came up here, so maybe we want to give him a chance to ask a question
as well.
I just want to make sure, just real quick before Jolly jumps in, Jody, is that helpful?
Yeah, one last quick one.
Is this, these episodes, are they been recorded?
Can we go find them somewhere?
Absolutely.
So if you go onto YouTube and look up Future Cannabis Project, there is a FCPO2 channel,
Future Cannabis Project 02, a second channel.
And if you click on that, you'll see all of the recordings for each of these episodes
and a whole bunch of other ones.
There's multiple shows on both of the Future Cannabis Project channels, but these are specifically
saved to the FCPO2 channel.
And I'm actually watching the live chat right now on the FCPO2 channel that's going on.
The simulcast is going on there, so it's live on YouTube.
And those recordings do get saved there as well.
Thank you guys.
Absolutely.
Thank you, Peter, for helping us and doing that for us every week, usually cooking dinner
and eating while this show is going on.
He kind of quickly throws us up here and gets things moving, and then he's in the background
sauteing and chopping and frying and making a fantastic meal, I'm sure, for the family.
So it's great to have Peter producing the show.
So Jolly, how are you doing tonight, my favorite banana man?
I'm doing pretty good.
How are you doing?
Doing fantastic.
Doing fantastic.
What do you have for us tonight?
What cover crops can put calcium and magnesium back into the soil?
That's a great question.
There are plants that accumulate a lot of calcium, although the thing about it is it
still has to come from somewhere, ultimately.
And so typically there's mine sources like most lime calcium carbonates and calcium hydroxides.
Those are typically naturally occurring in mines, and those are added in.
But if you wanted to grow something that accumulated a lot of calcium, that way you could ferment
that and compost it and return that back.
There's probably a list of several dozen species.
Some of them may be easier to get than others, and it's something I can send you on the back
channels.
I do have that list, I just don't have it handy right now.
But there are plants that take up a lot of calcium.
It's a similar kind of thought as horsetail.
Horsetail takes up a lot of silicon, and so if you want to try to find a natural source
of silicon and horsetail grows wild around you, you can work with that plant because
it takes up so much of it.
Same thing can be true of calcium.
There are a lot of plants that take up a lot of calcium, and certainly there's certain
parts of the plant that are going to be very rich in calcium as well.
So those can be inputs for natural farming techniques is presumably what you're getting
at, right, Jolene?
Yeah, something like that.
I'm not sure about the termage or something like that, like a conduit maybe also.
Because I was thinking they have those nitrogen fixing plants, right?
And I thought they added nitrogen back, but there's no cow mag plant or zinc plant that
in its cycle, it releases that stuff through the roots into the ground or something.
No, I mean, this is one of the ways that I think people get confused about the mobility
of calcium.
Calcium typically only flows one way in the plants, and I'm just kind of butchering what
I mentioned earlier about these calcium waves and how well they move across the plant.
But just think about it this way.
When calcium enters the roots, it typically just flows up one way through the xylem, through
the transpiration stream, and that's how plants acquire calcium as a macronutrient.
When they load stuff into phallum tissue, because xylem tissue goes from the roots up
to the canopy, and then the other half of that highway, the phallum tissue, that takes
stuff from the top of the plant and brings it back down to the roots.
This is where you get a lot of sugars that are produced throughout the day that go down
into the soil and feed microbes, the very same microbes that may exchange minerals with
the plants in exchange for those sugars.
So you're not really going to find calcium being moved in the phallum tissue.
I think there's maybe some debate still, although by and large, it's sort of conclusive
now that if calcium is getting around in some fashion that it's happening in a way that's
more complex than simply putting it into the phallum and pushing it downstream, I think
the mechanisms of that are still yet to be discovered.
And to some extent, so are all of the storage compartments as well.
How exactly do plants store the calcium and where is it stored?
Does that answer your question there?
Yes, something like that, but it kind of led to another question.
Is there anything that stimulates the xylem and the other thing that you said, that I
remember from biology, but I can't remember the name?
The xylem and the phallum tissue?
Yeah.
Is there something like acid or some kind of PGR that stimulates that whole system?
I think optimal growth conditions do.
Realistically, if you gave your plants a foliar spray of like a magnesium-based product with
some potassium and maybe some sugars in there too, you could probably stimulate phallum
loading and then get the plant to produce more secondary compounds.
But think about it this way too.
If you're trying to stimulate that, really what you're trying to do is stimulate carbon
metabolism in the plant because what is it going to load inside of the phallum tissue
if not for photosynthates and compounds that were produced throughout the day?
So really your focus should be on getting the plant to produce more of those metabolites
throughout the day because then automatically all of the things that regulate how xylem
and phallum tissue work, those sort of become a lot more active when things are dialed in.
You can actually even get physically larger sized cells.
The vacuoles, which are the water storage compartment inside of cells, those will physically
swell up and the cell walls have these cross-linked polymers called extensins that will loosen
and they will allow the cell to physically swell up.
This is what you want to happen, especially in the flowering stages.
You want your plants to actually swell up with water and get really big and juicy because
they're going to use that water and burn it as a fuel source to generate that chemical
reduction gradient, that power that's needed to convert CO2 in the air into monoturpines
and cannabinoids and things like that.
Yeah, I mean the phallum depends on hydrostatic pressure, not transpiration.
So water is really the key.
More water, if you can get the plant to uptake more water, it's kind of pushing those things
along with that hydrostatic pressure.
It absorbs that molecule, which sucks that next one up, which sucks that next one up,
and then again pushes those back down.
So yeah, it's a different type of, I think, interaction than some of the other chemical
interactions that are happening within the plant.
Does CalMag increase water uptake?
Well, I think through the effects that calcium has on stomata, you can increase transpiration
pretty well using calcium, but it's not like a one-to-one thing.
It's not a one-dimensional thing.
It's very complex in terms of how calcium does these things.
But yes, the short answer is to say yes, that calcium does have a primary effect on water
metabolism in such a way that more calcium typically equals better transpiration.
Obviously checks and balances and everything exists in a ratio and all that good stuff,
but generally speaking, yeah, that's true.
So is the plant's uptake system like an osmosis and the CalMag gets taken up through the osmosis
or do the little spider root things touch the element and then grow over the CalMag
or something and then uptake it?
Well, the plants will take up things that are soluble in water.
And so if it's coming in through the transpiration stream, if there's some dissolved minerals,
think about it this way.
You put your EC probe inside of a solution and measure the strength of that solution.
The plants are going to basically get that solution, take it up, and then deal with those
various parts per million, the calcium, the magnesium, all the other nutritional elements
that work their way in.
So naturally speaking in the soils, there's phases of these compounds.
Some of them are soluble.
Some of them are insoluble.
As Jason said, some of them adsorb onto the outer layers of the soils and under the right
chemical conditions, they can be dislodged and released to the plants and make them
available.
This is how humates can increase nutrient uptake.
Humic acid is a very good one for that specifically.
But it just allows the plants to take things up that would otherwise not be available for
them to take up simply because it's not soluble in water.
It has less to do with them being physically there or not and more to do with how soluble
in water are they.
But that should not be confused.
No, being soluble in water should not be confused with being bioavailable for plants.
That's a different topic altogether.
All right.
Thank you, Jolly, as always for bringing great topics for us to discuss.
I did have a back channel question.
You know, is plant physiology equal as applicable to fungi and mycelium?
They are definitely different species and they do work in different ways.
What is the...
Maybe we want to talk a little bit about how calcium is reactant in fungi, maybe.
We need Craig Trester back in here for the fungi discussion.
Yeah, I mean, all organisms on this planet, calcium just has its own properties and organisms
have found ways to make the most of these unique properties.
Obviously, with plants and with humans, there's a great amount of similarity between how the
calcium is processed.
You know, again, in the human brain, some of these calcium binding proteins and enzymes,
they are responsible for the formation of memories, for the formation of neural networks
and things like that.
Same thing is true in plants is that these calcium waves behave in the exact same way
as neurons firing in the human brain.
It's just this message being spread across the whole plant.
So, you know, it's very important to understand that in the grand scheme of things, the reason
these elements are used for these purposes is not because it's an organism specific type
of thing.
It's that the chemistry of that element makes it indispensable.
Just as one example, researchers have tried genetically modifying plants so that the
chlorophyll pigment does not use magnesium at the center.
They've said, hey, can we swap this magnesium out for something else?
Some other divalent mineral, something that has the two positive charges on it.
And what they've discovered is that there's a significant reduction in the efficiency
of chlorophyll when magnesium is replaced.
And then similar things with calcium.
If you knock calcium out and try to put something in its place, it doesn't behave the same.
It just doesn't.
So all of these individual elements, they sort of behave in their own way.
And that behavior is very tightly conserved across all kingdoms of life.
And I would venture a guess and say that if we had a mycologist on here, a fungal expert,
they would also kind of echo something similar, which is that the formation of hyphae underground
are partially informed through calcium binding enzymes and messages that are passed around
what is otherwise a very vast and giant neural network.
Now, fungi are different, that they don't take up a whole bunch of...
They need some calcium and they need a lot of carbon.
But by and large, they're not very physically complex.
They're incredibly complex when it comes to the biochemistry and the actual compounds that
they produce and some of the things that they're capable of doing, especially the enzymes that
they're capable of producing.
Fungi are crazy good at that.
But physically, structurally, there's more complex organisms out there that require a
lot more macronutrients than fungi do.
But yeah, between calcium, carbon, and then maybe a pinch of the other ones, like a little
bit of nitrogen and a little bit of magnesium and the tiniest little bit of phosphorus,
I think you'd have a pretty good recipe for a good fungal growth program.
All righty.
So it is coming to the top of the second hour.
I want to go ahead and do a wrap up because I think we're at that point of the time.
I really appreciate everybody joining, as always, both here on Clubhouse as well as
on YouTube.
Really, really great crowd, very active on YouTube.
So I appreciate everybody joining there and joining here on Clubhouse, bringing your questions,
bringing your comments.
And definitely feel free to reach out during the week and let me know what you think of
the show.
Let me know what you think of the topics and the conversations that have been going on.
I really appreciate the feedback, as well as people giving us all a follow.
So please follow the club, follow the channel, follow the Instagrams, and make sure that
you know how to find all of us.
And as I mentioned earlier, give the folks in the audience as well a follow because they
are a like-minded group of people and we all are a community.
And that's really the purpose of The Grow and Tells is to get people together to talk
about growing, how to care for the plant, what's happening with the plant so that we
can all be more successful, produce better plants, understand more about what's happening
and how to react when things are going wrong or what's going well, and understanding
what all of these things that we're throwing at our plants might be, what they're used
for, why are we putting them on.
I think that's a lot of the mystery that comes with this industry and this community.
It's like this archaic, dark art to grow cannabis.
The reality is it's not.
I'm really, really happy to be out here and continuing the purpose and the message,
which is that cannabis is extremely, extremely fun to grow.
And you don't have to understand all of these things to be successful, but the more
you understand about them, the more successful you'll be.
So again, I appreciate everybody's time tonight.
Nick, any final thoughts before we wrap it up?
Yeah, I just want to say that for those of you who are interested, if you want to go
on YouTube, type in plants have their own kind of nervous system.
And it's like a minute and 43 second long clip.
And it's going to show you basically, long story short, someone was curious about how
calcium affects plants.
They had this thought that gravity interacts with calcium to identify and inform the structure
of the plants in three-dimensional space, because they have to grow against gravity
to grow up out of the earth.
So there's something going on.
And so what this researcher tried to do was basically genetically modify a plant so that
he could tag a fluorescent pigment onto a calcium binding enzyme.
And the idea for them was to do this one thing.
But what they ended up discovering, as you'll see in the video, is that these plants, when
they sort of are genetically modified, you'll see these calcium waves spread across the
whole plant.
They literally glow in the dark.
And you'll see the actual waves propagating across the whole plant.
So I would highly recommend that people check that out.
Again, the video is called Plants Have Their Own Kind of Nervous System.
You could also look up calcium waves, leaf bite.
That might also pop up something similar where you see a video of a caterpillar biting into
a leaf and it triggers that same exact kind of response with the calcium waves floating
across the whole plant.
And for those of you growers who like to trim the leaves off of your cuts, you may notice
that those cuts actually get rigid.
They don't droop over.
The rigidity is because you have allowed the plants to release calcium.
And that calcium reinforces the structure of every single cell.
And it makes it more rigid.
And it makes it more tight because it assumes that there's a mechanical attack coming in
across the whole plant.
This is a good thing because what you're doing by doing that is stimulating calcium
metabolism in the plants.
You're forcing the plant to take the calcium up, to metabolize it, to deposit it.
So as you continue to grow in your gardens, think about ways that you can physically interact
with your plants to get them to maybe take up a little bit more calcium or to use calcium
as a wave and as a signaling molecule.
Thank you.
Thank you as always for joining me up here and just bringing the incredible amount of
knowledge and continuing to push me deeper, deeper down each of these new rabbit holes
that we come up with every week.
So I really appreciate that.
Thank you again, as always, Peter, for your assistance in producing the show and keeping
things going.
For all of us, Alex, Jody, Jolly, thank you for coming up and asking questions and participating.
Matt on the back channel, as always.
Matt wanted to get into pectins.
You glossed over it.
But I think we'll save that maybe for another day.
We've got London and Andrew and Drew, Richard, Jody, Aseni, Casey, Rob, Ryan, Edward, DB,
Cheryl, Michael, Dominic, Adam, Lou, Gravy, Gravy, Rick, Naomi, Jay.
We got the whole Future Cannabis Project crew up there on the screen.
That's wonderful.
I love it.
Thank you, Hillbilly Herb, Wheatist, Aldridge, Diga, Jolly, Buddha Boy, Mike, Robert Greenfingers,
Rob Thomas, Ian.
What about Bob with the questions tonight?
Stoner for the questions, Dave Martin for the add-in, Leo and all the other folks who
participated as well.
Have a fantastic, fantastic week, everybody.
And don't forget to catch us next week at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific, every Thursday
for Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
Have a great night.
Good night, everyone.
When a bug tries to bite you, you can always swat it away.
Unfortunately, these plants don't have that luxury.
I guess we got a commercial first.
I know, this is it.
What they do have, scientists have just discovered, is an innovative system of communicating danger
to their other parts using some of the same signals as in animal nervous systems.
Researchers have shown that plants can sense the touch of a caterpillar's tiny toes and
respond defensively.
Scientists made this discovery as they were investigating how plants sense gravity.
They suspected calcium signaling was involved, so they genetically engineered an arabidopsis
to glow brighter whenever calcium levels increased.
When they observed the plant under a fluorescence microscope, they then realized that calcium
was dramatically increasing in response to wounding.
So how do plants know to go on guard?
It starts with a chemical, an amino acid called glutamate.
Any type of agitation, from a bug bite to a mechanical cut, causes the release of glutamate,
activating receptors that trigger a calcium-based signal that moves through the plant.
The signal travels the green highway of the plant's vascular system in just one to two
minutes, activating defense hormones that prepare distant leaves for an impending invasion.
By gaining a better grasp of this process, researchers can better monitor signaling,
and someday may be able to manipulate plant communication.
So the next time you brush up against a plant, know that they are feeling your every touch.
Thank you everyone, have a very good end of your Thursday night.
Uh, I don't know where my kids just went, but uh, Jason, thanks for holding down the fort.
We got through dinner at the Lego making.
Today's Thursday.
In the 1960s, at the height of the Cold War, CIA interrogator Cleve Baxter hooked his polygraph
machine up to a houseplant for some reason. Over the course of his experiments, Baxter
observed a change in electrical resistance when the plants were harmed.
