And hello everybody, hope you are doing well today. We are setting up the room
and preparing for another show as everybody gets piled in and the show
begins to start. We'll let everybody kind of join and become part of the team. Oh, I
got a little bit of feedback. So I am looking forward to seeing you all on
show. Without any further ado, we will hop in there and get rolling. We are up
and going and live. Hello there Mr. Toad. Hello there Anita. Dr. Anna Owen. I'm very
excited. We're gonna have, oh there's Layton in the audience too. He'd like to speak.
Layton, if you do me a favor and throw me a follow now, I'll make sure that
you're, you always automatically come up on the panel whenever you come into the
room. So if you just click that little follow button, I can, I can make sure that
happens for me. And yes, I will get the conversation rolling and get everything
started right now. Welcome to the Dank Hour everybody. We are Frog Gasping Live
over at Future Cannabis Project on YouTube. This is a weekly live show.
We do a lot of awesome stuff and have a lot of amazing stuff coming up.
And actually, next week I'll do a little bit of housecleaning right at the start
because if you like tonight's show, we're gonna have a fun one for you today. If
you like tonight's show, make sure you're back here next week. Because next week we
actually have a really amazing panel of women. And because International Women's
Day, we are doing an all-women panel. No dicks allowed. It's gonna be a really
awesome time. Anita, who is right next to me right now, will be leading that
conversation off. And we have some amazing people. So if you check out my, yeah, yeah.
So if you check out my YouTube, if you check out my, you know, profile and make
sure to click on me and follow me on the Instagram, you're gonna see all those
amazing panelists that are gonna be lined up for this because we have like
just a rock star panel. It's gonna be absolutely ridiculous. So make sure that
you're, ridiculous, make sure that you're back here for that amazing event as well.
And everything that we have going on here, there's always lots of fun things.
So we do have, everybody seems to be piled into the other side. So we'll get
the conversation. Oh, and how we usually get this rolling is we go through the
the moderators, the people that are up on stage and introduce ourselves real quick.
We're gonna get you, because you are our special guest. So we're gonna let you
speak last because we're gonna start digging into our conversation right at
that point in time. So without any further ado, we'll let Anita go and then
Dr. Anna, Mr. Toad and then Leighton and then we're gonna roll into our special.
Hi everyone, it's Anita here. I'm also known as, that's what we said. I'm out of
Ontario, Canada and my area of knowledge is in the sales and marketing side in
the Canadian space generally. I'm super excited about this show, so excited.
Owen and Nikki, the owners of Highland Cannabis are my local dispensary here. My
favorite one as well, so I can't wait to talk to them. But yeah, that's all I have
to say about that. So Dr. Anna. Thanks Anita. Good evening or afternoon
everybody. I'm Dr. Anna Schwabe, aka Dr. Annabis. I have a background in cellular
and molecular biology, plant population genetics and it is three years today
that I passed my comprehensive exams and got my PhD in cannabis genetics. We're
looking at variation in cannabis. So I know a lot of the science
surrounding the cannabis plant. I have never been on the retail side selling,
but I have been on the other side of the counter buying and I'm really
excited to hear about retail trends. It's something that's really interesting to
me and I love to hear about what folks are looking for. So I'm really excited
about this, but I don't know how much I'll have to input. But I'm gonna sit
back and listen. Mr. Toad. How y'all doing? I'm Brother Bone, Mr. Toad, aka Filio Phil.
I'm your boy Johnny Paper. I am the owner of Boneyard Seeds NorCal and I'm
the cat that's here to show that if I can do it, you can do it too, man. Much
respect to everybody. Thanks for having me on and I can't wait to hear what we talk
about today. What's up Mr. Toad? Deep love and respect. You guys have no idea who
this man is. He's a hero to so many people. Anyway, my name is Leighton Morrison. I'm a
soil biologist and soil engineer. I grow soil so that healthy plants can grow,
including impacting minor cannabinoids, terpenes, cannabinoids, as well as
cannabinoid production. So yeah, I'm looking forward to tonight's show. Thanks for
having us on, London. Howdy everybody. My name is Johnny. I'm a cannabis cultivator, consumer
enthusiast. I'm really excited to have this conversation with all of you. I
think the retail is, I mean, that's really the driving factor of the market and
what's going on online is the end process. So I'm really excited to be here with all
of you and Josh, you're up next, buddy. Thanks, Johnny. I'm Josh Burke. I'm a
cultivator and breeder and currently working on bringing some hash products to market. So this
talk is kind of a perfect moment for me. So can't wait to get into it with everyone.
Awesome. I'm super excited to have this conversation as well. We have an amazing
panel of guests and the idea is to bring on a special guest each week and discuss
a really interesting area of their field and bring on like an international space. So
we do start with like an hour of our segment and then we go into about half an hour of
questions. So that's the general structure of the show that we have today and also make sure to
follow on the panel. And there's this really cool thing. So on the bottom left, there's two things.
We have a chat you can open. There's a chat that you can now do in Clubhouse. It's like a group
chat for the show. And also if the little arrows that go in a circle on the bottom left, if you
click that, they've changed so you can't ping people in. So if you click that and share, I'd
really appreciate that because that will draw a little bit more people to this amazing panel
and audience. And without any further ado, Owen, you are up and let us know a little bit about you
and we'll get the conversation rolling from there. Tell us about what's up and going on in your neck
of the woods. Absolutely. Thanks a lot. Can you guys hear me okay? Wonderful. Beautiful. Okay.
So yeah, interesting kind of background on my side. My wife and I, Nikki Allerton and I'm Owen
Allerton. We own Highland Cannabis, a fun little shop in Kitchener, Ontario. Our background is
pretty unconventional for the industry, I'd say. I was 20 years in wireless. Started off as a
Rogers wireless dealer, kind of like a T-Mobile or Verizon kind of sort of thing of Canada. We
started from the ground up working retail and grew it to seven stores. Exited that, somehow
landed at BlackBerry and started a 13-year career at BlackBerry that started in channel marketing,
product marketing, and then eventually leading marketing for BlackBerry Messenger
when it was spun off. So finally, that sort of wound down and I was packaged out. I landed at a
cannabis tech startup that was my intro to the industry. And then Ontario went open license and
my wife and I decided to jump in. Nikki was 10 years in banking, worked her way up from a teller
to running bank branches, and then made a pivot to running nightclubs. And so 10 years in
hospitality, sort of running nightclubs and learning to manage big teams of really fun people and have
a good time. So it's interesting because I feel like we sort of live the story of normalization
because we're not heavy cannabis users at all. It was a very sort of, you know, once in a while
someone might bring a joint to our cottage and you know, you enjoy it, not really know what
you're smoking and be completely destroyed afterwards. But with legalization in Canada, we
warmed up to it and then had that entry into the industry with that cannabis tech startup.
And then we decided to go all in because we saw that was really where the opportunity lay.
And as a product marketer, my passion lay with really having a great product to sell and
understanding the value of something and being able to communicate it to end users. And as I
went deeper and deeper into this, kind of really realized that this is, in my view, the best product
on the planet. Like we're, I tell everybody, you know, after years at Blackberry trying to
distill and articulate the value proposition of Blackberry, which got really tough in the
twilight years, making a pivot over to this, like, holy cow, like the value proposition of cannabis,
we're just selling happiness here. Like we see the impact on people's lives every day and love that
we're doing something good that makes people feel good and helps them in so many different ways.
And, you know, one of the reasons why our store is doing so well, we're currently in the top 10
stores in Ontario out of 1300 plus stores, is we really sort of applied first principles thinking
and we tossed out everything that everyone else was doing and telling us to do and just built
everything around making our customers super happy. So the really short version is we have a
people heavy model, staff of 25. At any point in time, we have a minimum of five or six people in
the store. Peak time is more like 12, 13, 14. And it's one to one service. And we have a huge
selection of products and we make our focus on making sure no customer waits. Everybody, you
know, we help them through their journey of discovering the right product for them, whether
it's the senior citizens looking for lotions or whatever it might be that they're after, or if
it's the connoisseur looking for flowers or the concentrate connoisseur looking for the latest,
you know, whatever it might be, diamond, shatter, resin, rosin, etc. So we've got something for
everybody and we just try to focus on making people really happy. And we're not a chain.
We never want to be a chain. No outside investors. We just did it all ourselves, which gave us the
freedom and bandwidth to really just focus on making our customers happy, which has been
the best part about it. So that's a not so short intro, but it kind of gives you an overcap of
where we came from and where we are. Can you do me a favor? I really like to lean in a little bit.
And I love how deep and there's always the opportunity to go deeper here. That's the idea
of the day. And how is we have the biggest conversation possible? Now, my question would
be, I'd love to know a little bit about like kind of that entryway, because that's one of the big
key points that were why we wanted to have you on the show is you're not a chain. You're doing
it different. You're going down a separate path. Like, can you talk? I would like to start a little
bit with like kind of some of the challenges that maybe you faced or if there's an interesting story
or two on the process of setting this up, because you're coming into a legal market with a bunch of
people that don't really maybe necessarily have a whole view about what's going on and how things
are functioning properly. It gets very hard when people are writing laws and we have to interpret
them and step forward. So I love if you could chat a little bit about that kind of the pressure
points on establishing a business and also how it might have been more challenging or different
challenges for you due to the fact that you're not part of a large chain with a huge amount of
money backing it. Absolutely. I think, I mean, there's a few different things there.
You know, jumping into this, you know, for anyone who doesn't have the background on the Ontario
market, what they did is they started with a lottery of just 25 licenses being issued. And it
sounds sort of crazy, you know, Canada's largest province, 40% of the Canadian population, only 25
stores. But the reason they did that is the model here in Ontario is the government was going to act
as the wholesaler. So any legal licensed store can only buy from the government. But the producers
in Canada, frankly, I mean, I'm happy to be here, different opinions, but my sense is the producers
in Canada had no freaking idea what they were doing, especially the big guys like Canopy and
Aurora. They told a good story, raised a lot of money on the stock market, but in practicality,
you know, there's a lot of, you know, in the industry, people sort of laugh that these guys
can barely even grow proper weed at all. So you had all these big producers and supply and demand
was all over the map. The government was trying to be the intermediary wholesaler. They're ordering
product and not really knowing what consumers are going to want, which, you know, anyone that could
make a good PowerPoint presentation and pitch it properly got huge orders. But, you know, very often
it wasn't very good weed at all. So you had this really just all over the place sort of scenario.
But the one thing that I actually think as painful as it was, was actually really smart, was just
doing 25 stores, and then they did an additional follow up lottery for another 50 stores. And what
that did is allowed the OCS itself to kind of walk before it ran. And it was very painful for the
entire population and the industry and the community and everybody who, you know, couldn't
wait for it to be, you know, unleashed as it were. But there's no way that they could have run faster.
It just would have been chaos and mayhem. And, you know, people would have been opening stores and
had no product. And it sort of had to, you know, work its way out a little bit. So by the time we
entered, it had that first few stores had been through that process. The 75 stores had opened,
they'd started to figure out like, okay, here's our distribution centers, our warehouses and all
that sort of thing. And so there was some supply, a lot of, you know, oversupply of crappy product,
and any kind of good product was hard to get your hands on that sort of thing. But it was still very
nascent, very just opening up. And at that point in time, like when we were looking at it, we
contemplated, you know, signing up for a franchise because it was very scary, you know, diving in,
it's like, oh, my God, you know, we don't know what we're doing here and whatnot. And we heard
pitches from different franchises. And it was like, you know, I didn't, I'm not leaving a 20 year
career. To have a new corporate master was really sort of our conclusion. And the other big factor
was realizing the entire industry was so young. No one's got brand equity, you know, like all these
pitches for all these franchises is, you know, you're going to pay us 5% of revenue forever,
or whatever it might be. And, you know, for what, right? Because you're a security blanket, because
you hold my hand through the process of getting a license and building my store. It would, you
know, we probably questioned our own sanity every other day for the first six to 12 months, because
it was a very long process. The way it worked in Ontario was, you have to basically, there's no
guarantees, you'll get your license, but you had to build your store first. And then if you pass
the inspections, you get the license. So it's kind of like no assurances at all. And so on. So you
know, that part was scary. But we got can we were fortunate enough to get connected with really good
consultants. The whole thing actually started for us, because we went to COVA, which they're a point
of sale system software, and they're they're out of Colorado. So some of you may have heard of them.
They're pretty broad here in Ontario, a lot of stores use them. They had a seminar, it was like
how to open cannabis retail. And I was actually at that seminar while I was working for that cannabis
tech company. But hearing that seminar sort of opened my eyes to this is where I think the
opportunity lies. Like I'm at this seminar with another software company trying to recruit retailers,
and everyone else was there with the same goal in mind. So I'm like, I want to be one of those
retailers everyone's after. So anyways, COVA acted like a pretty good tour guide for us,
they connected us with these consultants, they were regulatory consultants over at CanDelta.
They were great. And they gave us the confidence, because they could help us navigate the licensing
and all the requirements for our build out of our store and all that sort of thing.
And we sort of looked at it was like a one time fee with these consultants compared to,
you know, a giant equivalent, if not bigger one time fee with a franchise, and then,
you know, a pound of flesh in perpetuity to a franchise, like, why would I do that? Let's just
pay the consultants and be masters of our own destiny, build our own brand, build our own store.
And we were fortunate in our own experience and background have had experience doing renovations
and build outs never commercial, to be honest. So doing a commercial build out was new for
Nikki and I. But we had a lot of good friends who are contractors that we've worked with in the
past on different projects. So we said, let's do this. And you know, my own marketing background
kind of gave me the confidence to, to be able to build our brand, although I don't like calling it
a brand to me, we're just a we're just a community. You know, we're located on Highland Road.
And that was the big turning point we were trying to think of a name like, okay, we're going to do
this on our own. We wanted to be focused on community, we knew we only wanted to be one store,
you know, everyone in the news is saying we're going to be the next national chain,
and have these big kind of aspirations. And I think fed by ego, which is fine. Everyone has
that stage in their career in life. But I was sort of over that, like I climbed the corporate ladder,
and I was done with it, just wanted to have fun and build something that was successful. So
we, we knew from the outset, we didn't want to be a chain, I said, I'd rather be one great store
than 10 shitty ones. And my, our view of it, our hypothesis is that if we spread ourselves too thin,
we wouldn't be able to give it the love and attention it needed to make it grow and be
healthy and, and thrive. So we purposely just wanted to do one, we wanted to focus on the
community, be part of our community, Kitchener is a smallish town of about 200,000 people.
It's, it's a weird one, because there's actually two towns Kitchener and Waterloo,
that because of local politics refuse to amalgamate, even though on the map, they're one
big circle. So our, our greater metropolitan area probably acts like a city of about 500,000.
Because Waterloo is a university town, but we've got about 100,000 students when they're not,
you know, remote learning from COVID. And then Kitchener was traditionally more of a manufacturing
town. It's becoming more of a tech town, as things evolve and old factories become,
you know, timber beam, whatever, trendy office space, again, before we went to work from home.
So anyways, that's where we were, that's where we started. And diving into that industry
was a little crazy. And we had to sort of figure things out as we went.
We had that guidance from the consultant, we were trying to figure out what do we call it,
we wanted to be community focused. And we had this moment, where we realized that the location
we had found was on Highland Road. And one thing I took from years of marketing is I couldn't stand
all the agency contrived marketing. To me, you know, 20 years of marketing, my main takeaway
is the most marketing bullshit, and I can't stand it. I'm a big fan of things that are authentic,
and real and simple. Someone once told me that if you have to explain a marketing campaign,
it's already failed. So for me, you know, all these trendy names that are being, you know,
kitschy and whatever. We just called ourselves Highland Cannabis, because we're on Highland Road,
the place is the name and the name is the place. It's nice and simple. And we didn't try to...
You did get a little advantage with the high.
I mean, there's a little bit of what I like to call almost divine circumstance,
like where things just work out, like right place, right time, right moment,
and just weirdly correct. You know what I mean? It seems like one of those.
It totally, it felt like it was meant to be. When we sort of realized that we'd already looked at
like 30 locations around town. And trying to find the one that worked. And we'd already decided this
was like a great location. We wanted to, you know, as a starting point for what we were doing.
But then when we realized that, like, I'm a dad, I got three little kids,
Nikki and I have three little kids, they're nine, 10 and 11. So I love my dad jokes. So the fact
that it was Highland, like, what are you talking about? No, it's Highland Road. But it's, that just
worked out. I agree. It was, it felt meant to be. The rest of the story sort of wrote itself when
it came to the brand and what we were about. We just built our store in a way that reflected
our own tastes, which was really again, to that point about being authentic and not being
contrived. Like we didn't set out to have some theme, we just wanted it to feel a certain way
that really reflected who we were. And that's what we built. It ended up being kind of classy
and nice and modern and approachable and warm. We hired a designer that we'd worked with for
probably seven or eight years, I think on five or six different projects, like renovation projects,
we had some rental properties that we renovated before. So this designer, Benjamin John, who lay
local designer, you know, won awards sort of thing locally. And this was his first project.
I always got to point out these things that I love hearing about because people can always go like,
oh, well, I set it up for this cheap and I did. But I love the fact that you went local
and supported local business is so important. And I appreciate that.
He's like family. Like Ben, one thing I learned when we were doing projects with him,
if there's one thing, if anyone is building a store, the biggest piece of advice I can give
to them is find a good designer. Like if you know one already, you've worked with great. But if you
don't like try to find a good designer and the money you spend on a designer is worth more than
everything else you'll spend. And as we did our build out, like it was his vision. And I talked
to all our contractors and contractors are great because sometimes they've got all these ideas of
things they want to incorporate and they've seen and done a lot of things. But a contractor is not
a designer. And you got to I learned the hard way over the years of doing projects that I'm not a
designer as much as I've got design ideas. I'm not a designer. People who are designers, like
they think in three dimensions, like these things, just stuff they can see and visualize things that
I could never come up with. And so I told everybody there's only one chef in the kitchen
and it's Ben. So we can all give him our ideas, but he's the decider on this, even though I'm the
owner, like, and I've got to be okay with the stuff he's doing, right? Like a good designer will
listen to you and understand you and get a handle on your personality and what you're after and
explain your goals and how you want it to work. But they are able to translate all of that
into one masterpiece. Like it's his canvas, because if you got too many chefs in the kitchen,
you end up with things that are hodgepodge and look horrendous. And the end of the day, when we
finished, he submitted the store for a design award. And again, his first commercial project,
and actually won first place from the Canadian Interior Design and Decorators Association
for commercial design, period, not dispensary design. And I fully give him credit for that.
And it was all based on the original space we're working with and the finish and the design
features he put in, and basically how he put it together. And that made a really big difference.
I mean, it's not the only reason for our success by any means, but he set the stage that we
then went out and performed the show on. Awesome. Well, I think that's a great start. And I'll just do a
quick reset of the room right now and let everybody know we're talking to Retail Friends with our
special guest, Owen Allerton of Highland Cannabis in Southern Ontario. Now, I know Anita had a
couple of questions, but before we get to that, I'd like to pop down to Josh and ask, as someone
who is producing hash and thinking about this part of the market, do you have any particular
questions that you might ask for someone in Owen's location and space? And his interactivity
with customers probably has a lot of knowledge on what's being looked at in the markets or
anything you might have as a great question.
Well, it's a good question. Every time I go into a retail space, I like asking them about
what kind of hash is selling in their store. I find, even in one town,
different stores will have a very different group of clientele that are looking for different
kinds of hash. Some are looking for the higher end stuff, but many are looking for the
really good price and bang for their buck. So I guess that would basically be the
same question. What are people looking for in your space? Are they looking for
like, are they able to distinguish between quality hash and just basic cash,
or are they just looking for the best bang for their buck?
Great question. So I'll preface it with a little bit of background on how the markets
evolved in the last 12 months. We opened in January 2021. So we've just passed,
we're like 13 months open at this point, sort of thing. And when we opened, there was nothing
in terms of hash and concentrates. There was a couple of really basic,
like pressed hash, like crappy options, to be honest. But what's really happened,
at least in the Ontario market, is just an explosion of different sizes, shapes,
or whatever. All the products, there's been an explosion of selection and product innovation
and variation. So when we started, we probably had 10 concentrates to use overall, including
hash, shatter, whatever. Now we're in our store, we've got 120 in stock. When it comes to what
we're seeing now, there's sort of something interesting I seem to see happening in concentrates,
and it's just sort of like a step back observation of it. There seems to be like a price threshold
with the legacy market. When our prices reach a point where they're at parity or a little better
than legacy, all of a sudden the volumes just explode, like take off. And some things like hash,
I think a lot of the people who are hash consumers tend to be older, and they may not even have good
legacy sources, but you still see a huge price sensitivity. And in Canadian dollars, it's like
something like 30 bucks for two grams starts to just fly. The more premium half options that are
whatever they might be, bubble hash or specific strain or all kinds of different things they're
doing with it to make it different, better, special, that are more like 40, 50 dollars for a single
gram of premium stuff, you get sampling customers who are coming in, they want to try this, they
want to try that. But I don't notice as much as just buying huge amounts regularly sort of thing.
Our number one selling hash queue is an Afghan black hash from a company called Vortex. It's
two grams for 30 bucks, and it's the good old sticky black hash. And one of the things that
surprised me in general, I mentioned we have an older customer segment, I'd say our customers are
mostly like 30 to 60. But specifically on the hash side of things, the number of people that come in,
like doctors and lawyers and people that really enjoy their hash back in the 70s and may not even
have touched it for 20 years, but they want to go back and experience what they had before. Those
are the ones coming for the good old black hash. And they literally described it to me before this
one came out. They're saying, what's all this pressed hash you've got? I want the black sticky
stuff that I could stick to the wall like I used to get back when I was young. And I didn't understand
why we didn't have that. I'm talking to some producers. They said, well, look, even their
hashitions were telling me, I wish I could make that, but the suits are pressing me to turn it
around quickly. And so they want me to take it and make it and press it and ship it. And they don't
have the patience to let it age. I think the market speaking and the ones that are actually doing it
properly, we've now got like temple balls and hash coins and full melt hash and all this stuff. But
that Afghan black hash at that price point still is our number one skew for hash by far.
But then again, you get into the premium options and you get more of the sampling
sort of folks that are, they'll try this, whether it's hash or resins and rosins and diamonds,
all of these, we've got a lot of skews that are moving one, two or three a week because people
just love to come in and try a different thing every time. The other big movers we have is
the hash question, but our number two mover is like a gram of shatter for 30 bucks or $20 Canadian.
Whenever you've got something again, at that certain price point, you've got these customers,
they're like your hard liquor drinkers and they just need something super potent. They know what
they need and they're going to go just scoop up lots of it on the regular, whatever's the
cheapest Smirnoff or non-Russian vodka at this point. That'll get the job done. They'll grab it.
Awesome. And I got Anna, did you have a question?
I do. So Owen, I think your business sounds amazing and I'm in the US, so I don't have
the luxury of coming up and visiting you, but as a customer from the other side of the counter
and also somebody who's very interested in education, especially when it comes to
education of people who are in the industry, I'm just wondering, since you are sort of in that top
echelon of dispensaries, how do you educate your team?
Really great question. It's fun because when we started, I had all these plans to use all
these different tech platforms and some of them worked really great for HR and
hourkeeping and payroll and things like that. But other ones, we had an education platform,
the Instagram of education for weed education. It was a good platform, but I found it was hard.
You needed a full-time person to get content in there. And so we ended up ditching it.
The LPs, the licensed producers, in Canada it's sort of the short form, we call them LPs,
they will send people in and educate the staff on specific products and sometimes give some
category knowledge. But one of the reasons we've done well as a store is because we have that
people-heavy model. So we've made a point of hiring experts in different areas. We've got
three concentrate connoisseurs on staff that really know their concentrates. They've tried
everything. And if I get a concentrate LP and I make sure they spend time with those people.
The same thing for the other categories, whether it's
vape carts or flour or edibles or whatever it might be. We've got people with interests in
different areas on our team. And then the LP training gets focused on those people.
And then again, our model, because it's people-heavy, instead of having one person sitting
there who has to do something alone on their phone, we encourage them to socialize and talk shop.
At minimum, we've got five people working in our store. So we have the opening shift of five people
and then there's the closing shift of five people. And of course, they've got overlap in the middle.
And I've got a couple shifts midday that overlap with all that. So at its peak, we could have,
like I said, 12, 13 people. And I don't expect it to be super busy in the afternoon. But that's when
they're restocking the floor. Some people are taking lunches, but a lot of people are
talking about the products. And one thing we look for in our staff is people that are excited and
passionate about cannabis. So we tell them that you're allowed to go read Reddit while you're on
the floor. You're allowed to go look up the latest streams, share pictures of the flower,
tell stories about whatever it is. And they're so passionate about the product. It's not like
you've got to twist their arms to do that. So I don't know if it's very scalable for other shops.
But somehow we've ended up with a team that people praise us for being so incredibly knowledgeable.
And yet I have no formal education program. I've just built an environment that encourages them
to share with each other. And then we welcome LPs in. We don't even do big formal PK sessions.
Because one thing I've really learned about this industry, especially the bud tenders,
is that everyone's got their own bag of issues. And there are very few of them that could sit
still and watch a presentation for an hour or two. But you allow them to stand around an informal
setting and take it in and just have conversations. And when you've got LPs and LP reps that are
passionate, knowledgeable, and you've got bud tenders who are really truly into the different
areas they're in, it's not even like learning. They're just finding out about something they're
excited about. And then they share that information and knowledge with their co-workers.
So just affording the opportunity to do that has worked really well for us. So again, I don't know
if that helps anyone else who's got a different model. I've heard of employees at other stores
where they just sit there doing training modules on their smartphone. And I personally couldn't
even retain information very well if that's how I was trying to learn. So can anyone
memorize all the permutations and combinations of the 32 major terpenes to figure out their
different effects? Well, maybe me. Yeah, half of us. Half of us would do that on a Monday.
I just actually just wanted to jump in for one second and just give you guys kudos too. Because
one of my favorite things about coming into your store and the reason why
I actually passed about five stores to get to your store now, is because of that
people heavy model. Every time I go in, there's always people that I know that are interested to
hear about what I tried last time and to give me feedback or, oh, let's try this now. Or like,
what are you looking for? And so it's very much like that cheers, kind of like you walk in and
they're all like, yay. And it's like, not just me. I thought it was me. I thought it was pretty
special for a bit. But it's everybody. Everybody gets that really amazing welcome. And it's that
same energy as the plant itself. And I think that that's why it works so well, is because it's this
harmonious balance that you guys really strive towards. You really listen to what your staff,
the people that are experts that are using or that have had a lot of experience, you listen
to what they say. I don't know any other store that has a whole wall of fridges, not for their
just their drinks, but for their concentrate. And you guys make sure that when product comes in,
it's well taken care of. So you can provide that to the customer. And I just wanted to say that
because I think it's one of the reasons why you guys are doing so amazing. Like,
1300 stores and you guys are in the top 10 in a town that's not that big and where there's larger
cities, especially Toronto, right around the corner, is pretty amazing. And what I wanted to
ask you as doing all these things, are there, while you're going through all these brands,
I know you guys have pretty much everything new you guys have. I know if something's coming new,
you guys will always carry it and you guys are always super excited for it to come out. But
is there anything that a brand or anything that's coming out that's new, that's a standout that you
would advise, like a new and upcoming, like grower or producer that are looking to, you know,
hone in what what it is that people are looking for?
That's a tricky question. So, first, thank you very much. We make it our goal to make everyone
super happy. And, you know, quick comment on sort of your narrative there. I think one of the things
that we had, Nikki and I had to our advantage is not being super involved in the legacy market or
knowing that much about it. We're not afraid to admit that. One thing that I take from my
career in the wireless world, executive, blah, blah, blah, climbing the ladder and stuff is like,
you don't need to know everything. You don't need to be the expert. When you're leading a team,
you need the experts in the different areas. And so we knew that we didn't know everything.
And that meant we were open to listening to our people and listening to experts and hearing from
everybody, even when it comes to our customers. I always ask customers, tell me what you think.
Like, I want to hear how you'd like that, because I don't have to try everything in the store.
But what I can do is synthesize the customer's feedback. And after I've heard from 20 or 30
people about how they liked a certain product, I was not saying I've tried it myself, but I can
start to get more information than if I have tried everything myself. Because if I try it myself,
I'm getting my own. But I can sort of start to develop an aggregate view of how people like
different products. And we all do that. All of our customers, everyone wants to hear from
the customers. All of our staff, sorry, wants to hear from the customers. And like our concentrates
in the fridge, that's because staff wanted to. And when it comes to new products that are
being launched, one thing that the OCS does, I talked about how we have to buy through the OCS.
Again, love-hate relationship with them. They curate what products they decide to pick up that
I'm able to order. So they're the great gatekeepers of the Ontario market. And they require every
different producer in Canada. And this is one of the beautiful things of federal legalization is
we've got private producers of all sizes from coast to coast across every province
coming up with all different products and they can bring them all here to Ontario. But
the downside is they got to pitch the OCS on them. And so whatever the OCS decides to carry,
they will then break up into different product releases. And I don't know if it's a good idea
or bad, but it's the way they're doing it. They do product drops every month, two months,
three months sort of thing. There's almost no rhyme or reason to it. We had one in November.
We've had one in January. They're kind of skipping a couple of months and we're doing
one in early April for 420. And they make it challenging because all of a sudden,
they'll drop 250 new products on the market. And you got to decide which ones you take. It's very
hard to take them all, but I make it my mission to have as many of the good ones as possible.
And so again, I don't pretend to know what they all are. I don't go away in a ivory tower and
look into a crystal ball and say, these are going to be the big ones.
What I do is I print off a list of all the new products and all available information. I put it
out on the counter in the lunchroom for the staff. I'm like, guys, here's the preliminary list where
we could out from launch. What are you excited about? And we've got bud tenders who were involved
in the legacy market. And like I said, we've got concentrate connoisseurs. We've got a whole
kinds of different people. We've got people who love vaping and they'll just doodle on these
sheets and we'll get little stars and fireworks and asterisks and balloons and whatever.
The more doodles I see beside a certain SKU, I use that to gauge how excited the market is. And
again, the benefit of having a large team is I'm almost doing a survey of 25 ultra pot connoisseur
super users. So instead of it being relying on one person, I'm starting to get an average
in a weird way. And then I cross-reference that with my own insights in terms of price and
different things that give me some sense of how it might do in background and research and
talking to LPs and whatnot. But you have to put a lot of different things together
to figure out what to pick up. And currently we have almost 1200 SKUs stocked in our store.
So it's a Herculean effort to curate and maintain our inventory and monitor how many weeks supply
we have of all the different things and decide what to go hard on and what we can be light on.
And some of those SKUs have inconsistent supply, whereas other ones are super reliable. So you
don't have to worry about them. All makes it very interesting. And the other thing we do is we play,
I call it survivor Highland, where I let the team vote on what SKUs we kill. Let's eliminate these,
sell the hell out of them if we have to put them on sale, get them moving, make room for the next
drop because I got another drop coming. And I think that's probably a very unique thing to
Ontario. I've heard stories from the US where retailers have to deal with multiple different
wholesalers and ordering for different people and direct relationships with LPs, which I'd love
the direct relationship, but with the selection we have, I don't know how it would be humanly possible
if I had to order separately from each one of those different LPs. I'd have a whole separate
staff working in the back office to do the paperwork and place the POs and all that kind of
thing. But because again, you know, love hate all these challenges with the OCS and this sort of
game they've set up that works the way it's set up. But the love part is that I log into one nice
little portal, not quite as smooth as Amazon, but I've got a shopping cart and I can just browse
through 2000 products from hundreds of different producers, add it to my cart. I get one invoice on
one PO and one delivery of all this stuff. That part is pretty nice. That was a giant roundabout
prelude to the actual question. How do we know what's the next hot thing? I think that's a super
tough question. I mean, by category, everything's changing so fast. At least in this market, it
feels like all the producers are throwing spaghetti at the wall and seeing what sticks.
Infused pre-rolls were a big thing. There were a couple infused pre-rolls where
1.5 grams for around 18, 20 bucks at 30% THC and those flew off the shelf.
But then 10 different SKUs entered. There was, I think, six different LPs launched, 10 new SKUs,
all infused pre-rolls. And now they all just do kind of meh. So there was demand, but not that much demand.
Another category was milled product. Here, the average half quarter,
the cheapest half quarter you'll get will be $15, $20. Sorry, half quarter is very,
I think maybe Kitchener specific. Very Ontario. I started laughing over here.
So it's funny. I've said half quarter to my wife because again, she's new. She's like,
what's a half quarter? It's an eight. So anyways, 3.5 gram is the dominant size for flour.
The cheapest kind of crappy flour you can buy in a 3.5 gram is like $15, $20 Canadian.
When we started, the good stuff was 40 to 50, maybe over 50 Canadian. But one trend that I've
seen is that really good stuff, not really, really good stuff, but pretty good stuff is now
available in the thirties. Some of the most popular SKUs are in the thirties. And if you're
going to be 40, 50, it better be something pretty special to warrant people spending money on it.
That's where you get more of the connoisseurs. And if I had to draw the alcohol comparison,
it's like the people trying to find wines that really into the turps and the flavors and
want to craft and want to just admire the bud before they break it up. That's usually the high
thirties, $40, $50 price range. People are buying it in the $20 for the 3.5. They're expecting $20
week. It's going to get them high. It's going to be pretty good, but it's not primo stuff.
So that was those price points. But then milled product hit the scene. And so Shred is this one
brand that sort of owns that space. They started the space and what you're getting there is a
quarter for 30 bucks. But it was pre-milled, but previously milled was seen as like this crappy
category that was like, they took your shake and you ground it all up and it was like, but what
Shred did is they actually brought good quality milled product to the market, had a humidity
pack in it. We think they re they mixed Keef back into it to boost the THC level. It seems like
they're taking the stems out because there's not a lot of plant matter. It burns really smooth.
But people just love it and no one can keep it in stock for like six months.
But we are kind of like quarters. So I had a lot of it. We did well on that.
But it's blowing my mind that this is a popular product. Oh, and I can't, I don't want it. Like,
it's just, it shocks me that milled flour.
I know it's different than what growers.
I can't.
Yeah.
I was just going to say it's different than what growers think that people want.
That's most, it's, it's, there's different markets. There's always going to be a market
that wants that beautiful killer bud. Like, you know, where you can just do it when you,
when you open the bag and all that. But there's, there's a lot of other markets that are like,
aren't for you. They're not for you. They're not for you.
There's a segment for everyone. And that's again, one of the things like just stepping back,
I mean, I was going on about milled and how it spawned this category,
you know, higher quality milled, but you know, quality is relative. So
is it anything like a beautiful bud that's like, you know, craft and all that sort of stuff? No,
not at all. But there's so many different segments. This is what's blown my mind about
this industry. The traditional like pot connoisseur or, you know, more like kind of stoner stereotype
some people might have in their heads. To me, that's like 5 to 10% of my customers.
I've got the senior citizens that swarm my CBD lotion and oil table in the midday.
I've got the frazzled moms who tend to bait more because they're trying to hide it from their kids.
I've got the working professionals who are just fully functional, like, you know,
tech workers that just love this stuff. I got my Bitcoin guys, they fall in there.
They're all working. They're trying to tell me I need to have NFTs. Like, I don't know what an
NFT is. I don't know why someone would pay for an encrypted encoded picture that no one can copy,
but whatever. There's those guys. There's this, like I mentioned, the old hash connoisseurs,
they're the 60 to 70 year old lawyers. There's absolutely the flower connoisseurs. But then
there's the value guys too. And at first, we set out thinking we're just going to have only the
best quality stuff. We boycotted some of the big corporate cannabis guys. To this day,
don't carry daily special, which is like a really crappy, like big bag of popcorn nugs that if you
squish them, they turn into dust. There's TWD, which is a canopy brand. There was all those
pictures leaked on Twitter of their moldy rooms. We sort of boycotted them before, long before that.
We call it TWD. We say it stands for the walking dead. Our bartenders said, you know, this stuff
tastes like you're smoking a plastic bag or something. I tell all the LPs, there's only two
ways into my store. My bartenders love you, or my customers are asking for you. But with all that
aside, there's something for everybody. And there are people that have less money to spend. And
there's people that buy Colt 45. I don't know if that's a thing down in the US, but it's like
really crappy cheap beer in a big bottle, because they just need it. There's wine connoisseurs,
liquor drinkers that just want the high potency. The whole industry is on this. It's not all about
THC, it's about the terps. But the fact is, there are some people that just don't even get high
unless it's higher. And I get complaints from customers. I bought this 26% THC flower and it's
not doing anything for me. Well, maybe it's time for you to try some Lime Resin.
They just don't understand how the product works. They think THC is what's getting high,
when in fact, that's just part of the pie. It's like one sliver on the pizza that has 12
minimum slices. And cannabinoids are just one of those. So THC is just a piece of that slice.
It's a huge issue for sure. It's an issue. But I think my point was more that people have
different tolerances. Some people who've gone right into the concentrates, they're down a
different path. So I completely hear you and we do our best to educate customers. But I think
to me, the main thing is that there's something for everybody. We want to have the best stuff.
But I read one somewhere that quality doesn't just mean premium. Quality means consistently
delivering the same thing to your customers so they can count on what you are. And so,
Kraft Dinner has a consistent level of quality. It might be a crappy low-end product, but you buy
Kraft Dinner and you know what you're getting. So that's what Shred did with the mill category.
And some of the really successful $20 flowers are... People know they're not premium,
super premium ones, but they're really great for what you're praying.
Another great line I heard at Lifting Co in Toronto, a big conference here,
it was the master grower from Mood Ring. He said,
there's no such thing as bad weed. It's just overpriced weed, which sort of stuck with me.
Everything can appeal to a different segment as long as it's priced correctly, they won't be upset.
And it brings up a couple of thoughts. I had a friend that had bad shakes, but it was young
onset arthritis. And I remember he used to pick up a bag of weed and I would come over to his place
and I'll grind it. It was tough for him. So I could see now, thinking back at that and how
these other things come along, why these would have value. And the fact of the matter is,
is that we do have... We chuckled there for a moment because this is the room and space to
talk about the 30 different tourpines and how they add up to how they affect you. But we're
specialists. We're specially specialized in talking about cannabis and talking about all
these things. So it's really refreshing and I think important to have an abject view about these
points. What is it like in the Canadian LP market and how can we influence these things to progress
in the way that we would want? Closing your eyes off to legal licensed producers because they are
in another space. I just see that transition and often that heady legaciness that comes up.
Regardless, I would love to know now, here's the question that's come forward that I think
is pertinent. Dave asks, info coming from the LPs, is it becoming more legit and are they
growing better cannabis now or any of these large places? Or are you more excited at the
influx of the new small farm act that we have moving forward now? Where is that happening and
where do you see the growth in the market going? Great question. I feel like the big corporate
growers are just paralyzed by all the things that are wrong with big companies. Stuff I saw at
Blackberry where there's organizational issues where they couldn't execute their way out of a
wet paper bag sort of thing. You see the same sort of thing where these big companies with their
established leadership have certain ideas about things, but they have no idea about what's
happening in the real world. So their answer to that was to acquire companies that did know what
they were doing. But like 80% of the time, they just ruined those companies too, which is a real
shame. But what I'm really seeing, a lot of the new products that are absolute hits are coming
from the smaller shops. Some of the small craft growers, from what I've seen, are bringing some of
the best products to market. I don't know if craft is a touchy one. We have an official craft
designation. So I don't know if they're all quote unquote craft, but definitely smaller growers that
are doing things their own way. Instead of pitching some big pitch to the stock market,
raising millions and buying up all these greenhouses and not really even having a master
grower that knows what they're doing. They're starting small, building up a body of knowledge
and expertise and refining what they're doing. And it feels like specifically in the last...
Since we started till now, I feel like they're all figuring their shit out. All of a sudden,
you're seeing just better and better quality, higher terp levels. I know it's not all about
THC, but you're seeing higher THC levels. I sometimes say 25 is the new 20. It used to be
rare to find flour that was up 25, 26. But now all these new hits are coming from these smaller
growers and they're just knocking it out of the park. It's not saying it has to be that high,
but it used to be at the outset that it was 18, 19, 20%. I don't know who made that comment
earlier, but I bet you're just cringing that I'm saying that. But just in general, they're
figuring it out. They're getting better at what they're doing while the big guys continue to
stumble. I just think that's interesting as the space works itself out. Because to me, it's like
an early sign of maturity coming on in the industry. I think any maturation of the industry
is probably still five to 10 years out. But it's like the innovation cycles you see with Tesla
figuring out electric cars. The reason they're doing so well now is because they started 15 years
ago. And every single cycle of trial and failure and learning, it's like an iterative cycle.
And so the same thing, there's a grower not far from here called Green Seal Cannabis. We've taken
our staff on tours of the plant. I've talked to the founders and owners. And they just do one
strain. But what they did is they optimized for production volume. But there's this axis of
yield. And this is how they explained it to me. This axis of yield to THC and terps. And it's
normally a linear trade-off of balancing. The terps go down as the THC goes up. And then somewhere
in there, you get the yield even goes up as you move farther along the axis. And again, the folks
involved in growing, maybe I've got this all wrong. So feel free to correct me. But what they
explained is they solved the yield by thinking outside the box. So they took their space. And
instead of growing a big grow room, and instead of even doing a single stack, they've developed
a method of effectively doing seven-layered stack growing. And they said as far as they knew,
they were the only ones doing anything like this. And it's-
Sea of green. It's called sea of green.
And it's wild. And so their whole room's got no aisles in it. So all these racks that go seven
layers high right up to the ceiling are on the big rollers. So you have to move the racks over,
and you only get one aisle at a time in the entire room. And what they're saying, what they did by
doing this, they didn't have to worry about optimizing for yield in the plant maturity.
They could optimize for turps and THC, and then improve their yield by stacking, literally,
physically stacking the vertical seven layers up. And they've got so many different batches going
that they're harvesting twice a week. They've got a Tuesday harvest and a Thursday harvest every week.
And even though they've only got the one strain, they're my favorite supplier because
they've got such consistent supply that I never have to worry about the OCS not having their
product. And whenever I order their products, always fresh. So whereas other ones that might
do, they've got a few different strains, it's like they'll drop a huge harvest, and there's
this influx of products, and it's there, and there's a pile of it. And then I might not get
that strain back again for a month or two, or whenever their next harvest comes up after that.
I'm sure they had more than one going at a time, but they're almost never weekly. And then I've
got to somehow guess how much to order to last me until the next time they drop. Because again,
when we started, one of the things that we found when we went shopping is nothing was worse than
finding a product you like and then not being able to find it again if you wanted more.
So my goal is to always have stuff in stock. But I have to bridge that gap for my customers,
because the supply is all over the map for most of them. So anyways, that Green Seal story with
these guys with their seven layer stack, this is just one little story of a small shop,
independent founders doing some really innovative stuff. And that was the result of like,
six or seven years of trial and error and innovation to get this whole system working
beautifully to the point where their vision is coming true. And they're delivering consistent
supply of fantastic product at really great prices. Their products like 35 bucks for 3.5 grams.
35 Canadian sort of thing. It's a gorilla berry. Great, great product. Now they're for the first
time expanding beyond the one SKU to pre-rolls and a half ounce. Walk before you run, get better at it,
then scale it up. Don't try to do 10 things at once when you don't even know if the market likes
what you're making yet. Oh, and I had a question and London, I'm sorry, but I got to pop off real
quick here. So, oh, and are you guys in Canada allowed to grow with other organisms like worms
and macro and micro orthopods, living soil systems, or are you required only to stick with
salt-based nutrients? I'm not sure, but I think it's the latter needed. You know the answer to
that one. I'm sorry, I'll step in here. I work with the LP's as well. They are to some degree
allowed to use living soil, but it's extremely difficult to set up. You need to get COAs for
worms and stuff like that. There's a few people that are organic. I'm not quite sure if they're
actually regenerative though. I can look into that and get back to you on that one.
Yeah, I work at one of the largest LP's in Canada. They're not regenerative, but they are
using a wide variety of beneficial organisms. Cool, thank you for that answer. And I'm sorry,
London, I got to scoot, brother, but I'll catch you guys next week. Peace out. Appreciate always
having you on stage, brother. Thank you again for being here. So, I'm coming for you, Johnny.
So, I know you're still reading about the group build thing because it's just so surprising and I
just didn't see it. But regardless, I got to ask, you got some questions for Owen here. I think
you'll bring a really interesting perspective coming from the California market and with your
kind of aspects. So, is there a question that you might have or something for Owen?
And just before you go, and at the same time, I'll say this as well. We are opening up
the conversation now. So, if you're in the audience over in Future Cannabis Project and
you want to join the conversation, have something to say, really want to create an open forum here
for everybody to come and chat. So, don't feel nervous. It's an open space. You're welcome to
come over and do that. Come on up, jump in the room, raise your hand, and we will invite you
up on stage to join the conversation and ask your question. We just ask that you make sure to move
your mic on your way up beforehand. But go ahead, Johnny. I appreciate you taking the time.
Okay, Owen. So, yeah, very interesting stuff hearing kind of what's going on north of the
border. A lot of similarities and a lot of differences. And so, yeah, with the pre-milled
ground herb that my buddy, he owned a crystal shop and he had all these amazing pieces,
these extravagant, large, multi-thousand dollar specimens. But he'd sell one of those every
month. He'd sell something big. He'd sell here and there. But the biggest sales that he had were
these little dinky, magnetized rock things that kids loved. And those things
flew off the shelves. And a lot of times, I think Anita was saying, as a grower, we're thinking
about what we want instead of what the average person is going to be interested in. And the
convenience factor, me, myself, I personally wouldn't be super stoked to get a pre-roll
or pre-ground up weed, but I'm not the average consumer. So, I guess I'm just curious what the
kind of breakdown is as far as more of the percentage of what you're selling the most of.
Like I know you said there's a lot of old people going for the cream selves,
the connoisseur flower thing. It's not a super big market share, I'm guessing. So,
not the products, but what would you say the specific types of products as far as
this is taking up 25% of the market, this ash or these tinctures? What's the hottest,
the thing that you sell the most of and that generates... What's your bread and butter at your
shop? Yeah, great question. I don't mind sharing the stats. And one thing that's cool about the
way things are set up in here, Ontario is every single store is required to submit their report,
all their sales data to the government and the government spits it back at you in this really
cool little dashboard. So, I've got January results, tip my fingers here. So, 50% of overall
sales was dried flower. The next one passed at 17% was vapes, predominantly 510 cartridges.
14% was pre-roll. 6% was concentrate. 5% was edibles. And 3% was beverages.
Then oils and capsules together made up 5%. And topicals only 1%. So, it's interesting.
Dried flower is still the hugest part of that. If I look at my top dried flower SKUs,
four of the top five are milk products, which is crazy. But again, to me, it just speaks of
the price sensitivity. And that's unit sales, not dollar amounts. So, if I look at units sold,
I'm just trying to look at number one is dried flower, number two is pre-roll,
number three is edibles, number four is vapes, which is closely tied with beverages at number
five. So, it's pretty interesting. Like I said, there's the value play or not. It's not even a
value play. It's just there's a different segment for everyone. The topical is definitely not a
huge part of it. Vapes are interesting because there's a very, even though it's all vapes,
I see a really clear distinction between the distillate vapes, as one LP once called them
to me, hot dog water. They're just adding the distillate back in. Those are much more people
who don't care about the flavor. They're not connoisseurs at all. They're happy that it tastes
like lemons or berries or melons or whatever. And they just want to get high and smoke indoors and
don't want anyone to know. Very different from the live resin carts. And we've got a big selection
of those. And that's much more like the... I find the behavior there's more like the concentrate
connoisseurs where they want to try one of every different concentrate cart that I've got
available. And they sort of make their way through our top shelf selection and try everything on the
top shelf, literally. Pre-rolls surprised me because we sell a huge amount of them. If I
were to compare unit sales of equivalent volume, I think it'd be getting close. The only reason
flour is 50% in pre-rolls or only whatever they were 14% for us is because of the ounce bags.
Obviously, the quarters, halves and full ounces, they just cost more. So you make a lot more on
those and there are a lot more of the unit sales. But if you were to compare half quarter or the
3.5 gram bulk packs of pre-rolls, those do incredibly well. My top SKUs for
bulk packs of pre-rolls... And that's actually interesting. You talk about trends. Bulk packs
of pre-rolls has been something that's also exploded in the last, say, six months. There was
only a few of them previously. But now everyone's coming out with them. They're coming up with
really aggressive pricing and doing very well with them. Those pre-roll SKUs sell as many,
if not more, than my top flour SKUs, which is kind of mind-bending when I first realized that.
But I think if someone's in the production space, the takeaway there is, take whatever you're
growing and then segment it. I'm sure everyone's doing this anyways. I got to assume you're taking
your best quality buds and putting that in a container and selling it. And then taking the
little popcorn nugs and whatever else that isn't as pretty and making something else out of it.
And I have to assume that's what they're doing as well. That brand, Shred, that I talked about,
really created that better quality milled. Milled went from being garbage leftovers to something
people wanted to buy because it was at 20 to 22 percent THC. People, like I said, they mix the
keef back in. Some of our bud tenders found little keef pucks in their bag and it's like,
oh, I got the prize in the cereal box sort of thing. But it was a higher quality product
and it sort of changed the game. And it's just sort of shifted perception.
Like you said, there's a lot of customers that found rolling a joint to be a pain in the ass.
So they're just buying cones now and just pinching the stuff up and filling it up and away they go.
So there's lots of different ways to come at it, I guess.
A lot of people have different reasons for that, too. I smoke a lot, and that's my preferred. I
like smoking a joint. I like milled because my hands hurt. I have arthritis. And an electric
grinder turns it to powder. So it does its job well. And I know that a lot of people think that
the whole process and rolling is part of it. And I do agree, but it is not an option for everyone.
A lot of people have different mobility issues and need help with their bud. And they're rolling
or whatnot. And I'm an adult and I don't want to ask another person for help. And I would just
prefer if I could just buy my own. And I would like to have good quality bud to purchase. Just
because I can't grind and roll my own doesn't mean that I should get shitty, crappy weed that
like, good, you should just get that because that's what you deserve. That's horrible. That's
not the spirit of the plant. That's not the spirit of this industry. We're supposed to be doing things
together and sharing each other's ideas. And what I might like, you might not like. What works for
you might not work for you. We all have a different endocannabinoid system as well. And that's what
the beauty of this industry should be. Us sharing what we each like and enjoy about it so we can
learn from each other and take it even further and grow with that as an industry. I just wanted
to say that. But yeah, I think that it's amazing. And I'm super happy about the multi-packs and
stuff. When I wanted it, there was nothing. So I'm psyched about it. And they're good. They're
really good. Well, not all of them, but most of them. There was something else. Sorry.
No, no. Just quick one on the shred. The point I remember wanted to make. I lost it there for a
second. Shred is actually a new brand created by another existing brand that does do flower.
So Edison is, they do the more traditional 3.5 grams. They're middle of the road,
$30 for the 3.5. They created shred and their goal, and talked to some folks at Edison. They
said, the reason they did it is they're trying to create an onboarding ramp for people in the
legacy market to get them to try legal product and like it. And this will probably make everyone gasp
again. The shred products are all a blend. They're not even single strain. So they gave them really
fun names, but they're not single strain at all. They've combined two or more strains. And they've
done a nice job. People say they love the flavor and all that kind of stuff. But clearly they've
taken certain products. I don't know if it was their craft beer product or what, but they've
reprocessed it and created this new product people love, but they still do flower. So it's not like
they're just a milk product company. I think we're touching on a couple of awesome points
here that I just want to highlight as well. I'll take a moment to do so. There's one important
thing. A lot of our following, a lot of people that are on future cannabis projects that also
show up in the room are passionate, passionate cannabis folks. And they're very involved in it.
And one of the things that we can all, that I know every single person in this space period can agree
to is the fact that we want everyone to consume cannabis possible. There's no one we don't want
consuming cannabis. I think we can all agree to that. So I think these are really important things
because we're all striving for this goal. We're all trying to get cannabis as into every hand
possible so that people can enjoy and consume it and take part of it. I think it's so critically
important. And I think these conversations are intriguing while you don't come from a background
of a heavy cannabis use or growing or illegally working in the industry. We can take advantage
of some of the knowledge that you have gained in this process of what you're doing. So I appreciate
you very much for coming on here. I wanted to ask what is kind of your demographic? What do you see
a lot of the people coming in? I know you clearly have a good brand and a good space. So people are
always going to come in and visit and come back to you. But do you see a lot of newer users in
general? Do you see experienced users, newer users or moderate users? What is your demographic
of people coming into the store? And what do you find as kind of what Johnny said, bread and butter,
if you didn't touch on it too much? Yeah. It's an interesting question because I really feel like
we've kind of got everybody. One thing by having that people heavy, service heavy model, we do tend
to skew a little older. We didn't use any marketing agencies with the one exception is a PR firm to
help get our story out there. And the owner of that PR firm, I was talking to her and she was
telling me a few months after we'd opened and whatnot. She was telling me that she was getting
together some friends who didn't know she was our, had worked for us or worked with us. And her
friends were saying, oh, you got to go check out Highland Cannabis. And they said, that's where all
the adults shop. And so I gladly take that one. So I think that we do have that university town.
It's sort of the other end of town and we don't get the university students unless they happen to
be younger folks that live around us. So I'd say we definitely skew a little older because we don't
engage in price wars. So there are some retailers that are basically just keep dropping their price
because they don't know what else to do to compete. But we don't do that. And when people
ask us, it's like, well, if you want to go shop there, I guess you should. I've got a big store
and a huge team and we need to pay everyone good wages and full benefits and all that kind of stuff.
So I can't, this doesn't work. What we're doing here doesn't work. If I just drop my pants,
those other guys do. So because of that, we don't tend to attract those super thrifty value
hunter people that much. And with all of that said, we always have stuff on sale and we have
some phenomenal deals too. So they'll come in for that, but we're not like a bulk volume discount
store. So we don't get that segment. But there's been some of everyone and that's part of what we
done. Like I mentioned, we have 1200 SKUs and Anita mentioned how we always have everything.
I mean, that's sort of as a product marketer and this is where, yeah, I'm new to the space,
but I love good products and I love good products that make people happy.
And one of my bud tenders actually asked me at the beginning after we were probably a few months
into this, he was a new hire and he said, how do you want me to sell? And I was like, well,
that's an interesting question. I never really thought about it because to me, it just kind of
came naturally. And so when I actually had to articulate it to him, I said, look, I just want
you to find the best match for every customer that walks in the door. And we physically organized our
store by category and price. So we've got a cabinet for bulk flour. We've got a cabinet for
flour that's between 15 and $30. We've got a cabinet for flour that's between 30 and $40.
We've got a cabinet for flour that's more premium. I got a vape cabinet. I've got an oils and lotions
cabinet because people after CBD to feel better about stuff are usually all the same type of
customer. I've got an entire giant four by six foot table full of gummies just stacked in there.
I've got a chocolates table. I've got two cabinets of pre-rolls and about 24 feet
wall just of fridges, which start off all drinks and then concentrates. The bud tender said,
we need to put concentrates in the fridge. Okay, great. Figure it out, make it all fit.
And so they started putting five drinks to a shelf instead of one or two and squishing
everything in there. But the point is people come in and it's, all right, you know what you're after.
All right, you're after flour. How much did you want to spend or how much did you want?
And we just keep narrowing it down. So, all right, because usually the automatic answer is,
I want your best weed. It's all right, come on over here. It's $50 for 3.5 grams. Oh, well,
I don't have that much money. So it's, what's your budget? All right, something around 30 bucks.
All right, come on over to this cabinet. We'll find you. Then you start to hone in
with that. Qualifying questions. What do you like? What have you tried before?
Are there specific terms you're after? I know in the constitutive it doesn't actually represent,
but as a qualifier, like, are you looking for something you want to stay up and be active and
clean the house? Or are you looking for something to melt into the couch? And then narrow it down
from there. And the bud tenders ask way better questions than I do. I know what I don't know.
Did you change position or something? Because the audio from your devices changed quite a bit.
It's almost like you're in a little bit like you're speaking through a tube.
No, I was trying not to. Is that better? Definitely better. Yeah, that's fine.
Yeah, sorry. I might have been turning my head a little bit. So the point is, our goal,
and what we always do is just try to make every single customer super happy by figuring out the
best match for them. And so it's understanding how much they want to spend, what products they're
after, or within a certain category narrowing it down. So is there one specific customer?
To your question, and sorry, that was a big roundabout answer. But the point is,
we get all types, and we've got almost everything. And we just help to narrow down and try to have
the best match for every person in whatever category it is. We definitely skew older.
We don't tend to have the price sensitive customers just because we don't play those
pricing games. But we've got all the best concentrates, every single bearish skew that
is out there. We try to have as much of the good flyer as we can supply issues aside.
And I don't know how long we can keep that up because they just keep adding more and more
and more skews. But I've heard from other folks like down in the California market,
it's just this constant cycle of new streams. Someone was saying, we need to put a sign up
that says the new new, because that's the thing. There's always a new new.
So we're probably just going to be forever curating those skews to keep the new products in there. But
we haven't honed in on one niche. Because again, my hypothesis is that cannabis is like this
incredible mashup of fresh produce and alcohol. And so who wants to... I mean, some people will
shop at a specialty grocery store. But if you can go to one grocery store that's got everything,
that's sort of our theory. It's like try to have all the best stuff and will attract everybody
who wants great service.
For your staff, for the training, I know you're saying that the module type stuff doesn't work.
And I'd have to agree that there really isn't anyone qualified making stuff like that. But
have you looked into the Gangier program in California? I know that's one that
would definitely benefit some of your employees and definitely help with curating that new new for
the years to come, so to speak.
Yes, I saw that program and I was looking at it trying to figure out if like, I didn't have a ton
of time, but I started poking around the website. And if there was someone who could come here and
do that in person, I'd love to take my people and put them through it. I would have no problem
paying to upgrade them because what I find is the best. I think someone mentioned before,
like types of training and are the LPs more effective at coming in the store?
The LPs don't know what they're talking about. But honestly, if you were to send one or two of your
employees to California and then have them come back and train, I think that would be...
You know, that program out of everything that's available, like they,
you know, Kevin Doherty partnered with Greenflower. If you want legitimate cannabis
knowledge, you know, from people that actually know how to define quality in cannabis,
you know, that's the place to go.
Yeah, no, absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, flying them all the way from here to down there,
that'd be quite something. But maybe we could for some of our key folks. But what I was going to
say on the LP side is not to say that they do the training, but the least effective of those is when
it's like some kind of, you know, field marketing agency that comes out and like reads a sheet to
us. That's nonsense. But then we had reps like Anita used to be. I don't know if that's a secret
or anything. Sorry. No, that's not a secret. I talk about it all the time. Yeah, but she would
come in and have real conversations and she would really like explain things. And it was much more
authentic. And those real conversations, I mean, it's not a ganja training by any mean, but the
bud tenders respond really well to actual human interaction as opposed to. And I'm glad you say
actually fly them out there. I thought I didn't know if it was like an online program or something
like that, because I don't know that any of them would benefit from it that much from trying to
sit and do an online program like they might, but a hands-on sort of thing, if that existed,
especially up here, because, you know, flights and whatnot going down, there might be a bit much for
us, but a hands-on thing like that. Absolutely. Completely agree. Like that would be fantastic.
Yeah, I know they do have a portion that you can do at home and then they'd have, I believe,
one week that you would go down there to do the certification. I volunteer to take them all
to California. I volunteer to contribute. I'll be the leader. Anybody want to come? Road trip?
I have a question, though. Like how long is the program? If it's like one week,
Somalia and around. So, hey, if I can interrupt here, guys, it's longer than one week.
So, yeah, I think it is. But we actually, so we're doing, so we do regularly scheduled broadcast.
I love this. Regularly scheduled broadcast. So, Retail Trends or Rat Tail Trends, is it? Apparently,
I can't double check my typos on my fucking marketing material. By the way, I appreciate
all of you. This is the new name of the show, Rat Tail Trends. That's how we're doing it. But
we actually, on the following episode, we're doing a combination. So, there is someone writing
the course up here. So, we're going to try and get them on, as well as someone who's Canadian,
Ganja, someone who's completed the Ganja course in the States that is a Canadian.
And then we're actually getting a hold of some of the people that wrote the Ganja program down in
the States to come on a Retail Trends episode. So, we're working on that. I think it's in early
June. So, if that's something like an avenue that you're looking at, like I think for me,
you would have one individual, like your lead manager that would go and do this. Like you'd
have your entire service staff in a restaurant be sommeliers, but you would have one on staff
because it would be highly advantageous to have somebody to speak that extra language.
I wonder if the market in Canada is ready for that now. I think there needs to be an evolution
to the higher end product, like the really high end. I just wanted to, before we tail end,
because we do try and end at about an hour and a half here. Before we tail into it, I wanted to
ask you, if this is something that you can divulge, what's kind of the profit margin for
someone in this space, if they're looking at opening up a dispensary? I think it's highly
critical and highly important. And it's also highly relevant to make sure that people understand
that you're not like a billionaire now that just has a sustainable dispensary. The margins are not
very high here in Canada. This is a point of example, as a chef, margins, like as a chef,
margins for food in Canada are like six cents on the dollar. So even if you're a corporate chain,
you're maybe getting nine cents on the dollar. So every dollar you sell, you get nine cents of
profit in a restaurant in Canada. And I kind of see like hot cannabis going in the same kind of
end up price range. Would you be able to divulge kind of, or at least give a close approximation?
Yeah, it's interesting. So I can, what I can say is that, so what's interesting here, I mentioned
the OCS is the wholesaler. They also compete with us and monopolize online sales. So OCS.ca
is the same people I have to buy from, is selling online, competing with me. Fortunately,
everyone's so paranoid that no one wants to buy from the government or very small number of
people. So they're not really a competitor I'm worried about, but the way they price,
which is sort of the one nice thing about the fact that they're doing that is it's sort of this
level set backdrop pricing that everyone sort of references is around kind of low 30% margin.
Now people are doing all kinds of things like they're trying all kinds of stuff in different
business models and trying to make different things make sense. There's value players that
I'm convinced that they're just doing predatory pricing to try to drive small independence out
of business because it looks like they're operating on like 5% margins, which is just crazy.
We don't try to be that much different than the government pricing personally,
like for our store, like what they've got on their website, but we've always got stuff on sale.
Like I said, we play survivor Highland and we try to eliminate things or we'll create this on sale
or that on sale. So it's not to say that we're just flat across the board at a certain margin.
But one thing I'll say about the market here, at least in Ontario is when they opened it up,
well, first I told you that story about how there was only 75 lottery winners that opened their
stores. And when those were the only stores that existed in the province, they were just printing
money. They were just lineups out the door to get weed. And you had stories of stores making
like 10, 15, 20 million dollars a year in sales, like just crazy numbers. But of course, they're
the only ones that existed. So that's why. But you combine that with going open license. And the
other funny thing about open license is you had to sign a lease and build your store before you
went and got a license. And to make it even worse, no one knew where anyone else was.
So it was like you were just completely in the dark. And it created this sort of gold rush
where everybody and their brother thought they were going to get rich. They went and signed a
lease and they whipped together a cannabis store. It's like, oh, how do you do it? And then all
these consultants popped up everywhere making them mint. Who really gets rich in the gold rush? The
guy selling shovels. So these consultants popped up and they're telling everybody to set up with
the same simple model. And the predominant model in Ontario, at least, is you have a little store
with some display cases, minimize retail footprint, keep your costs down. Your display cases have some
nice little tent cards from the LPs in them, which personally, if we're being honest, I find
intimidating and pointless and I don't gather any meaningful information from them. But at the back
of the store, there'll be a point of sale terminal where someone's standing there and you place your
order with them. They put in a tablet. It pops up in the back room in the vault because the government
regulations are that you have to have a secure vault where you keep your product.
It can also be in locked cabinets out on the floor, but mostly they've got a vault somewhere.
And then someone back in the vault will pack up your order and bring it out and hand it to you.
So everybody followed the same model and with the gold rush mentality, you ended up with
literally those 1300 stores we talked about. A lot of people just like, hey, let's do this.
And they got excited and they dove in and they maybe had no retail experience, didn't really
know what they're doing or thinking outside the box. And as a result, you've got hundreds and
hundreds of stores that seem literally identical, tiny, same model, regardless of the different
designs and different window dressing in the store, they are serving the customers in fundamentally
the same way, especially all the chains, even the big chains, they're all doing it the same way.
And as a result, it's super competitive. So what's happening is there is a lot of price
pressure on these people that are just doing everything the same as everyone else, because
when you've got the same product from the same source and you've got the same setup,
what else have you got to compete on? Nothing. So there's these sort of price wars that are
basically just causing people to go out of business. So if you are serious about trying
to open a cannabis store in Ontario and want to know what to expect, my advice would be you better
know what you're doing. You better have really deep pockets to be able to set yourself up properly
and really invest in building your store properly. Because if you actually do something different,
better, special with how you serve people, you could probably command higher margins.
Because at the end of the day, what's a few percentage points difference on a $20 pack of
pre-rolls? It's not a lot. Those margins are going to make a much more material difference on
large ounce bags or whatever. When you're spending $100, 15% is a lot. If you're spending $20,
15% is $1.50. And if it's better service and convenience and you like the people, who cares?
So know what you're getting into. But honestly, I would tell anyone to just hold tight for 6 to 12
months, because most people in the industry expect probably 20% of the stores in Ontario to go out of
business. And then you're going to be able to come in and grab some cheap fixtures and all kinds of
stuff. But there was just a lot of people rushed in without necessarily knowing what they were
doing, without knowing the industry, without having the right expertise. And some people
even calling it the green wedding, like the red wedding from Game of Thrones. I don't think it's
going to be very pretty here. And people that rush in... It's going to get bad. But that's
the expectation, right? You open up a market and you allow... Canada is restricted a lot of ways.
I'm not a huge fan of how it's rolled out. We could do a whole separate episode on that.
But it's that boom, let's race to the bottom, figure out what the lowest price point is.
And the three people that aren't looking at the bottom, that are looking at how to make the top
and do it really right and really authentically, those are the ones that come through and succeed
in the long run. And I think that's what most... I think you will see a lot more of that with these
smaller farms coming to the table up in the next little while. Now, we are at an hour and 44 minutes.
So we do have to cut this off. But before we go, I'd love to give a little rundown on where people
can find your store, a little rundown of your links and stuff like that. And we will end our
episode after that. Absolutely. Well, thanks a lot, everyone. Thanks for having me on. We are
Highland Cannabis on Highland Road in Kitchener, 370 Highland Road West. And because we figured out
that a lot of stoners can't spell cannabis, we are Highland on Highland.com. And on Instagram,
we're at Highland on Highland as well. Place is the name, name is the place.
So awesome. Thanks for having us, London and Owen. Thanks for coming on.
And I think that's it. Have a great night, everyone.
Owen, thank you. Oh, thanks, Owen. Oh my God, I learned so much. Thank you so much.
My pleasure. Thanks a lot, guys. Thanks for having me on.
Take it easy, Owen. You too.
Well, I mean, that was a very interesting episode. I sure enjoyed it.
There we go. Where's the branding thing? So that was an interesting episode. I thought it would be,
because it's a little bit more of a developed market, and they have a lot of
newer people there. Things like, you know, milled cannabis, whether we as a community believe it or
not, is not our dictation or choice when it comes down to it. It comes down to
what people want and how we can go about giving them the best that we can available. So I thank
you for joining us this evening. I look forward to another conversation. Now,
it is critical that you go over and check out next week. I have it posted and ready to go.
We have the Women of Cannabis International Women's Day, the Dank Hour panel. So like,
I cannot begin to tell you, like, we got 20 of the most badass dank motherfuckers that are women in
cannabis coming up next week. So do not miss that. Be back here next Tuesday. It's going to
be epic. We have like Dale Sky Jones from Oakster Dam. We have it's nuts. So if there's somewhere
you need to be, you need to realize that women are moving this industry forward, and you're going to
see that next Tuesday. So I'm pointing at the wrong camera. You're going to see that next Tuesday.
So I hope to see you there. And tomorrow we actually have the, what's it called?
Ask a Cannabis Nerd at 4. There's a few other things going on as well. So be here for that
stuff. We got a harvest on Monday too. So I'll be doing a live harvest. So I'll bring Cheddar,
Mr. Toad, and Chris will probably join me for that. So we'll do a live harvest on those days.
Yeah, you're right. Greens goddess, women are going to move this industry forward.
There's so many dudes on here. I feel like, fuck it. Let's do an all panel with all women. So
I'm not even going to be running the conversation next Tuesday. I'm just going to sit in the
audience and enjoy and listen. And he's going to take over and run that whole conversation. So be
there for that. There are some crazy stuff happening. So don't miss out. There's things
going on and lasers and stuff. So without any further ado, I appreciate each and every one
of you. Make sure to check back next week and happy growing.
