So funny, why is it? Are we alive? Hello, Cory. You are now moderator.
Moderate all people that come in.
As they go. I appreciate you guys stepping in first. Well, I set up the YouTube side.
I'm gonna say hi to them. Then we'll come over and we'll get the roll show rolling.
Hello everybody, can you hear me? Can you see me? It's been a few days.
When was the last time I saw all of you? I don't know.
It was probably Friday last week.
A very fun time. Super excited to be here. Super excited to get the conversation started.
So we are going to get rolling with that conversation.
Damn it, how do I do that again?
Brand.
It's been a long day.
Remove that in a second.
The dank hour.
I'm super pumped. I just got off the phone with Peter.
We were in a call, but I'm super excited about this conversation.
I was like, can this conversation be over so they can start the next one, please?
Peter, stop talking to me. I got shit to do.
Good evening, Dr. Anubis. Good evening, Johnny and Cory.
Good to see you as well.
Hello, hello. I'm afraid I won't have much to contribute to this conversation.
I think my dad did composting when I was a little girl,
but I haven't been involved much with compost ever since.
So I am just going to be probably waiting in the wings and listening to y'all experts talk about compost.
I'm super excited. Hey, Anita. I'll make you a moderator.
So we are set up on the YouTube side. Everybody can hear me loud and clear, especially the one, Ian.
I appreciate your contribution there. I believe that my intro music is quite wonderful.
So I don't care for your opinion, but I appreciate you sharing it regardless.
Hello, Mr. Toad. Hello, everybody. Make a moderator there.
As usual, this is the dank hour where we get experts together and talk about amazing subjects regarding cannabis and cannabis horticulture.
The idea is to get an amazing range of people together weekly from all sorts and facets of the industry,
bring in experts and discuss some of the more interesting areas of cannabis and the pressure points in the space.
So I appreciate you all taking the time to come in and show up every week, those that come every week,
and those that are showing up on the YouTube side as well.
There's going to be some awesome shows later, so be around at the end of the show here so that I can let you know,
because there's actually a really cool, they're having the producer of the Narcos probably on tonight,
a future cannabis project as an interview. So definitely something very cool to check out.
So be there for that. We have an awesome day planned and we have a guest speaker with us today.
Johnny is going to be leading the conversation, but as usual, we're going to start with a quick introduction from everybody.
Just real high, we'll go right through everybody. We'll go Jason, Dr. Anna, Johnny, Corey, Leighton, Anita, Mr. Toad,
and then I will hand it off to Johnny and he's going to get our conversation rolling on composting because I'm excited about it.
And I figure, you know, as much as you guys love hearing me talk,
why don't I get the experts to talk about the subject a little bit more in depth because you all hear me enough, in my frank opinion.
Anyways, I'm London. Thanks for being here. Appreciate each and every one of you. Jason, how are you doing today?
I'm doing fantastic. Thanks for giving me an opinion, inviting me to join this conversation.
I love talking about composting and regenerative topics in general. I'm a big fan of different types of composting.
Being here in Massachusetts, I like to take advantage of both indoor and outdoor forms of composting.
So super excited to get into this conversation tonight. For those that are looking for me,
you can click on my profile and see some of the rooms that are scheduled coming up in future cannabis projects as well.
Or hit me on Instagram at Jota Herb, J-O-T-A-H-E-R-B. Dr. Animas.
Good evening, everybody. So I'm Dr. Anna Schwabe. I have a background in biology, specifically cellular and molecular biology.
My bachelor's degree is in and then my master's and my PhD both focused on population genetics.
And my PhD, of course, was focused on cannabis and sources of variation in cannabis and cannabis genetics and biological education as well.
I relocated fairly recently, April last year, to from Colorado to New Jersey.
I'm working with a company called Shore Organics and we are doing clean aquaponic growing hemp right now,
waiting for the New Jersey to open up to the non-hemp side, which is pretty exciting.
There's not very many people who grow aquaponically. So we have some trials and tribulations and lots of wrinkles to iron out.
But it's a very cool method of growing. And I am not a horticulturist or a cultivator,
but I'm pretty excited to sit here and just listen to these experts talk about compost because it's super interesting.
So, Johnny. Hey, everybody. Excited to be here tonight and diving into this topic with all of you.
I asked Layton to come on board as a guest because, well, I could talk about compost for a little bit.
I'm pretty sure Layton could could go on about compost for years and years and years in his sleep.
So I'm a cannabis cultivator. I've been cultivating cannabis professionally for the last eight years.
Just overall, a cannabis enthusiast. I love the plant. It's given me essentially everything that I have in this life.
So I'm eternally grateful. And, you know, just always, always a student, always learning and taking the opportunity to incorporate new information into my cultivation practices.
And, you know, there's never a dull moment, especially these days. All right, Corey, you're up next, buddy.
Hey, everybody. Good evening. My name is Corey Russell. I have my own consulting company called Resonate Cannabis Incorporated,
and we set up operations last year in the United States, Portugal, Colombia and the beautiful country of Canada.
I am currently on staff with the second largest cannabis greenhouse in the world. Very shortly to be the largest.
I'm currently on staff with their nursery. So absolutely stoked to be taking care of the little babies and getting ready to push them out to the flowering rooms.
And, yeah, I have a horticulture diploma as well as been growing cannabis in my 18th season growing medicine.
And, yeah, extremely excited to dive into this as well. And it's been very interesting, you know, kind of traveling around and trying to set these places up.
And, you know, going to find that substrate in that mix. And it's very interesting about the, you know, quality and, you know,
kind of versions of earthworm castings that I've seen throughout a few different places now.
So I'm really excited to get into this one. It's a pleasure to see everybody. And Jason will have to touch base offline.
If you're in Massachusetts, I hope to be seeing you in Maine when I go to the Regen conference.
I will be there. I will be there.
Oh, brother. I got goosebumps hearing that. Thank you, brother. I can't wait to see you.
Much love, everybody. And hello, Future Cannabis Project and also everyone on Resonate Radio listening live on YouTube. It's a pleasure.
I see Leighton next on screen.
Thank you, guys. It's a pleasure to be here. So I'm a soil by trade.
I'm very fortunate to travel pretty much all over the country doing work and helping people in educating them how to make compost and regenerate soil.
So it's an honor and pleasure to be here. I'm looking forward to chopping it up with all you guys.
Anita, you're up.
Can you hear me? I don't know if these headphones work or not. Yes.
You sound fantastic. Amazing. OK.
OK. Hi, everyone. My name's Anita. Professionally, I work in the Canadian cannabis side, the marketing, sales, education side of the industry.
And but I also grow my own medicine.
I have my license for that. And I have always grown organic.
And so this is something that I've been doing as well. Composting. I had a little worm farm in the back.
So I'm really excited to hear more about it. Just, you know, growing medicine with without chemicals is super important to me and my family members that I grew up for as well.
So, yeah, I'm excited to learn more about and fun fact, I actually live in Kitchener where the green bin has been around, which we do composting the citywide composting for the last 15 years.
And we were the first place we introduced green. I mean, the blue bin program in 1981.
So this area here is really, really big on the whole composting recycling for lots of different reasons.
So, yeah, I did hear Leighton talk and Mr. Toad, you're next.
How y'all doing? My name's Brother Bone, Mr. Toad, a.k.a. Filial Fil.
That's your boy Johnny Paper here. I am the owner of Boneyard Seeds NorCal, and I am the resident everyman here. I am the guy that's here to show that if I can do it, you can do it too.
You don't have to be trained or professional in any way, as long as you've got the heart and spirit to do it, you can get it done. That's what I'm around for.
One thing that I love is these episodes where we get to jump in and talk to experts and really dive into some of these subjects.
We have an awesome situation today because Johnny just joined the Dank Hour recently as of kind of post New Year's.
So I'm super excited to have him on board with us. So it was an awesome opportunity to get into kind of what makes him tick and what he's really passionate about.
I love these conversations because it gives me an opportunity to sit back, chill out and learn and listen to some experts go on about it.
So without any further ado, Johnny, I'm super pumped and hopefully I haven't made the hot seat too hot, but I'm sure it'll be fun.
All right, everybody. So I guess I kind of will start this off by just giving a base definition of what compost and composting is.
Composting is essentially the process in which organic material is turned into organic matter, simply put.
So essentially material that's coming from plants and animals from a living being is then turned into or then reduced into kind of its more elemental.
More of its elemental existence, I suppose.
So. I think that it's said that in the composting process that about 90 percent of the mass of material can be compromised and turned into that remnants of organic matter.
Compost is, whether you know it or not, you've probably used it in one way or another.
You know, if you've never used compost on its own, I'm almost certain that you have used compost in the form of potting soil.
It's one of the kind of three traditional elements of potting soil that has been kind of laid out for us.
And the other other elements would be some sort of some sort of material like peat or cocoa and then some sort of aeration, such as perlite rice holes or pumice, something of that nature.
So pretty much everybody has used compost at one point or another in one form or another.
It's a great way to include and incorporate organic material in biology into your garden, where it's kind of a two for one.
You're you're inoculating with biology and at the same time you are, you know, adding organic material and humic material to to your soil or wherever it's applied.
So as far as the biology that you are incorporating when you are using compost, just rough figures in a teaspoon of compost, there are said to be over a billion bacteria for a nine hundred meters of a fungal hyphae.
10,000 to 50,000 protozoa and 30 to 300 nematodes.
So it's just teeming with life, teeming with microbes. And I'm saying those teeming with microbes in reference to a book that if you have not looked at, if you are interested in composting, organic, sustainable, regenerative cultivation,
it's teeming with microbes is a really great piece of literature. And it really kind of set me down this path of exploring regenerative systems and agriculture as a whole.
And I highly recommend everybody taking a look at that.
And yeah, I kind of want to get Layton up here and just have him kind of dive into more of what compost is and different types of compost.
So with that being said, Layton, if you want to you want to jump on here and give a little caveat to compost, that would be appreciated, bud.
Yeah, absolutely. You know, what's interesting is that for years we've been talking about not all compost is equal.
I think finally that's come to a place where we are dividing it and breaking it apart. So compost is a process.
So what is a definition that you can use to describe the various states of the process?
So at one end of the line, you have what's called GOM, ground up organic matter.
Then as that begins to break down, it's called POM, which is particulate organic matter and particulate organic matter is highly unstable.
It breaks down very, very quickly. And on the far end, on the other end, at the end of decomposition, you have what's called MOEM, which is mineral associated organic matter.
MOEM is the most stable, the hardest to break down.
And as a matter of fact, there are only very few specific types of bacteria that can break that down into what's called humic, humans, humic acid, and some of the other really, really fine points or particulates of this process.
So, you know, I always like to start there so people have an understanding.
Like if you go to your town or your city and you buy their compost, basically it will be POM.
And unfortunately, it more often than not will smell like ammonia, which is still basically in a thermophilic process.
The bacteria, the thermophytes are breaking down the organic matter and releasing nitrogen in an ammoniacal gaseous form.
So you're losing a lot of the nitrogen, which is bad.
So recently I've been working on a project to stabilize GOM so that it doesn't go hyper thermophilic and release all that ammonia through using mineral powders and mineral rock dusts.
And I've had some tremendous success in gearing up to do the next pilot program, which will be more like a hundred yards.
So I'm a lot bigger of a commercial scale.
But the goal is that California passed a law in 2016 stating that all green matter would have to be diverted away from landfills along with food waste.
And that they're no longer going to be allowed to just dump this stuff.
So they have to process it and process it quickly.
I think right now they're working with over a million, 3.5 million yards.
And that number is going to go somewhere between 20 and 30 million yards when you start adding in food waste.
So it's a big project.
And I'm very fortunate to be at the very cutting edge of playing around with this stuff.
We were fortunate enough to achieve the goal of arresting the thermophilic process within 30 days.
Or actually I think it was more like 45 days.
And we maintained a higher level of nitrogen.
The control pile was at, I think it was 0.7 parts per million nitrogen at the beginning of the process.
And then after us adding the mineral powders and arresting the thermophilic process, that number went all the way up to five.
So now it's actually considered an organic fertilizer.
So really cool work.
And I'd love to talk more about that.
But I think that's a good starting point for the audience as well as the panel to decide or to discuss compost not as a process but more as a end product.
I think there's a challenge coming up here in the next little while when you look at kind of the big issue of what do we do with our waste and waste management.
And the fact is there's too many people, there's too much waste happening and there's not anything properly being done out of it.
Us in Canada, we always like to sound like we're doing the right thing when it comes to these processes.
But we're not when it comes down to it.
We explore a lot of our trash that doesn't even get dealt with.
So I'm really excited to talk about this because I think it's also something that can be relative to every single person in society.
Now, not every person in the world is going to have a compost bin in their tiny apartment with five other people living in it.
It might not be always the right situation but I think there's always an opportunity for this to be used properly and these leftover products to be properly assimilated.
And I think it's super cool because cannabis has always kind of been on the neat and interesting but we've also had to fight these certain restrictions and issues.
So composting ended up being a pretty important part of the cannabis growers' toolbook and a very critical part of it when it comes down to it.
Now, Johnny, what's a regular kind of method and what's a big question that you're asking yourself right now with compost and how to move forward with it?
What's begging as the experts' thoughts?
Like what would you ask Layton if you can ask him the most in-depth question possible right now?
What would you ask?
Oh man.
Well, I guess I would just, I mean I have a lot of questions.
I don't know if I have any one that's super major.
But I guess I would be interested in just kind of the spectrum of, I guess, like a nutrient analysis spectrum.
So what you can expect to get in compost, like he was saying, not all compost is created equally.
And that almost goes without saying because if you think about the process, you're incorporating different types of material, whether it's plant material, green material, carbon versus something that's a manure or something like that.
So there's always going to be this kind of discrepancy in what your nutrient contents are going to be in your compost.
But I mean, it's hard to even phrase it.
I guess just what would, and it's not even a question really.
It's just really hammering home the fact that not all compost or vermicompost is going to be created equally.
And that people should be mindful when they're going out and purchasing compost.
Or, you know, ideally, you're going to be making it yourself because you know what's going into it.
For instance, I just bought a worm, like a compost bin.
And I'm going to be really trying to cater to these worms and feeding them very specific, you know, inputs from my own garden.
You know, leaves, stalks, things like that, that I normally would be, or normally people kind of just disregard and toss them aside.
And I want to be feeding those to my worms to be able to reintroduce those nutrients back into my system.
And whether you're using vermicompost or you're using like a traditional, like a mesophilic or a thermophilic compost, you know what?
You're going to have some variance there.
They're all going to have different biology.
They're all going to be have different nutritional content.
And I guess, I guess, Leighton, would you care to touch upon the differences in biology in a mesophilic compost pile versus a thermophilic compost pile?
Sure, more than happy.
So a lot of people don't realize when you get above 120 degrees in a thermophilic pile, you're losing diversity at an incredibly fast clip.
And when you hit 131 degrees, you are completely overrun by thermophilics, who basically just continue to break that organic matter down.
Whether they're stealing ions from the water or from the nitrogen sources to break carbon down or vice versa, carbon to break nitrogen down.
It's pretty darn complex.
But bottom line is that you've really lost your biology at that point.
You've just you've you've lost let go to one specific group of decomposers.
So it takes about, I believe, a year to two years to actually get the complete soil food web and diversity back into the soil naturally.
And the way that's occurring is through air and water transporting the cysts or other types of organisms back in it.
Also, there there's an endophytic contingency that happens in low temperature compost.
So that's really where I spend my time is in using just plants to build the base for the compost, which I use 66 percent browns, 33 percent greens.
And I go for diversity.
Like I don't just take one type of chips.
I look for as many different types of trees, tree chips.
I can get my hands on a lot along with a lot of dead woody material like stalks, plants that have died or gone through their seasonal growth.
And so, again, I'm just like trying to find as many different ingredients as possible.
And the real key to making biological compost quickly is to actually start to employ inoculants.
So there's a company that I've been working with forever.
It's called Blue Stream Aquaculture.
They have a new website called FishBrew.com.
I highly recommend that you check them out and go ahead and purchase some of their products as a inoculant to get your pile of greens and browns going really quickly.
And another great trick is actually you can do yourself, and that is to harvest either aquatic plants from the ocean in the form of like kelps or seaweeds or any type of algae that's growing in rivers, streams or lakes and ponds.
And basically you take a five gallon bucket.
You fill it perhaps half or three quarters full of these plants.
Then you fill it with water until it's just to the top of the plants or when you see the plants start to rise up and then throw a brick or something on top of them to hold the plants underwater.
This you let ferment in the sun for five to seven days until you see a white foam occur at the top.
In New England, you can do this indoors, you know, for anywhere that's freezing right now.
Or you can, you know, if you're lucky enough to be like me living in southern states where it doesn't get to freezing, you can do this year round.
And what will happen is that that ferment will have this funky smell.
And our noses are actually a great tool when you're doing this type of work.
I mean, I'm sure most of you have taken a handful of forest soil and stuck your nose in it and smelled that incredible rich perfume smell.
Well, that's an indication of a diverse functioning biological system.
So now when you're looking at ferments, your nose is going to be confused.
It's not going to smell sweet like you want to eat it.
It's not going to smell sour or bad like you don't want to eat it.
It's just going to have a funky smell to it.
And that's when you know it's ready.
Now, if you wait too long, the system will crash and you will not get that successionary biological bump that you're looking for.
So as you know, if you look back on life, yeah, we started as bacteria and then you're a goat's blah, blah, blah, blah.
We evolved into this incredibly diverse biological Garden of Eden.
Well, that took a long time, but everything was built on the backbones of the earlier succession biology or animal or ever beginnings of the evolution of that specific type of species.
So the same thing is happening on a microscopic time frame in your compost pile.
So by providing inoculants like fish brew or these ferments, you're really giving that substrate the opportunity to supercharge and go very quickly through its successional jumps to get to the point where now you're going to have nematodes and protozoa, both the flagellates and the amoeba.
So that's a great trick to do at home.
And it's a little bit more tricky on scale because as soon as you get into scale, you get into the thermodynamics of the composting process.
And every time you turn it, you're actually breaking, you're destroying all of the hard work you did.
So in the methods that I use, I don't turn them.
And generally speaking, if I balanced it correctly, it'll hit about 110, 115 degrees and then it'll start to cool down.
And at that point, once it hits that point where it starts to cool down, your real sweet spot is at 85 degrees and 70% moisture content.
You will see pretty much organisms dividing as, you know, all of them will be dividing as fast as they possibly can.
So you're really, you're creating a very powerful biological inoculant at that point.
And even though the material itself isn't in a broken down state, you know, it's still very, very gom-like.
So it's not, it's not palm.
It's not that greasy, fine compost that most of us visualize in our head.
So the way to extract the organisms is to do a, basically an extraction.
So take that material, add it to water, gently agitate it, use force to pull the organisms off of the organic matter.
And then obviously screen the organic matter.
The organic matter goes back into the compost.
And now you have a liquid extract that is going to be, you know, very, very easy to use on a larger scale, whether it's to apply directly to property or to, you know, water into your cannabis plants.
But that, that is by far the most bulletproof, easy way to achieve biological inoculant grade or, I think, Elaine has captured the term biocomplete compost, which I think is important.
And we start defining, you know, what it is, because the stuff that you buy from your town or city, there's nothing in there but thermophytes.
You're not going to get fungi.
You're not going to get nematodes or any protozoa.
Those take time to come back in unless you inoculate it.
And I've done a lot of work with taking these, you know, these goms or poms and then using inoculants to really bump them up to a high grade biocomplete compost.
So pretty much anybody can do this, especially if you start employing some of these tools.
And again, start small, but, you know, don't be afraid to make a 10-yard pile and then inoculate it.
And another trick that I found to really making that whole pile complete is to, once you get down below 100 degrees, is plant it with a bunch of diverse cover crops and transplants from your local environment, because they're going to have that indigenous biology that you really want to get in play.
And then just let it go for six months and then harvest it.
It's an amazing, simple process.
You're not turning it, so you're going to get a lot more saprophytic fungi as well as those, you know, advanced organisms, the nutrient cyclers that we're all looking for.
So I hope I answered your question on that little rant.
If I could, because there was a couple of questions that have come up kind of through that in the chat, and I don't want to get too far away from it.
I think you just dropped, like, one of the coolest bombs that I haven't heard before was about preparing the ferment of kelp from the water.
And I think that's really epic.
And I live right next to the ocean, so there's going to be some people looking at me a little bit funny tomorrow.
I am pretty sure about that.
It's still cold here in Canada.
I'm going to do it.
I'm going to do it.
Regardless, one of the first questions that kind of really came into this was, Christ asked, would you ferment dried kelp or recabe that you might buy at the store?
Would that be a suggested product?
If you're not living next to the ocean and you want to experiment with this, would be my assumption, like, if you're living, you know.
Actually, no, because you've lost all the biofilm.
So that slimy feeling to the plants is what you're looking for.
So as soon as you dry it, that's gone.
You've basically put all the biology into a cyst form and or lost it in the processing.
So, no, you want to harvest fresh plants.
And, again, if you're living near some kind of waterway, you know, be careful.
You don't want to bring a lot of pollutants in, especially if you're dealing with cannabis, because cannabis is a dynamic accumulator.
So to pull up anything that you've you've surrounded it by.
But if you're using it for, you know, vegetables or landscaping, then it's not an issue at all.
So basically any fresh plant that's slimy is is the material that you're looking to start that process with.
So for men like this, how often would you suggest applying it?
And is there a difference between indoor and outdoor?
And is there a level that too much could be applied?
Is there a risk? I know like, you know, an ACT, you can pretty much like just go at it every single day.
And there's not not too much of a worry of overdoing it.
But some of these ferments, I understand, can get a little hot.
So could you talk about that a little bit?
Yeah, sure. So this is this is a ferment where you're not going to get what I want to call a heavy concentration of nitrogen sources.
So it's not going to it's not going to cook or create a situation where it can be problematic.
And I'm a big fan of like thinking about biologicals as a bio stimulant as well as a bio inoculant.
And what I mean by stimulant means that if I put a ton of bacteria into play,
the protozoa in that environment are going to start dividing very rapidly because they are in a target rich environment.
So I would be careful about like taking the entire ferment and dumping it all in one place,
because then you're definitely going to be looking at a situation where you've taken your substrate,
your planting material and made it go anaerobic, which is definitely going in the wrong direction.
And then I always take the you know, I pour off the liquid into my compost pile.
And then I'll take what's left, the plant material that's still in the bucket.
I'll either re-ferment it again or I'll put it aside for a new compost pile, because the one I've already built,
I've already balanced the greens and browns. So I don't want to add a bunch more, you know,
potential greens to that pile because then it'll get too hot and I'll have to turn it.
So hopefully that answers that question.
Yes, it did. Now, I know Anna shot me a message in the back and I think she's got a weird question for you.
Do you have a weird question right there, Anna?
I have a lot of questions. As I said, when I was little, my dad used to compost.
We grew all of our own vegetables and a lot of fruits and we had chickens.
And I remember that we used to have a bucket on the counter for various food scraps and stuff.
And then we also had a compost pile in the back.
So I guess my question would be for somebody who's starting out wanting to make a compost pile,
what do you keep to put in your compost, like from your kitchen or if anything,
or do you just kind of, you know, make your compost pile?
So you were talking about browns and greens and I'm assuming you're talking about like grass
cookings and rape leaves and things like that to put in your compost pile.
So like if you give like a quick overview of like how to start a compost pile, that'd be great.
And then after that, I have another question.
So, yes, I was talking about just plant materials that I would collect from outside.
I have no issue whatsoever with, you know, leafy greens, lettuce and stuff like that.
You get into carrots and fruits. You have to be a little bit more careful.
They don't break down as quick and they can tend to attract pests,
whether they're in, you know, like insect form or bigger like skunks and raccoons and stuff like that.
So I'm very careful with food scraps.
I'd much rather see them be vermicomposted first and then added to the compost pile later.
There is plenty of people that do use food scraps in their composting process.
But you have to consider that anything that's in your kitchen, definitely stay away from meats
because those you can potentially spread some really nasty pathogens,
especially if you're not getting the temperature.
Now, remember, I was talking low temp piles.
If you're using food scraps, you've got to go to 131 or you are going to potentially contaminate yourself in the form of, you know, salmonella, shigella,
you know, all the things that we don't like to get, you know, biologically into our bodies.
So that's where you've got to be really careful with food scraps.
But to answer the question, food is considered high nitrogen, like manure.
And again, if you're going to use manures, that's fine.
But you've got to go through that thermophilic process.
And it's pretty much I think it's you have to hit over 131 five times over a 30 day period.
I believe that's become kind of the overall standard that states, towns and governments recommend for using high nitrogen in compost making.
So that kind of I hope that kind of answers that question.
But as far as like getting started, really, it's again, if you're doing a low temp pile, it's really simple.
I mean, it's basically you collect your greens and browns, make a pile, water it down.
Like I'm a big proponent in a bucket of water so that they're hydrated and they're not hydrophobic,
because a lot of the greens will be hydrophobic in the essence that they're not going to hold a lot of moisture because they're still green, they're still alive.
So that being said, that helps to hold the moisture.
And then the critical thing is don't let it dry out.
If you do let it dry out, you've got issues.
So the way to check the moisture really easy is to grab a handful of it, even though it's not broken down and squeeze it as hard as you can.
And if you get little droplets of water between your fingers, that's you're somewhere between 60 and 70 or 80 percent moisture content,
depending on how big those drops are and how many they come out.
So, again, you really want to just see a couple little drops sneak out.
And that's going to be your sweet spot between 60 and 70 percent moisture content.
So that's the best way to start.
And, again, you know, you've got to use some common sense here as far as even your vermicompost,
because if you overwhelm those worms with food, and I've seen a lot of people do this, you'll have a crash in your bin.
The worms will actually turn to mush.
So you want to feed low and slow.
So just go in, go in, go at it in a way that you're, you know, low enough that you see the word,
the worms actively working the bedding material, and then add a little bit more and kind of just use observation,
the power of observations to make your further decisions.
Another way to do this, too, is you can always freeze your food scraps until you have an opportunity to,
like, spring comes, now you can do a really big pile with it.
So that's another way to, you know, store them and then use them at a later date.
So is that a good answer to how to start?
Yeah, and I actually brought up another question just as an intermediate, and I think it's a quick question.
So if you want to do, like, don't go straight from food to your compost pile.
You need some sort of biological intermediate, like perhaps a chicken.
So if you have chickens and you're feeding them, you know, scraps from your kitchen,
could you use then their excretions and put that in the, I mean, I'm talking like a pile,
and have that be like an extra nitrogen source? Or is that like a no-no?
Because we do aquaculture, and so we have several biological filters,
and they all do a thing to the stuff to make it useful for once it gets to the plant,
it's in a usable form for the plant.
Oh, that was great. I love that question. All right.
This is going to pop everybody's cork.
Feed them to your dogs and cats, and then use the cat and dog poop in your compost.
How about that, Freya?
Oh, dang. Like, oh, dang. Like, literally, like, turds.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. So, like, picking up your dog, you can just throw those into the compost.
Yep, no problem. Again, you know, what you've done is you've used nature to break it down so that it's less toxic.
This is the same thing nature does. Nature will, I mean, remember, this planet was a toxic waste dump.
Nothing lived here. It was all just, you know, radioactive, molten lava, and, you know,
eventually through time, we ended up with an incredible Garden of Eden until we fucked that up.
But, you know, again.
Yeah, I mean, I'm an evolutionary biologist. So, like, well, I've got goosebumps right now.
Then you know exactly what I'm talking about.
I do. And actually, you know, in our aquaculture, we have the only things that go in is the fish food, and the things that come out are the plants.
So, you know, we put the fish food in, the fish eat it, they poop.
And then the plant food goes to shrimp and snails, but then their excrement goes to worms and bacteria.
And then their excrement is what feeds the plant food.
You can't just go straight from fish waste to plants because it'll burn the plants.
And, you know, the plants suck up all that nutrients, and then we harvest the plants, but the fresh water goes back to the fish.
And then the whole cycle, it's a closed loop system that we have.
So I'm just wondering how to do that in a garden setting, you know, because I know there's a way.
I'm just, you know, just learning just now.
So then my other crazy question is, you mentioned that this process gives off a lot of heat, depending on what you've got going on.
Is there a potential to harvest that heat if you're in a greenhouse setting to potentially, if you have like, let's say, water pipes, and I'm sure you can get where I'm going with this,
water pipes going through that compost to heat the water, the water cools down the compost, but heats up the water,
and then have some sort of natural heating cooling system going on to make it sort of like another natural process where you're actually using all of the things coming in and out.
Does that make sense? I don't know if that makes sense.
Yeah, that absolutely makes sense.
There's a guy, I think he's in Australia, he's done some amazing work on this.
And another piece of this puzzle, too, is you can make an anaerobic digester and then capture the methane gas.
And it's a little bit more tricky to burn the methane gas because it's difficult to make it pressurized at like an at-home scale thing.
But this guy did both. He built compost piles, ran water through them.
Sometimes he ran air through them with fans and then used that to generate heat.
Now, be careful of building compost in a closed environment because you're going to get out of control flies and potentially, yeah, think about that.
I am not crazy enough to do it, but my boss, maybe. He has ideas. You know, we all have ideas.
It sounds like, like I said, we work with a closed loop system, so he would still be working with a closed loop system, like we would never blow air across it.
All right. So the only thing I would say is that you want to build it in an airlock so that you have access to it from the outside,
but not from the inside so that you can't allow those what I want to call vectors.
Because, again, anything flying around can be carrying other pests that you don't want in your greenhouse.
And any time you get a pest outbreak in a greenhouse, it can go really wrong really quickly because you've created the perfect environment for them to get out of control.
So, again, either compost it outside and pull the water or air inside or create an underground or something.
Yeah.
You've got to be in a different environment. Yeah. OK, cool. Thank you. Perfect.
Yeah. Yeah. My pleasure.
Thank you so much.
All right, guys, were there any other questions you wanted to throw at me?
Well, we got more, but I think Johnny had an angle that he was he was working towards there.
And we had a little bit of a segue. Do you remember where you're going there?
Oh, no, but that's all right.
If anybody's got any other questions for Leighton, otherwise, I was going to kind of steer us.
I figured I'd steer us into some some benefits of adding compost to to your system.
Oh, I have one more question.
OK, go for it.
I'm so sorry. So if you were to do a compost situation like on a, you know, like annually or just keep on going, what is the fluctuation?
Like what's the consistency of the nutrients that you're creating to feed your plants?
Like if you were looking for a super consistent product and.
And assuming that this could introduce.
Variability because the nutrients, how much control do you have over what you're creating nutrient wise that you're feeding your plants?
I guess I guess you have a tremendous amount, but you got to do the homework.
So every plant, whether green or brown or something in the middle, has a nitrogen to carbon ratio.
And that's the key. Again, carbon is your browns.
Nitrogen are your greens. But even still, that green leaf has carbon in it.
So every plant's different.
You've got things like comfrey, which are dynamic accumulators.
You've got your hemp plant, again, dynamic accumulator.
So they're going to pull all kinds of goodies out of the soil.
Those are primary your base ingredients that that should be used in the compost process.
If you're looking for both nutrient dense as well as biological.
Again, think of these as like splinters.
When I when I started talking about Gom, Pom and Moem, somewhere in the middle there is the sweet spot for the biology because Moem will not hold biological life because it's so small.
The particulates are so small and tightly packed that you don't get a good gas exchange.
You don't get good water penetration because the water is being held there.
So these organisms can't rapidly multiply.
And in Poem, you're at a particular matter where you're not broken down enough that the biology is really going to, again, it's going to consume it so fast that you're going to lose.
It's going to go right through the biological system.
So that's why Gom is the great place to start, which is just ground up organic matter.
And you don't have to grind it up, although it will definitely speed up the process if you like chip the sticks instead of throwing whole sticks in there.
So, you know, a couple little tricks like that.
So, yeah, you have total control over what you're putting in.
And I'm pretty sure the resources are out there.
U.S. Compost Council is probably a great place to start with finding out what the seed and ratios are for different types of plants, bushes, trees and shrubs and etc.
Thank you so much. Perfect.
I think it's just a little tip to add on to the discussion, especially if people are looking to start composting their food waste is chopping things up, cutting them open, the shells, the outsides of fruits and vegetables that have a natural capability of actually slowing the decomposition.
So when you chop those vegetables and fruits and things up and you open them up, you expose the insides that allows that natural breakdown to happen at a faster pace.
So it's always good to chop up and break down whatever you're composting.
If you have a chipper and a shredder for your sticks, for your cannabis stalks, for your leaves and stuff before you put them into your composting, the smaller it is, the faster it's going to break down in your pile and the easier it's going to be, especially with things that are woody.
Ligonin is one of the hardest things to break down.
So that stuff takes time.
So that's my, just two cents to add on to that.
Thank you. That was wonderful.
And just something else to be aware of.
If you do compost a lot of orange peel or citrus rinds or potato peels, banana peels, these are going to grow out pseudomonas bacteria.
And if you are immune compromised or you have underlying issues and you either ingest or get a lot of pseudomonas into your body through fingernails or even to some degree your skin or specifically your eyes and mouth, that can be problematic.
They really can wreak havoc on your immune system.
So, again, just be leery of those types of ingredients as far as food scraps.
I have personally made pseudomonas rich compost for a cleanup at an old auto dealership where they had basically just floor drains and all the liquids that came out of the car all went down the floor drain and mixed with each other.
And so they're great at breaking down toxins.
But, again, if you get too many of them into your body, they will wreak havoc.
So that's just to be careful.
All right.
So I guess we'll kind of just take this to, you know, reasons for adding compost to your system.
I already discussed, you know, and Leighton went into the biology and we talked about nutrition.
But there are plenty of other reasons why you'd want to include compost into your systems.
Organic matter in general facilitates soil aggregation, which, you know, it's giving structure to the soil.
Which, you know, has many benefits, including protection against erosion, increases the water's ability to infiltrate soil, and it allows the soil to hold more moisture.
Which is, you know, it's key. You can use less water in your gardening or farming practices.
So also organic matter really helps make soil and the biology in it resistant to extremes in temperature, in extremes of humidity, extreme drought or heavy rainfall events.
It definitely provides some added protection.
Adding organic matter to soil also reduces soil compaction and the effects of soil compaction.
And it's adding humics to your soil.
So I found a few studies or mention of a few studies that I thought were very, very interesting and have a lot of, you know, implications if, you know, these studies can be replicated and they're found to be true.
But it involves organic matter, in particular vermicompost.
It has an effect and can deter, and it's been shown in several studies, it can deter white caterpillars and aphids on cabbages.
Two spotted spider mites on eggplants and bush beans.
Mealybugs, two spotted spider mites and aphids on tomatoes and cucumbers.
So here's another study, which is particularly interesting to me because I had major issues with these pests.
But vermicast, when applied to field and greenhouse experiments, reduced the damage to cucumbers from spotted and striped cucumber beetles.
Which are a major nuisance and pest in Northern California and I'm sure many other places.
But they will absolutely just wreak havoc on a cannabis garden or any garden for that matter, if you let them.
So, yeah, just the notion that castings and, you know, organic matter in general can have an effect on pest pressure.
I thought that was extremely interesting.
And also, I've seen less studies verifying this, but I believe this as well.
That castings in soil can help suppress pathogens such as pythium.
I can't remember exactly where that study is. I'll try to find it on my tabs.
But yeah, so basically, pythium and things like fusarium, they can really do a number on your growing space and just become extremely problematic spreading from plant to plant.
Eventually through mechanical transmission.
So even via a tool that you're using, you can have pythium spread from one pot to the next or one plant to the next.
So, you know, having things to incorporate into our systems that can at least reduce the impact and help kind of fight some of these pathogens without having to buy expensive products to do so.
It really, really is just something that's super valuable.
And I encourage everybody kind of start considering incorporating into their gardens.
I forget who was mentioning it. I think it was London about just composting in Canada.
So whoever it was, was mentioning about how there's mandatory composting in California and in parts of Canada.
So, you know, I just, if people were to take some initiative and, you know, get themselves a worm bin, like even a tote, and you could put your food scraps in it and start making, you know, castings in house and have a worm bin or start doing bakashi with food waste or a traditional compost pile.
You know, use that to, don't let it go to waste. Don't throw it in the trash and then just have it go into the landfill and just rot in the trash.
This can be, you know, very, very valuable material to have around.
You know, if you don't have a garden, you can give it to one of your neighbors that do.
But just, yeah, throwing this stuff out, it's really irresponsible.
There's so many good options and you're really, you know, every little small step that we take as individuals can have a really lasting large impact in the kind of macrocosm.
So if you're not composting in some form, you know, I highly recommend just getting into it. It can be really cheap, inexpensive.
You can even make a static compost pile and essentially just have your material, not really worry about turning it and just let it do its thing.
And you can even incorporate that into your, you know, in your spaces.
So, Leighton, I was, I'm curious, do you have any other sort of, you know, reports of benefits of compost that I did not mention here?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
So one of the things you just touched on, which I didn't mention, was taking your food scraps and fermenting them.
What happens is you actually get a vinaigrette out of it.
But more interesting is that you've broken that food down to secondary and tertiary metabolites.
And again, now it's not going to stink.
But when you apply that fermented food scrap, and I'm including meats and, you know, big ups to to to shit, he's gone to Hoda is Hoda herbs is that he's he's right.
Chop it up, throw it in a bucket of wood water, put put some, you know, metal screening or something over the top of it.
So the food waste is under the water, do not let that food waste rise to the surface, because then you're going to get flies and all kinds of nastiness.
But as long as it's submerged, it won't stink.
And eventually, as it breaks down, now you've got the ability to use it in a liquid form where it's going to really touch off the biology in a beautiful way.
So just a just a thing, a heads up on that.
Now, as far as organic matter, OM and soils, the one thing that you missed is the cation exchange capacity of OM.
So OM is both positively and negatively charged.
So therefore, it's like the clay platelet.
It can hold on to cations as well as anions.
And those are all of your nutrient, all of your mineral nutrients.
So the higher level of OM you have in soil, the higher level of a nutrient bank that you can attain.
And yeah, you were spot on about organic matter holding moisture.
Wonderful for that.
And again, you know, you have sandstone clay.
If you have OM, organic matter with it, you've got you're taking your soils to the next level in the ability to not only support biological processes and build micro and macro aggregates, but it's also a nutrient pool storage.
So so yeah, the compost is one of the most important things that nature does by itself.
Unfortunately, we have stopped or slowed her ability to do that down with our mass expansion.
So now it's time for us to pay forward or pay back whatever way you want to look at it and start doing these practices and encourage everybody around us to start doing these practices.
And like you said, throwing that stuff in a landfill only creates more methane, creating more greenhouse gases.
And, you know, the biggest thing that I don't understand about humanity right now is we're all talking CO2.
CO2 is a joke.
It's nothing.
It's nothing to fear.
The real issues are ammonia and methane.
Those things are 10 to the hundredth power, more damaging to to, you know, global warming and extreme climate or extreme weather.
So, yeah, anything, any little thing that we can do could greatly affect the species in the future.
Awesome. Now, I just wanted to take a minute with just a segue a little bit there, because we're about an hour and about five minutes into the show.
Usually at this point, we start thinking about inviting people up on stage.
So those people that have had their hands up in the audience, thank you for being patient.
I haven't brought you up yet because we wait to usually this segment.
So when you do come up on stage, please maintain quietness until we come up to you and ask you your question.
If you are over and want to come over and ask a question here, feel free to hop on stage.
The link for the link for this show is usually in the description.
I'll pop it in the chat as well.
So you can come over and ask your questions.
That's what interests you.
Sorry to interrupt there.
Go ahead, John.
So as Leighton was talking, I thought of a couple other benefits of organic matter in compost and soil.
It acts as a pH buffer.
So if you're, you know, it's not going to completely take your pH to where you want it to go.
However, it will kind of, it will help get it to a neutral, more of a neutral kind of zone is in my understanding anyway.
It's whether it's your pH is a little on the basic side or a little acidic.
It helps kind of get it to that middle, mid ground.
Another great thing that organic matter does is it acts as a filter.
So any water that you're putting in to your system, it's going to pass through these organic, this organic layer.
And it's going to kind of, I mean, it has the ability to remove chlorine and chloramine out as it's being kind of watered into the system.
So I'm not sure if I'm remembering this correctly, but I also believe there's some sort of ability for organic matter to help kind of lock up heavy metals.
Someone correct me if I'm, if I'm mistaken.
And if anybody has more information on that, you know, if they could want to pop in and say something to that, that would be awesome.
Oh bro, we could, we could go down that rabbit hole for hours.
But I think, I think what you're, you're maybe not a hundred percent clear on is that it's the humic acid.
So that is the final end point of broken down organic mass matter is humic acid.
And it's a wonderful way to tie up chloramine, chlorine, fluoride, or at least break them apart to a point where they're no longer as complexed and a problem.
So that being said, what is humic acid?
Well, humic acid is an old forest or an old swamp that's buried under tons of earth, whether it was volcanic, late tectonics, erosion, whatever.
And then millions or thousands of years later, we, we mine this as lenedite.
So that's brown coal.
It's not burnable.
But when you take that and complex it through the use of strong acids and bases, you reduce it back down to a liquid or solid form called humic acid.
And that's your best friend when you're dealing with city waters and biological gardens to bind that stuff up.
So, you know, just sorry to overstep, but I just want to make sure that everyone understands that that's what's really doing it.
And yes, humic acid is in compost.
That's that black greasy stuff that when you, when you pick up compost and you rub it between your fingers and you leave that black spot, that that's humic acid.
And that's what's really the key to a lot of biological processes.
Too many to even touch on tonight.
Awesome.
Here I do have a question.
I do have to scroll up for it.
Just a moment here.
If you'd just be patient with me.
Green Goddess had a question at 536.
I was like trying to write down whole questions and I realized that I am such a slow writer that I should just write down the time it was that Kim came in so I could just scroll back to them.
That's a smart move.
I'm going to learn how to do this more efficiently.
Shout out to Greens if she's still here.
Should just still be 36, 536.
Yes, she has been in and out of chat being an awesome person that she is.
I am under the impression needs to be fresh.
Let's say.
So she was specifically regarding the aquatic plants being brought in.
I know the impression that aquatic plants need to be fresh from nature and not on not rivers, rivers and lakes or ponds to find aquatic plants.
So would you go to river lakes or pond for aquatic plants or would you prefer ocean plants?
And is there a risk of salt?
It's kind of how I might be interpreting this question.
All right.
The salt is actually amazing.
People freak out about ocean water because they think about, oh, well, like if I'm trapped at sea and I drank the water, it's going to kill me.
Well, yeah, eventually it will.
But think of ocean as amniotic fluid.
So all of these minerals are floating on this water available to be upticked uptooken by these plants.
So the salt that comes with it, like I've been asked that or.
Yeah, I've been asked that question a ton of times when I talk about doing kelp ferments and they're like, oh, no, no, you got to wash it and the sand.
And I'm like, no, everything you want, all of the salts you want, all of the slime, you want all the sand, put everything in there and let it ferment.
One of the most interesting things that that I learned way back when was that and and this goes to you, Dr.
Anna, that in an aquatic environment, like you said, all you do is you use clean water and you throw in food and the fish eats the food and poops.
And if if you take that poop and do what's called a solid separation and collect those solids, what will happen when you start collecting those solids is the biological, the bio,
biology is going to start breaking those solids down and remineralizing them into crystals, into sand.
It was the most insane thing. I mean, I used to feed just food and I had just water in my fish tank.
But in my clarifier, where I collected the waste to do my work, I would always get sand.
And I went back to one of my dearest friends and mentors, Dr.
Kevin Fitzsimmons, out of U of A.
And I said, dude, why am I getting sand in the clarifier?
Where's this coming from? He's like, duh, remineralization.
I'm like, oh, right.
The bacteria are pulling electrons and pulling fucking photons and the shit's rebonding back into its original form or into a mineral nutrient or into a molecule.
So, yeah, it's it's again, that shit gets really fucking crazy, really deep, really quick.
So, yeah, just keep keep that in mind.
Awesome. Now, I did see there is Brian, I did offer you the road to come up.
I did see your hand raised there. So you're welcome to come up to stage.
I did get messaged in the back here from One Love.
And this is actually a question that comes up very often.
And I'd love to hear an opportunity to get an opportunity to hear this from you, because I think it's it's very interesting.
Is often there's a misc there there's like kind of this misunderstanding is hay for one.
The first part of it is hay considered a brown or green like dried hay.
And part two of the question is, are old sticks and stems and leaves of the plant considered browns or compost?
Specifically speaking, the cannabis plant. Oh, fucking badass questions.
All right. So there's a difference between hay and straw. Straw is gold.
Hay is green and the hay will stay green. Think about animal feeds. Right.
So horse feed is hay. Right. You don't see generally when you're feeding horses the the what do they call those?
The flakes of hay or the hay bale are brown or straw.
So they're they're different. Plants, straw tends to be a lot more woody, brown, thicker, bigger used in erosion control and compost building.
And hay is more of a feed and it's going to have alfalfa.
It's going to have a lot of other plants mixed in with it and it's going to remain green for as long as you keep it.
So and is that the curing process? And a lot of times it is.
Again, you guys know about cannabis, you know, but curing you don't cure right man or dry, right?
The shit turns brown and nasty because you lost all your terpenes and you was the correct term broke down your your cannabinoids and cannabinoids.
So that's part of the process. But also it's it's the species of grains that makes the difference between straw and hay.
And so what is the value of the different values?
When I was back making, you know, 30, 40 yard windrows of compost at a time, I would use both.
I would use both straw and third cut or second cut hay because second or third cut hay, you're going to have a higher level of those other plants.
Therefore, it's going to be a higher nitrogen level.
And for the most part, people that feed that hay to their animals like cows or horses don't want that high nitrogen because it makes the animals really jiggy and a little bit stressed out.
So but that was an amazing question. And what was the other side of that question?
The other side of that question was more specifically about the breakdown of the cannabis plant.
Like what sections we consider what?
All right.
What would you judge is the best way to break down these components?
I mean, there's lots of fit.
All right. So the elephant in the room that has not been discussed yet is that it's way, way easier for biology to break down organic matter than it is sandstone clay.
So sandstone clay takes a tremendous amount of energy for for the bacteria to break out the nutrients they're looking for.
Plants are like baby food, man.
It's like an insurer shake.
I mean, you just get an instant boost without doing anything.
So plants and compost are a way better food source for plants because the bacteria can just gobble and I shouldn't leave out fungi and specifically decomposers, not mycorrhizae.
But they can break that stuff down so fast and make that that exact nutrient that that plant wants available.
So by using your sun leaves, your stocks, your stems, your trim, whatever it is, even your washes from from making hash.
Oh, my God.
That is just like prime food source for your plants.
I always say the same thing.
Like it's way easier for plants to absorb plant food than it is for them to absorb mineral food.
So I hope that answers that question.
Due to Tyson.
Welcome to the stage.
How are you today?
You answered that.
Did you have more there?
You open up your mic a little bit.
I'm a I apologize if I cut you off.
No, no, I'm good there.
I just I just can't reiterate that enough that it takes way, way, way more energy for the bacteria to get the nutrients out of sandstone clay than it does to get the nutrients out of the plant that just took those nutrients up.
So, again, it's like feeding the plant itself or parts of itself.
That's what nature does.
Right.
That's that's leaves.
That's fall, spring, summer's winters.
That's the seasons.
So if we just left nature alone and messy because we're humans, we like to clean things up and make them look neat and orderly.
Nature's not neat and orderly, but she works really, really well.
So that was my point.
Awesome. Thank you.
Tyson, welcome to the stage.
I've seen you in in in the bottom there a few times.
I think it is the first time you've come up.
Yeah. Hello.
I just want to talk about the hay versus straw.
I make hay and have for many years.
And the difference between hay and straw is straw does not have seeds.
Hay does.
Hay is a dry product is brown.
I think what Leighton may have been referring to is silage.
Silage stays green and is a more fermented product that is feed direct is fed directly to cattle, sheep and other animals.
But it hay is a dried brown product.
And I just had to clarify that.
Hey, thank you, my friend, because you know what?
It's always been a teaser in the back of my mind.
When I was younger, I managed a barn where I had 50 horses that I mucked the stalls and fed them.
And there was always a big difference between the hay that we fed those animals and the straw that I worked with in erosion control.
So can you expand a little bit more on why that hay stays green or greenish even after it's long after it's harvested?
Yes. So that hay is wrapped up.
Nowadays, they do it. You probably seen those white plastic.
Sometimes they're black, but they're typically white plastic round, you know, big round bales.
And that's it's for it's fermenting in that plastic.
And that's what keeps it green.
It's just like they used to ferment in silos.
So now they just do it in the field rather than in silos.
But that's silage. That's not hay.
So the straw is like you said, it's a it's a you know, it's solely straw.
There's no other weeds in it. There's no other seeds in it.
It's its own. It's its own crop that's then dried.
But hay is also dried, but hay can have a variety of crops in it.
So do you think it's the the seed content that's that's creating that nitrogen jigginess in the horses?
Because again, like I would I would flip bales all day long, throw them down the floor,
bust them open and take the flakes and feed them to the horses.
And it definitely had a different smell.
And maybe you're right. Maybe it was the fermentation that was occurring.
But another buddy of mine who was like his horse whisperer, whenever he went to get by hay for his three horses,
the first thing he would do is stuff his hand in that hay bale out in the field.
And if it was warm, he rejected it because that was the fermenting process.
And if it was cold, he would say, OK, I'll buy the I'll buy this batch,
because obviously you dried it correctly and that's a whole cured it.
I shouldn't say dry, cured it correctly in the field. So expand on that if you can.
Yeah. So if you bale if you bale the hay before it's dried or cured, yes, let's not use dry because it's not fully dried.
But before it's cured in the field, then, yes, it will start to heat up again and then it'll start to ferment.
So then you end up with more of a silage product in the end rather than a hay.
So if you bale the hay too soon after cutting it, you know, cutting it, then you'll end up with more of a silage product.
And it's not good for your field. You're not good to put in your barn because it's going to actually heat up.
And it could actually burn your barn down if that from a fermentation process happens in a hay barn versus in a silo.
Is that explaining it? Yes, absolutely.
The only missing piece is the seeds. Talk about seeds.
OK, so with straw, you are actually, you know, you're going to do something that, you know, you're going to till and you're going to seed that field with, you know, with straw and you're going to get nothing but straw.
Whereas hay, it's just, you know, you're you could have you could you could seed and have an all alfalfa hay or an all, you know, a specific type of hay.
But typically it's it's just a variety.
So then all those because it's a variety, it's going to seed at different times.
So when you harvest the hay, some seeds are going to be the maturity. Some aren't.
Whereas when you harvest straw, you're harvesting it before it seeds or you're mechanically separating the seeds from the straw.
Which is typically how it's done. So then you have, you know, so then your straw is without seed, which is what you would want to use as typically as a mulch because you don't want to add seeds on top of your garden bed.
Dude, that was beautiful. So browns and greens, it all goes back to browns and greens.
And all when it's cut. So, you know, the same thing can be a green at one point and then a few months later, it's a brown.
Amen, brother. Amen. And the fact that it has the seeds and the plant growth hormones that are in that seed makes it a higher nitrogen, which is what I was talking about earlier.
Like every plant has a different seed to end ratio. So the more seeds that are present in a hay, the higher nitrogen it's going to be, which makes the horses jiggy.
So thank you for explaining that. And I'm sorry I hijacked the stage, Johnny and Mundin, but this is like a really good point that people should know about making compost.
Because there's a big difference between using straw and hay in the compost process.
Thank you for having me out.
Thanks for coming up. And no, you didn't hijack the conversation at all. These clarification points are things that a lot of people dig in on.
And as a point of reference, it can be a lot of how someone was brought up and how they were taught in the context of things.
Depending on who taught you and what was said, there can be a little bit of confusion.
I love these points of conversation because they really allow, instead of having a head about us and frustrating, it allows us to kind of figure out each other's context in this situation to create a better understanding for everybody.
So I appreciate you guys taking the time to dig into that. Now, Tim hopped onto the stage while that conversation was happening.
Tim, welcome to the stage. Do you have any questions or comments regarding today's subject?
Yeah, I'd just like to comment on the hay versus the wheat crop is what you produce straw with.
So you run a combine across the wheat field, you capture all of the wheat grain.
And like Tyson was saying, what you have at the end for the straw is just dried stubble with no seeds in it.
And the content would be different because it's a clean, basically just a straw, the stem of the plant.
The hay, on the other hand, and what he said about wrapping it with the plastic when they bale it, you can have plastic on it to keep it out of the weather, keep it dry.
But a high quality hay crop will inside the bale, it'll be green.
And compressing it when you run it through a baler, the hay is partially dried down.
And if it's too dry, it'll be brown. But if it's properly dried, it'll have some moisture in it.
And you run a baler across the field, you capture the hay, run it through the baler, the compressed nature of it keeps it moist and keeps it preserved.
And what you were describing as like a cure process, so that later when you feed it to the animals, there's still moisture in it and it's still green on the inside,
even though the outside might be exposed to the sunlight, would be browned and kind of, you know, dried out.
But the inside of the bale is still going to have some moisture.
And last part, the hay crop will be a mixture of alfalfa and like Timothy grass.
So it'll be a mixture of broadleaf and grass together.
And it will have the seed heads and it absolutely does change the nutritional content.
Great conversation, guys.
Thank you so much for adding that. That was powerful.
I love I love the deeper context.
Do we have you have another question for Leighton?
Johnny, are we going to slowly progress as we're getting to our about an hour and a half point where we usually shut the start thinking about shutting down the room.
So if you have any final questions, don't forget to raise your hand. There was one earlier. I don't want to miss it.
I'm going to pull that up. But if Johnny, if you have anything else or anybody else on the stage has a question or comment that they would like to make while I look this up, go ahead and do so.
You know, I don't have any questions at the moment, but that was just really great.
That kind of hay straw deep dive and Leighton, by no means were you hijacking the stage?
I love it when people I could ask a million questions to have a million questions to ask other people.
I find it's one of the best ways to learn.
So it's a pleasure up here and getting to listen to that conversation and kind of have a better understanding of the hay versus straw topic.
And I know that is something that is I've heard before and there's a lot to it.
So it was cool having both of those those two dudes up here to talk about that.
Hey, I look at myself as a student for life.
I don't know shit, man.
I'm just a really good student.
I keep digging and looking.
So that's my two cents.
Well, here is we will have as long as it's less, they're going to scroll down and see if there was some last questions that popped up when I do it.
But Andy Pop FFPV.
Sorry.
Should I add lacto B to my lacto bacillus to my compost?
Lacto B is amazing.
I can't speak strongly enough about the benefits of that, especially in an anaerobic environment.
So we talk about anaerobic versus aerobic.
Well, 70 percent moisture is is a lot more anaerobic than it is aerobic for sure.
So a lab applied to a compost pile at 70 percent moisture is, again, going to successionally warp speed that pile by providing, again, secondary and tertiary metabolites that the biology is going to absorb easily because it's baby food.
So, yeah, it's again, you know, be low and slow.
Be cool about it.
Don't like pour jugs of milk on your compost pile.
I mean, not that you can't, but just be careful of what you're doing.
So while we're on that and dig into it a little bit, because lacto bacillus is one, but often, you know, if you read even the older works with when it comes to a a CT using a CT and adding that into your compost process, does that you find an improvement in the rate at which composting happens to that?
Like what's the theorem there? If you have an active rich compost, what does throwing a bunch of water and a CT on it do?
Like what does what does will it increase things?
Have you seen like evidence of this working successfully?
So my answer would be is like, what is your goal?
Are you trying to grow biology or are you trying to break down organic matter?
My guess would be to speed the breakdown of organic.
So to speed up the breakdown, you want to go thermophilic.
You want to go hot.
The hotter it is and the more moisture, the more water you throw at that compost and the more times you turn it, the faster it'll turn into palm or mow them.
I'm sorry.
First palm then mow because what you're doing is you're speeding up the breakdown or the.
You're turning it into a finer particulate, but if your goal is to get bio complete, which I think I think that's the biggest disconnect in the compost conversation is what are you using this for?
Are you using it to build soil structure?
Are you using it to replace organic matter and soil?
Are you using it as an inoculant to to transfer biology into a soil that has some organic matter in it?
So what is the goal?
And I think that's that's the again, the elephant in the room that nobody talks about is like, what is what is the purpose of of you using this material and this process?
And then if you define that, well, then it's easy.
OK, you want a low temp biological compost.
You want a high temp, fast cooking breakdown toward that baby food that the biology can chew up.
Awesome.
No, I have one last one, and this was actually for me and it came up because I just love this subject and I don't often ask and get as many opportunities to ask about it.
But you mentioned earlier that you were talking about using cover crop during the process after afterwards.
Can you just touch on that? Maybe could you talk about the plants and why you use them a bit before we finish off the day?
Specifically, which pans you like? Was it a psyllium, clover or maybe a rye or a fava bean or something like that?
And what was the thought process?
All right. So great question.
And the last one, it's a big one.
I'll have a colorful story for you.
So I'm down working at Rodale. I had no idea who this Dr. Lane is.
All I knew her as the Lane. Right.
And we would have these Thursday morning meetings, which was basically to go over what was accomplished this week, what needed to be finished today and tomorrow so that we could go through the weekend without worrying about our experiments or projects.
And so I listened to her berate her, I don't know, probably 10 selected students that she had collected from across the United States to be her intern for that summer that they were making.
They weren't making compost. There was no biology in it.
And so.
I asked her, I said, OK, you just you're going to make the kids do this again.
Can I join in on it? And she's like, well, yeah, sure, if you want to.
So I'm like, all right, I'm going to go make some fucking compost.
So during my.
Residents there, I learned about what was called the rhizosphere.
So the rhizosphere is the coating around the root.
I just did a talk on the rhizosphere on F.
Future Canvas Project last week with Brian that you probably ought to listen to because I don't have time to really go all the way there tonight.
But the rhizosphere is the magic.
That is the connection from the plant to the soil.
And so what happens in the rhizosphere is the nutrient cycling system.
Now, some of it happens outside of the rhizosphere or brings it into the rhizosphere.
But where the real heat and fire, where the tires hit the road, that's in that fucking coating, that slimy coating I talked about.
So.
Bottom line is what my thought was, well, when I after I get this compost to just cool the fuck down or I make it low temperature, I can start planting it and growing, you know, all kinds of things.
All kinds of fast growing plants, which would be in turn.
Expanding the rhizosphere.
Now, Elaine taught, no, you don't want plants on the compost because they're stealing nutrients.
But I'm like, yeah, but if I leave the plants on there and I grind up that compost with those fresh plants, aren't the nutrients all still there?
And didn't I increase my biology?
Guess what? I kicked ass.
30 days later, when we rebrought our samples in and Elaine looked at them, she screamed at the class again and then screamed at me like, what the fuck?
How did you do this? You don't know nothing about this shit.
It was common sense and intuition.
It's like, you know, you want these organisms that are doing the nutrient cycling system will create more fucking homes and condos for them to do their work.
The only way to do that is fast rooting plants.
And as soon as that temperature gets below 100 degrees, man, seeds pop like crazy because it's such a warm, wet, moist environment.
And when they get going, they can throw roots like nobody's business because it's not compacted.
It's light and fluffy.
So that was the win for the win.
So again, and I use the term transplant because a lot of times when I was building those 30, 40 yard windrows, I was collecting plants from all around the world.
And I was collecting plants from all around where I made that windrow.
And I always made that windrow at the edge of the forest, like not in the grass or not, you know.
And again, I was fortunate enough to not live in a city because if you're living in the city, you can't do this shit.
But if you're in the suburbs, well, yeah, build a compost pile and build it close to the most undisturbed area on your property.
Again, grow cover crops or whatever else that's around there, indigenous, grow that on there.
Because that's going to bring in the biology that you want to capture if you're trying to make biological compost.
Thanks, Leighton. I super appreciate that.
Oh, sorry. I think I...
I super appreciate that.
I super appreciate that. I, you know, I put, I have a compost pile going.
It's just like this lazy man's compost pile in the backyard.
But I throw my cover crop mix on top of those.
I put it everywhere.
And there's a concept that it's just stuck in my head.
It was the fact when you watch a plant through their life cycle, like you watch mustard or cannabis or really any plant in general, when they fall down to die, they drop their seeds.
And they usually, depending on the plant, their ability to get these seeds or move them as far away from the position of the plant as possible to spread out and propagate further isn't usually very far, depending on the situation, of course.
But I think this is a very interesting concept because we take one cannabis seed or one plant seed and put it in the middle of a pot or put it in the middle of a 4x4 bed and then plant it.
It's like an individual floating out in space with no contact with anything.
And I always thought that this didn't make sense.
And then it came to me and a couple other conversations through the Dank Hour of the show, which we have every weekday on Tuesday, on a very regular basis, kind of alerted me.
And it was the thought that there are PGRs in plants and always PGRs in plants.
It's plant growth regulators.
They're absolutely critical and necessary for the growth and development of plants, period.
And that your seed has all of the most important and all the things necessary for the first bit of life.
And that we're taking one individual seed and cutting this situation off completely.
And it just seemed so backwards to me.
And I wonder all the potential that's there and what we're missing on those plants.
So thank you so much, Leighton, for digging into this conversation with us today and IvvD.
And as usual, I appreciate you and everything going on here.
So I'm going to leave the room open for a minute.
You go ahead and say what you're going to say, Leighton.
But make sure to follow everybody on the panel and follow the club and be back every Tuesday because we look forward to it.
Go ahead, Leighton.
Yeah, yeah. It sounds like a plan.
Really not doing much on Tuesday nights anymore anyway.
But a couple of leaving thoughts.
That was a big conversation in my compost building practices.
I always collect acorns, nuts, anything I could find that was like a high carbon source, but also had high nitrogen in it.
And then the other thing was, yeah, cover cropping and polyculture.
Like the beauty of having no parts exposed to the sun means that you have a microcosm underneath those leaves.
So everything that's going on, the evaporation and condensation that's occurring with the heat of the day.
You're not losing any of your water because your compost pile is completely covered with plants.
So it's just like a win-win-win.
You're like cycling your own water back in.
You're creating more rhizosphere, more nutrient cyclers, more fungi because you're not turning it.
So leave on those guys.
And yeah, I'll be back next Tuesday.
Awesome.
Thanks again.
Peace out, everybody.
I had this dream.
Can you hear me?
Can you see me?
Brandon's out there.
We appreciate each and every one of you.
Mr. Toe was not available today.
Can you hear me?
Can you hear me?
Yes, you should be able to hear you.
I hope you enjoyed the conversation and a great chat as always going on here.
Every Tuesday, make sure to come by and visit.
It sounds like we'll be lucky enough to have Peter.
Peter, you talked and then I said your name.
Layton, visit us more frequently.
I always look forward to deepening into those conversations and getting into this.
I appreciate each and every one of you for showing up.
Now, don't go anywhere.
Actually, you do need to go somewhere because you got about two hours and 20 minutes for the very next show featuring Peter and a very awesome Peter.
What is it again?
You got the producer from Narcos.
Anybody that's a fan of that and wants to come and have a conversation, check out that.
I definitely invite you to be right back here in about two hours and 20 minutes.
Don't miss out on that.
We have coming back at you with the regular scheduled broadcasting tomorrow.
I believe Marco and Robert Ducky during the day.
Then it is Ask a Cannabis New tomorrow evening.
If you'd like, don't forget to submit and you can find in the description access to the podcast.
It's to Daga.academy where you can sign up and sign in and ask a question.
Get in there, submit a question if you're not available to be there tomorrow.
We will make sure to answer it during the show.
We appreciate each and every one of you and keep it growing.
End.
As you can see, I'm trying to multitask two things and you guys get to watch me do nothing productive.
I had a snack.
I love having experts on because I can have a snack.
Seriously, don't go anywhere.
Stay here.
If I have to leave this open so that you don't go anywhere to watch Peter in two hours, you do that.
Channel one or two, Peter.
Can you tell me? Do you know?
Marco and Brian during the day.
Yes, Marco and Brian on Wednesday and then after it's the Academy.
Thank you everyone for saying I can hear you as clearly I'm not capable of making sure that that mute button works.
I believe it's on channel one, Peter, but if you don't already, two probably.
It's probably on two.
So if you don't follow or subscribe here, follow and subscribe here and then go over to the other channel and follow and subscribe future cannabis project, the main channel, because that's important.
And check out all the content and do all this stuff in the things and make sure to check out the amazing seeds and stuff coming out from Daga.
Garden, see it all, grow it all, be part of it.
The future of cannabis is here.
That's so cheesy. I don't know if I can do that one again.
Maybe not. We'll see.
