Hey, how's everybody doing this evening?
Fabulous, fabulous.
You know, I do this like half the times that I go into to actually do this and it's like
I'm all ready to go and then I realized that like I haven't gotten my thing on so that
I can actually record the thing.
But we'll figure it out from here.
So how is everybody doing?
Cory's jumping in here too.
So we're almost got the whole crew ready to go.
About 30 more seconds and we will start the conversation.
Do you ever just take a hit right before you know you have to like jump on a call or go
into a meeting and make sure palms a little sweaty?
Yeah.
Awesome.
So super exciting.
We have a really fun show planned for everybody today.
So I'm up and recording.
I believe everybody should be good to go.
Cory, are you good?
Peter, good.
Awesome.
And as usual, we are setting up the think our it is the usual.
Just a second, Peter, I'm sorry, I'm muting you.
It is the usual route.
And as we go along, I'm going to speed this up and shorten up our intro just so we get
right in the conversation, get everything rolling.
We are going to talk today about PGR is a very exciting conversation.
We have an amazing panel and a couple guest speakers that don't usually show up here,
Drew and Connor.
So I'm very excited to have you both with us today.
And we're going to learn tons about you.
So I'm going to ask for each one of our speakers up on the stage here to just introduce themselves
really quickly, just maybe three lines, who they are, what their background is, and a
little bit of reference on their passion for cannabis.
And then just go right through the entire round of speakers because we do have some
special guests today and we will touch on you guys a little bit more.
So Drew, if you could, when we get to you, don't worry about it.
Take your time.
Let us know a little bit more about you and what you do and a little bit of those facts
in there.
So we'll go in line of PTR.
So that is the order of which the pictures appear.
Hey, RJ, how's it going?
So we will go in the order of which the pictures appear.
So it'll go Chaz, Dr. Anabas, Ashley, Drew, Damon, Connor, Cory.
And I know Peter's cooking away.
So he's probably going to be a little bit busy with his family.
I don't know why you ended up in the audience there, RJ.
But things happen.
And I am inviting you back up.
Today we have an awesome subject where we'll be talking about PGRs.
And guess what?
It's in your cannabis.
So before we get into that, let's introduce all the speakers on the stage.
So go ahead and get us rolling there, Chaz.
Hello, my name is Chaz.
I've been doing this cannabis gig for about 20 years.
Started off about 10 years in Northern California, Humboldt County specifically.
And then moved back up to Washington state and spent about five years doing the recreational
cannabis scene.
And more recently moved up to British Columbia about two years ago and just reestablishing
myself up here.
Have all different styles of growing.
Greenhouses, light depth, mixed light, indoor.
And my main way of cultivating is living soil.
That's it.
Thanks.
Hey, everyone.
My name is Anna.
They call me Dr. Anabas in here because I have a PhD in cannabis genetics and looking
at sources of variation.
And I currently am working in New Jersey at a company called Shul Organics where we do
aquaponics.
And I teach modern cannabis science at the University of Boulder.
Hey, guys.
My name is Ashley Hubbard.
I'm out here in Michigan.
I'm the director of cultivation for a company called Rare Systems and we are fully aeroponic
cultivated.
Hi, I'm Drew Olson.
I am a biological scientist for the agriculture research service.
Hey, Drew, can you just take a pause from over there and just start for a second?
Your first little bit was very, very muffled.
I didn't hear any of it.
And if you could just get nice and close to your mic and speak it nice and clear if you
don't mind for me, please.
Okay.
Can you hear me pretty well now?
Yeah, that's much way, way, way better.
Okay.
So, I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
I'm going to go ahead and start.
Sorry about that.
Yeah, my name is Drew Olson.
I am a biological science technician with the US Department of Agriculture.
We can't hear you again, Drew.
I think, is your phone, is your finger over your mic?
I don't think so.
There you go.
Now you're beautiful.
Okay.
Okay.
I'm good now.
Stay absolutely motionless apart from your face.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
Well, I apologize.
But, yeah, so I'm a biological sciences technician with the US Department of Agriculture in their
agriculture research service.
I have a background with my Masters degree, where I actually met Anna over at the University
Colorado, and I worked with gibberellins specifically and their actual role in
plant defenses against aphids. So my background is not necessarily cannabis
related, but it is related to plant growth regulators or also growth
promoting hormones. Oh we are all so excited to pick your mine, Drew. I hope
you're ready. Because of course it has a lot of variable and interaction with
what we do on a daily basis and I think it's kind of important and you have
a really interesting perspective because you're outside of the cannabis space but
still has so much relation to us and that's what we're doing. With a
lot of the cannabis being set behind, I've noticed that it's a lot of movement
or trying to get people to like you have to steal a little bit of science from
other places so we love having people on that are like outside the cannabis space
bringing that input in forward because it's like helps the whole industry move
forward. So thanks for joining us today I really appreciate it. Now we're gonna
drop by Peter because he's in the middle of something, but Damon go ahead and
introduce yourself real quick and we'll just continue on there with Connor, Corey
and Jameson. Perfect thanks London. Drew, really nice to meet you man I can't wait
to pick your brain as well. My name is Damon Giesbrecht. I started off as a
medical patient 20 years ago and fast forward to now I am a compliance
inspector for one of the First Nations in my area. I co-founded a company called
Rive Scientific. Right now we're in the R&D phase of epigenetic signaling with
cannabis and then I've done a whole bunch of other things within the field
that are not as cool but yeah that's me I'm Damon. Been around for a bit. Next is
Connor. Connor it's also nice to meet you too man I just want to say that. Yes yes
no happy to be here happy to see all of you it's been a minute. Yeah my name is
Connor Stevens and I'm originally from the central coast of California and
currently on the east coast. I'm a graduate student at Cornell University
currently conducting research on micropropagation of hemp and you know
plant growth regulators are an important part of that so I look forward to this
discussion. Thank you. Good evening everybody my name is Corey Russell I'm a
chief managing partner at Resonate Cannabis Incorporated. We're a large
scale cultivation operation. This year has seen us go through Canada, Michigan,
Colombia and Portugal and excited to also be one of the co-hosts of Resonate
Radio. You can find our podcast all over wherever podcasts are served and we're
also streaming live on the twitches and the YouTube. It's a pleasure to be here
and see a bunch of friendly faces and some new faces as well.
Hey everyone I'm Jameson Walborn I'm the general manager of a cannabis
genetics company here in Canada and very excited to learn and contribute to this
conversation. Awesome I'm very excited and we are going over to YouTube and
filming that over there so just as a heads up everybody make sure to speak
nice and loud and clear into the mic because there is a secondary point of
entry so we just need to make sure be nice and clear and loud but I'm really
excited to get this conversation rolling because we got a lot to talk about today
as we get into PGRs and really jump in and I just we all were oh wait before we
get started Josh you're on the hot seat welcome to the party. We actually
just finished off introductions so we will finish it off again now. Hey
everyone I'm Josh Burke I'm a grower and breeder and really excited to be here
to talk about PGRs. Awesome well it's great to have you on stage and we're
really excited to talk about it. We of course had a very passionate conversation.
One of the big things that happens with PGRs and that is often commonly
put in stages you get these posts or these things on Instagram and Facebook
and you see them in these forms of these two different cannabis strains that are
showing very different bract and shape and leaf to bract ratios that are just
completely different in morphology and there's one put up next to the other and
then there's often a pic with one that says this has PGRs in it and this does
not and saying that you know there's this big problem so we really thought it
be a great opportunity to hop onto the Dank Hour, talk to this amazing group of
experts and really get into it because PGRs is a lot larger of a group than
people really recognize it and I'm just going to jump over to Dr. Anubis and ask
you kind of what's the definition of PGRs? Would you be able to define that
for me? Like kind of what are the group what are the hormones that are kind of
in that group or actually you know what I'm gonna pop over to Drew because
obviously he's touching on this. What are gibberins that you were
mentioning earlier responsible for and what group are they a group of hormones?
Can you define PGRs a little bit for those in the audience that are just
stepping in? Okay before I start can you hear me?
Yep you're good you could be a little bit louder but you're pretty good there.
Okay cool so PGRs or plant growth regulators you can you can think of them
as hormones or molecules that cause physiological changes in plants at
very low concentrations. So the gibberellins that I mentioned earlier
are from a pretty diverse class of plant growth hormones or just plant hormones
that are well known for plant growth. So and this is this is more in the in the
sense of like stem elongation, seed dormancy, as well as flowering. So
actually gibberellins in general have been used since about the 60s. So when
you think about those giant grapes there are you know specific breeds now
and there's been a lot of genetic engineering in that end but the original
grapes that were seedless and large were treated with gibberellins to stimulate
that larger fruiting and basically making the plant sterile. But the
regulators in general there's about largely five different groups of plant
hormones that heavily are heavily integrated in plant growth and
development in general and those are your auxins, your gibberellins, your
cytokinins, ethylene, and abscisic acid. Awesome that is a stellar definition and
I'm gonna drop down to Connor here and ask you how important these group
of BGRs, these group of hormones and chemicals are for the plant kingdom? Like
do the plants need them to grow? Are they absolutely necessary? How
important and valuable are they in the plant kingdom? Well when they're endogenous, so
phytohormones, they're extremely important. They you know just as Drew was
mentioning they direct the physiological growth, the development,
flowering, all sorts of things, you know germination. But you know there are a lot
of synthetic PGRs, plant growth regulators, that we can apply to
manipulate that growth and in the particular case with working in vitro or
in tissue culture you know one that was mentioned with cytokinins and in the
multiplication stage that can be used it generally assists with cell division
and that can be used to kind of force shoot induction so that you can have a
higher multiplication rate so you have more shoots that you can subdivide. And
another one is auxin is very commonly used in vitro to induce rooting and you
know like auxin for example that's also in a lot of rooting stimulants like
Clonex or Hormex or all these other things. So one would hazard to say that
you know PGRs regulate plant growth in general in the plant kingdom. While there
are synthetic and naturals you kind of you need them for it to regulate plant
growth throughout the system so to have a plant without PGRs in it is pretty
much null and void. Now I saw Damon jump open with the mic there. Did you have a
response that you wanted? No man my fat fingers keep turning on my mic I'm
fucking sorry. It's all good there what about yourself Ashley? I saw you. And then
I realized it's on and like I'm sorry to distract and Cara comes in the room and
I'm sweating bullets and it's like my fucking mic was on again. Anyway sorry I
wasn't trying to interrupt. It's all good. Ashley what about yourself? So I in
college you know when you have to memorize everything came up with an
acronym excuse me for all the PGRs. So all call girls are easy and it's
always stuck with me so oxin, cytokinins, gibber, abscisic acid and ethylene. So if
you want an easy way to remember that thought I'd throw that interesting tidbit
in. Can you do that one more time with a little bit of him in your voice you cut
out? Yeah so the acronym that I came up with in college and that's always stuck
with me is all call girls are easy. So if you remember that that's the first five
or it's the first letter in all five. So thought I'd throw that in there. That
that's a really awesome little tidbit there and we appreciate that Ashley and
that's a good one in there. So I want to kind of jump into jump into that. So
Connor you mentioned that there are synthetic and non-synthetic natural
hormones. What is I mean commonly what's construed and happens
nowadays is there's this misconception between cannabis and there's also a lot
of worry that we're using because there are like after doing a you can open up
and just search PGRs and you can find a multitude of information out there about
the different PGRs used in different plants to keep them short or tall to use
them for plant manipulation. So I was wondering like so people are often
worried about these chemicals going into them and I know the more synthetic and
dangerous ones are they like available on the market? Can anybody like answer? I
know Josh you have a few people that play with some of the more hazardous
ones. Do you know what they have available? I know that the one from
Alfalfa Trichamptonal. I can't remember how to pronounce it but they have that.
They play with a couple other ones. They do a lot of tissue culture work so that's
how they have all the hormones. They just like playing with it in their grow space
as well just to see what they can do and I've seen some pretty interesting
pictures like a plant that was about a foot tall that was about an inch
in diameter that had branches coming out all around just going all the way up the
plant which I mean it you know it's interesting to look at but definitely
not something that you'd use for actual consumption. It's just to see what they
could do with it. Very interesting and I've always kind of wondered like this
so how many products on the market have you know PGRs in them? We talked about
natural kelps. Maybe Chas could you maybe talk a little bit about, do you
know much about kelp extract or can touch on kind of what is in a lot of
these ammonical based things? I don't think PGRs are naturally in your
regular everyday bottle nutrients are they? Well like kelp extracts, CBD
extracts have cytokines in it and that basically helps with cellular division
of your plant so it's just a way to get higher cellular division by using
supplementing with kelp. You can trigger your plant to to produce different
natural PGRs for different reasons like one one way is increasing your
nighttime temperatures so that they're greater than your day. It will help
reduce the stretch that you get in the first couple weeks of flower and you
know things like kelp you'd want to use you know pretty much in the vegetative
age maybe the first little part of flowering but if you use it later on in
flowering you're gonna have it has the potent I've seen grows messed up because
of over application of kelp or seaweed or kelp extracts. Yeah. So I Dr. Anubis
just popped up an awesome photo. Thank you Chaz for that awesome rundown of kelp
and the kind of things PGRs there. Now we see the photo on right next to Chaz
here on this stage with Dr. Anubis' image that this often brought up and if you
guys PTR this pull to release pull the thing down and let it go you will see an
image of what is always kind of put out there and it's this idea that you know
to get tight small buds in that shape that you have to you know put a bunch of
chemicals that are hazardous or poisonous and that if you're buying
this type of product that it's happening. So can we like Damon you've been growing
for a multitude of years the variety of shape in different cannabis and bud
structures can you talk about that a little bit like I mean well can't
chemicals can do this you know this isn't chemicals doing this most of the
time this is genetic shape structure. Yeah like for myself for years I just
straight like dissolved oxygen in RO water and I always wondered like I'd see
you know dispensary weed or somebody else's weed and I'd be like why is this
so different right and then I started using a product and you know reading
what was on the side of the bottle and falling down the rabbit hole on the
internet. There's it's like Taz said there's ways to naturally induce this
stuff which are great but then when you're starting to use the chemical PGRs
and things like that the quality of cannabis falls through the floor right
and like it just becomes so on unauthentic right you know the stuff
that Anna's got on the right-hand side of her picture that looks like authentic
cannabis to me it's a little bit foxtail but it's nice looking weed I you know
throw that in my grinder the stuff on the line I come out of an organic grow
that you know had I've it's I wanted to mention too that I've also noticed
oftentimes that these that these PGR ones they could also be like there'll be
photos of two of just like you know like the drum trimmers when they're
turning around and rolling them around very frequently to condense the plant
matter into more of a like like like that shape and it folds the leaves over
and kind of create that inconvenience I'd love it if Jameson you could jump
in a little bit and talk about kind of your understanding of PGRs and and what
you're actually a doctor and of us you look like you before we jump over the
Jameson did you want to jump in a little bit yeah I just wanted to clarify that
this is not my picture this is not you know a comparison of something that has
been treated with PGRs or is it something that hasn't this is something
that I pulled off of a out of a group today actually that I'm in that we're
talking about PGRs saying that hey this is you know crap weed and this you know
and I was like yep this is the whole thing that we see all the time in those
chat groups but this is not my picture so don't think that I'm attached to this
picture saying this is PGR and not PGR it's for anybody who joined late or
whatever awesome well thank you dr. out of us
Jameson would you be able to have the opportunity to speak a little bit on
your understanding PGRs and like do you use kelp extract or what some of the
more natural PDRs because I know you're an organic grower yeah absolutely um I
use kelp I use PGRs I am hunting destroy you're really cut out there
Jameson be metal some things like that that you know sometimes come with risk
of using you know kelps and no you're back now you're back now you were just
out a little bit okay so yeah the way that I run my program is that is
slightly differently so you know I'm a big fan I love the dried aloe the freeze
dried aloe product from black swallow and I swear by that I mean that's
gibberellic acid I believe so for me I don't look at them as negative things
you know I think that once you get to a certain point and you've experienced
enough flower you can kind of understand the difference between good ones and bad
ones and you know you look at enough flower and you know there's there's
things that can push it too far but as an organic like as a guy who grows in
an organic soil setting like I'm not I'm not shying away from kelp because it's a
PGR I'm not using it to excess but I'm you know you know one thing I've learned
about organic farming is you know everything in moderation less is more
and sometimes the best thing to do is nothing so you know that's my that's my
experience with them it's great I appreciate your two cents on that
because I think it's important to know these PGR is like there you you can grow
organically and have PGRs as we as we talked about they're part of the plant
kingdom and then it's a lot more diverse of a thing so when we talk about having
problems or products causing issues or causing these these shapes are dependent
I think it's important for us to break down and create a little bit more of an
educated point of view going like hey let's we were talking about PGRs we're
talking about what was it again sorry that acronym Ashley I'm gonna get it all
call girls are easy all call girls are easy you got to get all call girls are
easy and I said these are part of that and these are for the flag kingdom it's
important to note now I mean drew I wanted to step back because you were
talking about using gibbons as as plant defense as so are you using natural or
synthetically extracted gibbons to create these to defend against a fits
you were saying yeah so so I was applying it to the soil in a liquid
solution that basically would soak up into the roots and because gibberellins
can actually move throughout the plant it would stimulate the rest of the
growth and everything as well as well as cause a positive feedback loop to
produce more gibberellin but I was looking at it in the perspective of how
these actual so so in with hormones are signaling pathways the reason why they
can be so effective is that they initiate a whole cascade of gene
signaling that leads to all these different protein products and
everything and sell you a whole plant responses so I was looking at how these
gibberellins may actually modulate how plant defenses are made is it causing
more of a defense against like bacterial infections or fungal infections through
salicylic acid signaling pathway versus jasmonic acid which is usually
associated with defense against insects in general now we used laboratory made
gibberellin three or ga3 which is one of the few bioactive gibberellins so
there's about 144 gibberellins give or take but only four or five of them
actually initiate a cellular response
however I kind of want to touch a little bit more on on that again with the
bioactive aspect is one thing that I'm not sure is actually is very well
addressed in the cannabis industry but these hormones are kind of like
essential oils they're cool and all but they're toxic at very low levels still
so you know a lot of the issues that could be with these plant growth
regulators is that you aren't necessarily sure what concentrations
these plants are getting and how that's actually affecting the health of the
plant because apart from things like you know cell cycles to the splitting of
cells stem elongation all that you know a lot of these also have to do about
nutrient transportation so you know gibberellins can help with different
types of nitrogen transport throughout the plant too so if these if these
hormone levels are off they could be negatively interacting with some that
need to be turned on and if that's constantly being applied then the plant
can't actually live out its life so it's going to be more stressed and might
produce less product. So I have a just quick question for you Drew do a lot of
these PGRs travel with the vascular tissue or is it more cell to cell? I can
really only speak for auxin and gibberellins the rest I'm not entirely
sure gibberellins can be transported all throughout the plant it can be produced
in the newest route the newest lateral route and travel all the way up to a
budding stem because again these you know help with the stem elongation you
know budding off and everything. Auxin on the other hand also can and actually if
you look at a lot of weed killers they have auxins in them as well and those
are actually at least historically have been main ingredients for a lot of the
early weed killers. Connor do you have a response for that because you clearly
enjoy it. Yeah no everything Drew is saying I very much agree with absolutely
and I guess I just I just did a PTR this is from my research with the cytokinins
I had said earlier about how it can affect shoot growth and usually you'll
add them during the multiplication phase so that you can have a higher
multiplication rate for propagation purposes and it just kind of like what
Drew was saying that there's lots of different types in this particular case
I was studying 2IP, TDZ, BA three different types of cytokinins at three
different ratios and you can just see how you know higher concentrations
generally lead to more chlorotic plants it's kind of tough on the plants and
just the differences and just how the plants react so you know it's all under
the same classification of yeah these are cytokinins just like he was
mentioning yeah those are gibberellins but there are they each kind of have a
different effect and that's an important to note. I think it's like my
understanding one thing that I've noted that people don't often get is you know
around and changing the direction of growth right so we're talking about a plant and
and do that a little bit there for your PTR. That's absolutely a PG yard bud that
was also fed a dye to get it to change that color so that's just kind of why I
wanted to throw it up yeah I have flowers that genetically they're nice
dense and tight right but you know when you see a natural hardly any leaf just
all fucking K or brax and yeah so that that's what that flower is it's
completely ornamental. What was it used for?
It was just kind of used to I don't really want to go into the details. It
causes that specific shape and if there's a specific PGR that was that
you're playing with but anyways Corey you haven't had a moment to speak I'd
love for you to open up and kind of chat a little bit about maybe your
understanding of some of these more hazardous unnatural PGRs.
Thank you. Yeah it's calling me and I was just taking a hit man I appreciate it.
I have some miraculous timing with this stuff sometimes it's quite funny.
So yeah the only I think the only thing that I can add kind of at this time it
hasn't really been covered is I mean for me it's been an interesting journey
because up here in the Canadian cannabis industry I've run into quite a
few people who were previously in the golf course industry and so that you
know they definitely have a penchant for using some of these products and so I
definitely have had discussions about you know actually PGRs to do the
opposite. I know that a lot of things that we've covered so far is about PGRs
to kind of make everything a little bit bigger a little bit better but there was
one in particular I think it's actually the counter to gibberellic acid if I
remember the conversation I had correctly but it started with a T I
think it's trexapac or trexapac was something that I kind of you know
started coming across where I wasn't I had no idea that you could also have
PGRs that are on the other side of it. So that's what really led me down into my
rabbit hole of trying to understand this whole you know it's not just about the
rock-hard peds that we're used to buying it's a little bit deeper than that. So
yeah you know I encourage everyone who's you know want to research a little bit
more about PGRs there's definitely a wide range of this is not only you know
just things to quote-unquote make the plant bigger better there's also things
to kind of counter some of those as well. So I think that's where my value is on
this one. I'm complete.
Awesome great response. I appreciate it. I wanted to kind of ask a little bit of
Ashley's manipulation. I mean you're talking Ashley you specifically go in
aeroponics. Now this is you know for if you were to take what you do and the
methodology that you grow right now and put it back a hundred years and show it
to a bunch of people it would blow their mind like it would like you would be
witchcraft the devil you know you know oftentimes I find people will reference
you know oh it's PGR hydro aeroponic crap and stuff like that. So I wanted to
know kind of what your opinions are using some PGRs in your system if so
what are they and and could you tell us a little bit about how it might
interact with you. Yeah so we cultivate using just low pressure you know
nutrient water based on kind of what grow recipe I tell it to run. But we do
utilize in every one of our phone machines. Clonex we use the liquid not
the gel because it just kind of gets washed off. I have seen results from
people over applying certain rooting hormones so you have to definitely pay
attention to the active ingredient in it and how much because you can over
stimulate some of those tissues. But we use Clonex liquid particularly at the
beginning and then we kind of flush it out of the system. But other than that we
don't really treat to my knowledge don't really you know utilize any products
that are high in those but we definitely utilize Clonex. I mean I think if if if
we were to say as a consensus every everybody every commercial facility or
pretty much most facilities anybody that's cloning is using PGRs. Would there
is there an alternative method that I'm not aware of that is completely void of
using any sort of hormone? I know you can use like I've heard of people using
honey and cinnamon but I imagine these still have an interaction to create a
change in in hormones in it. So could you can you clone without PGRs? Does anybody
have an answer for this one? Yeah you can use straight water and you'll have
no issue. I mean it's it's it's it's like a day or two really to be honest if you
kept them at the at the same temperature and conditions you'll see a little bit
more rooting on the stuff that has that has rooting hormone on it. But you can
ultimately like you can take an aero cloner and just have it misting on it
and the plant will naturally put out will put out roots off that callus. So I
mean another non-chemical thing that people use often is aloe but that then
again has different PGRs in it. So yeah there's there's a bunch of different
options. Very interesting. It's a very very interesting because I've always
kind of just assumed you know you never go to you know so I've heard of people
using aloe. I've heard of people using cinnamon. I've heard of people using
honey. How much accuracy and success that they have I mean and also the failure
rate. Maybe if they have a point of reference there Chas like is the success
rate of the plants go diminish quite a bit because it is it is all about
getting you know that 90% success rate in your cutting. I think it starts off
how clean you are from the beginning. You know if you have a sterile environment
you're cloning with just water then you're gonna have you know you're gonna
have equal success. Some of the rooting hormones or powders have some antifungal
stuff that comes in it that helps sterilize your your water or what
you're putting into it. But you know at the end of the end of the day how how
clean and sterile you keep your cloning environment is gonna represent to me
more the success that you have. I think it's less to do with success rate and
more to do with time to success rate. So when you're running these commercial
operations and you know you say oh well I can you know root this out in water
and it's gonna take you know 18 to 22 days or I can root this out in Clonex or
some other you know aloe dip or whatever and you know I'm getting 8 to 14. It's
you know it's about square footage on your racks in your facilities. So I mean
that and that that day lengths I think got a little bit hot mic there Chas. That
day length has a huge effect that that two to three days in a facility when
you're trying to manage and mitigate timing is pretty huge especially when
you're going into the larger volumes. When you save one day or two days it can
really amount to quite a bit. Now now Josh if you I mean what natural what PGRs
do you have in your garden? I mean we of course are talking and I'm just gonna
say this it's a point of confrontation because I know somebody will is guess
what we're all growing PGR weed and and that all cannabis contains the group of
hormones in which that regulate plant growth. So guess what spread the
information share it out there and let people know. So what but I mean Josh you
we talked a little bit and we've talked about cytokine and and a few other
products. Are there some things and PGRs that you personally use that you have
good success with and how exactly do you go about using them in a safe method?
Yeah so I've for natural PGRs that I've used people mentioned a lot about kelp
extracts I've definitely used that in bed regularly and in flower I'll you
know give it a shot at the start of flower and then normally around the
third week but then I'll kind of let it go. I also have made some like fermented
plant extracts with you know shoot tips from you know the vegetative stage which
and as we know they're the shoot tips have auxins in them so when you're
making an extract with that you're gonna have you know those the hormones that
were you know they're kind of concentrated into that so yeah that back
into the plant it's you know helping utilize those natural PGRs again. But
yeah so I basically just kind of try and utilize natural PGRs that are
already within other plants like fava, meal and stuff like that as well I've
used yeah those are kind of the main things that I've been using lately.
Awesome now I got a good one for you Josh no sorry not Josh Drew because
Josh gave me an inspiration there of a hell of a good question especially I
think it'll work really well for you. So some of your work involves the
direction of plant and bacteria or fungus or aphids you mentioned a little
bit earlier so we use in cannabis of the you know the running standards you have
to have mycorrhizae fungus and you have to have symbiotic fungus and bacteria
in your system to increase quality yield growth development. We all know these
these amazing things now what I thought was an interesting question for you that
you might be able to express is that this interaction that these funguses
and potentially positive or negative bugs have would these interactions
influence PGRs or add PGRs into the plant like something to regulate or
increase plant growth because naturally like you take two plants and give them
a mycorrhizae and they have that additional ability to grow you know
that's regulating some plant growth so is is that a possibility I mean I'm just
wondering if you have a little bit more of an in-depth insight there. Yeah and
the answer is absolutely 100% in every way shape and form. I mean unanimously
across the board there's been at least since the 70s you know hundreds of
probably hundreds of thousands of publications of you know in scientific
journals as well as you know more more commoner journals about the impact at
least on mycorrhizal fungi because I mean they they directly affect those
PGRs those pathways because I mean with those ideas kind of with those new
nutrients coming in the plant can then respond to that uptick in those
nutrients and also there's a little bit of a trade-off for anyone that doesn't
know it's not just that these soil microbes are just helping the plant for
free just for a free ride they're also getting a lot of the sugars that the
plants make from photosynthesis so this whole interaction is constantly changing
those those plant growth hormones as well as defense hormones as well and
another kind of complicated thing to think of or keep in mind is that these
hormone pathways again are constantly at interplay to modulate how the plant
is growing and how to respond to its environment whether it is the actual a
biotic environment it's in so you know the sunlight the weather everything
versus the biotic ones and that's you know everything that's in the soil
versus what's happening up top and you know one thing to think about too and
this isn't necessarily plant growth related directly but when a plant senses
an aphid or another insects or invader that is causing physical mechanical
damage it will respond with jasmonic acid which can also cause an uptick in
terpenes which can also happen through that interplay between gibberellic acid
plant growth hormone historically and jasmonic acid and you know terpenes
obviously you guys know a lot about terpenes so but there's a lot of
interplay and you know those those interactions with all those organisms is
very much so a factor and that's not just with natural plant growth but also
if you are applying plant growth regulators as well so I just got to
throw this out here guys because this is like one of the coolest things ever is
and we just literally answered why you know organic cannabis with you know high
bacterial levels and diverse bacteria systems that these that growing
organically with these diverse things of bacteria can increase what was the
jasmonic acid yeah yeah jasmonic acid it's one of the two well-known plant
defense pathways but you know also plays a role in plant growth too it's it
follows very heavily with the plant circadian rhythm yeah I would there's a
product called turpenator on the market that is sold that is pretty much all
jasmonic acid and it will it will increase your terpenes but it will give
it a very generic terpene profile across across all of your strains so that's an
example of having it induced naturally and and adding to it in a different way
but then if you apply it to your plant you're gonna get a more generic response
from your plant than if it were produced naturally I think yeah drew would I be
corrected in kind of assuming that jasmonic acid would also be like a lot
of other assets that it's actually a diverse group of acids that are slightly
variable and different so when we take like a pure chemical and extract it into
like like we would have for a jug that would result in this consistency type of
thing whereas in an organic environment you'd have a bunch of different bacteria
in a bunch of different systems all affecting kind of the dynamic of how
this jasmonic acid was created therefore creating a more unique profile would
wouldn't be able to assume that a little bit um yeah actually while he was well
Chase was talking about that that was kind of interesting that the profile is
generic but it it does kind of make sense if they are just using one
bioactive analog you know odds are if it's constantly being applied that the
same response is going to happen however London you're very much so right there
are different bioactive forms and you know the balance of each one can can
have an effect on the profile just from kind of brainstorming out there but
another thing to think about too is with this jasmonic acid there's also
something called the acronym is ODPA and it's basically the precursor that
initiates that whole release of jasmonic acid and stuff too so I'm kind of
wondering if you know adding in or trying out something like that just from
a you know research experiment perspective could actually result in a
different and different panel of terpenes
very interesting all of everybody's gears are turning a little bit here and
I love it so I wanted to jump down to Connor for a moment and if you could
talk a little bit so you're doing tissue culture so my understanding is
that you kind of you clean and sterilize the the plant matter and tissue kind of
voided of any potential bacteria or contaminants isolate it and give it all
the things it could absolutely use to grow and develop into a into the first
cell division and growth so naturally you would maybe be using PGRs or things
to regulate or control the plant growth regulators within the plant already
could you speak on that a little bit I would really appreciate yeah of course
so plant tissue culture it's it's a really broad field and it's really the
range of procedures used to grow plant cells tissues organs etc on a nutrient
supplemented media under aseptic conditions so I mean we can talk you
know I do clonal propagation or micro propagation and you know there's other
things like transformation germplasm storage breathing practices all sorts of
stuff but so it really depends on what you're trying to achieve so for example
if you want to produce callus or basically a de-differentiated or
unspecialized cell mass you would kind of tinker with the cytokine and then
auxin concentrations and ratios and that can induce callus formation and you know
you can get some soma clonal variation and kind of produce mutations from that
as I was saying earlier for micro propagation there's several stages and
the dominant stage is the multiplication phase stage two and that's really where
you'll use the cytokinins because again that that forces the shoots and gets you
higher rate of propagation and then you know we were talking a little bit
earlier about you know the auxin for root growth so it really depends for the
tissue culture realm what you're trying to do and another one that is commonly
used is GA or gibberellins and that can affect internodal spacing and kind of
like how dense the plant is or how elongated the plant is whether using GA
or anti-GA so yeah it tissue culture is like a little microcosm so it is fun to
kind of experiment in vitro and see the response and this picture right here is
from some of the auxin trials when I was doing in vitro rooting and you know one
of the most common forms of auxin that we use is indole-3-butyric acid or IBA
and because it's the most shelf-stable readily available and and such but
another one is NAA and I noticed that in my research that NAA produces kind of
thicker more delicate roots and actually induces more callus formation so that's
a little bit of tidbit for my stuff that I'd like to share. Okay so you guys
ptr that photo again and you could really see the difference in the root
shape and everything like that so it's very like it's I'm learning a ton here
because I was very kind of back and forth with like how many natural and
unnatural PGRs I knew that in certain situations like tissue culture and stuff
like this it would be very advantageous to be using some of these chemicals but
the thought of using these in an agricultural setting to domestic crops
that we're going to feed people you know is a little bit of a concern of mine and
that getting out there because we don't know like we know what we can see what
these products are capable of doing but I believe there was a PGR that was
released on the market in the 60s or 70s that was really quite ended up being
quite dangerous I don't know what it's off my head and probably shouldn't be
talking about it if I can't speak about it correctly so we're gonna skip that
point and there's always this worry of PGRs and stuff being in your cannabis so
I just wanted to like alleviate some of that pressure with this convo see now
Josh you change your photo there I was wondering if you want to chat about it a
little bit bring it up a little bit because you got like some beautiful
looking cannabis in your hand there on that photo yeah sorry actually I'd
change that a little while ago I just wanted to show like it's some leftover
buzz that I have of a strain that just came out you know very nice and dense as
well like this stuff is you know very dense has that same you know when you
drop it on the table it clunks but it's you know grown you know it's it's salt
grown it's not my personal home girl it's something I was working on with
somebody else but yeah no PGRs there but still very nicely done cannabis so I got
a question then a follow-up for that one actually Josh is like so you're talking
salt-based nutrients when we talk about this type of stuff we're talking about
these bottle nutrients are you talking about bottled PGRs are you talking about
hydroponic nutrients because I think oftentimes especially newer people that
are introduced to like photos and the blurb that Anna has on there that she is
found on on that social media that often goes around very very frequently this is
like the concern right so like what's if I'm a monocle nitrogen well it isn't the
ideal source of nitrogen for a plant to develop right like could you tell me a
little bit you had a phone call there oh we lost him a little bit me oh he's back
Josh are you able to sorry my phone did something weird there what was the
question so I I was just saying that you know oftentimes people go hey you're a
bottle nutrient grower you're growing with a monocle nitrogen and you're
growing with these bottle nutrients and hydroponic this is the you're using PGRs
and I think there's a difference here in using you know salt-based nutrient and
using PGRs I wonder if you could jump in at all these were just grown with
plant prod nutrients which I'm not a huge fan of but you know we were able to
dial them in over a couple grows for that cultivar and be able to put out you
know that that quality of bud but yeah there's no PGRs in that at all it's just
you know chelated nutrients and you know a salt-based form that we just you
know added to water and you know the old-fashioned you know pH of water after
and away you go yeah so we just played with the different levels of nutrients
various stages of the weight one way to ensure that your plant doesn't have
anything sketchy in it so that's why I was clapping I love that response cuz
it's true in Canada you really can't like if you wanted to get neem oil like
coal like the Einstein stuff that is the most common I mean like people have been
using neem oil I always think it's a very funny one because people have been
using neem oil like just about as long as they have been using cannabis is in
more products than you can imagine and I think it's it's very very an
interesting subject we'll probably touch on that on another episode but I don't
want to get sidetracked here to too much I really wanted to bring it in and let
people know that if you'd like to step up on the audience and have an
interaction with some of our experts now during the recorded part of our session
feel free to raise your hand and come on up and join the conversation about PGRs
we would happily have you on stage with us I think one day I figure if any of
the experts have any other points that they would really like to jump on or
that we've spoken about that they've kind of missed out on go ahead and give
me a little flicker of your mic I would greatly appreciate that go ahead
thank you sir no I just I just want to say that I really appreciate this
discussion I hear a lot of growers and people who just simply haven't read
enough or really explored this realm enough speaking on it the most and just
spreading a lot of misinformation you know there these PGRs you know in
certain circumstances they can be detrimental to our health and and such
and you don't always want to use them in certain applications but in like my
particular case with tissue culture it's very necessary and when there's
misinformation being spread you get states like Massachusetts which has
actually outlawed the use of auctions which makes it difficult in certain
cases so I think this is a good discussion to have and just appreciate
you all good stuff I think that's that's I think it's amazing that people can
like continue to figure out ways to make like naturally occurring compounds
illegal you know like it just doesn't make a ton of sense now I mean if you'd
like to come up to it because I must have stage go ahead I did have I will
invite you up brother Matt if you'd like to come up go ahead and raise your hand
it might not be too off-talk I'm not familiar with exactly what you're
speaking of but go ahead and raise your hand to come on up and and see if it see
what our experts thanks but yeah I think one of the notes that I really wanted to
touch on as well as just the biodiversity point and we often touch on
this a lot and that we've noticed is that the diversity of things going into
our system is really important you know there's natural PGRs and in cannabis and
it's important that these things are in there because like we talked about
regulates growth and controls things there are ways to manipulate these facts
that are as simple as just topping a plant but there are also chemicals that
people are putting on cannabis and there is some concern to be had so I love the
fact that we've been able to have an open conversation and kind of chat about
this so that people can understand a little bit more about this specific
subject I can't tell you how many times I've been like hey you know like wait a
second think critically here let's talk a little bit about what this means and
people just get very defensive so I thought this would be a great way to
have that conversation Drew I have a quick question for you while we have a
moment next week we are jumping into microbes and I was wondering if you
would be interested in joining us next week as well because I think that might
be a great platform to have you chat on because of your you know what you do
yeah yeah totally yeah I've had a lot of fun tonight thanks for inviting me and
yeah I'd love to be back awesome yeah as usual we try and do this
for about an hour an hour and a half and then we open it up for people to
come up on stage and join the experts to ask any specific questions and guess
what happens if nobody has any questions to come up and ask I'm just gonna pull
everybody up and start our after show relax where everybody gets to come up
and hang out and chat with the experts and ask any questions this usually runs
for a little bit go ahead and come on up and introduce yourself to the speakers
and give us a little rundown on what you thought of today's episode
oh sorry Matt no I don't mean to cut you off
Drew do you have any social media like Instagram or anything LinkedIn yeah yeah
Instagram Facebook and LinkedIn can you put that on your profile yeah yeah
no you're just a wealth of information thanks for joining like it was great so
I just want to give everybody a little bit of a heads up here cuz Drew as you
can see he's got that new new person symbol he actually came on today to do
the show so he's a real person everybody he isn't just some rando we got to come
in off the street and read a script he does have a rando looking profile I'm
sorry drew you know Damon called it out you do you do look like a rando but we
appreciate you know I just made this last night when Anna messaged me I
totally know we appreciate you drew we do we appreciate you take the time to do
it I didn't need to contact me I'll put you in touch with Drew go big red
thanks secretary go big red go big red let's go all right go ahead Matt you
like you seem like you wanted to bring something up welcome just oh I was I
was in and out and I was just that's why I hit you on the back channel I wasn't
sure if you guys had commented on plant health regulators and how they kind of
like did I guess you know like operate a little bit different and they might like
I guess the future canvas project might be like most aware of like harp and like
proteins like that's a plant health regulator and know if like you guys hit
like hit on it or like good bad about them or against and outs I was curious
not super familiar with that term if any of the experts on stage can speak on
like I can assume what plant health regulators mean but I'm not I'm just not
familiar with with with the term they're essentially just a protein like
you know the PDR like you guys have kind of explained is a protein that activates
or it you know you know like manipulates like growth plant health regulators are
proteins that that that they just like activate growth and defense genes do you
have any specific names of what those proteins are I guess like the best one is a
harpin protein I think we're gonna have to do a little bit of digging I'm not
familiar with yourself just be one got blocked in Canada for the longest time
like well maybe not be one in general but the one the line I deal with there
was a period where that product couldn't be sold because of the be one in it right
so like up here where everything is so regulated I don't want to say I just I
don't want to say it's a commercially available product that for some period
of time in Canada the retailers had and the producers had to pull it from their
inventory in their shelves and box it up so that if inspections came by they saw it was
boxed right and that's happened with a few products that I use specifically but yeah
no I'm not here to plug my shit so and this was a protein yeah be one like the fight like
like you talk like a vitamin protein be yeah yeah that's absolutely what it was and there is
no we're not playing this game jazz there's there was other things within that organization that
you know they you know even bacillus for a period of time was taken out of the market right because
it lacked it lacks certification so up here things are pretty safe right like produce can't use
that like even the home grower can't use something that's not approved for use right in some way
shape or form so that's that's why like my viewpoint on PGR is I used to be a purist and
like I'd say you know all that's gross weed or whatever now it's at the point where it's better
living through chemistry you know Omri those societies and things they exist for a reason
right in the down south where you guys are at there's no real regulation and it's kind of the
wild wild west so but there's there's been proteins blocked here lots of times and even
fungals you know like there's other products that I use that it was it was leaps and bounds
so that commercial producers could use them right so we don't have much to worry about up here well
the harpoon protein is singulated from insect frass so it triggers a systemic acquired resistance or
response from the from the plant I just read up on it a little bit you can get things like chitin
that you find in insect frass or in some frass itself that will trigger it salicylic acid I
believe is another one that that will trigger trigger that SAR response it basically makes
a plant think like it's getting eaten by bugs or little bugs are taking bites out of the plant out
of the leaf and it releases hormones or different chemicals in it I honestly don't know that booster
the the plants immune response to it and that's just from the little reading I've never heard of
harpoon proteins and and I don't know the efficacy and the safety of it being used in cannabis but
but from just a brief little reading I just did it seems like this is a SAR response totally it's
been tested in the horticulture industry I know that's not saying much across the board but there's
more than just the harpoon but I guess I don't want to dig too deep into it because it's separate
than the main topic but it's a pretty unique set of regulators essentially that I think are always
good to bring up around PGRs it's found from bacteria I believe that's like a byproduct of
they break down so just just I want to take a moment now welcome to the stage we'll get to Sam
welcome in and as well I just wanted to give now because he sent me a message in the back chat do
you want to go ahead and bring up your your question there please oh hey guys how's everyone
I wanted to ask about or just sort of talk about humates as like a really powerful PGR that's like
organic and our humates actually humates actually PGRs if it's like that's what I'm trying to figure
I kind of got scared listen everything you guys are saying and I try and keep it organic and I
found that like humic acid and I think it's fluvic acid these products I'm using really give
that boost of almost comparable to what using salts and those you know non-organic products
but I don't know if anyone knows anything so we were talking earlier about chelating nutrients
and basically what humics or fulvics do is help chelate organic nutrients to be able to deliver
that through the cell membrane barrier into your plant into the root in a form that will will pass
through if that makes any sense it basically makes it in a in a very basic way it makes the nutrients
recognizable by the plant that will let it through its its its barrier and that will carry it in
salts are broken down to their very basic forms where where they don't necessarily need it as
much but organic nutrients also at their basic form are going to be salts so it just depends on
how how you look at it from an organic or a non-organic standpoint it's just where it's
coming from and in all that the in a very basic way all that the humates and the fulvics are doing
is allowing that nutrient to enter the plant and in an easier way well where it won't have to
expend as much energy to get that final end product I'm done well thank you for that answer
that so so I guess you mates almost increased the the bioavailability of the nutrients uptake
and as as it it's uptake into the plant I guess yeah sorry go ahead London no no you got you go
for it Josh you're going Josh all right so a friend actually of mine and London's had explained
and fulvics to me in a really really great way that made it really simple and she'd been saying
basically that your your humic acid makes the you know the table bigger so you know you can you know
you don't just have like a little end table with food on it you have like a whole you know massive
table with food on it and the the humic or the fulvic acid sorry makes it so that you know the
spoon that you're using to eat that food is bigger so you know now not only do you have
more food available but now you can actually take in more food at the same time so using them both
together you know gives you that increase on both ends so you end up getting more nutrient uptake
from the planet to use more efficiently I that's like the best way of putting that I thank you
Josh because I think that's the best way it's like the the humic's the dinner table and the and
the spoon is your fulvic I think it's really well to put so tech and it does a lot more than just
drive your plant forwards when you start using humic and fulvic's there there were there the
one two of the largest like fulvic is humic it's just a further breakdown of it in a little bit of
a separate part but it's a huge group of acids that are naturally occurring throughout nature
and system and are used in by biology to break stuff down and to help nutrient transmission stuff
like that it's it's very it plays a very big role in the whole plant kingdom and is a very natural
natural I would not be worried about using humic or fulvic in your system as like it's something
that would cause any danger naturally anything over applied or that being said sprayed on a
flower because I will say this guy that I will never suggest spraying stuff on a flower is is
you know avoidable at all points in time now what is it interesting thing that I find about humic
so technically like if we when we break down everything is when your plant grows it's usually
PGRs right so if we break it down to kind of like non good and bad PGRs if you look at kind of the
good PGRs in the plant that are driving the growth and that are you know happening and causing the
regulation of growth to change in the medium from the bacteria is going to increase as well because
that that whole dinner table giant spoon concept doesn't stop at the plant it actually continues
to the bacterial level and all the biology in it so you can use humic and fulvic to actually
increase the rate of of nutrient uptake for cattle and decrease the time that it takes for them to
reach market weight by about 10 so there's a lot of uses for this and it really is it's about the
intake of nutrient and the ease of doing it so you're really allowing kind of giving that buffer
so it's kind of one of those things when you take a salt-based medium an organic medium you can kind
of allow humic and fulvic to help kind of defend and give that soil medium and biology a little bit
of a defensive barrier and boost allowing the plant to grow and develop a little bit better
if that makes sense so technically yeah you're increasing the PGRs and and you're increasing
the growth of the plant but that's you know that's naturally part of the plant and naturally
part of the entire ecosystem like you can take humic and fulvic as a pill and it'll actually
help increase health and stuff like that like these are very naturally occurring regular concepts i
just wanted to take a moment invite and say hello to stephanie on this date and it is i just want
to ask nav does that give you a good answer and summary of kind of our our thoughts on on your
yeah i feel a lot better now because it's almost like i thought you know i'm doing it totally
organic and then i was thinking oh wait although i source out because i i use a lot of earthworm
castings and i think that's like one of the most powerful thing for humates so i figure earthworm
castings are like super organic but totally answered my question thank you guys so much man
because i always have the dopest information man awesome we appreciate it nav and that that being
said i totally agree with you because earthworm castings have i think the highest bacterial
diversity load possible because of the way they are it actually is it's the best thing to use in
conjunction with human fulvic because it's about that biodiversity right so adez did you have any
questions or statements for any of our speakers or moderator thanks how about yourself sam welcome
to this stage how are you doing i'm just doing fine sorry my phone was elsewhere in the kitchen
i'm just cooking dinner and yeah i'm enjoying the conversation i'm always glad to learn something
new about pgrs it's not an area that i'm particularly knowledgeable of so i'm really
just trying to soak up as much information i didn't break out the pen and pencil but i was
i'm very tempted to so yeah it's i'm really enjoying it thank you very much
i learned a ton it was very fun i admit i was wondering like as as your kind of job because
you're qa in like bc here and in the canadian market so do you know like is is there is there
any hormones that you're aware of that they kind of use on a regular basis as a spray on plants
in your space maybe you know maybe not i just thought i'd throw that out there as a quick
question uh none of the places that i've worked with agro has uh ever used agro in their
uh ever used any sort of spray um or plant growth hormone as our plank uh any pgrs
that i know of um it's just it was not even an option that was presented uh i didn't i didn't
actually learn about them until mid like last year uh after i'd already been working in the space for
uh a year and a bit so i it's it's just a non-entity from my point of or at least from
my experience rooting hormone has pgrs in it then yes it is used because root it because we use quite
a bit of uh rooting hormones so i lied i'm just ignorant ignore me they're all over the place man
seriously it's one of those weird things where it's like oh my god you get these things it's
like oh my god i had no idea about this dangerous dangerous dangerous thing out there and it's like
oh wait like it's everywhere and there's it's everywhere there's plant growth regulators in
every part of my plant uh but stephanie welcome to the stage i always love having you come up
uh i know i know you got you wanted to come up about midway through the stage did you have
anything specific for everybody or want to have a shout out and have a big hey hello to everyone
man she's not even listening
nah she's not listening it's all good left left the mic
yeah man oh sorry i'm in the middle of nowhere illinois trying to drive back to oklahoma
but uh yeah just jumping in hydro bio for the humics and stuff that's an awesome product and
i think it is on the list for canadia i was just leaving wisconsin so hi neighbors but uh also for
pgrs mom used to use in driving around wisconsin just now they're everywhere weeping willow branches
she used to do uh make them in a mash and then soak them in a water and let them sit for about
a week or so and then strain out the mash and then she'd use that liquid as her rooting gel
so yeah we can do it because the weeping willow trees have a massive massive hormone for rooting
so anyway salicylic acid yep so i'm gonna probably lose you all here and i'm just listening in right
now because i'm keep jumping off because i keep running out of or getting out of cell service
in the middle of nowhere illinois but love y'all
i love you stephanie does it have to be weeping willow or can it be anything in the willow family
like i have a fragile um willow in my backyard which it totally lives up to its name when it
hails it breaks um but like can any willow be used or does it have to be the weeping willow
i don't know i've never done r and d um i mean since in my older years i haven't done r and d
because i was out in california and we don't have fucking weeping willows out there so but there are
some in oklahoma and i planned on grabbing some and starting actually some i'm starting some moms
here pretty soon oh fruit beer floats so i'm gonna be doing some r and d on that and see how she goes
and yes what stephanie said so the the um vital humic hydro bio product um i use it it's got
pelvic and humic acid in it and a bunch of other stuff and it is omri in in canadia
you guys love it when i say that um uh it's i think we still have yet to get it put on the list
in the u.s but yeah so if you're growing organic that that product is um omri or whatever your
deal up in canada is um because i had to check it out because we're an organic farm too
no i said yeah i i thank you for bringing that up stephanie because i i i totally had forgotten
about that and actually willow branch is used in a bunch of herbal medicines and stuff like that
and actually has i don't know if you can use alternative willow but and i think like you
specifically need the capstan layer of the branch it's like you can actually shell it to get a little
bit more out of it from what i've read and experienced i haven't actually done it before
but it's always been kind of like one of those things where it's like let's go find a willow
tree so i actually have my family has one in at a cabin my distant family does so every time i go
out there i always forget to come back with willow to play with but it's it's very interesting so
thanks for bringing that up i've completely forgotten about that stephanie i appreciate
yeah well once in a while i would just pop up and remind you youngins what's up
so so back in the day the quick fix to doing that was to just add aspirin to your water
and it's basically the same exact thing that they extract from willow but what about birth
control pills to make sure there were females that's that's that's bro science uh uh willow
willow is actually uh this the aspirin is is extracted from a willow tree and that's where
they get the main active ingredients i think the hormonal acid yeah yeah and that's that can do it
from any any willow tree from my understanding is that you can get that and that's the same thing
that they derived out of my brain that they derived aspirin from so it's it's it's it's just
the same chemical just concentrated one minute i pulled something out of my brain
i think i did not think that that sentence was going to end that way but go ahead i was just
going to say um the other active ingredient i think yeah um it's really just anything in the
genus salix that uh naturally has higher concentrations of iaa so the natural naturally
occurring auxin um andyl acetic acid so in addition to the salicylic acid as well
interesting would plants that have a natural tendency in this salicylic acid like willow
be like an easy rooting tree because i know like rooting trees and cutting plants and rooting them
at consistency is very common so i imagine like a plant that naturally has this large volume would
probably root a lot easier i don't know i'm just i don't know if there's anybody here that can
answer that one either but just a stoner thought moment no you're not wrong london like popular
trees are within the same family and they root very very easy right so every every like spring
my wife she'll go out and she'll collect all the buds and then put that into some sort of tincture
and she ends up getting like it's aspirin in a jar is what it is so aspen is also aspen and poplar are
like peas in a pod um there willow the willow families everywhere um you would not have
any problem finding something probably in your area right i don't i don't think i would but i'm
excited to play with this now because this sounds very interesting i like the idea of having aspirin
at the disposal david like just naturally applying it that was always kind of my thing
one of the biggest reasons why i got into kind of what i was doing and really focusing in on this
space is is that i wanted to see people growing their aspirin in their backyard you know like i
i don't think tylenol and these drugs and opiates and stuff that we bring into this system have
have caused a lot of proper development that we've done a few negative things that by allowing
people and teaching them to grow medicine like this in their backyard it can allow them to have
a lot better a connection with nature but be access to cheap affordable safe medicine and like
that is such a basic thing then i find that so interesting that it's so simple to just harvest
you know these buds and then all of a sudden next thing you know you have a little jar of aspirin and
and these things are just in our backyards and i find that you know it also it's this weird stoner
way of you know conceptually connecting all of us right like dr annabeth and drew and connery like
these amazing scientific minds and then you know some of the more legacy and homegrowers like my
like i'm just a homegrower really um myself that it could connect us with these conversations and
route these directions that are just like that we we had no idea they were a go-to like i i had no
idea we would be talking about willows and and turning aspirin tonight but i think it's an
amazing point of conversation and i i thank you all for being a part of it everybody could welcome
for that rabbit hole everybody could should everybody make aspirin from trees in their
backyard probably not like i feel like some people are more you know like they're gonna make
medicine with sterile practices and all that and then there are people who are just gonna like
i don't know boil some bark and call it good like there are some people who should just get their
you know medicine from walmart and then there are some people who who are totally equipped to make
their own herbal medicines at home like for example i shouldn't grow my own vegetables because i'd
probably die um you know so but it is cool to know that all that stuff is out there it should
you choose to learn go for it i think it's also important to know that uh like aspirin like actual
aspirin is acetyl salicylic acid so it's um been like acetylated so sort of like uh your thco
acetate so the willow you know bark tea would be like your equivalent of your you know cannabis tea
or your cannabis and your aspirin is your thco version of the same thing um but yeah so let's
throw that out there it is slightly different so i mean you are definitely on a more holistic
approach if you're using the willow bark tea but it is going to be slightly different from
actual aspirin i gotta agree to the anna dr annabelle just so everybody's aware not everyone
should do these things not everybody should probably grow cannabis and we do shows about
talking about being in the industry and an industry insider and how the whole industry
needs all sorts of people to work accountants and everybody so you don't need to be touching the
plant to help support and develop and grow the cannabis industry people forget that all the time
it's so important i mean there's so many different things that need to be done but i think it's
interesting in that fact that yeah there are certain people that are medicine healers but like
i i i agree that not everybody should do it but i believe that that person at the end of your street
that is capable of doing it that it is maybe potentially doing it should provide a product
for their community that can help them instead of the money going to like a large conglomerate like
tylenol i just think it's it's it's a way of breaking things down into a local community a
little bit faster too i did just my point of reference um in my current opinion i just think
it's it's it's important but yeah not everybody should grow cannabis and definitely not everybody
should give people advice about growing cannabis that is a big fact for sure as well i had one of
my students sent me a message that actually jamie helped out which was really great and they came by
they stopped me i said they're like they they're not taking care of their outdoor plants for the
fall season they're in nova scotia in canada so it's like they're dead like they're rotten
up and down but rot from the top of the plant to the bottom of the plant and then she messages me
a little bit earlier today and she says hey you know someone said that i can use this for making
extracts or hash you know and i'm just like absolutely not this is the this is bud rot
this is a completely decomposed plant it's not healthy for you to consume so i i love the fact
that we were able to take this this opportunity and share this space and talk about one of those
things that causes these big debates online and i hope that if you all like see one of those
arguments or discussions that when this is available or even because it is available on
future cannabis project right off the bat that they can share it and show it so that they can
see that this is a diverse world of information and there's a lot more to it than just hey i don't
grow pgrs in my weed because guess what all plants contain plant growth regulators it's just facts
and if that's it for today i i believe we'll we'll close this for the evening unless anybody has
anything else they would like to bring up for today awesome well we are at the hour and a half
mark and as usual i thank everybody so we have an awesome round of things coming up here so don't
forget to follow like subscribe if you're on youtube follow like subscribe if you're on facebook
if you're on clubhouse here follow the club at the top like and follow the moderators check out
their instagram see what's going on in here because these people are making waves in the
cannabis space and you do not want to miss what's going on with them because i'll tell you what it's
god damn cool um so make sure to be part of that and privy to all of that information also if you
want click me sign up on my website for a newsletter because we have a weekly bi-weekly newsletter that
we send out next week's episode we're very excited to be bringing up and i am going to bring this up
very very quickly because i've actually managed to have it pulled up here smartly enough no i don't
i apologize give me one moment and for next week we have for our show we are doing microbes and we
are talking about microbes and micro diversity the following tuesday we're going to be talking
about drying and curing the tuesday act after that we're going to get knf funky fresh because
that stuff can get real funky and i'm going to go plant troubleshooting on tuesday november 2nd that
is going to be a really great episode to check out everyone because we're going to talk about how to
diagnose a plant and also to stop sending blurple lights to people asking what's wrong with their
plant and stop and no calmeg does not fix it all so we're going to break into how to diagnose a
sick plant and what experts actually do to diagnose a sick plant when they run into an issue
because guess what it happens all the time especially when you do massive pheno hunts of 500
plus there are deficiencies and problems you need to be able to calculate and diagnose so we're
going to share that amazing information with you and then we're going to finish on november nights
with an industry insider episode as well so don't be afraid come check us out join us wherever you
happen to be i appreciate each and every one of you and i look forward to seeing all of you at
our next show bye y'all thank you
bye just as i'm pulling valentina out of her crib from nap time we close it down
did you have a good nap that's you
me yeah that's us you're interested oh my gosh someone just woke up can you go
can you say no troll left behind no troll left behind okay so at 9 p.m pacific time
tonight we got uh hash tuesdays and uh with that i'm gonna bring valentina back inside
we got the chicken sausage cauliflower asparagus on the grill we got the sweet potato fries in the
oven everyone have a good dinner and we'll see you in a bit bye
