We're just having way too much fun anyways, not live.
And now we are live, and everybody else
can have fun with us too.
Yay!
OK.
We were just discussing sending out the chronic signal
for Seattle Chronic.
He is running a little bit behind this evening,
but no worries there, because we've got actually, holy crap,
there he is, right on.
How you doing?
I'm good, man.
I was having problems hopping on.
I tried the other link, and I was just
sitting there in the waiting room.
So I was like, well, I'm going to try this one.
Yes, there we go.
OK, good deal.
I'm sorry about that.
And then is it possible for you to go sideways with the phone?
Is it easier for you?
Boom, perfect.
Just filling it out.
So yeah, we've been chilling.
How about yourself?
How's your day been?
Oh, it's been kind of hectic as usual,
but that's kind of the norm right now.
Well, that's good, man.
Staying busy.
I know you've been busy the last few weeks
and been busy for a while.
What kind of projects you got going on right now?
Oh, man.
I got a lot of stuff I'm kind of working on.
I'm just kind of really popping through a lot of seed stock
that I have that I've kind of worked over the past few years
of interest.
And then, yeah, just really trying
to hunt through them in numbers, I think,
and find some good stuff.
That's awesome.
It's one of those fun but still work situations,
especially the more you go, the harder you have to work.
Yeah, that's exactly it, man.
Good problems, though.
So welcome.
This is the Seed Collectors episode.
We've got Dave in the corner there.
And I see he's throwing out the Seattle Chronic seed.
He's putting that up there.
Way to go, Dave.
And we've got London up top surrounded by plants.
Oh, geez, he's just swimming in them.
So yeah, pretty much all we do is we show packs of seeds,
and we talk about seeds and where we got them.
So crazy stories.
I know Dave Mailbox has been blowing up lately.
Let's start with something that you got maybe
from the Seattle Chronic seeds, Dave.
What do you have there?
And then maybe we could get a little back story to it.
That would be kind of awesome for everybody.
Here's some OG Magnum F2.
And I happen to be running some of the F1.
And it's absolutely fucking wonderful.
The orange and fuel, just delicious.
Frost everywhere.
Orange and fuel.
Nice.
That sounds like a winning combination to me.
And again, I just have to say, being a Seattle resident
for many years, I freaking love it.
And I love your logo.
I appreciate that.
Yeah, that's awesome.
That's the good stuff.
So can you tell us maybe a little bit about that strain?
A little back story to it?
Yeah, for sure.
So OG Magnum was actually kind of one of the side projects.
It wasn't necessarily like a front runner for me.
It was just something that I was kind of going
through the process and making a bunch of different things that
lined up with line breeding and stuff.
And so I was actually looking for some real fish,
heavy dominant strains.
I've just been looking for real mercy and heavy stuff,
stuff for chronic pain specifically.
And so I was kind of looking through this fish line.
And that one in particular, the OG Magnum,
same F1 that Dave has, it just ended up
being something a little more special production-wise.
It just kind of caught me off guard.
It was something that sat in the back of the garden
that you just kind of throw in the back.
And you're not even caring about it.
It's just there.
And it kind of made through a few rounds
and started catching attention.
So I passed it out to a few people.
And it's like every single person hit me back.
And they were like, no, man, that stuff's
really fucking good.
You need to start passing that out to people.
And so that's kind of, I made a few F2s.
There's not a lot I let out.
I think I maybe let out a handful, maybe five packs,
10 tops.
But yeah, Dave's definitely one of the lucky few
that has some of those F2s.
And then the cut that's floating around
is the cut that I use in some of the breeding projects as well.
And that's that real heavy kind of creamy orange
feel with some gas to it.
But it just, I mean, it produces a very large cola set.
And so it's definitely my jam.
Yeah, no, that sounds like an absolute winner.
Because I found, it seems I have a hard time
finding that marriage.
I can find like freaking just amazing tastes
and I can find really fat colas.
But merging the two is another story.
So that's quite the accomplishment.
And it is kind of funny how things will sit around too.
It's, you know, it's made it through a few rounds.
How many rounds did you know it was really special, Dave?
Or did you, you probably knew before it was done growing.
I honestly beat her up the first round
just to see how she would do.
And she came through with flying colors.
So to me, it was the first round.
That was just like, whoa, hey, this is how you respond
when I just beat the hell out of you.
You're a winner.
So I was more than impressed.
And when I got the chance to come across the F2s,
I was like, yeah, I'm all for it, please.
Game.
And given the selection that you have to choose from too,
having one that's actually popped is a great story.
Because I know we all have just limited space.
So yeah, take it up.
I mean, he was-
All of our strength.
Gosh, yeah.
I mean, London's surrounded.
He's in a outdoor jungle right there.
I am always running out of space, if you can't tell.
There's like, I have, I put more down, more plants now.
And I really, I don't know where I'm going to put them.
We have not even like a barely a backyard.
And this is like a,
this is like a greenhouse that I've thrown off of my deck
with like PVC piping, greenhouse plastic.
So it's like, it's kind of put together, but it works.
So I can keep, I've got about eight mums right now
and I'm sorting through like 40 or 50 seats right now.
Hopefully it goes better than last year.
Cause last year was some interesting experiences
to say the least.
You know, things don't always go well.
You pack too much into one space
and that can lead to way more problems than anything else.
As you've probably experienced many times before.
We are ambitious people, are we not?
Better to be ambitious than learn that way.
Yeah.
And do you have any like kind of preference
on the soils that you use when you're looking through phenos?
And I guess this is open for everybody.
You know, some people will say it's, it's, you got,
organic living soil, get the best expression.
I know a lot of other people
that'll probably test in their cocoa.
Any preference or does it matter for either of you guys?
I use bio 365.
I tend to use their soil blend
just because generally I can get all the data on it.
And I've been running it for years.
It's pretty much the same blend.
I just, I kind of understand what it is
and how to utilize it, build off of it.
I do like to use different mediums just on, you know,
once I kind of get a cut set,
then I can kind of see how it performs
in different mediums.
But I prefer soil all the way.
I mean, in bio 365 is kind of like a base
that I've used now for quite a few years.
That's good to hear.
They're, they've been on kind of the top of my list.
Right now I'm doing a water only soil test
with three different Sohum living soil,
Kiss Organics and Appalachian Supply.
And the bio 365 was like the next round I want to try.
I want to try some of that.
There's the build a soil as well.
And then if I could somehow convince Brandon Rust,
he's working on soil as well.
So I'd like to get back to that.
Yeah, I'd like to get back to him too, yeah, for sure.
He's close to me, so I need to holler at him anyways.
Nice, nice.
Yeah, maybe, you know, if I'm sure if you go down
and help shovel a few bags,
he'd be like, eh, take a few, right?
Yeah, yeah.
That'd be cool.
How about you London?
What are you running up there?
Well, I do like a mixed medium, but cocoa based, right?
So cocoa vermiculite perlite.
I started my medium about a year ago, I want to say.
And I just keep rotating them through on three gallon pots
with heavy amounts of hay, making a giant mess,
heavy amounts of hay and cover crop
and the cover crop blend that we'll actually talk
about a little bit later as well.
It's pretty cool, I'm so stoked about that one.
And the cover crop, and I mulch everything in
each time around, and I just reuse the soil
and just kind of, I've decreased the salt-based nutrients
and increased the amount of organic matter over time.
So most of the soil, it's like, it all kind of amalgamates
into one eventually, but it's about, you know,
three, four runs on each one in comparison.
So I just kind of regenerate it in between each round
with what I can and try and push it as far as it can go.
But I like using, when I'm running new stuff,
I really like using like a fresh batch of cocoa
and a fresh batch of vermiculite and kind of just going
salts, just so I can like see how,
cause I find that being very functional
and very consistent and I know what that looks like
for most plants.
So being able to see that, so I kind of like,
I love how you use a similar kind of system,
Seattle, like you're kind of want to see how they,
they pull off before you put them into organic system
and see how they're going to develop later.
But you know.
And the good thing that I heard there too,
with both of you is just the consistency.
It's you've worked with it, you know what it's going to do,
you know what to expect.
So it's that baseline, you know, got the baseline,
anything unordinary about the plant will show itself
as something that you haven't seen before.
So that's always helpful.
And then chat, when I ask chat, you know,
we always kind of like to play the flavor game.
If you guys have a particular flavor or something
that you want us to see, if we can pull something from,
let us know in the chat.
We'll be like, ah, gas, gotcha, right here, kaboom.
So we'll play that.
Everybody get up on there.
I've got, I've actually, right now,
I've got one from Mr. London here.
Actually, let me, let me go in on this here
because I've had this sitting here for good near a month.
This is a special puzzle box that he had sent me.
That looks fricking cool.
Number deuce, oh, upside down.
Everything's upside down on here.
But, uh.
Those are epic.
So those were the first edition of like my first,
they were, they were almost like what I would call
like a demo piece of like a line of seeds
that we're actually going to drop today
with future cannabis project with Daga,
which is exciting as fuck.
So we managed to pull these beans
and source them from Europe and bring them in.
And they're based all off of Chimera's work.
So we've got amazing stuff,
but these were actually my work.
And the seeds that are in there
are actually some of the first process I've ever done.
So we thought we would,
if you buy one of the other packs of seeds,
you get a chance to win one of these.
And there was only six packs, they're hand done.
But like, dude, I burnt my hand so many times
trying to burn all that in there.
And it looks, I'm telling you, man, like,
thank you.
I appreciate it.
The other ones, they look way better.
I promise you that.
But it was a fun thing to try and learn to do.
And I wanted to see how it would function
and it would be kind of a cool thing.
Like the breeders and these people
that put so much time and effort
and they're such cunning people
and to give them something that really evaluates
and steps them forward.
Yeah. You're not games on point, man.
It's such an interesting,
like it's such an important part
that people don't understand how much time
and effort goes into the,
even the like crappy packaging,
like it takes forever.
So I can feel your pain for those.
Those are beautiful, man.
Let's see here.
I think I figured it out now that I've got the,
now that I've got the knot off.
Let's see if we, let's see.
Let me see if we could go in low here.
Where am I?
Oh, there we go.
Let's see.
Let's try to open this bad boy.
Oh, that is so cool.
Boom.
So Sarai is actually the middle name
of my first born daughter.
And she kind of,
she kind of symbolizes change in my life
and things that have gone,
like stepping towards new things.
She was, it was crazy.
She was a surprise birth.
My wife had her like in the washroom by herself.
I'm like, I rolled up and she was,
like, it's a crazy fucking story.
Do you want me to give you the whole rundown?
She was an agent, yeah.
Yeah. We were like,
so I'm like on my way home from work.
She's like 110 pounds, just tiny.
You'd never think, like, she didn't look pregnant.
I got pictures of us from a wedding,
like two days beforehand and you'd have no clue.
So I get a phone call.
I'm in terrible pain.
I need to get to the hospital.
No idea what's wrong with her.
Get home, walk into my washroom, bang, bathroom floor,
holding my first born daughter.
So I'm like an executive chef,
10 days before my 30th birthday
and working in like a major metropolitan hub.
I'm like, I think I need to reevaluate my life.
So that's where this came from.
That's kind of why I felt like the symbolization
and kind of the stepping into something new.
You shouldn't have to force anything too hard.
Okay. As you can see me, I'm just like, wait a minute.
I've twisted it.
Is there like a, this is a puzzle box, damn it.
Yes.
You're puzzling me.
That's the idea.
All right.
Well, I'm going to go back to you guys
while I figure this one out
because it's not as fast as I thought it would be.
It's ridiculously easy.
There's a little, yeah, I can't,
I don't want to tell you
because it's way more fun if you struggle.
But what you could do-
I've had slide tops do that before
where they get caught kind of on the backside of it
or whatever, on inside of it.
And so sometimes I can't get them open.
I feel like it's got the slide,
but then, you know, there's that inevitable,
like you're trying to rip open the bag of chips
and then it just, pshh.
I'm going to hit, there's definitely a slide.
That being said, if you figure it out,
don't tell everybody
because I think that's a little bit of the fun.
Like you don't want to let everybody know.
Because there is a trick to it.
Once you figure it out, you'll be like,
oh, but don't, but be careful not to like,
just, if you don't want to get spoiled
and you want to grab a pack
and do the puzzle for yourself, go watch.
It's not a guarantee that you won't get spoiled.
All right.
I love it, man.
That's dope.
I really like it.
So I got, I have to do this with the regular ones
because I just think it's important.
And if you don't want to miss out on it, don't do it.
But here, I can show this actually.
This might be a little bit easier.
If I go an extra camera, I have the fun thing.
There we go.
So.
Okay, yep.
I see you.
Help me out.
Yeah.
So these are, so we have.
It's like the under the table camera.
What are you doing at home?
All sorts of weird shit.
Don't check out my Pornhub page, guys.
It's not, you cannot find London on Pornhub.
It won't go great.
Oh my God.
As you can see, as you can see the details a lot better.
The handwriting is not quite as blocked up.
We actually got like, I got a wooden etcher
to put it in there.
And the fun part about these
is that when you receive the package,
there's no seats or is there, right?
There's just, it's sealed by plastic,
but there's seats in there, or for this one anyways.
But if you place them in,
I know I've got to put them in this way.
I ruined it.
I ruined it a little bit.
I can make them disappear.
Whoa.
And then you put it in the other way and then,
and you got your seats again.
That's some Houdini shit right there.
Isn't that cool?
Yes.
Everyone of the more numbers.
I don't know what I'm talking about, Mr. Officer.
There's nothing in there.
I know, there's nothing.
Shipping, shipping makes life easy.
But they're all, every one of them's numbered.
So there's only 75 actual pieces of this edition out.
And then the next one will be a little bit different
and cater to the breeder.
I'm going to pull my, I petered you, Chad.
And I just, I had to get it off my crotch.
I'm just, I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to just take the control there,
but it was a little bit crotch oriented.
Appreciate it.
I'm comfortable, not that comfortable.
I'm comfortable.
I'm not even going to comment.
Dave, save us, Dave.
Save us, buddy.
Yeah, there's a lot of package going on there between.
Oh Lord, that's not saving us.
Not the kind of seeds that we're talking about tomorrow.
I couldn't resist, I'm sorry.
It's okay.
Getting back on the right track.
What can you tell me about Melvin's?
Oh, you asked the right question, sir.
That's kind of something that's taken off too.
I'm glad that you asked.
Oh, the story on Melvin's.
So funny, I actually did a podcast this last weekend
with somebody who, he's from a facility in Washington
that's running Melvin's and it was featured
in Northwest Leaf in Washington,
but they forgot to give me credit for it.
Yay, but.
Yeah, so I reached out and let him know,
but it was just kind of one of those funny things
where they're like, you know, they told me,
they're like, oh, they got me hyped up for it.
They're like, dude, we got you in a magazine and this,
and then I like opened the article and it's like,
yeah, pad jacket and this,
but it didn't give the breeder credit.
So I reached out and kind of let him know.
Anyways, that's another story.
It's important though.
So it's these skittles, it's the Wonderland cut
from Kevin Jodre's old facility.
And so I ended up getting that cut back in like,
and I'd say it was like 2016, I think,
on Vashon Island at a patient drive.
I got that and a few other cuts like Dosey Do
and some other things.
So I ended up getting those back,
working them into the onesie,
which is these skittle cross with the one.
So it's actually the one,
which is the 71 Kandar 76 pie from Clackamas Coup.
I got that cut and then crossed it with Z cubed,
which is the back cross four times.
And so just to kind of, I guess, inbreed,
inline breed the Z, but to give it some other genetics
to kind of help it because it was kind of a disabled plant.
It didn't root very well.
It had a really low percentage of rooting.
It was not very vigorous.
It was kind of a pain in the ass, tended to get bugs.
So I ended up going through those seeds.
I was popping, I mean, it was like 10,000 plus seeds
and I ended up getting ants coming into the place
that we had and they brought in a ton of aphids
and it decimated everything I had in the piece.
Like I'm talking like thousands and thousands of dollars
down the drain.
And so I ended up having a few seeds that lived
through all that fucking commotion.
And it was, Melvin's was one of them.
And so it was these skittles cross with one ZF2.
Out of all of them, it was a female.
One of them was the other seeds was a male
and the other two were females.
And I don't think I kept any of the other seeds,
but out of those four, I grew that.
And it just got better year after year.
And so I passed it out to a few facilities
and they kind of hit me back with this.
I mean, rave reviews and were like,
hey, do you mind if we kind of start,
incorporating this in the recreational markets
and letting me know I should start passing it out to people.
And so I started to kind of handing it out slowly
and getting ready to cut.
And it's just kind of starting to take off really well,
but it's a really funky, grainy, grapey cream funk
that like you can't even describe the funk
cause it's like that high Ghani mix
from the old school to that new.
It's just, it's really unique.
It's like a great cream and funk.
I can't even describe it any other way,
but it's phenomenal.
And it just, it produces, it washes.
It's got really sandy heads that just break off.
I mean, it tends to wash at the four and a half plus rate,
even on bad performance.
So it's a solid extractor, grows well in facilities.
And it's just, it's been an amazing plant.
And so it's kind of something I've been working.
I did some reversals with it
that I'm starting to put out.
And then I'm making S1s that I've kind of been running
through just to make sure there's not a ton
of genetic anomalies or, you know,
herms before I released those as well.
So.
I was on mute.
I had to reach for the unmute.
I'm sitting here banging this thing.
This is how far we've gotten people.
We're still, we're still here.
Shit.
You're at stage one still?
Shut up.
It's gonna be a fucking long episode, everybody.
No hints.
We're not leaving until you figure this out.
I got a hammer somewhere.
No.
That's cool that you're able to get things
into the commercial facilities
and see how things are running in that environment.
And again, get the expressions and the numbers.
Yeah. Analytical data from crop steering
has been a real big thing,
especially from some of the facilities,
the people that I'm kind of partnered with there
are just, they're brilliant, man.
And so being able to get that sort of data back
and kind of analyzing what it can feed,
what it can do, what it can push.
And then I can let people know as well.
But I tend to run organics as well.
And so it's cool being able to get that
in case I have somebody who wants to push salt
to whatever rates that they're pushing
so I can give them that information.
Right. Yeah.
Cause again, they're probably pushing about, right,
as hard as you can.
I know you snowboarded in the past
and I've always said with snowboarding,
this is one thing I love about the soft landings.
Forget about ice, but it's like,
it's all about like going a little bit over the line
and then just dialing it back to the line.
Yep. Yep.
And that's what a lot of the facilities do
with their feeding.
It's like, how hard can we push it?
Nope. Okay.
A little less. A little hard.
50 milliliters less, we'll call it good.
Shit.
So let's see here, Dave.
That Melvin's is absolutely wonderful.
Oh, let me blow it up here.
I'm not even looking at-
My camera's not the best, but wow.
It's yeah, it's just absolutely as frosty as it gets.
No, you were so perfect there for a second.
There we go.
Beautiful. Yeah.
Money.
Let's smoke that in a second.
Now me-
Wonderful.
Me being the Seattle person, music person, Melvin's,
is it anything to do with the band?
Absolutely.
Yes.
All right.
So like a lot of the stuff that I kind of,
a lot of the names, if you kind of look through,
they do originate, but it's more for the namesake
of like the time when Seattle was that inspiration of music.
It was really like a beautiful thing
and like a huge music community
and like a trend setting place
to where it was different and unique.
And that's kind of what it's an ode to those times.
And so a lot of the grunge names,
I just, I love dealing with stuff like that.
I don't have any grunge songs
or anything to do with that time.
So Melvin's were a huge influence.
And so that's kind of why it's just fitting
that it worked out that way,
because it's something that, you know,
it turned out to be amazing when they were.
Yeah. That's awesome, man.
I've definitely seen them a few times,
like back in the, well, I won't get off on the music,
but yeah.
Yeah.
That's for another show.
Totally.
Totally.
I could go down that road.
Yeah. I love music.
Rob, Rob.
Camp.
Oh yeah.
Okay. He's like, I saw the Melvin's too.
Sweet.
So do you have any packs with you tonight
that you wanted to talk about?
Seattle chronic seeds.
I love hearing about this.
To close them out.
Yeah.
Come on, tell us what's the breeder looking through?
What's the breeder looking through?
That's what's up.
That's what I want to know.
Oh man.
I mean, it's pretty insane.
Let me go.
Hold on.
I'm going to go.
Yeah.
No, take your time.
Grab that.
You got to grab the shelves and pull them down.
Yeah.
I got to go.
Lay everything.
I know.
Secret room.
I got to go incognito.
Okay. You go incognito.
Yeah.
But I, yeah, I know.
I thought about, I got to go grab my box too,
but I haven't picked up too much
over the last couple of months.
We've been off for a couple of months.
And as everybody can see,
Dave's table is overflowing
because he just don't stop.
I see something that looks like
halfway between a golf cart and Fred Flintstone's car
in the lower left-hand corner.
What is that?
Yabba dabba diesel.
It was.
This was a gift from him.
It was a gift from him.
Yeah. It's awesome.
Awesome packaging.
Definitely awesome.
Yabba dabba diesel.
Yeah.
Try putting it down right in the middle.
It might, it might settle on here.
Cause it was bending pretty good there.
Yeah.
Well, that's cool.
I was, you know, with my four eyes, I saw it enough.
That was great.
I was able to call that out, but it did.
It looked like it's crossed between a golf cart
and Fred Flintstone's.
Oh, that's awesome.
Okay. So why does it like a Flintstone's car,
but it looks like a nice modern house
in the background with a garage?
How does that work?
Well, I think it's a stone.
I'm overthinking it.
It looks like a stone.
Okay.
Oh, I've got this much movement on it.
Everybody.
Oh, I've got movement.
I've got movement.
Don't force it.
I'm not forcing it.
This is a heads up.
Like, so there's been some packaging.
So just as a warning to everybody,
there's been some packaging things
with that first edition of them.
There might be an explosion or something go wrong.
Then so be gentle and don't be surprised too much.
We've managed to fix it in the next series,
but in the regular packaging,
but there might be some joy there.
This better not be like a practical joke
between you and Peter.
Let's just send Jenna a box and see what he does with it.
It doesn't actually open.
I know.
I mean, like it just stays closed.
Can't actually open.
No.
All right.
I'm gonna look up some other seeds that I have here
because I've got evolution.
Make sure I get their credit proper.
Toss them out.
I've got some cool.
Website expired.
What?
Kundo's 18 Concord.
Oh, let me come back there.
So what?
From Sinbad.
Kundo's 18.
Where is, is that a region?
Is that a place?
I know.
Okay.
So Sinbad does, he does a lot of regional breeding,
just more Africans, long flowering stuff,
a lot of IVLs and stuff.
And I have quite a few things from him,
but so I'm kind of gonna go through some African,
the tevas, hazes, a bunch of Thai stuff I got
from a gentleman up in Thailand as well.
Quite a mix of stuff from him.
So what do you typically see as far as expressions?
I'm imagining something that's really long flowering.
It may be, you know, tall and long internodal spacing.
What's typical of like the African stranger?
Yeah, and it depends.
I mean, honestly, it seems like a lot of them are those,
you know, I would say 12, 13 plus weeks at least.
I've taken some up to like 24 weeks indoors.
And that was, I think like,
the longest I think was like a Cambodian land race.
And it was like the ugliest plant I've grown.
I mean, but it was like the most psychedelic shit
I've ever, ever had.
And it smelled terrible.
I mean, it was like lemongrass and hay and pepper
or something.
And it was like, again,
it was the most unstructured, ugly ass plant.
I should post pictures of that
because it's been a long time.
But it's just, I mean, once I did that,
it's just kind of reserving a spot specifically
for those plants, just because there's not enough
of those effects in modern plants.
Like it's, of course, and that's why I respect Sinbad
and other people who do what he does.
It's just preserving those gene pools
and keeping Africans and long flowering things alive.
And, well, and also acclimating them so that people like,
like when you're in the majority of stuff like this,
you're gonna find a bunch of weird shit
that's not really gonna be viable for production.
It's just gonna be all over the place.
And so it's nice to see when people are running them
regionally in state sites and kind of I being,
L'ing them or open pollinating.
And then you start to get things
that kind of acclimate indoors or kind of work
for what you're working with them,
you know, the later generations it seems like.
I love those weird ass fucking plants.
And I have so much respect for anybody
that does the challenge of growing them
because fuck, I don't wanna do it.
It's so hard.
It's like-
I failed many a times at those.
It's going so bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And especially I'd imagine in organic soils too,
or even, I mean, even if it was synthetic,
but you have to plan for so much longer,
much longer flower, like they're in flowering longer
than my plants are usually in full cycle.
So yeah.
I've seen people defeating schedule.
I'm like, I'm at week like 17, 18.
What am I supposed to be like?
And people are like,
I have no idea what the fuck you're supposed to do.
What are you talking about?
You're running week 17 indoors.
That's crazy.
That's wild.
But that's cool that you get them.
I mean, instantly I thought of like the Lester Greenspoon,
just like that string of pearls.
Like you look at it and you wonder why somebody
would grow it.
But then like you said, it was the effects.
And like, I've honestly,
I may have had like a couple of those strains of my life
where they were just like truly that psychedelic long sativa
just cause I know I haven't had exposure
to a lot of that stuff.
So I'd love to smoke it someday, but yeah,
growing it is if I had a larger plant camp,
then I would do it.
Yeah.
So that's cool that you are working with some of those.
They're what?
Evil, evil, evil plants.
And like, no, it's definitely,
I think it's like, you have to do one in your time.
I think you have to do some really fucking hard ones
in your time and try and get through them.
I think it's part of the journey.
And this step, but it's like,
don't just jump in there first.
I think maybe you should like,
there's some easier stuff to grow out there than that,
than the older stuff.
But I'm running some acropopal gold.
That's like supposed to be bodey and it's like a land raise.
So it's like, you've got a very traditional leaf shape.
It's right here.
So, and I've got a few of them and I've got a male of it.
I got a male of this and I've got a female
of a Barney Farms cut, not a Barney,
Barney Farm cut,
because I've been passing through a couple of the last year
and a half of an acropopal gold.
And there's nothing, they're not like,
that's, they're so different.
Right.
So I thought it would be fun to play
with putting the two together.
Cause you know, but now I got to like grow
the old school acropopal gold.
And I started with eight plants.
We're kind of working our way down.
And we found a few, like two dads that I'm keeping.
And a mom, and we'll see.
And see what happens out of it.
But you know, these are,
these things are more for myself than anything.
Kind of see how that goes, but it's hard.
I'm at week like nine or eight.
And I've like just seen pre-flower.
I like, when you say week 15, I'm like,
I could do week 15.
Like I haven't even thought that far ahead.
Like that's two more rounds.
I put, I put a round of eight plants in every three weeks.
So that's like, you know, that's 10 rounds
or five rounds that they stay in there
and take up that period of time.
And I did not think that far ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you for reminding me of that.
I appreciate you a great deal.
I see there was a question in chat
from the American one asking where
you can get the strain zoo kids.
I think Neptune still might have some in stock.
And seeds here now, possibly.
Those would be the two places I think
that would have them left still.
DC feed exchange might as well,
but out of the, out of all the people that carry my seeds,
I would check those three.
I remember that the night that was named,
that was a, that was a fun night.
Yeah.
Yes sir.
It's cause somebody couldn't, what was the keys?
Everybody was, somebody was asking about the keys.
Yes, that's exactly what it was.
And they just, it all got corrected to zoo kids.
So like, what the hell is zoo kids?
Okay.
I figured I'd name a cultivar after zoo kids.
I love, I love how you go with your names.
You like to have fun.
Rando Commando.
Yep, yep.
And, and sorry about that Tao.
I wasn't, didn't keep my eye on chat,
but you will be happy to know, oh shit.
Look, you got in there box of goodies.
Let me blow this bad boy up.
Yeah.
And this is actually perfect timing too,
because I have, I'm working on my soil
out in the garden right now,
getting it ready for this next year.
So I've got some veggies that I could plant outside.
Can't, can't.
You got cover crop and that cover crop is nuts.
I've got like, if I pull up my list,
I can't remember it because the list is so fucking long.
Oh, let's see.
Oh, I can't see if I put it back together now.
Yeah, now you have to figure it out.
Without spilling it out.
Hey, yeah, there you go.
I'm going to fuck with you even harder.
Oh, rice pieces, rice pieces.
There, here's your list.
Carrots, cover crop.
So, so each one of the jars, now the puzzle's not done.
I know, you know what cannabis seeds look like,
but you have to figure out what jar is what plant,
is what seed.
Damn.
I didn't say I was a nice human being.
Okay, so.
I said I was a great human being.
I'm so, the cover crop has.
I'm good with carrots.
Black Spanish round radish, chives,
perchonella, which is like a asparagus endive,
a blend of like five or six different lettuces.
Not hocktake, because that's got a thing
that it puts it in the dirt.
We didn't get to put that in there.
Global gallia, purple crest, curly crest pepper grass,
deep purple coated carrots, catnip, caraway,
chervil, purple tansy, purple dwarf,
psyllium, red beard onions, pond eye clover,
white dodge clover, baby blue eyes,
rock soapwort, self-heal, five spot, and basket of gold.
Yeah, the idea is.
You got all that in here?
All of that, just the cover crop one, yeah.
Yeah, exactly, biodiversity.
So I put that on everything that I do.
And I've done a couple harvest videos on here,
and you can actually, I harvest the weed
and pull baby carrots out and eat them.
It's pretty awesome.
That's amazing, man.
That's cool.
That is amazing, I love it.
There we go, nice and focused.
There we go, that's awesome.
Thank you very much, London.
I am stoked for this and stoked
to get them into the garden.
And you've got the version two that you were talking about,
that you were showing earlier as well.
Yeah, do you want me to show you those?
That'll be available for.
Yeah, so that's what you can be available to buy.
And there's actually four or five of those version ones,
which are the hand burnt ones,
like literally blisters burnt into these fucking boxes
are there.
So those are available as,
so if you buy any of the other lines of the Cunning Folk,
which is with a collaboration
where we brought the seeds from Europe
to work with chimera seeds.
And I'll show you those ones, I guess here,
you gotta get a crotch shot again.
Oh, bring it, bring it, bring it.
So these are the other two lines.
So as you can see,
I've been able to really clean up the imaging and.
Oh, wrong box.
There we go.
Very good, that was me.
You're perfect, there we go.
So each one of them, so they do each line.
So these are both the feminine lines.
Each one of them comes with a separate lineup of stuff.
So one's comes with Haruke,
and I don't know if I'm saying it properly, probably not.
We're gonna say Peruvian black mint
for the rest of the episodes,
because I know that's correct, and Lovage.
And the other one comes with Echinacea and Wormwood seeds,
which is, I thought, pretty cool.
I mean, you're gonna be in for a ride for three years,
but you'll get there one day.
So like just cool fucking stuff
that I really love and enjoy.
It's got a little bit of the cover crop in there.
It's got some corn salad.
They both have the other ones that are in there,
and there's the code to figure them out.
But I gotta be stashy, so I'll show you this.
So each one of the lines are burnt in, so that's the Snaz.
And then that's the Lemoncello.
And this one is close to my heart.
Again, these are brought in from Europe,
but this is also work off
the F1 BC award-winning Sweet Skunk.
And as a BC Canadian, it is something
that rings true to me, and as an S1, it's pretty cool.
It's very, you know, it's not gonna be the easiest grower
in the world, but it's gonna be a lot of fun,
and you'll get some really unique
and special flavors out of that.
Very like old school lemonade type of tones
and flavor profiles, you know, it's very, very nice.
And then the Snaz is like a super resinous version of it.
That's a little bit easier
and a little bit shorter on the time.
But wait, I don't wanna tell, show people how to do it
because you know what would be great is people did it live
on Instagram and tagged would be the coolest.
Then you get two chances at winning one of the other ones.
But then, so you can see I fixed the issue
so they don't fall out anymore.
So they're all sealed in there with a little plastic layer.
I didn't wanna use any plastic in the building,
but there had to be something to make this work.
So that was what I came to.
And then you got the flowering time on the bottom,
the actual amount of seeds in the package.
And then a little message,
cause this was like kind of a collab
with the Future Cannabis Project as well.
So we've got the Future Cannabis Project,
the Cunning Folk Lab, the number,
cause each one of them are individually numbered
and then a little like, you know,
praise the people type of message.
Yeah, I just-
That's sick.
And I know they're coming from Europe,
but is that something that they can get
at least do their order on the daga.garden site?
Yeah, so they were brought in from Europe to Daga.
So they're only-
These are only available on Daga period.
And if you buy any of the first,
there's only 75 of these actually available.
So there's 13 or 15 of each of these.
And then of the regular lines,
there's only like, there's like 12 or something
of each of these.
And if you get any one of those,
you can, you get entered for a chance to win
one of the hand burnt blistered ones.
So if you get any of these,
you'll get a chance for that, which is cool.
And that'll just come in and we'll do that
as a draw a little bit later on, which would be fun.
Oh, that's awesome.
Yeah, no, that's always fun.
That'll be freaking cool.
Yeah, no, thanks for showing those.
And thanks again for the box.
I've got that figured out now and put it back together.
That's the Rye Special.
I've got a couple dozen of them on the table here
and they're actually really quite consistent plants.
I fucked up my pH one day.
So pardon the little bit of some of them are getting it,
but they got a nice fat, fat broad leaf kind of wedge
that she gets from their mother.
And then they do have a good little bit of rub right now
that plays it.
And again, the idea is they're free
and they're to explore kind of my journey
of growing with me.
So you don't, you know, you can be part of that,
but then I don't feel like, you know,
unless I've tested them for a year and a half,
I don't want to release something off the market.
That's not been taken the time.
Yeah.
That's one time where it's good to be self-conscious.
Exactly.
It's good to be self-conscious.
So what, and why not highlight the amazing work of people
like Ryan Lee and these amazing breeders
that do amazing work.
You know what I mean?
It doesn't make that much sense.
So anyway, that's my philosophy and I'm excited.
So I actually have the Chernobyl
and I don't have any of the strawberry banana,
but the Chernobyl that's crossed with that one
for the Syrah is like super stink.
And I really love it.
I've talked about it a lot.
And I feel like I'm done.
Like stanky in a lemon way or stanky just in a funk?
Soda, but with foot.
You know what I mean?
Like it's got kind of like, okay.
So I pull through a volcano vaporizer
and put it through a whip into a bubbler
just because I find it's like the cleanest way to taste.
And that way I can get a good profile out of everything.
But I find like if I use this,
I have to change the water afterwards
because it kind of sinks up the water a little bit
and everything else will have a little bit of a funk to it.
But it's absolutely delicious.
And then, yeah, so that's,
I put that in with the strawberry banana,
which I tested for a year of like stability.
So they're feminized seeds too, which is kind of cool.
I did SDS spray.
And a year, I killed so many fucking plants,
like so many plants.
It was ridiculous.
It was about a dozen that were left to die.
Damn.
So we're showing this pop in
and a lot of people are like,
ah, you just collect them, you gotta pop them.
We pop them too.
Seattle Chronic Seeds,
what is gonna be next on your pop list
that isn't part of your library or your testing?
Oh man, I got a list of stuff.
I actually, I've been hunting
through a lot of different stuff.
So I've been hunting through chems and menthols primarily.
I went through a lot of Y-yeast work.
So I went through a huge menthol hunt.
I found a few keepers out of the Sour Secret line.
Stuff from the Sour Forest across with the menthol.
It's just a real kind of sour menthol,
like menthol, like what is it?
Newport vibe almost, like it's real funky,
like almost kind of fiberglassy smelling.
It's really a, yeah, sour fiberglass.
Chem, so let's see,
what else is I going through?
I'm doing some IBLs of the Stephen Hawking fish.
I've been kind of working that in the background
and just finding something pretty stable
that's indicate dominant.
And yeah, it's just something that's more stable
because it's one of the things I found
with Stephen Hawking fish was just,
it would always start tweaking out around week seven.
And so just finding something,
doing some open pollinations through a few generations
and then doing my own IBL.
And so I'm kind of getting to where it's stable enough
to I think release some of those.
Some THCV crosses, I got a bunch of multiple crosses
of those, S1s and different things.
Gun Bunny Express, which was like a three to one
with THCV being recessive.
And so I was trying to bring that out,
dominant in some plants.
Let's see, GMO across with inhaler.
That was from the Light Warrior.
Then inhaler was Black Domina
across with mellow platinum cookies.
And then I got a huge pack of those.
It was like a huge breeder pack.
And so I actually ended up finding a really killer male
out of like a few hundred seeds that I was popping through.
And he kind of stood out.
I actually did some genomic testing on him
in quite a few of the other males
that I'm gonna be using on these next few lines.
That's pretty cool.
What kind of like useful information did you get
from that testing?
Just kind of what would be expressing THC
or these minor cannabinoids?
It's also like what's active and inactive on them.
And so knowing like where they lie on the heterozygous rate,
like where they are, if they're more hetero or heterozygous,
what male to female ratio, X to Ys,
or what they'll transfer.
It gives a list of the different dominant features,
but I'm still kind of working through figuring out
like what they translate to specifically on the plant
and just figuring that shit out.
And so it's more whether seeing like
what it has THC active dominance, CBD,
if it's active or dominant.
And then if a lot of CBG crosses,
if it will show, I think CBC, but not CBG yet.
So you just kind of look towards the CBD charts
and then go from there.
Okay, yeah, and that was kind of as interesting
as kind of touching is,
how many of these are they able to check
or identify the alleles in there?
Cause like THCV, we hear a lot about CBG as well,
just these minor cannabinoids,
that would be a huge help knowing ahead of time.
Absolutely, and I think that's what they're really,
so by doing this and kind of putting all these samples in,
they're really getting a baseline
and kind of getting this down so that,
we have those in the future to be able to just say like,
okay, this has this much.
And I think they're able to do a minute amount
off the least samples, but like for the genomic reporting,
it doesn't necessarily show like it has this much percentage
of THCV or this, it's still all I get is three basic,
analytical runs of like whether CBD is active or inactive,
where it is, what channels are, same with THC,
like where it is basically what channels are active
and then with CBC, where it is on the genomic scale,
like in relation to other plants and yeah,
I mean, I can pull some of them up,
I'll send you some to kind of look through too,
but I just, if you look on canopedia.net,
it has a whole list of genomic sequencing
and all you have to do is type Seattle in the search bar
and I think like eight or nine of the males that I use,
like some of the bag seeds and some of the other ones
just for analysis kind of pull up on there
so you can see how they map and kind of relate to each other
and other samples that were given as well.
Yeah, no, thanks for the tip,
because I'd love to look at that and you're right,
the more that we do this, the more data there is,
the more data there is, the better we could be at it.
Or deciphering them and knowing what the signs mean.
Medical genomics, like that's, Kevin's been a huge help
at kind of taking those on and analyzing the males for me,
so again, my hats off to him for putting in the work
to be doing this shit for us, huge help, man,
I mean, it really is, it's really kind of taken this
to another level to where I was having to pay
for analytical data off everything and it's like,
a lot of guesswork, a lot of seed pot,
and so hopefully this will kind of narrow that
to where I don't have to spend as much,
you know, in the future towards breeding.
Yeah, well, let's see here, we've got a comment in chat
that Dave, I think this one is pointed at you.
Well, that's me talking, so.
I know, you got that GMO times banana OG, buddy, do ya?
GMO, banana OG, SFE dog.
This man does not lie, there we go,
now where did those come from, or who did those come from?
Well, they're BioVortex, they're from,
I got them from an auction right here on FCP.
Okay.
That was, I can't remember, honestly,
I can't remember which auction, there's too many.
I saw it there.
I saw it there in the collection, I'm like,
oh yeah, I don't think I've ever shown that one.
No, well, I know you've been getting some more stuff too,
and a lot of these, yeah, I don't recognize from the past.
So what did you just, ChemD times lime, is that F5?
Well, what I actually really wanna know is,
cause there was a comment in chat about the Bicket OG,
and I know that, or I've heard that maybe this,
somebody might be working with that.
And so I was wondering if that's true.
Yeah, let's hear about it,
because a lot of people have been talking about it,
and I did see that in chat too.
I was gonna pull it up, but then we got on a roll.
That's funny that you say that, I actually have this.
Oh.
So it's a Bicket OG cross with Melvin's reverse.
Oh wow.
And then a pure Kush also with Melvin's reverse,
and then I thrown a freebie for it,
but that's just a new project I was working on.
So I've been playing with the Bicket for a little bit,
and it's stayed in rotation,
it will stay in house for quite some years to come.
Just medically it works for me.
It's a faster flowering GMO dominant
with that little cherry pie finish to it.
It's just got that kind of sweet gas to it,
but it's like, I don't know,
it's just really the perfect pumpkin.
I mean, we had probably a huge,
I mean like a full on half jar of, you know,
half draws, and it was probably like 150 grams
that we've blown through, I think, in the past few months,
just because it's like, it is fucking medicine.
Like people around here have gone nuts for it,
and it's literally one of the, like, my favorites.
And so kind of finding things that like,
I love to work off of it.
I mean, Nick did a phenomenal job
selecting that plant out.
Like it's beautiful, and those who have grown it are,
you know, will rave about it.
And I'm sure anyone who smokes it will rave about it.
It's just, it's one of my favorite smokes right now too.
And is it, you know,
you mentioned the medicinal properties,
is it, it kind of maybe sounds like it checks all the bells.
I mean, it looks nice and dense there.
It just does.
It's got that gassy funk to it and the onion,
but it's just really,
it's not super sedating where it puts you under,
like it still gives you a good energy
to where you're functional, you can eat,
you can, you know, you can get through your fucking day,
but you do it really fucking tanked on that shit.
That works, that works though.
Do it all with a smile.
It's heavy, man, it is, it's heavy.
It's not for the not like,
I mean, it's for people who for sure smoke all the time,
but it just, it brings a lot of potency to the table too.
Nice, and is these the GMO and cherry pie?
Cherry pie for me,
that was always kind of a powerful strain.
GMO, I kind of liked it more.
It was more of the tastier strains,
the foul taste that I enjoyed there.
Yeah, and it definitely holds onto that foul taste.
It's so good.
Did you, were you able to pop a few of them, Dave?
And did you get kind of a variety of flavors there
or did it stay fairly uniform in that funk?
It was a clone, it's a clone.
Okay, okay.
Clone only.
Well, shit, that's the best way
to get reliable expression, isn't it?
And that's funny because,
so sometimes the thing with clones is like,
we've had them to where you move them next door
from one facility to the other
and the clone will literally respond differently
like 10 feet down the road.
But you've held up like literally in every environment,
kind of indoors, outdoors, hoop houses,
still gives the same funk, doesn't ever variate too much.
I mean, real solid selection.
Well, that's cool.
And that's one thing that I always kind of try
to pay attention to is where, for me,
I'm indoors and where are the breeders working
and what are they doing?
Because there are just some amazing things
that would work outdoors.
I know I always reference,
and I don't know if this was the breeders intention,
but the Irie Genetics Lemon Sunrise was a strain
and it was a great one to grow.
I enjoyed it, but it took over the entire tent.
Like it just got big.
So I say, if I ever grow outdoors,
that's one of the first ones going in the ground,
but I don't know if I'll run it again
in my tent for a while.
So they take over.
I got a few.
I got a Stragova like that right now
that she's just so branchy.
That and for Medtree seeds, it's a one-to-one,
it's Dominion Skunk Cross with ACDC Cookies.
And it's phenomenal flower,
but it's just, it is such a stretchy,
like those plants have their special place.
Like the Stragova and that, they're off with the sativas.
Like they're off with the branchy little one.
That's hilarious.
Yeah, I was telling London earlier,
there was a, I was smoking on something
that I popped from this.
This was a European company.
It was called, the strain was diesel glue.
It was supposed to be a Gorilla Glue 4.
I actually use this as a coaster now,
but Gorilla Glue 4 and a sour diesel.
It is neither of which, but it is,
it's like, it reminds me of Tropicana cookies
or like a Sunset Sherbert.
It is just, it is so that flavor,
but it did, it just grew straight up.
And so I'm like, nope, you're not making the cut
before I actually finished flowering it out.
And so I'm just like, I wish I would have kept you.
I have said that time and time again.
I literally have been through that like just a few days ago.
So I feel your pain.
Yeah, yeah.
And then I was telling them, I'm like,
I still got, you know,
I think I have like six or seven seeds left.
And he's like, well, good luck getting the exact thing back.
And I was like, oh dude.
That was the one out of the million,
like that you just threw away.
So there's that, but it's cool.
Right, I'm looking at you London.
Like I cannot throw any plants out.
I feel like I'm just going to continue on this road.
And then one day I'm going to need
like a really giant greenhouse,
but still have like a hundred of the same 10 plants.
There's like, you just can't get through them all.
But like, so what do you do when you like selecting a male?
I heard you like, you're talking to her.
Are you specifically just doing testing chemically
or is there other notes?
Cause I've always wondered about like male selection.
It's not something that I'm very familiar with.
I'd love to hear more if you're.
Yeah, for sure.
So I actually, I tend to do mine over a process.
So like whatever kind of made it through
after like the third leg.
So I kind of, you know, let things ride out,
transplant them, let them kind of give an expression.
Once I can kind of fill them out,
I'll see where they're at and then start basically
kind of putting them under stresses
and just seeing how they hold up environmentally.
And then the ones that kind of start to fall apart,
I'll start checking the ones that are really resilient
and then kind of keep up to the beat of everything.
I just keep moving along.
Once they kind of get to the potting phase from there,
I send everything in basically just a stem samples.
They go in, gets dipped in alcohol
and then they go in for genomic sequencing.
And then a lot of time I'll flower them out.
I'll take clones of course, before I flower them out,
I get kind of the expressions based off of
how they're flowering.
And so a lot of time I can tell just because I've taken
so many notes through the years based on like
how they look in flower.
It's not always a given of course,
but for the most part I can tell what they'll translate to
based on how they expressed in flower.
A lot of time I'll collect pollen from that first run,
I'll re-veg them and see how they respond to re-vegging.
And then things that really kind of handle everything,
I'll put through the ringer, the clone will kind of go back,
see if it responds the same way.
It repeats the same thing through the cycle and stress.
But a lot of times if it freaks out or if it,
starts to flower immediately or has a problem through
cloning, I'll toss that one as well.
And so there's a few more things I'm kind of writing up
some stuff about, how I select males and
through the process entirely,
but that's kind of a basic rundown of it.
That's cool.
And I know you actually have worked with a lot of like
CBD lines and have kind of focused on some of that work.
Have you worked much with hemp?
Is it much different there?
If you found a really rad hemp cultivar?
All of it's kind of based off of those and then whatever
expresses best through your environment,
we kind of inbreed and start working those to get the
dominant lines.
That's what I use as I seek hemp from different countries
and then start looking through what analytically looks the
best on paper, what medical benefits I'm looking for,
on what structure, I mean, it's just kind of,
I have a list of things I'm looking for.
And so it's something kind of,
or if a multitude of things checks those boxes,
I'll grab a few things, but that's really,
it's like I look through hemp, different other,
I mean, different CBD lines,
but primarily it's like land rates based hemp and then doing
breeding through that.
Okay. Yeah.
Cause yeah, I mean that, you know,
it made me curious again,
cause you can, you can really reach out there,
but then how do you kind of pull that back into like the THC
market?
I remember Dynafem was working on some lines.
They got busted a few years ago for Spanish C company,
but yeah, they were working some like, you know,
normal named lines, like OG Kush.
And they all of a sudden,
or White Widow was the one that I had all of a sudden it was
like 10% CBD, 10% THC.
I was like, how did, how does that happen?
They, you know, I guess through the magic of breeding.
Oh, well they're probably running it outdoors.
And then all the hemp people and then they got pollinations
and they're like, oh, we'll just call it one-to-one.
And it, you know that, so there, there we have it.
Like that's the story.
You actually, you actually like shattered one earlier for me.
Cause you mentioned the Stephen Hawking Kush and I,
I forgot about that, but there's,
I buy vape carts for one reason
and that's to get a high CBD amount.
And it's not something that I smoke regularly, but you know,
for walks or whatever, I always bring that with me.
But there's a company I always get, it's a one-to-one ratio.
And it's always the same.
It's 40% CBD, 40% THC.
And they had the same like one-to-one ratio,
but it was a little off.
It was a little bit higher on the CBD.
And they just renamed it Stephen Hawking Kush.
Or yeah, Stephen Hawking Kush.
I was like, oh, they just must've made up a name
because the ratios were different.
Same packaging, different name, but no.
Okay.
Dots connected there.
Really?
Yep.
That's Alphachronic, Kyle Clancy.
Yeah, Alphachronic Genetics.
Nice.
Are they based out of Washington or?
Oregon.
Oregon, okay.
Yeah.
He was holding it down back early in the medical days.
He's been doing it for a long time.
Cool, yeah.
I think the Washington 2011
is when I got in the med system here,
but I wasn't really familiar with Oregon.
Although now I kind of wish I lived in Oregon
and had a garden down there, man.
Their weed's better.
I'll just put it that way.
Damn it.
So I had a follow-up.
You mentioned you like kind of,
that you're able to see the results of a plant breeding
from the male structure and how they,
I love this question for these specific points.
Was there a point in time in your career
or was there a sequence of events that happened
that was like, I figured it out just a second.
Come here and give me my love goodnight, okay?
Say goodnight to everybody.
Say hi.
Hi.
Hi.
Say hi.
Hi.
Say goodnight.
Bye.
Bye.
Get going.
Thank you for being not naked.
Just kidding.
Just kidding.
Little rock star.
He'll go out there.
All right, Dave, Dave, tempt us with something.
Oh, he's coming back.
Yeah, no, she's got, she has to grab,
I have a bale of hay by the door
and she had to grab a handful on her way
into my fucking kitchen.
And now there's hay and my wife is pissed.
She's so mad.
I really hope she looked at her and just said, hey.
Did I finish the question?
I don't know if I finished the question.
Was there a point in time that was like,
or an incident or event that was like,
I figured this out a little,
like there was like a really memorable point
or plant that was like, oh, I figured this out.
Like I noticed that this results in this,
that really kind of stepped you in the next level.
I usually find that people with your type of experience.
Yeah, for sure.
No, there was.
Yeah, no, and so I'm trying to think exactly what,
I know Super Sour CBD was like,
for sure when I kind of like started putting
like my notes together and things started matching up
and I was like, okay, so if I look for this specific plant,
like this is kind of what the outcome is going to be.
Cause I was on like, I think it was like F5 at that point,
F5 or F6.
And that's where I really think I kind of actually was like,
I think I fucking figured this out.
Like from not a hundred percent, again,
I've had times where mother nature has proven me wrong.
And again, it's probably due to the genetics of the plant
being, you know, not disclosed fully or whatever.
I'm not sure.
From, for the most part, yeah, no,
there's definitely a point where it was Super Sour CBD
that I was able to like identify a male and say,
this is, that's what I'm looking for essentially.
Like, this is the one,
this is the one that I'm looking for
that produces the results.
And so I kind of have that specific look I look for
on the male at all times,
but there's times where I've been proven wrong as well,
where I found things and I've kind of used
other dominant males that have turned out to, you know,
bring out other traits that I'm looking to pull out of it.
And so it's, it's just a matter of more, I think,
like knowing where you're taking the line
or what your intended outcome is of it.
And that's kind of where I rely on everything.
Always good to have a direction.
Always good.
I mean, preaching to the choir here,
but a lot of people watching too, you know,
everybody loves to make seeds.
And I mean, to be honest, making seeds is not hard.
People do it accidentally all the time,
but to create something, to craft and steer something,
that's a whole nother ball game.
So I always just like to point that out
for everybody listening too.
But I, you know, I like your work,
so it kind of speaks for itself.
Yeah.
Dave, you've been too damn quiet this episode, buddy.
I am letting others talk, you know.
I know. It's not all about Dave.
I know.
And I've really enjoyed listening to these other people
because they're far more interesting than you, but.
No, I'm just joking, buddy.
Whoa, whoa, Westfield chat.
People don't think I have a mean side.
I'm sorry, Dave.
I don't know when to shut up sometimes.
No.
No worries, man.
You do not need to apologize.
Nobody needs to apologize.
What I want to talk about is that
I got these orange Fanta S1s.
I know nothing about these really.
Orange Fanta?
Yes, there's four little teeny tiny seeds there
that I know nothing about.
Can you tell me more about those?
The orange Fanta is another project that I kind of,
I intended on working with
just because it did so well under the time.
I think it was like 2000 and damn, 18 or 17,
somewhere around there.
I mean, it's been five years at this point.
But it's just something I kind of really was intending on
really building that theme.
It did really well at some of the local pups and stuff.
And then I just kind of, I think lost interest
and went with other directions.
And that I was going through the vault and saw,
I still have probably a good amount of stock of those
and then found some S1s when I was going through
trying to hunt the S1s as well
and trying to find some specific selections
that I just kind of,
it's when I had all that stuff get ruined,
like those thousands of seeds
that I was talking about earlier.
And so that was a part of that project
where it was just like a massacre for the most part.
And so I kind of gave up hope on that for a long time.
Yeah, stayed a little discouraged.
And everybody know I'm not mean,
I'm just jealous and I'm lashing out at Dave, okay?
This is psychology 101 in action right now.
You guys don't know the love notes he sends me.
Do you have one you can show us publicly
that you would be embarrassed about seeing?
I don't know.
Like if it was totally taken out of context,
it'd be like, did he really say that type of note?
Like, can you just show that?
So what else you got for us, Dave?
Oh, geez, good question.
I mean, there's lots of goodies.
Man, I just-
Anything on the table?
Yeah, anything on the table you're popping next?
What I wanna pop next is,
I brought it up the last time,
it's this grape soda skunk cherry limeade.
Some boulder stock that I definitely wanna run through.
You know, bring back some 2015 dreams.
That's something I definitely wanna look at.
I don't have it out right now,
but there's the cherry limeade pina.
I've got a kind of a cherry limeade kick going right now
ever since I had the Runt's cherry limeade
or the Runt's gelato 33 cherry limeade.
And there's the purple unicorn gelato 33 cherry limeade.
That's a Bodie and Mean Gene collab
that I really have been dying to get into.
Yeah, I think that'd be awesome.
Did you grow that one?
I have, no.
I'm sorry, go ahead, go ahead.
I was gonna say, I have an either, man.
You better pop that shit.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, hey, I'll send you some if you'd like to pop some.
Yeah.
I'll never turn you down.
Yeah, never turn a good seed down, people.
And you said that was one of your favorites, though, Dave,
that you had run in one of the past episodes, correct?
Yes, that gelato 33 cherry limeade male,
anything that touches is just gold.
Anything I've run with it,
it brings that lime gas to whatever you're touching,
whatever it's with.
It definitely transfers through.
I'm a big fan of any time I've run it so far.
My camera's just pissing me off right now.
Doing a little boogie dance.
I'll make it small, there you go, okay.
There you go.
Mind over matter.
I was trying to read that it was like cherry west times.
Oh, the cherry west back cross three.
Yeah, what is that all about?
That's a new acquisition.
That's some mean gene goodness right there.
Him working that cherry west, the animal west.
And I believe it's the cherry pie.
Okay.
The not death star.
I don't know much about it,
but I have a kind of a hard on for mean gene
if he releases something, I want to work with it,
or at least look at it or get it in the collection.
Yeah, well, I mean, shit again,
when you come out with like kind of hit after hit,
you know the next one's gonna be good.
Sorry guys, my phone's about to die.
Oh, okay.
Take it out here.
I totally know that feeling.
Anybody who's done like the FaceTime with me in private,
not live knows that I do that.
Basically I leave the cord unplugged as often
as I talk with the mic muted.
So if that's an example for everybody.
Every day.
Every day I'm muted.
At least once.
Yep.
Well, here's one that I've gotten recently too.
It's from Appalachian supply.
And I was actually looking and the website is off right now.
Oh, was that you London?
Yeah, I had to Peter you one more time.
That was awesome.
Okay, thank you.
We got teamwork tonight, but this is a Maui Waui.
So I wanna get this popped.
I wanna see how long it goes.
And then he sent another one as well, which is cool.
It's kind of like the autographed edition here.
But it's-
Oh, it's autographed.
That's so cool.
I love that.
It is.
I like it.
It's a Maui Waui with a Washington Apple.
So I'm really curious about these.
And I like the packaging too.
It's kind of a cool artwork.
Yeah, those are cool.
Yeah, these are kind of what I've picked up recently.
A little afraid of the Maui Waui and how long it would go.
But again, I wanna try it because that's one of those,
you know, strains where I've,
well, I think I really have smoked Maui Waui
from an old girlfriend's mom on the island when I was there.
She hooked me up, but yeah.
That's the only time I could be like,
yeah, I've smoked it before.
So I don't know.
Have either of you guys grown it?
London, you grow a lot of those kind of older strains.
No, I don't actually.
So this is the first time around that I've done.
I've got like, I've done a run of Velvet Sky
from In-House Genetics.
I've got about three or four of those
that are left from a hunt.
And I'm still kind of,
I wanna run them a couple more times
to see how they turn out.
I've got the old Acapulco, new Acapulco,
the strawberry, banana, Lemon Kush Headbands.
I've got two phenos of that that I selected through
and that are just like, one's like the Jolly Rancher flavor.
Like it's got like a really Jolly Rancher.
And the other one, like once it's cured out really nicely,
has like, you know, grandma's candied lemon dish
that would get like hard and you couldn't,
like you couldn't get one candy
or you had to come in with a spoon,
but like that, but the lemon version.
So it's really like that.
And it just, there's something about it
that just really works.
And you rub the stem
and you get this beautiful lemon aroma.
It's a very special plant to me.
I think it sings a lot to me.
So I can't, I can't,
I keep trying to get rid of one or the other
and I just can't.
So it's a struggle.
One is way stretchier than I want it to be,
but we survive regardless.
She's lovely.
And then I've got, of course,
I've got a Kandahar and Ice Cream Cake crosses down.
One,
oh, that's the wrong button.
And that's kind of interesting
because Kandahar, I think, is an older strain
and then Ice Cream Cake, obviously,
gonna be a newer cake.
Oh, is that the?
Here, I can adjust it a little bit.
There we go.
Oh, okay.
If you want, it's fine.
You can do either way.
But yeah, so those are the,
those are the little ones there
are the Kandahar Ice Cream Cake crosses
from Mr. Tree's Family Tree Seeds.
And he is fucking cool guy.
We got to do a show a couple of weeks ago.
Nice.
And it was like the live
where we're doing the breeder thing
and do the breeder in the testing
with the test group of the other testers.
And he's just really a good fucking person.
And if you have the opportunity to purchase his gear
and support the guy,
I gotta fucking shout him out and go fucking do it.
Because it's just good people.
And it's nice to see good fucking people do good.
So he's one of those people that I'm like,
I'm gonna buy a few packs of this stuff.
So, but yeah, so I've got these
that I'm playing with right now.
And they have like a beautiful,
consistent shape and size and a nice broad,
broad center leaf,
which is kind of a pleasant sight to see.
I get a lot of more speedily and stuff.
You can see behind it.
I have a Lemoncello, Lemon Kush,
not Lemoncello, Lemoncello,
Schnaz, pretty much all the work
that I have on the Cunnington,
Jack Pine, Cross.
What happened there?
I've talked to you.
Lemoncello, Schnaz, Chemde on the Box, Super Sour.
I've got all of those kind of in here
that I'm playing with.
And then everything else is like the,
the Saraline that I'm hunting through.
Cause I wanna bring that to an F1
and kind of finding consistency there.
If I'm happy with the flower of that one.
And that's kind of this general zone.
These will go actually into my flower tank
in about four weeks, four and a half weeks.
Four and a half weeks Monday.
That's kind of a pooing my pants
on the other screen here
because I was like, yeah, Mr. Trees,
I know that that Daga carries them.
And I'm like, yeah, Daga, Concord,
Grape Seeds, 15, uh oh, typo.
Giant Yellow Diva, uh oh, typo.
But yeah, you want to explain?
He's got, he did like,
there's just Concord grape is like
an indigenous variety of plants.
Not like your traditional grape plant
or maybe you didn't know this Concord grapes.
I think it's Oregon grape that I thought he was,
that he had on here.
But Oregon grapes kind of more of a unique one.
But he's got like vegetables
and that's actually sunflower.
It's really cool.
And I think that's special.
He breeds trees.
Cool, right?
Like that, that's pretty cool.
Concord grapes, I gotta get some of those.
Cause that's great.
I got some weird stuff that I love those types of things.
And grapes are a fun long-term work.
They take some time and effort.
They are.
And I thought that was cool too,
that we're carrying these kinds of things.
I might just order some of these sunflowers
cause dude, who wouldn't want to grow that?
I know my wife would absolutely love if we grew that.
And again, like you said,
we're kind of supporting, supporting people.
Yeah.
Doing stock.
All right, I better get on it.
Everybody watching this show, don't order that shit.
It's mine.
Yeah.
And they're great.
And like that type of thing,
I find like plant cannabis in like,
in general is like this route into this,
this nature, this exploration of,
of what we all consider the natural world.
And it's kind of like, it's really cool,
but it like, it gets so much,
we start talking about cover crops,
then we start exploring all these other plants.
It just leads to this snowball effect.
And it just, it's yeah.
Snowballing, as you can tell.
Yeah, it is.
But more and more plants,
like I've got some wormwood,
some traditional, like really interesting stuff.
Purple pomatillos, basil, lovage,
all sorts of dianthus and flowers.
Now my wife wants me to try the witchy stuff,
which is fun and weird.
I don't want to do witchy stuff, but it's cool.
So that's kind of fun to play with.
She likes flowers.
What are you whipping out there?
Do you got a collection of Mr. Tree's stuff?
Bacon grease.
Bacon fucking grease.
I think he spoke about that one.
And the pandemic.
Can you, have you planted any of those?
Like epic.
The only thing I've ever grown from him
was the PAM-15BX.
And that is, I unfortunately let her get root bound.
If you let PAM get root bound,
she will not treat you right.
She don't like that.
Yeah, you can't let that happen at all.
So I made that mistake.
And, but she still came back and responded beautifully.
But at the same time, he even warned me.
He's like, don't let her get root bound.
I had issues with space, you know, like everyone does.
And unfortunately that's what happened.
That's, so yeah, it's kind of,
it can look a lot of different ways
when you get that root bound.
You know, the droopy leafs, sometimes deficiencies.
Oh, we're flipping cameras there.
But that's good to know that that one doesn't like it.
Cause again, I mean, you say shit happens, right?
Sometimes you get a little bit behind.
Yeah, it was, you know,
a certain plant was taking a little longer
than I had anticipated in the flowering tent.
And it was like, oh shit.
And yeah, mistakes, mistakes were made.
Yep, yep.
Now it does look like there's some information
on the front of the pack.
Is it giving you any kind of information?
Usually flowering times included,
but is it giving you kind of anything else?
Tall, branching?
Okay, that's kind of good to know.
Potent, rich, robust.
Sour cream, funky raisins.
That's like the California raisins now, man.
They're old, they're smelling not good.
How many times have you guys found
like something truly sweet?
You know what I mean?
Like, I feel like I'm always kind of chasing
that sweetness to find, and it's ever so hard.
And it's like, I've always found,
like, I think I get glimpses of it here and there,
but I never like quite find that sweetness, you know?
I've always been good with like TGA stuff
or the dank from Reader Subcool.
I get some sweetness from a lot of his lines.
I just always say TGA because that's how I was introduced.
It was TGA at the time.
So that's what I just always say.
It's a little outdated, but yeah.
That, and then right now, holy crap, Bee Leaf Cannabis.
I've got two of his Kool-Aid mans going.
And one of them is just,
it's more fruit punch than fruit punch itself.
Like it's fricking ridiculous.
It's only the third week of flower.
And if it maintains that and translates
into the smoke later, holy crap, that's a keeper for life.
I'm stoked.
So that's a sweet one.
That is epic.
But now are you talking like,
cause there is a little bit of a difference
between like a fruity and kind of a sweet.
Where do you draw the distinction?
Yeah.
So I find there's like, there's smoke.
What I always search for in a smoke is like an umaminess.
Like I won't keep a plant
unless after I smoke it, my mouth waters.
You know what I mean?
So I kind of, I look for that kind of sweet tone.
Like I want it to almost feel it on my tongue.
But certain flavors come out really nicely.
Like when you lean onto the lemons,
but I find like sometimes I'll find something really sweet
but it'll be hit with so much funk that it's like,
it almost kind of like takes away from that sweetness
and trying to isolate that a little bit.
I've got a sweet tooth.
I like candy.
I like my candy.
It always turns out to kind of get like a mix
and amalgamation of everything in there.
So you can definitely get some sweetness
and then you'll get some citrus, some other fruits.
You can get some sweetness
and then a little bit of gas in there too.
You can get some creaminess in there.
There's all different flavor profiles
that you can definitely get.
Like this particular Choca-Cola, this was.
Oh, fucking pull out the biggest nug in the fucking world.
Like the things like,
hey, let's pull out a baby's arm and show that.
How'd you get that fucking thing out of the jar?
I was, well, it's got some air to it.
It's not, you know, it's, it had some, some tails on her.
She was nice.
But yeah, she's got some, some sweetness to it.
Some, almost a little bit of a nice in there too.
So it definitely, the Cola is aptly named
with some of those spices in there,
but it definitely gave off some,
some, some cherry Cola in there.
It kind of reminded me of you spilled a cherry Cola
on like the side of the road on a hot summer day
and just kind of let it sit there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let that sugar turn into that sticky liquid there.
Yesterday's frozen red popsicle kind of thing.
Yes.
That's a funny description.
Another good one was the slushy beer that had a lot of that,
but it was more of a creamy sweetness to it.
Definitely reminded me of vanilla.
Got a lot tighter of a structure too, eh?
Oh, definitely.
Yeah, there we go.
I liked that.
I liked personally growing this a little better.
She, she's a little, she needs support.
She's a little lanky, but damn, does she taste amazing.
And it's kind of cool for me to see the greens too.
It's like green is making a comeback, hopefully.
Cause you're growing a lot of good stuff.
Yep.
I love all of it.
Cherry West is incredible.
Good People's Gardens is saying,
giving you the heads up there, Dave.
Cherry West is awesome.
Nick loves the anise.
Anise is good.
Anise is like licorice to me.
So I can dig on that taste.
Slushy beer is a bad-ass smoke.
I have not tried that.
I've actually not seen that before.
I'm hoping it's more slushy than beer tasting beer.
I don't like the taste of beer.
Root beer, root beer.
Yep.
And where did that one come from?
Is that Dutch Blooms or?
The slushy beer was actually from Skunk Tech.
That was Skunk Tech's work using Mean Gene and Bodie.
It's a granola funk and root beer.
I think it's root beer back cross one.
That combined with I-95 makes the, no, I'm sorry.
That's the Choca-Cola.
It's granola funk root beer and cherry lime slushy.
I'm sorry.
Cherry lime slushy.
That's the slushy beer.
Okay, let's see.
Okay, slushy beer.
Frank, what's your breed or what are you breeding?
I was talking to Frank's duck foot up in chat.
I'm like, there's no Frank here.
Tell us, Frank, let us know.
We'll put it up on the screen.
That'd be good.
I'd love to know that.
I bet it's a duck foot.
Yep.
I'm just saying.
No, he's talking about breeding mutants earlier,
which is awesome.
Bring Sensi-Star back.
Bring Sensi-Star.
Sensi-Star is a strong strain.
What do you like about the Sensi-Star?
Why do you think it should come back?
For me, that's an ass kicker right there.
Yeah, don't you like getting your dick
knocked in the dirt from time to time?
Surprisingly, yeah.
Dude, yeah, when a strain hits you
like fucking high school again,
you're just like, ooh, step back for a second.
Absolutely, I'm down for that.
I like that concept of really rocking your own world.
And doing it with flour, too.
Of course, you're dabs as well.
Yeah, you smoke the-
I'm a dabs guy mostly, but I ebb and flow.
I'll get tired of dabs.
I'm gonna go back to flour for a while.
And then I still smoke flour every once in a while.
You gotta taste the flow once you grow.
There you go.
You do.
Oh, let me switch it up here.
Get you over.
What is that?
Oh, there we go.
I lost you there.
That's a frickin' nice shot.
Let me just leave it here for a second.
That's great.
What is this, London?
I said my whole story, and then I was muted.
Here you go.
So this is the Lemon Kush headband.
I can show you.
This is like, I love this little fuckin' USB light,
because it's got a camera on it and the light,
it works out really nicely for the jars, actually.
Yeah.
And it has it turning out pretty good.
So that's the Lemon Kush headband that I was talking about.
That's number three.
I don't have any number one, because I smoked it all.
I have, some of this isn't the prettiest,
but I don't give a fuck, because I don't care.
But this is, this is, wait a second.
This is actually Velvet Sky number one from In-House Genetics
and it's got kind of this sweet,
almost hot, saucy kind of flavor to it.
It's kind of funky.
I could almost say that Velvet is probably
close to how it is.
And it smokes a bit like an extract,
but the yield on it was terrible.
So I'm excited for that one, but it smokes okay.
I'm not a huge spump on that one.
Was it fast flowering or long flowering?
Everything I kind of run nine weeks,
because that's just how it flows,
except for this Acapulco Gold
that's going to run forever.
But we'll be flexible.
I got the Acapulco Gold.
This is the Barney Farms version.
So it's nice and tight.
Yeah, it's a beautiful plant.
It's not Acapulco Gold, but it's a beautiful plant.
It's got an incense kind of cream to it.
Like if you, like if you took creamy incense,
I know that doesn't sound right off the tongue,
but that's kind of what you get off of that.
And then of course the Chernobyl,
which is just frosty and dank.
Like look at it in the jar.
Like it's, I just sat, I just turned it
and it's already lumped in the one bucket.
Oh, you were above the camera, but okay.
There we go.
Yeah.
I mean like that, it's like, I don't want to lose any.
I see it.
Yep, yep.
Right?
Yeah.
But that's kind of one of my favorite frosty ones right now.
And that's what I crossed with the strawberry banana,
which also isn't the most prettiest weed in the world,
but I'll tell you what,
the strawberry flavor is so fucking mind blowing.
It's well worth it.
That was kind of the thing.
If I was going to do something,
I could work on structure later,
but making that flavor profile, that uniqueness,
finding something there,
that's where I wanted to start if I was going to do it.
And again, I'm just home playing.
There's only enough room here for so many.
That's the story of our lives.
Let's see here.
Grumpy Toad in chat.
He just got some beans from Ethos.
He got the white wedding.
Looking forward to running those.
I saw you had something wedding up front there
in the shiny packaging, didn't you, Dave?
Oh yes.
That was one of the latest SkunkTap jobs,
the wedding pie and headband.
Oh really?
So is wedding pie, wedding cake and cherry pie,
or what's going on there?
Oh God, I don't even know off the top of my head.
There's too many.
But hold on, I'll get you the exact breakdown in one second.
I'm pretty sure it might be grape pie, honestly, in there.
Okay.
How do you like headband?
Do you find it, like,
have you run a lot of stuff with headband in it?
Because it's like, I've heard from a few people
that it can be a little bit more challenging,
but I frankly haven't had a lot of issue with it before.
I can show you what I recently ran with it.
It was the TK headband from SkunkTek.
I do like a good headband.
That's why I was excited to see that there.
It's coming back.
That looks good.
That looks fucking delicious, man.
Your work is beautiful, by the way.
Isn't it?
Like, you grow some fucking fantastic weed
and you take some good time trimming.
Wouldn't that be the worst fucking thing in the world?
I would hate to put everybody on the internet and chat
if Dave was just a shit grower.
Oh my God.
Can you imagine all these beans just like, fuck.
The amount of hate and vitriol I would get
would be well-deserved, too.
Well, we should do, we should,
that'd be a great troll though.
Like, really fuck some plants up.
Because I've fucked some plants up recently.
Like, and I should just show those now.
Like, this is my most fucked up plant.
I've got some, like, I love aphids and it was bad.
Stunt, stunt plant.
Bring in the stunt plant.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, I got tiny little nugs on each little spot
because I've been fucked up.
It's going to, it's going to trash.
But it was, it was fun.
And I got to throw these new predator mites at them,
which are fucking nuts.
And they actually like roved them clean, full of aphids.
It's absolutely cool.
That's not good.
Fucking ugly ass food.
No, no, no good aphids.
And Del Man is saying it's great pie, Dave.
I thought so.
I thought so.
That's good.
Okay, I made the assumption it was cherry pie there.
Cause I'm used to there only being one pie in town.
But yeah.
And Dave, you've seen Orgasmo, have you?
I have.
I was about to make a comment about that.
That's just wonderful.
Thank you for that.
Glad you caught that there.
Of course.
Never slip, if you did a T-Rex comment too,
I would have gotten hurt too.
Shit.
So that's, okay.
So we got the wedding pie,
which is wedding cake in the great pie,
times the headband again, which I'm excited to see.
That reminds me of, it's just one of the older strains.
I've talked about it a few times.
I just called it brown.
It was one of my favorites,
but it was never the first one.
Never the first jar empty when I set a bunch out at a party.
But you would just like right here,
you get that just like buzzing, comfortable,
like hee, hee, hee, giddiness.
I just always love that when your face feels high.
I don't know, it's a weird feeling.
And that's what a lot of people say headband does for them.
I get that cold ring, like the back of my neck,
the back of my head feels wet.
Like, you know, when you eat something really spicy
and you get sweat on the back of your head?
That's when I smoke, if I smoke a good amount of it,
like that's the feeling I get.
I fucking love it.
It's brilliant.
Oh shit.
And I see they're talking Hoko seeds in chat.
Yeah, man, that guy works with a lot of awesome,
like hemp cultivars, a lot of minor cannabinoids.
He's got some really awesome work.
He's actually done a few shows
on a future cannabis project as well recently too.
So make sure to check him out.
And that's another breeder up on daga.garden.
You can find a bunch of his seeds
and I guess they would be hemp cultivars at this point
because some of them just have no THC.
So I guess we would have to call that hemp,
but good stuff anyways.
So moving back, back Dave,
I loved, you know, I loved the Flintstone graphic there.
Have you got any recent packaging that either made you laugh
or kind of made you say, well, this is a little bit different
I could dig that.
Hmm, well that would be one of the cooler ones
that I've recently gotten.
Nothing too crazy.
A lot of them have just been, you know, simple and written,
which I don't mind as long as I trust
where they're coming from.
Oh yeah, I know.
You got the handwritten notes everywhere, which are good.
Oh, except I was de-seeding stuff the other day
and I knocked it over.
So this floor, man, it's got seeds.
I don't even know what they are anymore.
They're called, they're going to the forest, forest seeds.
Floor seeds equal forest seeds.
There you go.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can't say I've had anything too crazy
come in lately with the packaging.
Cool.
Yeah, I just got recently,
actually maybe I should just go get it.
I'll go get it.
You want to tell a story for a second?
Yes.
All right, London, tell a story.
I'll be back.
I'll just tell the story,
but I'm going to ask Dave a question.
Dave, so tell me, like, what was the most exciting,
like, what was the pack that you watched
travel across the country to you,
step by step of the way over the last year?
Was there one or was there two that really like,
you're very excited for that to come in?
And would you like show them?
I'd love to hear about them if there is.
Or is it like at the point now is where it's just like,
there's always a bunch of seeds coming in and it's regular,
but I don't know.
Or maybe you're always very excited about them.
Well, you kind of,
you did nail it a little bit with your second comment there,
as far as there seems to be a lot of stuff
coming in all the time.
And I'm always trying to grab this, trying to grab that.
But something that I had my heart set on for a while,
that's why I keep showing it and bringing it up.
It's this grape soda skunk cherry limeade.
I've had my heart set on that.
You got so much cherry and lime on that table.
I fucking love it.
Yeah.
I've really got, it's my jam.
I'm a big fan,
especially if you can get more cherry in there.
I tend to find more like more lime.
It seems to dominate in what I've grown.
I feel like I need to make you,
I feel like I need to make you a cherry lime jam
and send it to you.
Like, I feel like this is necessary.
I feel like I'm dead serious.
Is it like, is that like,
if you had those two flavors together,
would that be the perfect thing of all time?
Is that what you're chasing?
That's definitely up there.
If I can get that cherry lime and some of the,
just really, really gassy though.
I really, I do love gas and funk.
So I definitely want to get more of that in everything.
So if you can find that combination of cherry,
lime, gas, funk, I'm set.
Like that's really the dream right there.
Good question in chat here for you, Dave.
Does Dave have Coca-Cola or Coca-Cola?
I have Choca-Cola.
I don't have the Coca-Cola root beer.
Okay.
I wish I did.
I did not chase it in that auction.
I watched Jimmy Toucans grab it for,
I think it was $2,000.
So I was like, yeah, I just can't,
I can't justify a pack of seeds for that kind of money.
If I was looking to start a seed company, maybe.
Right.
But I'd rather it be, do the honest, real work.
Not just, you know, chuck something together
and try and be the next hype.
I remember hearing that on one of the seed auctions,
not through FCP, it was a different place,
but they were selling,
it was like a, I think it was a wedding cake pack
or it was around that timeframe.
But they were basically like, guys,
this is the start of your seed company.
So start the bidding.
It went for like thousands of bucks, but yeah.
That's the best.
That's kind of what they were saying.
And I'm like, well, yeah.
I mean, that does kind of make sense.
And I see the sense in it.
But here's kind of what I jumped out to get is I went to,
oh, that's the wrong button.
That's you, Dave.
I went to get this box.
I just picked up this new box.
It's waterproof box.
I got my silica stuff in there for storing seeds.
So beautiful.
Do you guys do, does anybody do anything like that?
And it's even got a cool little handle
so I could carry it down the street, but.
No, but if I bet you,
if I got one, I wouldn't lose my seeds all the time.
Like a fucking terrible,
they always either fall in dirt
or fall somewhere where I can't find them.
They fall in dirt.
They fall in dirt.
Now anyway, I have this.
So I did the testing for Mr. Trees,
but I fucking lost the first round of seeds
that he sent me.
Cause I'm like, oh, I'm going to save them
and plant them for the episode.
And I'm like, I'm horribly bad for this.
So I like, I either need to buy them in a larger,
like I got like a larger volume or whatever,
where they're like in every package.
But if I get one pack of seeds,
they have to go immediately into dirt
or there is no hope in hell
that I am ever going to see them again.
It's happened multiple times.
It's embarrassing.
I'll shut up.
I can't fit my container on my camera,
but it's a giant like dog food storage container.
So it's a nice airtight seal.
That's just stuffed with a ton of desiccant,
little silica packs.
Can you show me more of that container though?
That looks beautiful there, Chad.
Yeah, no, I'm sorry.
I was catching up a Geocab.
I wanted to make sure I got his question.
I think it was about the Coca-Cola.
Let me know in chat though.
And I saw a couple other people.
Oh gosh, I was scrolling up.
See, I get so far away from them now.
Gorilla Militia, there it is.
He's trying to look for the pina seeds himself.
The pina is from Mean Gene,
but I know the ranch right now on Daga
has some crosses with the pina in it.
I'm running the purple pina from him.
Right now I got a couple of those going.
So that's pretty cool.
There's a lot of crosses there.
And then there was another person here
asking about the burgers and beer,
which is also the ranch.
And I know, I believe he sold out of that
on the Daga site, that particular stream,
but he also might have that himself.
I saw him talking about that the other day.
Okay, burgers and beers.
Okay, Dave, I'm cracking, cracking, cracking.
I keep hearing about Donnie burgers and burgers and beer,
and I just need some of this in my fucking life.
Okay, all right.
Well, what do you really know, Dave?
What you really know, son?
Ooh, you got me beat.
I've only got one still.
I used to have two.
Oh, and these are just the closed packs.
I mean, I don't even need to get into the open pack here.
Unfortunately, yeah, I know.
That's, unfortunately, I only put two in,
but they both turned out male.
So I'm gonna have to wait till next round
to find out on that.
But I really wanna, I wanna really wanna try to search
for some of those root beer turps too,
which is kind of elusive, but you know,
with the GMO or the Donnie burger,
it's kind of hard to go wrong.
So I'm hoping either way I get something nice out of that.
You'll have a great experience, I think, regardless.
It'll be a lot of fun.
You got a lot of joy in that box by the look of it.
I do, and I actually, I bought this box
thinking that it would, that it would like hold everything,
but no, I actually need to order another one tonight
and a new toaster, because my toaster broke.
But yeah, so I'm going on Amazon later.
Sorry, everybody who hates Amazon.
Yeah.
Now there's your root beer cake.
Root beer cake.
Wedding cake and neem mug.
Okay, and who's that sticker, Matchmaker?
Matchmaker Genetics.
Okay, I've not heard of them.
Where did you find them?
It's somebody who is associated with me and Gene
as far as he's run some things for him in the past.
So just somebody who, I like, I love his work.
I love the plants he runs and what he makes.
So I wanted to get a hold of it.
Well, that's cool.
And I just asked too, because, you know,
a lot of times there's people doing really great stuff
but the world doesn't know about them.
Not everybody knows about them.
And I find that out a lot myself.
I get pleasantly surprised, which is exciting.
That's kind of a fun thing about this is there's,
oh man, there's so many more corners to explore
with just people and doing different things.
Let's see here, Abe.
Do you ever imagine how much audio equipment
you could have bought with all the money spent on beans?
If I didn't have all the audio equipment I already needed,
I might've thought of it.
But yes, I moved on to beans
after I completed the audio equipment.
Good question though, because it's true.
They're both slight collector issues.
Yeah, I should spend less money on seeds,
more money on a camera that doesn't constantly autofocus.
Yeah, all right.
So I'm going to seal this up now.
I'll probably, I'll probably,
because I think I've showed pretty much everything in here.
Really over the years.
I asked Abe earlier,
and you've probably received this question before,
I've said it before,
but is there a pack in there
that you've received over the last while
that has truly read,
like you watched it leave and hit every post facility
on the way to your house with excitement of it arriving.
Was there one shipment that you can remember
and what was in that set of shipment?
Because I like that,
I think I need to order whatever the fuck was in that.
Yeah, I could probably pull to it now.
It's this one, it is Twin Peaks,
which is kind of a cool, fun name for me.
Fuck us, fuck us.
But it's from Lucky Dog.
Let's see here.
From Lucky Dog seed company, Skunk VA.
And he's really kind of the agreed upon keeper of cams.
And cam is one of, cam 91 is one of my favorites.
And somebody listening in the chat,
fresh baked, thank you much,
is also a collector, is on the first episode
and was like, hey, I've got these just sitting here.
I think they belong to you.
I was like, okay, sounds good to me.
Sent them out, I got them wet.
I've got a couple of them still growing.
There were a couple,
I had two males, two females from what I planted.
So naturally those two males went against the two females,
and I had to kind of create some just backstock for myself.
But yeah, this one,
because the cam 91 is something that I'm always searching for
something that I really, really love.
And yeah, when he said, he said he'd send these out.
And again, you don't get much better source
for your cam genetics than Skunk VA.
So yeah, this is the one that had me super stoked
and watching all the way.
Most of the other stuff-
Did you find anything with variegation,
with much variegation in the leaves?
Or when you were going through not much?
No, no, no, no, no odd coloring,
no weird leaf patterns or anything on them.
They turned out quite nice.
And again, they're kind of nice and green as well.
So, you know, bringing green back.
But a lot of these other ones, yeah.
A lot of these other ones just kind of arrived.
Like I didn't have any tracking
or I didn't know they were coming.
It was a kind of a pleasant surprise of just like,
ooh, open up the box and there it is.
So yeah, there's some I definitely would have watched,
but yeah, that one I knew was coming.
But yeah, this is the box again.
So it does, it has just the, you know,
the like silicone seal here.
So when it seals, it just creates that super airtight deal.
It's got the little tray in the bottom too.
And it's waterproof.
There's like a place where you can put a plug
for like a drain on the bottom if you wanted to drain it.
But other than that, I figured, you know,
if I keep the temperature right,
this is gonna take care of the moisture issue,
you know, between this
and then I got different silica packs in there.
If I switch them out every now and then.
You keep them in the fridge?
Are you a fridge keeper or are you a, no.
Nope, I'm not a fridge keeper.
Just A, you know, if you move around a whole bunch,
which I don't do anymore, but I used to,
then they're gonna have to come out.
If you have a shitty fridge, like I've usually always had,
the temperature is gonna vary
and there's gonna be condensation.
And yeah, that's stuff I'm just,
don't wanna play around with.
The hard part, and I've learned it this way
because I've tried some of my older seeds
that I made almost 10 years ago now.
And the viability isn't that great on them.
And I think one step, which I've learned since then,
is don't take it straight from the bud
and then put it into the bag.
You almost kind of have to let them dry or cure,
kind of like weed, because that will reduce the viability
because that moisture builds up in the bag.
So I've learned not to do that.
That's something I did that time.
But when it comes to like,
oh, the best way to store your seeds for 10 years
is in a freezer.
Okay, takes you 10 years to find that out.
So yeah, this is where I'm at.
This has worked for me with most of the other things.
And I'm just hoping with the proper drying procedure
and then taking an extra step to keep moisture away,
viability of the stuff I'm making now in 10 years
will be just as good as it is today.
That's what I'm hoping.
And if all else fails, just make a shit ton of it.
Something will crack and survive.
Yeah.
Who knows where technology will be in 10 years too.
That's true.
I mean, they're already,
because you know, like the tissue culture
and embryos type stuff,
I believe you could do that just with the embryo in the seed.
It's expensive and it can be done now,
but like computers, you know,
computers were super expensive 20 years ago.
And then 10 years later,
it's like everybody's got one in their pocket.
So price goes down as things become more common.
True that.
Yeah.
That's a dangerous area of exploration
is the whole tissue culture thing.
I've like, I've explored it and been like,
can I just like set a tent up and get a little hood
and like just have a little clean room in my house.
I'm like, I can do it, but should I?
And what will my wife do when she sees me trying to?
I'm like, yeah, I don't know if I'm gonna try that one yet,
but maybe in the future, far future.
I don't know.
Just tell me.
Absolutely.
Have you tried anything Skunk VA, Dave?
I haven't actually.
Nothing specifically from him.
I've had some things with that Skunk VA Cutter Chem 91
in there, but not anything specifically from him.
Okay.
Seeing some people in chat like, yeah,
I've tried, you know, Skunk 91.
Yay.
That's gotta be my favorite.
Or talking about Skunk.
Skunk again.
Skunk always comes around.
I saw some recent posts about Skunk.
I'm going on a cheese hunt though.
Cheese hunt.
Not everybody's uptight about cheese yet.
So we're going on a cheese hunt.
Give it a year.
I know.
You don't have the real cheese.
I have the real cheese.
Fro-Bage.
It's Fro-Bage, dumbass.
Oh, getting punchy already.
No.
So, I mean, shoot, let's go with cheese.
Do you have, cheese is kind of an older thing though.
I mean, you're not really seeing that worked
into a lot of current strains or hot strains.
I don't know.
What have you seen that worked with
or have you seen that worked with anything lately, Dave?
I mean, I don't really see it getting thrown
in too much stuff lately.
A lot of, you know, you've got Inspecta,
who's S1 did, who's put it out there
for the public, the UK cheese.
Oh, am I breaking up?
No? Okay, good.
I thought I was, but I actually was recently acquired
a cut of cheese and it's a narrow leaf cheese
that definitely grows really squatty
like your typical Indica,
but it has such a wonderful sativa leaf structure.
And I haven't floured her out yet.
She's still in veg, so, you know,
the jury's still out on how cheesy she's gonna be,
but I'm excited to see where it goes.
Yeah, me too.
Hopefully that turns out good for you.
Just thinking to have Mr. Toad's,
the RKS Time Space Cheese in the tent right now,
two different Finos and killer.
Yeah, cheese is a hard sell for most people.
It is, it's definitely not soccer mom type of weed.
It is for a special type of people,
usually an older crowd,
usually people who crave 90s weed again, something funky.
Yes.
I fall into that category.
But the two that I have for Mr. Toad right now
is the RKS Time Space Cheese.
One of them is an outlier.
I showed him just kind of the morphology.
He's like, yeah, I don't recognize that from the parents.
Todd McCormick is where the RKS came from.
I was hoping, I'm hoping it's an outlier from that,
but we're a few weeks into flower
and I don't have anything like blatantly smelly
or skunky on my hands yet.
So we'll see how that one turns out.
The other one though, the one that he did recognize,
I think it's a little bit more of the space cheese.
I did a little bit of a stem rub on it
because they're getting their trichomes now the other day.
And I smelled it and I did that, oh,
like there was an actual kind of like a foul cheese
scent to it.
So it'll be cool to see how that progresses
throughout flower and if it stays.
But for someone who likes funky stuff,
it did make my neck snap back for a second.
I was like, oh, damn.
Okay.
That sounds delicious to me.
I love those funky, nasty, cheesy strains.
I really do.
Yeah. And it was like cheese.
It was definitely bad cheese.
It wasn't anything about skunk.
It wasn't anything like that.
It was like a, ooh, damn, like ball cheese on it.
No, it was a bad cheese funk, man.
A fresh scratch.
On a hot day.
So how about that local sports team?
Yup.
Oh shit.
Like that dead rat stink.
Yeah.
Well, you said London that you've grown
some of the greenhouse seed stuff
and actually greenhouse their cheese is one of them
that I have for my hunt
because they supposedly have the cheese.
How have the results been for you
with a lot of their stuff?
And have you tried any of their cheese offerings
from their menu?
You're on mute.
Ha ha.
It's not just me.
Sorry.
Did you say greenhouse or in-house?
Oh, greenhouse.
Yeah.
Like the Amsterdam based company.
I haven't done any greenhouse.
Oh, it was in-house.
Okay.
Yeah, in-house.
But I would like to try some.
I haven't tried any cheeses myself.
I would be really anxious.
I grew up on like BC Biker Blue Cheese.
Like I remember picking it up off the Hell's Angels
like back in the day outside of,
like, cause I live in Vancouver.
So there's like the corner where you have Mark Henry
and the, you know, the cannabis culture spaces.
And there's like this door across the street.
You just like, if you knew.
Bulldog used to be.
Yeah, Bulldog.
It's still there.
Bulldog is still there.
It's still, they're a little bit different,
but they're still there.
And it's still right next to Bulldog.
You walk in and man, you would go there
and you would get BC Blue Cheese all day and night.
And it would, it was delicious.
It was always very enjoyable.
But yeah, so that's something that I've always wanted
to explore and dip into.
I've been on a fruity kind of light tangent
for the last little while.
Where'd Dave go?
Did we lose Dave?
Dave's not here, man.
Yeah, no, hopefully he'll be back.
I think he was having some internet,
internet disruptions on that.
My wife looks like she's trying to get something
off of a high shelf.
And I think we should watch her trying to scale.
Oh no.
She wanna try and get the right angle.
So if she goes back.
There's some background.
Okay, I see, I see motion in the background.
There you go, see, see?
He's trying to decide.
Oh, she's going after a fly.
She's going after a fly, I'm thinking.
Yes.
I hope.
I could watch this the whole week.
Either that or you've done a really good job
of growing weed.
Yeah, no, no, I've definitely done a good job
of growing weed.
But that being said, she can smoke a lot of fucking weed.
So you can smoke me under the table.
Oh, it's right there.
It just flew out with you.
It came with you, there.
There you go.
This is gone and it landed on her.
Now she's outside and there where it bothers her.
The play by play is awesome.
I'm sorry, this is my home.
This is it.
She usually delivers coffee.
No coffee this time.
Do you want a grinder?
This is awesome.
What do you want?
So what is everybody out there in chat smoking on tonight?
What are you guys smoking on?
And when's the last time you had a good cheese?
Cause that's why I'm looking for the cheese.
It's been a long time since I've had a decent cheese
and I know it exists.
I just don't know everybody in the country,
but yeah, what are you guys smoking on tonight?
Pineapple chunk and cheese.
Not my favorite thing today there.
Exodus cheese and space cheese would be awesome.
That was one that I was looking at from Mr. Toad, right?
Like that looks, that looks bad ass.
I really got to explore his work.
He's got some really nice stuff.
Yeah, I'm excited too to play around with a lot.
He sent me a lot of stuff, which is really nice of him.
And I can't wait to play that.
Oh yeah.
And the Bob's cheddar too.
JGs mentioned in this.
I do have some of the Bob's cheddar,
but I haven't popped them yet.
Mr. Toad was nice enough to send me some,
a lot of camacras as well.
Again, that, you know, I dig the chems and he's like,
brother, I got you hooked up.
So he did, he came through for me pretty hard.
And I appreciate that.
And Jesse smoking on some poison mimosas scissor hash.
Damn, that sounds good right now.
That sounds great.
I love, I have one of those.
So this run of velvet sky, I've got one Fino
that's like really nice,
but it's like the worst scissor chopper ever.
Like the trim job, it's terrible
because it's just so much work.
Ooh, this is a good one though.
Let's see African piff from top dog that I grew.
Damn, that sounds good breeder there.
Good thing.
And yes, this is, I agree, OG Kush.
I love how you did that.
OG Kush.
And I just read that.
The best cheese was the Big Buddha's cheese.
Yes, that is the last greatest cheese I had,
but I had to go to Amsterdam to get it.
But I smoked that constantly.
That was that and the white widow.
I loved it while I was there.
But yeah, Big Buddha blue cheese.
I'm on the hunt for that.
I got some Big Buddha stuffed in there as well
as part of the cheese hunt.
Cause that was, that was my favorite.
The Big Buddha blue cheese, man.
Good call.
Yeah, that was the best cheese I ever had.
It was the blue cheese as well.
It was absolutely delicious.
Freaking love it.
You'd smell it like if you had a pocket full of it.
Oh yeah.
All right, well, let's see Dave.
What else did you kind of,
what kind of like tickled your fancy
when you got it in the mailbox?
Cause again, it's been almost two months
since the last time we did an episode.
And I know you've had plenty of things coming through.
So maybe, maybe give us a little bit,
little rundown before we sign off for this episode
of, you know, what you had come in.
And I always like to hear too, why you picked it up.
That interests a lot of people.
It's like, what, what was it?
The breeder?
Was it the strains with the flavors?
What do you get?
I've always been, I mean, as I've said many times,
I've had a mean gene boner,
but this great balls of fire is just absolutely,
that's got me excited.
It's the pre 98 Bubba fire OG.
Ooh, damn.
Yes.
So that's a good, that's, that had me excited.
That, that was definitely something
that had tickled my fancy.
And I was, yeah, the anticipation on that was huge.
Anticipation, I'm never going to be able to say
that word again.
Anticipation.
Anticipation.
Anticipation.
Yes.
Your erection is so big.
Anticipating.
For what you're anticipating.
Your anticiperection.
Anticiperection.
My anticiperection, that went south.
Thank God, we're not zoomed in on my crotch cam.
Hmm.
Bring that crotch cam.
Yes.
How about some lemon penetration?
Ooh, that's the bony stuff though.
That's cool.
Lemon diesel snow lotus.
Snow lotus, I hear a lot about.
What, and I don't know if there is a definitive answer,
but for you guys, what,
what kind of made the snow lotus stick out?
Was it like a power?
Was it a pro, pro or protein, a terpene profile?
Snow lotus.
I would say it would be more of its effects.
Okay.
Than anything that's that, that would definitely be what,
what makes it jump out for me.
Okay.
The fact that it's, he's used it so many times.
Okay.
There's something reliable for him then.
Yeah, it's, it's been a reliable male.
He's, he's put it in as far as through the line as a female.
He's, he's done a lot of work with it over the years.
That's in,
Yeah.
It doesn't really work too much
with the snow lotus anymore.
It's definitely a little older stock.
I would say I would,
I recently got a few older things of Bodhi.
There it is.
Sorry.
When I, when I got, when I got fooded, I lost power.
So it was gone for a few minutes.
It did you record right now too?
Yeah.
That's funny.
I had to plug in my computer too during the show.
We all almost died on the,
all almost died out of batteries.
Yes.
Some, some, there's some snow lotus and ADAG 13.
Ash plant.
Nice.
Nice.
Some of that action.
The hash plant man up here,
the biggest coal as I've seen consistent
on a commercial level have been the hash plant.
Really?
Yeah.
Oh God.
Just fricking babies arms.
I hear a lot about the ADAG 13 hash plant.
Like it's just the production on it.
And things that are used with it.
Two bucks.
It's two bucks.
Yeah.
Sungrown mints.
Sungrown mints.
Trevor.
Trevor Wakey.
He's got, he's got a few items.
I think he's,
let's see.
Two bucks.
Yep.
He's got eight products up here.
Faster than me.
I know.
Look at me.
I can hit the share screen button.
Rawr.
Rawr.
NL, NL two and ADAG 13 hash plant.
I love Bodhi's heavy duty med.
That oil spill ADAG 13 hash plant sounds.
Ooh yeah.
So yeah.
There you go.
Yeah.
That sounds fucking dangerous eh?
Like.
Ooh.
Ooh.
Yeah.
Turpentine OG.
Yeah.
The Tussen.
I need Tussen.
Yeah.
I need Tussen in my life.
Mo Tussen.
I just love that he has Charles Barkley in it.
Forget,
Charles Barkley is looking good.
That's the young Charles Barkley.
Damn six foot eight.
Look at that.
Dude is tall.
He's a basketball player,
but still Spudweb was only five eight.
Figured that was true.
Nobody remembers Spudweb.
Spudweb was the shortest dunk champion ever.
You won the dunk contest little guy.
Good shit.
Yeah Spudweb was a legend.
Totally.
Who did he play with?
It was a,
not Dominique Wilkins.
Mutombo maybe.
But there was an absurdly tall person,
even by basketball standards on the team.
So to see those two next to each other was kind of funny.
Scratch my head trying to think who it was.
Yeah.
Please don't come to me with a sports question.
It's okay.
I watched way too much of the cooking network growing up.
I was an obsessive chef.
So like I didn't do any of the,
I did actually,
speaking of Seattle,
I did used to play professional hacky sack down
and I used to come down and visit for competitions.
They do professional foot bag pumps and stuff.
That was pretty cool.
It was a lot of fun.
I didn't know there was a professional league for that.
There was.
It's not,
they still do competitions,
but it's kind of dissipated.
It's now just older guys that are out drinking
and you can put a bag around.
Right.
It's like when Frisbee golf,
I mean, Frisbee golf,
there is pro tours too,
but things come and go in waves.
I love the hacky sack.
I still have one.
Still play it.
What did you,
since there are beans inside the hacky sack,
we could talk about it for a second,
but was it just like,
was it a skill competition or just a rally?
So there's a few,
like I actually represented Canada as a foot bag.
Like I represent the Canadian foot bag team
for the world competition.
But it was like,
I was like a junior guy.
I wasn't very good.
I was okay.
It's all stalled.
It's quite a bit different.
I was trying to see if I could bring up the video
because there is actually a video of me doing it,
but it's like old.
It was during the Olympics.
This is a short haired you.
So yeah,
because I remember it's like,
I bring it down and like stall it on my toe
and then you bring your foot back
and then you try to get it to wrap around
and you stall it again and you just,
yeah,
catch it in your shoulders,
pop it up,
get the little,
hacky sack was fun, man.
It was,
it was a lot of fun.
I remember pelting them at friends a lot.
That was a good time.
Oh yeah,
I found it.
I think I can actually share that.
Oh, that's loud.
We're going to mute it though.
We're in for a treat Dave.
You're in for a treat.
I haven't shown this to anybody in a very long time.
So nobody,
just to give you all a heads up too,
it requires short shorts.
Is this what Crotch Cam is all about?
No, this is not what Crotch Cam is all about.
This is not the direction I was planning on going
in the evening.
Chad, you pulled out a different person than me.
I'm glad that I did.
I've never seen this.
The closest I got to competition was the California Games
game on the original Nintendo when they had the power pad.
California Games was like 15 different like frisbee sports
or running or skateboarding.
And one was hacky sack.
You could like play hacky sack on the power pad.
It was kind of cool.
Am I good there to play?
So I'm in the yellow, my buddy's in the green.
Let's see, let me add you to the stream.
Okay, yep, you're good to hit play.
Yeah, excellent video, but you know.
So he's stalling on it.
He's going fast though.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a little bit different than what most people expect.
So there's like dancing competitions
that are coordinated to music.
And they also do like ad trick competition.
And there's me.
Oh wow.
Far younger and far more spry.
Not so spry anymore.
That would hurt a lot.
Damn buddy, that's some serious skill.
Yeah, it took a lot.
It was, I was obsessed.
I'm obsessive with things.
I have this problem.
Not a bad thing.
I heard Joe Rogan once described me.
He's like, I'm kind of a fuck up.
I don't do a lot of things,
but when I do something it's 110%.
So you know I'm good.
I can't go halfway.
I gotta go all the way in.
Yeah, so I used to go down to Seattle all the time.
There was a great team down there.
You smoked a ton of weed and fucking just like shred
for like three days like that straight.
Your legs would be so burnt
that you'd just be like fucking like mangled
for like three days afterwards.
It was a lot of fun.
I loved it.
It was a good time.
I had young energy.
Yeah, so let me ask,
did you ever meet a hacky sacker that didn't smoke weed?
No.
No. Okay.
I also never met a fat hacky sacker.
Well, I did meet one fat hacky sacker
and they got very thin very quick.
It was like one of those things.
You go hard, it's pretty easy.
It's pretty aggressive.
It's very card.
Well, yeah, I mean, it's practically river dancing.
That's river dancing.
There's a bag of things like you guys.
Now see, I'm all embarrassed.
I'm bright red now.
Thank God the camera's updated.
No, that, I just gave you a hard time,
but like I gave Dave a hard time earlier.
No, that's awesome, man.
That's a skill.
That's not something that everybody could do.
And that's a fun activity.
It's something that gets people outside,
which we need a little bit more of now
coming from the guy who's been on this screen
for about six hours today.
So.
Nice.
You guys did a great show earlier too.
Your Zenibit, your IPM shows on the Tuesdays are,
I like, I love the shows.
They're really good.
I snaked Matthew Gates for a Dank Hour next week.
So double featured.
I've got him with the French guy.
So we're gonna listen to a French guy
and Matthew Gates talk about bugs.
I can dig it, man.
I mean, where else, you know, again,
every time he comes on here,
he always has a presentation ready.
It's a college level class and it's not everybody's speed,
but man, if you really wanna learn about this stuff,
that is the place to be.
And I feel kind of lucky because I am kind of front row.
You know, I'll write down audience questions as we're going,
but I've got my questions in there too.
So it's fun to have that opportunity for me, but yeah.
So yeah.
And your fanboying is totally cool.
The other day, Zubin the bug lady,
totally fucking, totally like commented on my post
and I didn't even like follow her yet.
And so I was like, I'm like, holy fuck,
that's Susan the bug lady.
Oh my God.
I'm like, yeah.
So she never responded to me.
I was immediately like, you're so cool.
You're Susan the bug lady.
You're so epic.
And she like, never responded to that response.
So it's like, you know, she's cool.
She just hasn't seen it yet.
She's in top chat.
Remember everybody, live chat, not top chat.
I will meet, she will meet me one day.
And she'll be like, that guy was fucking weird.
And remember my odd name.
And that's the general plan.
That's how that works for me.
I'm not impervious to that either.
You know, there's people, you know,
Breeder, you guys probably know, like,
he's not watching the show, so I could probably fanboy,
but like, dude, Diamond, I fucking love his work, dude.
I love listening to his interviews.
And, you know, every now and then he'll like
one of the posts I put up.
And I'm just like, ooh, dude, you know?
So I get that fanboy-isms.
How about you, Dave?
Like a lot of these breeders that, you know,
scenes that you run,
you've got a good relationship with them.
You talk to them, you'll see them on Instagram.
Do you ever get them kind of commenting or like liking
or seeing some of the strains of their stuff
that you've grown?
I do occasionally get some likes and some comments.
What really, really gets me hard
is when they comment on something that is not even theirs,
that they're not tagged in.
That's when I'm like, oh, wow.
Like, dude, that's, I was like, dude, thank you.
That is the biggest compliment
you could have possibly given me.
I love that.
That's awesome.
Again, it's cool when there's people that you respect
and admire because of the good work that they do.
Just kind of take a second
to appreciate a little bit of your work too.
It's humbling.
100%, you nailed it.
Very, very humbling.
These are the people that you absolutely respect
and you admire, and they're saying good job,
and it's like, oh, shit, thank you.
Like, you know, hearing good job from everybody
is wonderful, but hearing good job
from people you admire and respect means the world.
Yeah, yeah, 100%.
And to probably like flip the script a complete 180
as he chat talking about a breeder copycat
who I've just kind of heard recently too,
seems to be kind of a divisive person,
love him or hate him, almost like Masonic.
I've come to love that guy,
but divisive nonetheless.
And kind of the same thing from what I understand,
copycat is just basically kind of taking other people's
stuff, making a cross and then selling it.
There's a lot of that happening.
And you know what?
And it's, what's the biggest thing is like,
what drives me nuts is the people
that just don't do any homage to the work
or the people that created it, right?
Like they don't do any justice to that at all.
And it's like, they have that new hype thing right away.
And like, there's a brand out here
that you've probably heard of at SUNY convention.
And I'm totally cool with being a fucking dick
and saying, you know, like crop king seeds
or there's that Soma, Keezy company,
these large brands that instantly have all the hot shit.
You know, like that guy is a Vancouver based business.
I know, you know, I bet he's probably pulling
in half a million dollars a month,
half a million dollars a month, I bet you.
In income off of that and nothing is what it seems, right?
That's important to get out there.
That's fucked up, man.
Like that's kind of like,
you're gonna take credit for people.
You're gonna have cherry pie and take credit for cherry pie.
You have chem 91 and take credit for chem 91,
but then not even sell chem 91 or involve the breeder
or anything in it.
It's like, you're just gonna throw your label on it.
It's fucked.
It's really fucked.
And that was one of the awesome things
when you find things like Daga
and these people that like actually care
and take their time and they're all kind of in one group.
It's really nice to see, you know,
those heritage people getting the respect they deserve.
It's cool.
Cause their work is fantastic and it's not the same.
Can't take that shit and put it next to each other
and even get remotely the same quality over time.
It doesn't happen.
And that's what I like.
Well, that's what I like about, you know,
a lot of like the stuff that Dave has is Dave,
you're going directly to the breeders
and the breeders themselves are people
who are kind of connected and work together
on these collaborations.
So it's not like, I mean,
we will toss out that CK name of that Canadian company
because they do rip stuff off and just put a name on a bag.
And then it's hard because you buy it and, you know,
honest you says, oh, well, this is what it is.
I cross it with this.
So here's that cross.
This is X, Y, Z times this.
And then that's how, you know,
the gene pool gets to where it is.
But-
Or even that first person plants it
and they've never experienced cannabis before.
Cause guess what?
The first time that people are buying seeds,
it's not from Daga.
It's not from these places, right?
They're buying them from cropping seeds.
They're paying 50 bucks for five fucking seeds
of who knows what.
And getting nothing and getting an expectation of,
oh, I got polluted.
I've smoked.
I got cookies.
I've got gelato.
It's like, but is it, is it actually, you know?
And how, and like, it just, it seems fucked up to me.
Sorry, rant done.
Yeah, no, no.
Again, like this one, we were talking earlier
and I said it earlier, this came to me as a diesel glue.
It absolutely wasn't what it was supposed to be
or I've never had an expression of either of those plants,
but it turned out to be something freaking magical
all to itself.
So, yeah.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
Why not sell your magical fucking thing?
You know what I mean?
Like that's fucking great.
That's awesome.
You could have put, you could have put
like Cannabisia orange on it.
And I would have been like, that's the best name for it.
It fits it so good.
But you know, again, we've, sometimes names sell.
And I think, I think not to get too long winded on it,
but you know, I think the European market,
again, because they haven't experienced
some of these American base strains,
whatever you tell them it is,
they'll be like, this is the purple punch.
Awesome.
I've heard so much about it.
Yeah.
And then I'll just cross it and I'll interpret it myself
onto what I want, what I want it to be.
Yeah.
And this person is so subjective.
It's so much harder to make that call, right?
Yeah.
How has the relationship been Dave with the breeders
when it comes to questions or like Providence,
have you been able to, you know, ask
or show them some plant pictures
just to see if they're on point
or if they recognize anything special about them?
Certain breeders will are definitely more than willing
to talk with you, just talk with anyone.
Cause they're just, it's just part of, part of their life.
They it's, it's what they've been putting their heart
and soul into a lot of them.
So a lot of their, a lot of these guys
and women are definitely capable
and more than willing to let you, let you know, you know
you could, like you said, show them a picture, say, Hey
how's the structure on this?
Is it, where is it leaning towards?
And they'll tell you flat out, you know?
And you could, the more you grow things, the more
especially the more you grow things from the same people
the more you start recognizing, you know
Oh, that's leaning this way.
She's leaning that way.
You know, you definitely, your eye becomes trained
but that's all that's experienced.
That takes time.
And it is good too.
That's how, wow.
You know why people like, you know
mean gene can kind of look at a plant and, you know
tell you kind of at least where it probably came from
or some of what's in it.
And that, that sounds so crazy
because there's so many different varieties of cannabis
but if you've ever grown like the same strain
or varieties many times or for years, you know
how its little nuances stand out from the other ones.
So that's, that's really invaluable
to have the breeders input.
I think if, if you're Fino hunting
and looking for certain things, like
if it's expressing towards one parent
and you're totally going for the other parent, well
if, if space is an issue, you may check it and start over.
So I think that's kind of cool.
And he is definitely one that if you ask him a question
he does get back to you.
He's may not be right away.
He's a busy man, but he will get back to you.
Is there, is there a breeder Dave
that you've like got his gear and you're like
I'm never planting that again.
Cause they turned out to be a prick.
Oh no.
That's a big shit.
I'm sorry.
I shouldn't bring hate.
I'm not bringing hate.
I'm a positive guy.
I just, I just think that might be fun.
I could see that happening.
Like I see like you don't represent just somebody
on the same way, maybe not hate.
Hates a strong word.
Yeah. Hates a strong word.
I didn't really care for mass medical seeds.
Just the way it seemed like I was talking
to like customer service, you know, like you're,
you were, I wasn't really getting, you know
the response I would have looked for.
And then when I got just lots of hermaphrodite going
with the grape pupil, I'm like, no, I'm done with this guy.
You were a dick and your plants harmed on me.
So I'm out.
You got plenty of other choices there.
Exactly.
This was honestly though, when you were mentioning seeds
that you were waiting for
that was some of the first seeds I ever ordered
from a seed bank.
So that there was a, oh, check in every day
looking, making sure of those, are they in yet?
So I was very disappointed when that happened
and I don't run any of his stuff anymore.
That happens on your first round
and things go south like that, man.
You could, I've seen people shut up shop.
Like they just tried to
for the first time just want a little home
or wanted to like maybe save a little bit of money
and just have things go poorly and just like really bad.
And that sucks.
And it feels terrible for that.
I think it's a mean thing to do to people.
Yeah.
And the sad part is it smelled so good.
It was a really wonderful smelling plant too.
Like it, it really, it smelled like you took
a like a, like a, like a strawberry margarita
with a little bit of gasoline.
That's kind of what it smelled like.
And to have that turn out, to just be such a,
and not just like a couple of bananas here and there,
it was everywhere.
It was just, it was just what the hell's going on here?
You know, it wasn't like, ah, you know
maybe my environment was a little off.
No, it was definitely, this plant wanted to do that.
I'm just watching, watching the chat in,
or watching the comments in chat talking about copycat.
Oh gosh.
It just makes me wonder now.
It's like, who, I wonder if this person has,
is like a very public, I mean, I've heard the name
but I don't know how public their face is
or anything like that.
They're not public at all.
They don't show their face.
I mean, there's suspicions of who it is.
Okay.
Cause they're, whatever they're doing
it seems to be working.
It's getting people talking, man.
Controversy spawned.
Yeah. People definitely have opinions on it.
I'll say that much.
I don't know much about them.
I've never run any of their gear.
Peter dropped in there, did copycat send bots to the chat?
Okay.
I can love that.
That's fucking like awesome.
Yeah. But who, who knows?
Who knows with that?
I'll, I'll stay on the outside
watching with popcorn, interestingly, but there's, I mean
there's so many different ways you can spend your time
and energy in life and there's a lot of other ways to do it.
So yeah, y'all, y'all can figure it out.
I'll, I'll just watch from the outside.
Oh man.
A lot of good breeders, a lot of good breeders out there.
I know I'm going to be talking with on Friday night here
at seven o'clock on the West coast time.
I'm going to be talking with raw genetics.
I don't know.
Is, is that a gear that you've ever run or picked up Dave?
I haven't personally.
I've run the collaboration.
Katsu did a collaboration with raw with the, with the burners cookies.
I've ran a few things with that.
I was going to say that's cool, but I'm biased.
Everybody knows my bias very well.
Oh shit.
I love that.
That's hilarious.
Yeah, no, that's a cool collaboration and it is cool.
I got to talk with him.
I got, I'm saying cool a lot today.
I don't know why, but, thanks.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
That's cool of you to say cool it bro.
No, I got it.
Fuck.
I just got to talk with them the other day for,
for almost a couple hours actually.
So I know it's going to be good interview Friday.
It's going to be good time.
He's got some really cool genetics, man.
I've been around a lot longer than I knew.
I've been aware of them for a while.
Kind of got introduced through the DGC.
Do grows with, with his gear, but I'm excited for that.
Seen a lot of people grow that and I don't know everybody in chat.
Oh, let's see here.
I've got, Oh 420 green goddess.
How you doing?
Put you up here on the screen.
Rajinette has got some cool drops coming soon, I believe too.
So yeah, hopefully hopefully soon there'll be some more drops here.
I believe she might be testing for them if I'm not mistaken.
They got some tester shows coming up too.
I got one.
I get that there's more other ones coming up too, which will be exciting.
Well, yeah.
While we're here, before we do do the wrap up in any house cleaning,
what do you got coming up London?
Well, I do.
We were, we're planning our next episode with family trees.
We've got to chat because I think, I think we line up at the same time,
but we can adjust a little bit.
I think we'll maybe come in a couple hours early before he is going to line up
at exactly the same time as you on Friday.
So shit.
Yeah, no, we'll, we'll adjust.
We'll adjust because you were there first.
You were definitely there first.
But besides that, we got the family trees testing thing.
We're doing the day cow or I'm holding off a little bit on acid cannabis nerd
on the Wednesdays right now.
Just there's a lot of that stuff out there.
And I think there's a lot of information that we put out there on a regular basis
that it's just like a little bit, we're pounding it out a little bit too much.
But we got some really fun stuff.
We have, I got, I've got a guy in Italy that we're doing a cannabis for breakfast
with and he does hemp varieties in Italy and he's like, like an Italian email
address and everything.
So like, that's what's cool.
And Italy has actually like an unspoken cannabis culture because of its
centralization.
You have a lot of these cultures coming from Africa and India and Europe coming
through Sicily and Italy into Europe.
Right?
So there's a deep culture that's there that's been suppressed and not really
spoken about really well.
So he's going to talk a little bit about that.
I'm fucking so excited.
The Italian in me is like, yes, give me more pasta.
So I'm really excited about that one.
And other than that, we dropped the cunning folk stuff, which is super excited.
And thank you for having me on.
I've been super pumped because I'm a little bit of a fan boy of you.
I think you do really amazing content.
You take some time and effort and really like cater it well.
So I appreciate what you do out there.
So it's an honor to be on the show and thank you so much for allowing me to
share today with you.
And you too, Dave.
You're cool.
I need to see your face though.
I want to see your face one time.
Dude, if you think we're jealous of his seed collection, this is why the man does
not show his face.
He will not add insult to injury.
He's just too cool.
We got two trolls in basements and some handsome fucking devil.
I know.
The handsome devil with all the seeds, man.
That's a handsome devil.
Oh my God, I wish.
Are you Washington?
Where are you located, Dave?
I am in New York State.
Oh, well, that'll be a long drive.
He's going to come hang out with us live.
Yeah, it's a bit of a drive.
He's the Tom Brady of seed collectors.
Wow.
I still think Southlake Farms is the Tom Brady of seed collectors.
That guy has everything.
Southlake Farms.
I'll have to look him up.
I'll have to look him up.
But I'm thinking Peter Peterson Green, he's a handsome man.
Yeah.
So-
Yeah.
We don't let him on this show.
He'll never get involved.
Yeah, no.
He's contractually banned from showing his face
because I won't let him.
No reflective packaging, guys.
Don't send any.
If we even get a reflection of his devilish charm.
Oh my God.
You guys are laying it on so thick tonight.
I love it.
It'll be the Dave's another show in no time.
Dave's only fans.
Oh, snaps.
There we go.
Seriously, don't search London on Pornhub.
It won't go well for you.
I mean, I've Googled my name before,
but I've never Pornhubbed my name before.
Or always.
You got to Pornhub your name once.
Is Chad Porn a thing?
Chad Porn, just definitely at least one Chad Porn star.
Come on.
You know what?
I would not enter that into Google
without Google Safe being turned on first.
That's all I'll say.
Then we should definitely.
Can we do that right now and close out on that?
On the Chad's of the porn world and the Dave's?
No.
I'll tell you what, Chad.
You could star in a remake of Wayne's World as Garth the porn.
We got to work on that.
You could be the adult Garth.
Adult film Garth.
I'm sorry, guys.
I'm the little troublemaker that comes in and causes a shitstorm.
Let's talk about how our porn names would work out.
Hey, I've been dubbed Chad West Pork.
So maybe search that one.
That'd be my name.
Oh, who gave you that one?
Probably your wife.
No, it was a mistake on a flyer from the Caribou Heart Show.
Oh my god, it was on a flyer.
Yeah.
That is great.
K is not close to T anywhere on the keyboard.
But you know what?
It was funny as hell and it stuck.
So I'm rolling with it.
It was a mistake.
Yeah.
Mistake.
I'm so scared.
I'm the worst writer.
My writing is terrible.
I always mix stuff up.
And I have to get 18 people to recheck my exam.
I'm always scared I'm going to do a post.
And I do it all the time.
And I get messages like, you spelled description wrong again.
Not like the first time either.
Again.
Dot, dot, dot.
Like, really?
Like, I thought I got it right this time.
I spelled it wrong so many times, it just
changed it out of that spot.
Sorry.
Again.
Can't take over.
Guerrero has a great comment.
Chad's porns are all him brushing his hair.
Hey, that's my fans only.
Is it only fans?
It's only fans.
But for you, it's fans only.
Fans only.
OK.
I keep getting it wrong and people correct me.
And then I think I have it right in my head.
And then the next time I say it, I say it wrong every time.
So whatever.
This is stoner porn.
Chad's P name is nasty and wuss.
OK.
We better wrap this one up.
We're going to go south here really quick.
I love it though.
Oh, shit.
Dave, what are you excited for?
Any drops coming up?
Any breeders planning on dropping some stuff
for the summer gear?
And anything you're putting in the ground?
Outdoors, I want to run some night owl.
I got some night owl stuff I've been meaning to put outdoors.
But as far as anything that I'll be running this spring,
summer, I'll be running that grape soda skunk cherry
limeade, the cherry limeade pina.
I definitely want to get this run, the purple unicorn
Chalama 33 cherry limeade.
Because I definitely fucking love that male.
And I'm not afraid to admit my love for that male.
Well, spread his seed everywhere.
Absolutely.
There's so many pods.
AK Beanbrains hooked me up with some chocolope,
some of the Beatrix Choice that I was talking about on here.
I got to pop them.
I've also got some testers here from IRI Genetics.
He's got some new fems that are coming out.
I can't tell you what the genetics are yet.
Does he not tell, does he not let testers know what they are?
Sometimes he does, sometimes he doesn't.
He did tell me what they are.
I don't know if I'm allowed to talk about it.
That's fine.
You don't have to tell us what it isn't.
But just tell us what it is, and then we'll know.
This is a good one.
I like that.
I like that.
Thank you.
It should be really good.
That's cool.
He picked some stuff up from AK Beanbrains.
That's kind of another new addition to the Daga.Garden
website.
We got some of his gear up there, which, again,
is freaking time-tested and true.
So that's pretty cool to have.
It's funny, you mentioned the night Owl, Brian and Marco
had Autoflower podcast, Chad, the Autoflower podcast
on this morning.
And that was one company he was speaking highly about,
and it was enjoying running.
So sounds like you're in for some good choices
or good stuff coming from those.
Hey, fingers crossed.
Yep, fingers crossed.
Good luck.
And again, I am so glad to see that you grow good, Bud, Dave,
because, fuck, that would be the biggest travesty of it all.
So I'm sure they'll turn out just as good as all the other
stuff you've been growing.
Fucking Baby's Arm, with a baby's arm for a bowline.
That would be nuts.
That would be, yes.
Yes, that's your porn name, Dave, Baby's Arm.
Baby's Arm.
Baby's Arm holding a softball.
That's great.
I love it.
I appreciate it.
I can't even deny or argue with that compliment.
I do not confirm nor deny these accusations.
I'd be a little bit worried if it was like a softball, maybe
a regular baseball.
A softball, though, I'm concerned.
I'm concerned, my friend.
I could go further with this.
Chad, Chad, this is spiraling out of control.
You've got to end this stream before we go right into the dick.
We're already in dick jokes territory.
I know.
Well, I mean, once I figured out the puzzle box, what was left?
It's easy once you figure it out, right?
It's actually not too complicated.
Your hint helped, and I suspected it was something like that from a box
that I had years ago.
But the right place to do it wasn't evident until you mentioned it.
So I'm glad that you did.
Gave me a little hint there.
It's going to fuck with some people really hard,
so I'm really excited to see that.
If somebody ends up smashing it open in the process,
I really appreciate an Instagram post.
Like, just like, you've got to like, OK, so there's, like I said,
there's only 15 of them.
So if you get one, film it, and I want to see you try and open it.
Oh, I can't get it back together now.
Son of a bitch.
And then you've got to try and close it.
And afterwards, everybody too.
So be there, and like, yeah.
It's only going to be epic for so long.
I think chat was taking like, wagers on if I was going to smash it or not.
I thought you were going to just try and really force it there.
I was like, that's just going to be the smallest, most dreaded rebel.
Yeah, after about 20 minutes, damn it.
All right, it's going to be another 20 minutes
We got this one back out.
We'll go ahead and wrap up the show.
But everybody, join us again tomorrow, Brian and Leighton,
in the morning on Puget Cannabis Project.
Flip back to FCP02 in the evening for Hota Herb at 6 o'clock.
And then Friday, London's got a show.
I got a show.
We'll be busy all day.
So thank you, everybody, for tuning in.
Chat, you guys are awesome.
Copycat, thanks for coming to the show.
Wait, I mean, yeah, I've got the egg.
Fuck, wow, that was impressive.
Yeah, but no, thank you for joining us tonight, London.
And Dave, as always, you guys rock.
We'll have to do this again.
Dave, I got to send you some cover crop, some of my cover crop blend.
So Peter, as a reminder, if you're still there,
next time you have to send something to Dave,
which apparently is fairly frequent.
Go ahead and send it to him.
Fairly frequent.
Go ahead and throw a pack of cover crop in there for me, at least,
to try out there, Dave.
I do a really cool blend, so hopefully you try it.
I would love to try it.
Thank you.
I appreciate that.
Cool.
All right, and with that, we will end the broadcast.
Before there's another joke, it's coming.
It's coming.
He's got three puns.
That's a joke in itself right there.
Come on.
