So we got a little bit of live music going there.
Oh, here.
Yeah.
We're going to go deactivate.
We're going to activate.
There we are.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining us.
Today we're going to talk a little bit about more of reading Canvas for Medicine.
And continuing with the Instagram reviews and checking out some other things as well.
And talking about how, like, currently I'm preparing my daughter's mother is going through
one of the atypical breast cancer treatments.
She's not the simple one.
It's the more aggressive style.
So she's getting chemo.
And after the first chemo, her hair is out.
And she's, again, she had a bad experience with cannabis before.
So I'm trying to get, I got to thank Future Seeds for throwing down the first CBD.
I'm going to be doing a two or three to one CBD titration and to FICO.
And I'm going to be doing some other things like that for her.
And my daughter and I are going to be getting her on a diet and stuff like that to help her out.
But it's really hard getting it through sometimes.
Because she had that bad experience that you really need to be eating like these little small dosages
that I've already titrated up to your body.
Because just because you don't like being high, it's a lot better than being dead.
Excuse me. I'm just drinking some kombucha.
So, I don't know where, I don't have my chat showing at all here.
And it says I'm streaming.
I thought I had chat up earlier and I don't see it at all now.
Let's see if I can pull this up out of settings here.
Stream output.
Oh boy, I don't see it here.
I apologize. I'm going to be totally missing the entire chat because I don't know what happened to it here.
It's not on my desktop anywhere.
I apologize.
So, anyhow.
What was the plan today? Oh yeah, we were going to play a little more flute.
Talk about reading medicine plants.
So, titrating with CBD.
It goes to the CBD receptor in the brain, which is the first thing in the early 90s when they realized
THC would go in and bind and create new, we called it new synapses, bind ways and stuff.
So, we were talking about you've got to get high and study and then you've got to be high at the same level
when you take your test because you've got to be on this.
Anyhow, so the CBD goes in there and blocks that site that gets you high when the Delta 9 gets to it.
And it gets there faster and occupies a site quicker.
And so it blocks getting high from THC Delta 9.
And then if you're working with a THC A, right, and you don't heat up your extractions,
then you've got a double whammy medicine set there that's not,
and so your body can adjust the acid form to the Delta 9 form as it needs it to saturate.
And then the Hydroxyl 11 form, right, which goes after the Delta 9, is the stuff that really gets you wacky.
So you only want as much Delta 9 as you need and not necessarily,
and so that's one thing that people get wrong is I believe super hydrating your body
or super saturating your body with the Delta 9 because your body just transits to that Hydroxyl 11.
The bad experience that my daughter's mother had was eating a chocolate bar without understanding dosing
and first-time use and her body just got flooded with that stuff.
Anyhow, so one of the things I wanted to do today, though,
and again I apologize for as people join, is I can't see chat today at all.
There was somebody asking last week, I saw, I totally missed it somehow.
Every time I looked at chat, I just completely missed it in the stream,
was they were asking me if I ever considered using sap analysis and sure it'd be swell,
but there isn't enough, I don't make enough money from the seeds to pay for using lights or any of this.
I make a little money from it and it helps, but it's not enough to go do testing of any sort, unfortunately.
So I've been working actually and got a job in a restaurant and kind of a nice place to work.
I walked off that job 16 years ago and I'm back, but it's repetitive motion and my neck damage and stuff,
it's messing me up, but I'm doing it for reasons.
Some of you might know I collect dictionaries, but one of the main reasons I've got a job is to get my daughter to be able to ski,
because it's really expensive.
We ate a meal yesterday that would have cost $30 if I didn't work there,
and I get an employee meal price and share one meal with her.
So Random House, I grew up with this one, there it is, Random House Dictionary, the English language,
and this was printed the same year I was born actually, and it's a nice fatty.
Let's look up the word medicine real quick.
Medicine, medicine, medicine, medicine, medicine.
Let's see, manifest destiny, no, no, oh here, let me spectify, spectify, spectify.
Let's see, here we go, light, light.
I had props propped up and I just un-proptified.
Can you see it?
I used to do wildflowers, I used to do, oh here's a mantis, but I'm looking for something else.
I'm looking for M.E.
I hope everyone's doing well today in chat, but again I can't see that,
not because I have to wear glasses, but because, I don't know what happened to it.
I must have accidentally deleted it when I thought I was deleting something else.
M.E.T., nope, I passed it.
I love old paper dictionaries though, don't you?
I'm sure, I've been looking at the stats for the,
I went way past where I wanted to be.
I've been looking at the stats for who watches and it's basically the exact same
six or eight hundred people every week with like a two percent new folks.
So thanks for watching.
M.E.C., oh meditation.
Active meditation, continued or extended thought, reflection.
Contemplation.
That's, you know, thinking over.
See, meditate, meditative, Mediterranean.
One of the funnest things about a paper dictionary is it's got a lot of words in it.
And so when you're looking for the one that you wanted to find,
you find a bunch of others that you didn't realize.
I'm looking for Medico, Medico, medicine show, medicine man.
Here's a neat one.
Among American Indians and other aboriginal peoples,
a man supposed to possess mysterious or supernatural powers.
Two, a salesman of patent medicine, especially before 1900,
presenting a medicine show to attract customers.
Medicine show, a traveling troupe that offers entertainment to attract customers
for the patent medicine or purported cure proffered for sale.
Medicine Lodge, a town in South Kansas.
Medicine Lodge, medicine hat, medicine bow, medicine, medicine bow.
This is a self-bow, but it broke because it had a weak spot in it.
But that was made from black locusts.
Medicine, that's what I'm looking for.
All right.
This is a medicine or especially British medicine.
The noun verb medicine, the medicine-ing.
Any substance or substances used in treating disease or illness.
Medicament, remedy.
Two, the art or science of restoring or preserving health
or due physical condition by means of drugs,
surgical operations or appliances, manipulations, etc.
often divided into medicine proper, surgery and obstrecies.
Sorry, I can't say that right now.
Three, the art or science of treating disease with drugs or curative substances
as distinguished from surgery and obstrecies.
Blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, so, obstetrics. Yeah, that's it. The medicine profession, that was number four.
Number five, any object or practice regarded by savages as of a magical efficacy, whether
for good or evil, that man is bad medicine. Six, give someone a dose or taste of his own
medicine. To repay or punish a person for injury by use of his own methods, he came
for an hour late. Therefore, their date, give him a taste of their own medicine. Take one's
own medicine to undergo or accept punishment, especially when the result of one's own actions.
He took his medicine like a man, to administer medicine to the healing of medicine is pertaining
to physician, medication, drug, pharmaceutical, that's psychic or physic? Physic, P-H-Y-S-I-C.
Anyhow, that's from that one from Once Upon a Time Ago. Oh, these things hurt my eyes
if I look away from the book. Look at this, this is going to be cool. So, we're going
to leave my mug, oh no, I got it in a new position, don't I? We're going to go to, where
are we going? We're going to, like that one, web browser, there we go. Alright, hey, I'm
still right there. Oh, gosh, that though, bye bye. Okay, here, and then let's, let me,
I'm going to lose you, I'm going to go here and play. Yeah, Clovercat knows what's up,
self-healing sacred cat plant medicine. That's a hemp stock she's chawing on. What's that?
Hashtag cats of cannabis, hashtag cannabis cats of Instagram, hashtag cannabis cat.
I love my kitty kitty. Let's see what we got here. When it's frosty at 14 days into flip,
breath of purple dragon F2 random, land race breeding, drop seeds not bombs, 420 grow your
own, enthegen, breeders cup. Do you got your seeds yet? Not available in stores. That was
a single picture. There's that, there's that purple dragon about freaking time, this is
like mating pandas, I swear. She started to drop dust last night, about 45 days. I've
barely got any out of it. That's a purple dragon, Dr. Dream all cure. So, this is just
a heavy sedative and I was trying to make, as far as we're talking about breeding, I did all
that pressure work for selection for, let the cat out here actually. So, I do all the stress
testing to make sure I've got a good solid female. It's not all ethylene unstable where
it's going to hermaphrodite. So, this one here took 45 days of spraying twice, three times a
day with coiled silver at 250 parts. And it's still, I had to tweeze the pollen out and I
didn't get a full crop seed, right? And that's just how the plant was dual existence I have at
the bottom of this one here. So, I'm going to go ahead and I think that's it. Is that it?
What have I got going on here? Yeah, it's a single picture.
There it is up close underneath some high intensity discharge lights there. Breath of purple dragon.
Oh, here we go. Mazer. Oh, yeah. I want to see. Did I miss that? No. Okay. Here we go.
That was Mazer, Yashreef. It's got the dust in it, the golden love dust, all pregnant.
Can you kiss your phoenix? That was Dr. Dream, Alkira if I'm reading this right.
And that would be the Z-Track. All about 50 days. Well, okay, I might have these out of order then
because there's more than just how many numbers were. Cat wants back in. It's like 20 degrees
today in our house. Cats want me to come out and play and doesn't understand I'm working. Anyhow,
so that's the Z-Track, I guess. And then we'll go backwards here again. At some point we get into...
Anyhow, these seeds are there. I think there's some missing sitting on a shelf somewhere,
but other than that, that whole line's all been sold out. Really wonderful results of people
who grew those. Dr. Dream, Alkira on the right and Breath of purple dragon on the left. Oh,
cat, come on, really? Are you coming in now? You are. Let's see. Yeah, here I'm complaining the
alpha breeder purple dragon is so stable that it's barely making pollen. I tease out it was
extremely late in the cycle, affirming my beliefs and observations of the last male.
Flower is true male and stable and why the top priority in my selection process. So that's
something about breeding and selection and when you're doing these initial crosses and you want to
clear out hermaphroditization issues, which all of these field land races originally had,
selecting for the timing of the male is huge. And some people, like initially,
will pick for that first male and think they're going to shorten the time of selection.
And what they're doing quite often is it's an unstable male. It may be a female expressing as a
male. And in that scenario, you end up having hermaphroditization issues and down lines a lot
more than if you pick one that's like not necessarily the first one to go,
but necessarily in your first F1 selection, taking the last one. And in that point, you're going to
have a longer F2, possibly even F3 cycle. But if you go into F2 and F3 and F4 and F5, taking the
shortest male at that point, after you've excluded the first probability in the F1 cycle,
that's where you can find yourself. So I crossed that to a bunch of things there. Anyhow, that's
some beautiful plants. Seed cycle, that's that purple dragon and that Dr. Dream all cured together again.
St. Bernard F2 alpha breeder, female at about 55 days or so, Dr. Dream.
Red cross by Cookie Wreck, probably a North Afghanistan land-raised hash plant. And that
was crossed by Platinum Cut, Train Wreck, by Cherry Cush, Durban Poison, by Afghani Maxi Tai.
And this has gone to seed to F3 so far, and F1 stud, F2 back cross.
This girl is making seed now for the, and again, this is dated from 154 weeks ago, 156 weeks ago.
Breath of Purple Dragon, Pakistani Chitil Kush male by Dr. Dream, all cured female.
Yeah, there's that St. Bernard.
There's so much people grow, so not everybody like really knows.
Maybe I'm just a hobbyist because I can't make a living from it.
I haven't been able to make a living for a long time. My body's been so fucked up,
and I'm actually going to see a doctor myself for the issues that had some inflammation.
You know, the issues that had some inflammation towards some stomach muscles, and
we'll see what's going on. What's this? That was 2019. Yeah, just trying to advertise,
had seeds for sale. What's this? Oh, here. Thanks for the help with those who flashed
June. Probiotic. I was saying I was heading off to California for a minute, and this was a long
time ago. But what we got there is cabbage, and I love to preach about cabbage water. And
people just don't quite understand this, but cabbage water, if you need to increase the
microbes in your soil, kombucha is amazing. Kombucha is amazing for fighting PM, for instance.
It'll actually cure. Kombucha in solution is great, but also cabbage water. So, it's fully
probiotic. It's full of all sorts of amazing stuff, and you can mix that into your watering
regimes and or in your compost piles or whatever. But it's a great way to start off your
bacterial regime. And then sauerkraut, right? So, your sauerkraut water might have a little bit of
salt, but it's going to have an incredible microbial-rich environment that it's going to
spread as well. And so, you're welcome to take a look at that a little further. I don't have any
information on it. I was just showing those. And there's a full view from my mom's porch,
full circle. She used to call the police on me for puffing in my room as a kid. We didn't know
my neck had been broken. We sat on the porch while I smoked, and we had a good time. This is right
after California had gone full wreck, and it was the best. I lit it up. She freaked out. There was a skunk.
She thought there was a skunk when I started smoking the joint, and that was hardcore.
It was insane, but the best was as I lit up, she freaked out. There was a skunk. Thought there was
a front. Oh, so there's a front there. There had been skunks running around the neighborhood, and she
totally thought it was right there and was about to spread the dog. That's what's going on there.
All right. Anyhow, really beautiful view there. SoCal. Oh, that's really funny, though.
Somebody was harping about, a meme about PVC greenhouses, and he has
PVC greenhouses. I've been using them. When I had my farm, I used them. Because here in the
desert, and we go back to La Quinta there, but that's near the Salton Sea. And the
whole of Southern California, and some of you may or may not know, I have an agricultural degree.
It's in forestry, but it's a degree in agriculture. I went to Cal Poly in San
Luis Obispo. I've had a farm myself. It takes capital to build a big creek, and
you can have a profession and use the professional growing system and have PVC, and it works.
It's like, you know, when you find a dollar store, everything's just a buck and a quarter,
and it's the same thing you're paying five dollars for somewhere else.
Quite a few farms actually use PVC and low tunnels. Some of the best produce
that I used to sell to the top chefs in Park City was grown with low tunnels and
what is this stuff? It's super freaking cheap poly spun frost fabric.
I usually have my personal garden that was started by now in February. It's super cold though.
Here's this antebellum wildflower. So my passion spreads from all sorts of land race, you might say,
wildflowers. So you go buy wildflowers, and they've been selected and
seed reproduced as single sculptors. They went out and they selected wildflowers originally.
Here's out in Anza Borrego in Southern California. I had a great time with my mother driving around
out there in the desert and looking at the stuff that's just so magical when it happens,
and you have to have the proper weather patterns and stuff for it to all go down.
These beautiful little... These things are not very big. These are teeny little flowers.
So I'm getting in macro on these photos here.
Just love the desert. People who don't understand the desert, never been,
spend no time in the desert, really just miss out. It's so magical.
Wildflowers. Hashtag California. Hashtag wildflowers. Hashtag desert life. Hashtag
desert rat. Hashtag Anza Borrego. My little brother's got a construction company,
Laquita, called Desert Rat. I think that's what it is. Cat hair everywhere.
Breath of purple dragon, Hindu Kush, Jaeger. Do you even chronic?
Indica, I smoke, pound, I smoke. Hashtag, hashtag I smoke bottoms.
Comments such as, damn that shit looks almost fuzzy. Well done.
Looking good. Beautiful. Bottoms. Hashtag I smoke bottoms. Hashtag I smoke bottoms.
Breath of green dragon.
Hopefully there's pollen.
Pollen. Breath of green dragon's dead run. Breath of purple dragon,
FF1C. They're finishing up nicely. First one drying already. He should be ready by
noon. Glasses are available at Peter Shop there, Daga store, Daga garden, Daga.love.
So, pain, PTSD. Has Dr. Dream F1 to the Anadolre stud.
Yeah. You need to get them before they disappear.
Wait, we go that way. There was a breath of green dragon stud into breath of purple dragon,
Dr. Dream. I'll cure it. I just released those. That was from 150 weeks ago.
And we just put those out. And it's the column is Dr. Dream squared. And it's got a heavy,
there's a couple of people growing them now too. I ran a heavy test of those before I put them out,
or as I put them out, I guess. And heavy, heavy lemon on the cush.
And there's a few of them that are just like ranky danky armpit gas.
Foul skunk stinks, that kind of stuff. Right. So, but let's say, no, it's like purple lemon cush is,
you know, and I know that's like a name of a strain. That's not what I mean. It's just, that's
really high grade. It's really uplifting. It's all like heavy dominance with lemon and like half of
them are purple and the purple ones are just as potent as medicine. So that's with the, I think,
I think the ones that are more like armpit gas, skunk funk are really more of what we say,
sedative. I'm sorry, rain farted.
Here we go. Let's see. Let's take another look here. This stuff's just all seeded out. Fuzzy
wuzzy. Look at that thing. Exploding with seeds everywhere. Seeds for everyone. Seeds for you.
Seeds for me. Oh yeah. I got hooked up. That was a great hookup. Thanks, Zenbuds.
Jays, who ever sent that? Yeah.
I don't know, but that's what it was. Yeah, I got, this is like the killer maple.
The gift. Gifts are awesome. Here's the FF1 drop that came out finally.
What do I have from gear? Yeah. So, but anyhow, I don't got those seeds anymore. I don't even
look at them. Mayflowers, probiotic, entheogens, spring dwells, grow your own plants, not bottoms.
Medicine. 147 weeks ago.
Now this is streaming over. I hope it's streaming all right.
No, I've been getting a lot of skip drop. I can't wait till we get,
I guess the Google Fiber comes through.
I'm changing the world around here. Editing videos and stuff is fine, but I can't upload them.
This drops a lot of frames.
Look at all the colors.
The cheap little PVC greenhouse that had been lasting for eight years at that point.
Started farming with thousands and thousands and thousands of plants.
We're gonna go to the next picture here. Oh, there's a, there's a close-up. It's just a picture stills.
Beautiful plants. Beautiful plants. Hashtag I smoke bottoms.
Connection is unstable. Please try till we, so maybe I'm not even streaming right now. I don't know. It says over here.
It says I'm live. It says my connection keeps dropping on that one. Who knows.
Seeds.
So I still really just, I have, I wanted to have a seed processing plant.
Where we make oil and feed cake. Process it into food. Oh yeah. I just got all my sports
records expunged and then what ended up happening? We ended up getting like,
no, I guess that was before COVID still. I still couldn't find a job.
Keep on getting offers. Someone paid me and I never really, so I'm back at the same job I quit 16 years ago.
There was a farmer who grew excellent corn quality. Every year he won the award for the best
grown corn. One year a newspaper reporter interviewed him and learned something interesting
about how he grew it. The reporter discovered that the farmer shared a seed corn with his neighbors.
How can you afford to share your best seed corn with your neighbors when they are entering corn
competition with yours each year? The reporter asked. Why sir? The farmer said, don't you know.
The wind picks up the pollen from the ripening corn and swirls it from field to field. If my
neighbors grow inferior corn, cross-pollination will steadily degrade the quality of my corn.
If I am to grow good corn, I must help my neighbors grow good corn.
Then in that note, I'm grateful for, I had one learner who brought me
some cuts that I am able to use and do some back crossing to land races. And that's something
if you haven't checked out my Instagram lately, take a look at. The Zachistanny Kush and the
Zachistanny line is just amazing that I'm testing right now. There's
a brain structure and I'm going to be interested in the chemistry, but also the
who's your mama. I'm testing out that too right now. Isn't that just beautiful? You know, how do you kill
cancer? It was 1986 when I was first asked to give compassion care. Sent free cancer treatment again
yesterday. We will never know. We never knew back then. Now we know. Hashtag THCA, hashtag
entheogen, hashtag fuck arthritis, hashtag fuck cancer, hashtag fuck spinal edema, hashtag fuck opiates,
hashtag Genesis 111, hashtag Genesis 129. Net the sauce and diamonds. Handmade actually.
I understand the chemistry.
Tails under eight hours on these Breath of Purple Dragon F2, Breath of Purple
Dragon F1, FF1, thin back cross. Put out about 100 on the mountain this morning before
plant rain comes tonight. Someone asking about temperatures there and seed popping.
I don't know. I had 72 to 82 degrees. I think it was 70 or 68 all night. This is standard for my seed.
24 hours are reverse osmosis water. Had seeds crack in 20 minutes in my mouth.
Enzymes for the win was the reply.
Little baby wolf hemp CBD. 5 to 15 older stocks. At the tetra guy, cherry wine F3 by spectrum,
F2 15 to 25 percent. I'm still needing a means to test these and this is why I did not really
continue intensive breeding with hemp. But the end result will be high CBD, feminized field hemp,
seed tested and ready for next spring. Million dollar project on a dime budget.
Yeah, so I do have, I just got tested for dry farm. I have a seed that got produced out
generations and from just dry farming. It grew with, I think we had two inches of rainfall after the
snow melted and the ground thawed out and the seeds just pop up. Actually I need to go out and take a look.
They should be offspring, fourth generation from that. Should be poppins here from the tetra guy.
Red Napa. So those are all like full on CBD and then I cross that out to a bunch of stuff.
But again, if I have those in the store, I have so much stuff in my vault that it doesn't ever receive the light of the day.
Compote, gin, see this is, I always have a lot of seed in them.
Overall, if I can get a seed or two to pop out of each of these.
These are all.
Lost collection.
Anubis 27.
Birnberger.
Birnberger.
Birnberger.
Glaster.
Glaster band.
Glaster band.
Glaster band.
Germany.
Pink.
Italy 19.
Italy 40.
These need to be figured out if they've got THC alleles in them.
Italy.
Anubis 27.
Romanian.
Slovakia.
Georgia.
Turkin.
P494.
Humph, Turkey.
I'm a poll teacher, so I got this crazy.
So here's some of my old hem collection.
Here's 54 information, genetic information packages that are fairly well lost to common answers.
Still looking for capital partner development.
I feel are more valuable.
All my THC stocks exponentially.
These 50 or so packages and that's genetic information.
Modern hem cultivators.
Put in these tertiary crop values.
Combined fiber, oil, protein, seed with high CBD lines.
I just opened.
Not just for a single production line, but for a set of spec genetics for various bioregions.
Even here in Utah, Logan farmers need very different seed stock than Salida or Richfield.
My visions are bigger than myself or my environment.
I'm working on manifesting a solution.
Provide a better plant for every farmer.
Parti is my ancestors name from the old country where they were hemp farmers.
How do I know this?
In 1985 I lived with my grandmother in Montebello, California.
When I learned of Jack Herrera's book and the Emperor's New Clothes.
I went to grandma and I asked, did your dad grow hemp on the farm in North Dakota?
She produced the finest dressed vest of white hemp silk.
As soft as the name I give it with a bright stitch embroidery.
So fresh and bright.
As if it were brand new, kept in a fold of parflech, tied with the hemp's twine.
This is from the old country.
In 92, 92 at Cal Poly I gave a 20 minute oration to the governor's panel on offshore oil drilling.
Specifically delineating.
Now everything in the room from plastics to furniture to paper to inks and wall paint, etc.
Can be grown.
It's really crazy to think.
I use the currently controversial term of asking what made America great in the first place.
Agronomy.
Folks working together to grow a living from the land.
Hemp was with them when my ancestors came in 1622.
The last generations that came a century ago.
And the last generations that came a century ago.
My brothers married people, married a woman from Mexico.
So the family line continues to grow.
And that's America blending.
The melting pot.
E pluribus unum.
From many comes one.
America is a strong nation when it's diverse.
So yeah, hemp was with them when my first ancestors came in 1622.
And the last generations that came a hundred years ago.
I've located a lab, test kit.
Yeah, that didn't work out.
I still need capital partners for farm improvements.
Outside of my first amendment rights and sacred plant.
Anthobotany and stuff.
And freely treating cancer patients.
I kind of, same kind of thing.
Since this post I had, opportunity came.
It never really was real opportunity.
Growing hemp as nature designed is vital to our urgent need to reduce greenhouse gases and ensure the survival of our planet.
Jack Herrera.
I thought I had an investor.
There's a farm I was looking at.
Went on a trip with a buddy, look at farm property.
And probably grow hemp there.
It's just a cattle farm.
Not a whole lot of water.
Not a whole lot of water.
Table of biofuel crop yields.
Following table shows the vegetable oil, common yield of energy crops, especially with biodiesel production.
Future is bright.
Getting them, go to the bank, didn't do that.
And a whole nother, I get so many freaking, it's never.
It's never.
I don't even know, it's got all sorts of.
This is my old story, y'all might have probably heard.
But here we go, hemp seed, 8,000 pounds of hemp seed per acre.
In cold press, the 8,000 pounds of hemp seed yields over 300 gallons of hemp seed oil.
And a byproduct of 6,000 pounds of high protein hemp.
The fishing boat is my personal early man's site.
My first job at age 14 was a galley slave deckhand in 1985.
The lowest lines on deck, I was tasked to get the Green Guild seasick landlubbers on the charter bows to smoke the rope.
If I had the sexy, maxi brick, they stopped chumming deck immediately, feeling better.
If we only had chronic from the triangle, they got worse.
We were still learning.
We were doing the same thing.
We were still learning.
We were just scratching the surface.
I've been asked to find oil seed processors.
Yeah, that didn't happen.
I knew some people that owned some 7 oil processing plants and they wanted to go into CBD, or no, into oil seed oil.
They lost those somehow through some weird investment they made.
I never really understood how they lost their 7.
That guy is brilliant and they're going to be fine.
But, yeah, ARH Corp.
Never really got off the ground either because it's just never...
My body is probably strong enough, right?
But where do I go to do this stuff?
You know what this is? This is really cool.
This is between Vegas and like San Berdo...
Or Mojave, right?
There was one of these closer to like Metro California, Southern California, Metro Los Angeles
that the Army had built back in the 30s or 40s.
What it is, there's a bunch of mirrors surrounding this tower
and water goes up into that thing.
You see it literally burns the air around it.
These are solar energy production sites where they're producing steam for a turbine
and cranking electricity out of them. But they're so freaking bright.
If you look at that with your plain eyes, you burn your eyeballs looking at that shit, right?
Energy is free and all around us and we don't really need to be polluting the way we do.
Shitting our own freaking fish bowls, right?
Next story in the lesson of...
Oh, yeah, here's some helicopters going.
If you've never had these circling your home and garden, you can sit down.
Folks think PTSD only comes from overseas.
We're still active and I live on the front line.
Fucking adrenaline while not exercising can suck.
Pictures of the fucking helicopters.
Two of them fucking crashed right up in the mountains right behind where I'm working the other day.
Here's part of my seed inventory work.
Oh, I put together... Yeah, I was like my first inventory.
I had over... well over 500 packs back then.
And that's just all...
At the time I put together a full Monty, about 60 or 70.
I got one that's like 40, one that's like 60.
I do not own the rights to this music!
I'm doing inventory. These are all Type 2s.
Look. This is how much work I got.
This is...
73.
Here is...
More. More.
75. 55.
Stinker to the music. Alright, enough of that.
I got more seed than any human can ever grow.
Yeah.
This company didn't even get the freaking...
Didn't even get the bid. It's crazy.
They gave all the bids when the company's from out of state.
This is when medical came online here.
Doesn't matter what any of this is to anybody really.
Even canopies.
New appointment. The direction for cannabis oil
had us running low and from what the doctor says it's working.
I appreciate any help and or direction.
One or more multiple can put me in. Thank you.
So we're on the same page. This is where I'm at.
My dad had stage 4 lung cancer. Tumors in his pancreas, kidney, lung, trachea.
I can see he's at a 5 inch mass in his uterus. Managed to get the tumor out.
But also finds it attached to his pelvic bone as well as his bowels.
They removed as much as he could
and that's where I'm at. My dad's tumor was 3 inch since...
Fuck it. I cry thinking about my loved ones. I could not help.
My soul soars and my spine tingles
knowing I've made a difference where and when it's possible to do so.
Chemo and radiation surgery is what kills them.
That and the false hopes placed on the CBD alone to fight cancer.
I got to be honest. My dad survived 2 cancer bouts so far without
any THC. He's using CBD
intensively now for all sorts of stuff.
It can be very, very,
very brutal on the body.
It's the
Delta 9 THC and the false hopes placed
in CBD alone to fight cancer. The Delta 9 THC
that causes the apoptosis or self-induced cell death in cancer cells.
CBD has other reactions that are great but without THC it's not going to do the job.
And then there's cold process THCA allowing the body to metabolize as needed
the Delta 9 THC. Administering Delta 9 is less efficient
and my comprehension is the body will metabolize via enzyme and will not be available
to the job in quantities administered. I also administer dandelion
root, cannabis, and holy anointing oil with frankincense, myrrh, and
cinnamon. That stuff alone will cure what ails you.
Hashtag fuck cancer. Hashtag heal yourself. Hashtag FECO. Hashtag
entheogen. Hashtag medicine man.
And here's John letting us know that his dad's
but forgot to let you in on the finding. Shrunk half an inch
circumference. They think it's great he's using cannabis.
And so this is, I think this is before it was
actually legal for them. So hashtag legally alive.
And he ended up having it legal right soon after that
this whole episode I believe in their state. For him to
grow it even. And again I have a First Amendment
right that's been gone through
federal court and has an act of Congress backing it up
that allows me to help people with this sacred plant.
And these other sacred plants that I utilize as well.
Chickens out killing bugs in the yard right now.
True success only comes from a thousand
a hundred failures. If you didn't fail a hundred times getting to ten thousand
hours you really didn't do anything except copy the guy or gal
before you. Actually creating the cutting edge requires walking the razor and it's a fine
line to exceed success or failure. A relative shade
of gray in every single fail is truly winning as you dial
in a genetic or system. Eliminating a least eliminating factor
or identifying a position of optimization.
Actually creating the cutting edge requires walking the razor
and it's a fine line to exceed success or failure. A relative
shade of gray in every single fail is truly winning as you
dial in a genetic or a system. Eliminating a least limiting
factor or identifying a position of optimization.
And the meme says or the comic
I mean we've exhausted all conventional
measures. One last desperate option is to put you on an alternative natural
measures that has a 96% success rate.
In which case it's quite often too late
apparently. Anyhow please don't wait.
I got what nine minutes left here in my little
I got all I got over here is freaking
unbelievable.
There's literally a year of hard work
So yeah that's
Afghani OG
It's interesting because I call it something completely different than I'm calling it now.
But it could be because it's
Afghan and it's Pakistani Chitral Kush
right across to Dr. Dream which is an OG of
the Afghan National Guard.
Dr. Dream which is an OG of sorts.
Breath of Green Dragon F2. Pintar Skunk by Breath of Green Dragon
Oh yeah that's what I put out as the baby diaper dragon
but like you know I'm 319
so three years after I made them
I got around to testing them and putting them out. We got some others here
Breath of Green Dragon and Sog Master HKP
Breath of Green Dragon back crossing so we have a G-track
Spokes are getting into that these days and that's a really nice
also Lemon. That Green Dragon male
again with the ganza into the ganza cure
that one had a little more fruit
dominance. There's Day 12
Dr. Dream All Cure shows me a sign. She's the most finicky girl I've ever dealt with
and why I've been making the Breath of the Dragon
to back cross and strengthen its form and round out its uptake and vigor.
The Green Dragon has proven that the first three years Dr. Dream All Cure then Hindu Kush
and Breath of Green Dragon is the last. Spiders from Mars already made adjustments
multiple genetics in a single recirculation system. It's the most difficult
equation to solve. But who's a master? Let's see your expertise
What's a deficiency? What can cause it? How do you fix it?
Did you even see that?
Look at the tips.
This is all a living system I was running. It was entirely
FPGs and FPJs and
JADAM. Is that what we're calling that these days?
I figured out how to JADAM in Korean natural farming
extracts and ferments and stuff because I always wanted to know
when I had my organic farm running how do I make these fertilizers that I'm pying
for all the liquid to transport and gas was getting real expensive before the
economies collapsed with the housing bubble.
Yeah.
Let's see.
Anyone in chat? I can't see it. I'm sorry.
What's going on?
Alright.
My internet is just...oh what's this? The quickening.
I got three cases this year.
Two in the greenhouse. I got one in the garage right now.
The greenhouse is a little hatched too early.
There's one in there.
One is right by the door so it'll be later.
You don't know these are mantises hatching.
It's pretty crazy how they just expand and
they go from these little teeny nymphs to starglass and they start
expanding. They come out in little strings and spread out however and
they pump up and fluff their sides.
They literally squeeze out of this little thing as they expand.
There will be hundreds of thousands of them.
Some of them eat each other. Some of them don't.
Some of them keep on growing.
It's amazing to watch. If you can catch this, you can spread them around.
That way you have less loss to each other.
Here it is. I got the how deep is your vault?
There are at least 150 uncataloged F1 hybrids.
Still at least.
I have a bunch of Master Reader packs. I need to check out for
my catalog at that point.
Down at 508 in the catalog there.
That was 139 weeks ago.
I've updated it once since then.
Fruit and rice ferment. I was given some berries that were spoiling.
Topped over with RO water.
This will render an acidic 4.0 state and break down the plant matter into available nutrients
needed for fruits and flowers and all the flavor and color components,
micronutrients and macro.
No need to buy perfectly good food to use.
Just use what's left over or discarded.
I ordered some bottle feed that never came.
I'm going to add some pH water to my tank.
I'm going to add some pH water to my tank.
I'll add to my high pH tap water that sat 24 hours to dechlorinate.
The pH balance is about right for feeding my system.
That's adding the 4.2 to my 8 or 9 pH tap water.
It balances out pretty nicely.
I advise folks to learn about PPM and EC.
I've sussed out where I can read the plant's uptake by observing pH several times a day.
I advise folks to learn about PPM and EC along with pH when figuring out what works for you.
Never apply an undiluted as even this jar has enough to kill a 20 foot pumpkin vine.
I found that out the hard way once.
We're coming into the close.
We have more apothecary.
That's all.
Fuck cancer, can of bosnian oil, frankincense, myrrh, and cinnamon.
This will get an equal amount of feca raw blood.
I'm going to add a little bit of this to my tank.
I'm going to add a little bit of this to my tank.
I'm going to add a little bit of this to my tank.
This will get an equal amount of feca raw blood.
I'm going to add a little bit of this to my tank.
This is not the exact or even similar recipe as from the Bible,
but of which there are at least 3 versions in the Old Testament.
Rather, this came from items at hand that have been with me,
me waiting gifts from long ago.
The three antigenic powders I have ground,
I have amazing powers, powerful capacities individually.
Combined with feco and oils produced a synergy
of antimicrobial and tissue stimulant.
Unprecedented today's herbal supplements and topicals.
Kiss, capital I-S-S.
This is the most complex potion
in my little black book of spells.
It's also my strongest magic.
White light love, P.S. I don't have a book of spells.
I don't do magic, but the little blue potion bottles
make a nice pairing to the poetic play
of words describing the craft.
So literally using mortal and pestle to grind the stuff
into super fine polvos.
♪♪
♪♪
♪♪
♪♪
