with preparations and so that it became problematic.
And so there were some issues with comfrey,
but it's a fantastic plant that I,
I'm growing some comfrey myself
because it's a tremendous bioaccumulator.
And I want to be able to take that fantastic, fantastic
comfrey and all the wonderful minerals and nutrients
and make a FPGA out of it.
And apply that to my plants.
And to get, the only way I can get comfrey
is to grow it myself.
Yeah. Yeah.
There's, you know, another example of a root
that can be used in some of these preparations
to kind of help split the natural immune response
of the plant.
And, you know, it's, it kind of connects you
to the cultivation side of it a little bit more.
If you grow the plants that you then turn into inputs
for, you know, fermented plant juices
and oriental herbal extracts and things like that.
Yeah. Just so much, so much better.
And absolutely.
And that's, you know, that's part of one
of the wonderful things that I've enjoyed
about the practice of Korean natural farming
is that I feel much more connected with the plants
because I'm making all of the inputs
that are going into the things that I'm growing.
And if I'm also growing additional plants
that are helping with that, then all the better.
So yeah, no, it's super, super exciting.
And definitely one of the things
we will be talking about tonight.
Peter, are we all set to go?
Still working on it?
I haven't gotten the high sign from you yet.
Yes, we are.
Oh, fantastic.
Fantastic.
Okay, great.
So this is Hoot to Herbs Grow and Tell.
And I really, really appreciate everybody joining us tonight
as we get into the topic of Korean natural farming.
And as I was saying at the very beginning
I think it's really exciting for me
to be the spotlight tonight
because Nick, we've gone down some deep rabbit holes
with you over a couple of the weeks so far,
but it's good for me to go ahead
and throw out some of my knowledge.
And I'm excited to have you contribute some deep facts
and some items about the interactions
of some of those plants that we're talking about.
So awesome to have you here with me tonight.
Very, very excited.
So to start with, Korean natural farming
is a school of farming that has been taught
and promoted in the United States
by a gentleman named Master Cho,
who's talked about as the father of Korean natural farming
to a lot of us here.
Obviously it's farming techniques that go back decades,
if not centuries in Korea
that he has kind of captured in this system
that we know today as Korean natural farming.
And some of the aspects of Korean natural farming
are involved bringing the natural environment
and the natural inputs and the natural organisms
from your environment,
the ones that are the most successful in your environment,
and using those to further cultivate
and nurture your own gardens and plants.
They are in many cases,
complete closed loop systems,
ideally involving animals,
as well as practices for gardening and farming.
We talk a lot about using inputs
from the natural world around us,
finding those plants and organisms that are,
as I said, super successful in our environments.
So we wanna cultivate them, encourage them,
and bring that magic into our cultivated space.
So taking those wild organisms
and kind of bringing them in to help you along.
And it's a wonderful set of instructions
that focus more on the nutritive cycle of the plant
and the things that the plant needs
at different phases of its life,
as opposed to necessarily focusing on one specific mineral
or one specific nutrient or one specific calendar
in a bottle that everybody follows.
It's more about the actual nutritive life cycle
of the plant, starting from its very beginning germination
through its seedling phase into vegetative growth,
then its transition phase,
and then finally into reproductive phase.
And in many cases,
they follow similar patterns to humans as well, right?
We start out with that germination phase in the womb
that moves us further down,
and we need different things over the span of our life.
We need different types of inputs,
different types of minerals and nutrients
at different phases of our life, just like plants do.
And so there's a connection,
there's a consideration about the life cycle
of the natural organisms
that is very much a large part of Korean natural farming,
and a part that I really connect with,
because there are just tremendous, tremendous connections
between what we put into our bodies and our health.
And the same thing goes for our plants and our gardens.
So I think that's a fantastic, fantastic place to start.
So how do we do this?
What are some of the ways that we look to incorporate
and encourage that natural environment
to become part of our cultivated spaces, right?
Whether that's indoors or outdoors.
I know many, many successful farmers
who use this at commercial scale,
as well as many small-scale home growers
who are applying these techniques
for themselves, like myself.
You know, one of the things that I had to do
when I first learned Korean natural farming,
actually was actually scale down a lot of the recipes
and things I was being taught,
because I don't need to mix a couple hundred gallons
of liquid IMO.
I only need four gallons of liquid IMO.
So understanding how the approaches work
and then figuring out ways to adapt them
to our environments is actually very much
a part of the practice.
So it's part of the growth and the learning
and that connection as we, over time,
develop our understanding of how to create these inputs
and how to transfer that energy into the plants.
So one of the most interesting things that we make,
one of the primary ingredients of Korean natural farming
is something called IMO,
which are indigenous microorganisms.
And the IMO process is actually something
that takes some time and takes a lot of practice.
As well as being something that, you know,
isn't always as successful as we hope.
Sometimes it tends to be a little bit hit or miss.
But the idea is that there are several different levels
of IMO that we go through as you're developing
and sporulating these microorganisms and fungi
and capturing them to put them into a state
where we can utilize them in our farming.
So indigenous microorganisms,
what you are doing is you're utilizing a medium
to collect those organisms in the wild.
And primarily these are fungi and bacteria.
And you're then taking those organisms
that you've captured and putting them
into suspended animation
until you're ready to utilize them.
And at that point, you start to build them out
and grow them.
And as I said, sporulate them in many cases
and encourage their growth in a medium
made of wood and grain.
As you progress from that phase,
you then add natural soils
from your area so that you're introducing
those natural microorganisms,
those natural humic leaf molds, fungi,
and different things that are in that layer of soil,
mixing that again with that growth set
that you had created.
And if you like, you can even go into a fifth stage
where you continue to enrich that
with a composted material,
whether that is animal-based or worm, vermicompost-based.
It allows you to then introduce
some incredible beneficial minerals
and nutrients into that mix.
So let's talk a little bit about those different phases
that I just discussed in a little bit more detail.
To start off, we have IMO1, which is the capturing phase.
And you use a rice,
primarily we use a white rice
that has been cooked
with a very low amount of moisture
and a couple of additional ingredients
so that we take that rice
and we put it into a cedar box,
a wicker basket, something that has some air,
something that has some flow,
something that's not completely airtight.
And you take that, you cover it inside that container.
Most people use, build a small cedar box.
And these are 10 by 12 boxes, inches, not feet.
It's something that you use about three cups of rice
in these collections.
They don't have to be huge collections.
And a little goes a very, very long way.
And so you take these boxes that you prepare
with the rice inside and you cover them
and you put them out in the woods
and you cover them so that they can't get rained on
because you wanna keep the water
from pouring directly down into that rice
and turning it all to mush.
So you do need to kind of protect your collection
a little bit in some ways.
But you leave it out in the woods for five to seven days.
Seven days, sometimes it really,
a lot of it depends on your environment,
the amount of moisture, the temperatures.
It's something you'll have to practice.
Again, learning your environment
and adapting to how nature works in your environment.
So you make these collections.
When you come back and pick these collections up,
ideally what you find on top of that rice
and actually throughout that rice
is a wonderful white fuzz,
a set of fungi and molds
and organisms that have collected on that rice medium.
That's your IMO1, that's your collection.
We then need to put these babies to sleep.
We wanna capture them, we wanna keep them.
And once you suspend them,
they can last a very, very long time
and you can use them.
Many people who've practiced Korean natural farming
do multiple collections at different times of the year,
a spring, a summer, a fall collection
because you're gonna have different types of microorganisms
that are gonna be successful,
that are gonna be stronger,
that may show up at those different seasons
and those different times of year.
So they'll do multiple collections
and they'll save these collections over multiple years
and then when they make their further parts of the process,
which I'll talk about in a minute,
they use a mix of different collections
so that they get that full spectrum
of different types of fungi and microorganisms
that they're gonna introduce.
So you take that rice and that collection of mold and fungus
and you mix it with equal parts of sugar to suspend it.
The sugar is the magic.
The sugar in many cases is one of the primary ways
that we turn ordinary materials and plants
into magic and inputs for our garden.
So we take the sugar in equal weights
and mix it with the rice
and the wonderful fungi and molds
and all that wonderful goodness that we collected
and that will basically put those microorganisms to sleep
and we put that into a jar with a breathable lid
and we allow that to sit for at least seven days.
At that point, we have a beautiful IMO2,
so indigenous microorganisms have been collected by us.
There's some rice in there, starches, silicon, sugars,
all sorts of good stuff asleep with these microorganisms.
Then we're ready for stage three,
which is where the fun for me really starts.
To me, this is the exciting part
because your collection may look good,
but you get to actually see it in action in stage three.
So stage three, IMO3, is the first viable product
for the most part that you can start using as an input
once you're done with this phase.
Most people will go to IMO4 or IMO5.
Not only is it a stronger product,
it also has, because you're continuing to spread it out
and sporulate it out, you have a lot more of it.
So when you get into that, every time you work
on one of these, you're pretty much doubling the size.
So when you start out IMO3, you go to IMO4,
you're doubling the size of that.
When you go to IMO5, you're again increasing the size
of it by like another 50%.
So you're going to have a lot more material
if you go all the way to IMO4 and IMO5
that you can use in a much broader sense
in applications for your garden,
for your plants, for your farm.
IMO3 is made by taking that collection
and mixing it with water and sugar
and fermented plant juice and starting basically a pile,
a pile with wood chips and grain and some water
and basically this IMO2.
And what you'll find is when you mix all those things
together and you get them into a good size pile,
you actually will start, similar to composting,
you'll start a reaction.
These microorganisms will wake up
and they will start converting all of that,
all those grains, some of the wood,
as well as the sugars and starches and other things
that were part of that collection.
And they'll come awake and they'll start doing their thing
and the temperatures will start to rise.
So you need to monitor your temperatures
because you have to be careful that you are encouraging
the aerobic bacteria and not hurting them
by going too hot.
And also you need to make sure that you're trying
to keep a steady temperature so that you have good growth
of the bacteria and the fungal life
without causing detrimental impacts.
So you wanna keep your compost pile in the premium range,
running for several days.
You'll need to stir your pile sometimes multiple times a day
to keep your temperatures.
Once you start, as your temperatures accelerate,
there's different techniques that you can use
to spread and mix the pile to keep those temperatures down,
piling the pile higher, moving the pile wider
will also help you control your temperatures a little bit
as you work through that process.
The basic ingredients, as I was saying,
for the IMO3, you start off with,
as I mentioned, your IMO2 collection,
but basically you're using a couple of tablespoons,
not a lot in your mixture.
Most of the Korean natural farming preparations
that I was taught use things in ratios
are a great way to mix things
because it allows you to adapt them very simply
to the size of the container you're trying to mix for.
And if you use something like liters,
it makes things super easy because one milliliter,
so if you have a one to a thousand ratio,
one milliliter equals one liter.
So if you're making something that has four liters of water
then you use four milliliters of mix.
So you can use the ratios make things easy for mixing.
And we use a lot of one to 500,
one to a thousand types of ratios on most of the inputs.
IMO3 though, we're using FPJ and brown rice vinegar,
oriental herbal nutrients, seawater, humic acid,
and that IMO2 that I mentioned.
Seawater, very interesting, right?
Salts, how many people are scared
of dumping seawater on their plants?
Seawater is actually in many cases,
as long as you're not overdoing the amount
of seawater you're using,
is actually really good for your plants
because there's a tremendous amount of natural minerals,
nutrients in that seawater, as well as microorganisms,
which can be beneficial for your plants.
Any comments on seawater, Nick?
Take a break for a second here
while I drink some water myself.
Yeah, like you mentioned,
seawater can be full of minerals
and it can also contain some other trace compounds,
metabolites of the ocean, so to speak,
if you're dealing with raw water like that,
one of the drawbacks is the inherently high sodium load.
But I think one of the cool things
about natural farming techniques
and some of the inputs that are used
is that those create little sinks in the soil
where some of these other,
such as heavy metals and other contaminants,
or even some of these elements like sodium,
which are useful for the plant,
but only required in small quantities.
Any excess amounts can kind of be bound up
in humic substances or something else
that's created in the soil
as a result of this natural chemistry happening.
So effectively, you create a buffer in the soil
where the tendency of things like sodium and chlorine
to have harmful effects on the plant,
they get buffered out.
And so it's not as aggressive of an impact
and the plants can probably have a chance
to uptake the rest of the minerals
that are present inside of the seawater.
Thank you.
Appreciate that.
Yeah, the seawater and actually introducing
aquatic microorganisms is very beneficial.
That's what aquaponics is about, right?
Aquaponics is about utilizing those beneficial
aquaponic, aquatic microbiome that's going on there,
as well as the mineralization of the nutrients
in the water that the plant is drinking
to provide a really, really interesting mix
of different, especially if you're using
some type of in-between medium
for flooding those aquaponic outputs.
So really cool stuff, but let's stay on KNF.
I don't wanna go too far into a subject
that really is better left to somebody like Steve Reznor.
So brown rice vinegar also is a tremendous,
tremendous input.
It's very, very beneficial for plants.
Brown rice vinegar specifically is much more beneficial
in these preparations and inputs
than something like a apple cider vinegar
because it doesn't have the same types of amino acids
and ability to help balance pH
like a brown rice vinegar does.
So it's an interesting product itself.
Humic acid, which again, similar to what you were saying,
Nick, humic acid is again gonna also help
with some of the binding of things like chloramine.
So if you do have chloramine in your water,
chlorine itself is gonna dissipate with exposure to oxygen,
but humic acid will help bind that chloramine
and kind of make it safe
and keep it from affecting your plants.
So there's humic acid in there, as I mentioned.
OHN, oriental herbal nutrient,
we'll talk about that in a little while,
but that's a very interesting tincturing process,
which is also a lot of fun.
So that's IMO3.
And basically, like I said,
you're similar to doing a hot composting approach.
You are maintaining this pile of grains and woods,
and you're trying to keep your pile under 120 degrees,
and you need to keep an eye on it.
It's amazing.
You can turn your back on it,
suddenly it'll shoot up and start going to 125
and start approaching 130.
You really gotta get in there
and start spreading that pile out and giving it a turn.
You need to check your pile multiple times a day
to make sure that it's continuing to go.
At a certain point in time, though,
after about five or six days, sometimes four days,
again, it partially depends on your environment,
those temperatures will start to level off,
and then they'll start to stabilize and decrease.
And at that point in time, your IMO3 is ready.
Now, IMO3 is something that needs to be stored
in a breathable, preferably wood container.
You don't wanna be storing it in plastic.
What will happen is you'll get sweating,
which can cause some anaerobic conditions
at certain points in a bucket
because there's no breathing going on.
You can cause resweating of your IMO
that you just spent all that time stabilizing
and basically trying to keep dry.
So it's one of those things
that was not necessarily communicated to me
that I've learned from experience
that you wanna stay away from using plastic bins or tubs
for storing your IMO3.
You're better off with something that's breathable,
and definitely better wood-based.
There's some very easy wood boxes
that you can make to put your IMO in,
and then you have IMO that lasts you an entire season,
sometimes even longer.
I have IMO I'm still using that I made last year,
and I'm gonna continue to use that until next spring
when I plan on doing my next IMO collection
and IMO3 and 4 builds.
So after those five to seven days,
you now have your IMO3,
and again, you can store that and you can start using it.
You can use it to immediately by actually make,
you can take some and mix it in with your soil.
If you're doing potting,
you can top dress with a little bit of it
around your plants.
You can also use it in what's known as a liquid IMO,
which is basically doing a tea brew,
like a compost tea,
but instead of doing a compost using compost,
you're using your IMO.
This IMO3, IMO4, or IMO5 product.
IMO4 is a similar process
to what I just mentioned with IMO3,
but again, you're introducing on top of that existing IMO3,
you're now introducing those same set of ingredients again,
plus soil, natural soil that has good,
you know, that has good live compounds in it.
You don't wanna use some bagged soil out of a,
you know, nursery.
You're really looking to go into your yard
and dig up some topsoil
so that you're collecting those,
again, collecting those local microorganisms
that are important,
that you're trying to capture those things
that are successful in your specific environment.
Everybody's environment's different.
We talk about Humboldt County
being a fantastic place to grow cannabis,
but the fact is there are so many different zones
in Humboldt County that two farmers
across the street from each other
aren't gonna produce the same cannabis.
There's microclimates,
there's differences in soil compounds,
there's different angles of light,
there's different amounts of shadows and trees
and light cover and all those different things
in all these different areas.
And it's the same thing.
There's different sets of microorganisms
and different fungal bodies
and things that are successful
in each of those different areas
that have over generations and generations
learned and adapted to become successful
in those environments.
So that's what you're trying to do.
You're trying to bring those
extremely successful microorganisms,
grow them and maintain them
and then grow them again and then maintain them
and then utilize them as inputs into your garden.
So that's IMO, indigenous microorganisms.
And I like to use IMO3
with my liquid IMO,
as a liquid IMO preparation.
I tend to do that on a weekly basis for my plants
and that's pretty much the only feeding that I do.
Other than that, I water.
And I'm using humic acid in my water
and I may throw a little extra OHN or FPJ in there
occasionally, but primarily I'm providing
most of the nutrition and feeding to my plants
when I brew out that liquid IMO
that's providing good fungal and bacterial life
into my soil along with FPJ and the vinegar
and the OHN and some seawater and some of those things
and brown sugar.
It's creating a fantastic environment
that will convert the natural organic compounds
in my soil to a form that the plant can use.
And so you are getting some water soluble minerals
and nutrients from that product as well,
but primarily you are feeding the soil bacteria
and fungi that will all be sporulated out
and grown out within this wonderful liquid process
that you're gonna apply.
And that's one of the main things that I've been doing
since I learned this technique
and created my first IMO3 batch.
And I've been using it and been relatively successful
since with the process.
I can't say that there hasn't been occasional issues
with some of my plants,
but we all have problems with plants
and I don't chalk that up to any one specific style.
But that's IMO and I wanna make sure
that we spend some time on a lot of the different inputs.
IMO is a really, really, really important part
of Korean natural farming.
It's something that can't be overlooked or skipped
if you're truly trying to do Korean natural farming.
And it's a very important part
and that's why I wanna make sure
to spend some good time on it.
Another important input that's used
and that I mentioned is FPJ.
There are two primary similar sounding inputs
that we make in Korean natural farming
that many people are aware of and have heard of,
which are FPJs and FFJs.
Fermented fruit juice is an FFJ
and fermented plant juice is an FPJ.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the conversation,
Korean natural farming focuses
on the nutritive life cycle of the plant
and the inputs that you use
are based on the life cycle that that plant is in.
And in fact, you are trying to be a little bit ahead
of the curve.
You want to start providing those inputs
and those nutrients to the plant a week or two
before they actually get to that phase
because again, you're focusing on feeding the soil.
You're not directly injecting these things into the plant
and because you're focusing on the soil health
and trying to generate a healthy biome for the plant
to be able to get the nutrients and minerals that it needs,
it takes time.
It takes time for those things to be converted
by that biome and made available to the plant.
So you want to try to be ahead of the curve
as you're moving from the vegetative phase of life
and you're moving into the transition stage
and then the match, you know,
that's kind of the teenage years
and then you're moving into maturation and flowering.
When you start that transition,
you want to, before you start transitioning that plant
and maybe screwing with your lights
or doing things like that,
you want to start feeding some good phosphorus
into that plant, at least in a cannabis plant's place
and using some WCAP.
But we're talking about FPJs and FFJs
before I go too far astray.
And FFJs, fermented fruit juices,
are meant for the enhanced ripening phase of maturity,
which is actually the end.
It's when the fruits are finishing,
when they're getting fat, when they're getting sweeter,
when their terpenes and their flavonoids
are coming out to an extreme amount,
when they're putting tons and tons of weight on
and just creating carbon, right, Nick, creating carbon.
But these fermented fruit juices are high in sugars
and those sugars are very helpful
to the plant at that phase of life.
It needs those additional sugars.
I know a lot of traditional growers
talk about adding bricks or sweeteners
into their plants towards the end.
They use a lot of molasses.
And those molasses, along with the calcium and amino acids
and other things that are in there, is providing sugars.
And those sugars are helpful and beneficial
in that later stage in life.
Fermented plant juices, on the other hand,
are for the vegetative and the growth parts of life.
And I think this is, FPJs and FFJs
is one of the more common thing
that I think people tend to cross and use incorrectly.
And at least not as far as Korean natural farming
practices are concerned.
You know, putting bananas and papaya
and some berries into a fermented fruit juice
and then applying that to your seedlings
is really not appropriate, right?
Those are fruits and those sugars and things
should be applied at the end of the plant's life,
not at the beginning.
What you should be using is vegetable
or plant-based inputs.
Green, leafy substances are what you're looking for.
And in many cases, you're looking for
the young growth tips.
And those, because you're, you know,
again, you're trying to promote the type of
structure, the type of vitality,
the type of development that those plants
have in their cells.
You use the fruits to promote the fruiting stages
and you use the vegetables or the greens
to promote the vegetation, the vegetative growth stages.
FPJs have one ingredient,
not multiple ingredients, but one ingredient.
And again, I'm talking Korean natural farming,
traditional Korean natural farming preparations.
One plant input.
And you want to utilize something,
a plant that's local to you,
something you find in your yard,
something that you can collect on your farm,
something that's probably known to you as a weed.
You can use dock, you can use horsetail,
you can use comfrey, as I mentioned,
it's one of the things I like to use.
You can use all sorts of different things,
but what you're looking for are those
really, really successful plants that are super healthy
and you want to capture those tips of new growth,
where the most vitality is in those plants.
You also want to try to collect those plants
early in the morning, right as the sun is coming up
or right before the sun comes up
so that they still have the dew on them,
the morning dew, the moisture,
because you're also gonna get additional amounts of,
this is when the plant is actually at its most succulent,
when it has its most water retention.
It also has a lot of beneficial organisms
that are only present during that period of time.
So when you're collecting your items for your FPJs,
you are trying to collect those things
early in the morning when they're still covered in dew
so that you can get the benefit of that prime time
for the plant's vitality,
as well as the additional benefit
of having those microorganisms
and that exist only at that time and in that place.
And then you take that plant material,
chop it up very fine,
and then you mix it with equal weights of sugar.
You take that preparation,
you put it into a jar or container with a breathable lid.
I like to use old T-shirts,
cut them up into squares with a rubber band
and put it over the top of the jar.
It's a great way to make a fermented plant juice.
And you will let that ferment and sit for seven days.
After seven days, you will siphon off the liquid,
which is your fermented plant juice,
and you can take that vegetable
and put it in your compost pile, feed it to your worms,
do something so that you can take that material
and put that energy back into your system
in some way, shape, or form.
You can also make vinegars with those items.
I know a lot of people tend to focus on the FFJs
to make vinegars from,
and that's one of the things that I've done
is make FFJs from,
make vinegar from the leftovers from my FFJs.
Looks like we lost Nick.
Hopefully he can pop back in
because I definitely want to talk to Nick a little bit
about some of the, unfortunately he dropped right
as I was going to jump to him.
He must've known.
I wanted to talk to him about some of the interesting plants
that he's been working with,
fermenting and using as different types of inputs
because of the different beneficial aspects of those plants.
So that was FPJ.
FFJs, as I mentioned, are actually made of three fruits
as opposed to one.
So FPJ, one is one plant and one item.
Fermented plant juice is a rich enzyme solution
out of plants that thrive in your local area.
It's one of the primary inputs that you use
in most of your preparations.
You can't make your IMO unless you have your FPJ already.
So there's a couple of these things
you'd kind of have to do in order
so that you have all the inputs together
to actually create some of the other preparations.
Mugwort, dropwort, or other good items,
but you're really trying to ferment an extract
of a rapidly growing plant, getting the chlorophyll,
getting the blood basically out of these plants,
and turning that into something that you can add
in to help your plants grow.
And I use that FPJ throughout my entire vegetative cycle
as one of the inputs.
FFJs, as I mentioned, are fruits.
Those are made from a combination
of three different fruits.
Again, equal weights, chopped up finely,
and mixed with sugar, stored in a glass jar
of some sort for seven to 10 days
with a breathable lid.
Paper towels work, T-shirts, et cetera.
And after those seven days, you can again strain off
that liquid and you have your fermented fruit juice.
All of these inputs and preparations
are for the most part edible.
And some are quite tasty.
FFJ is like jam.
It's like jelly.
It's just fruit and sugar, right?
And you put it in a jar and you let it sit,
just like jelly is made, just like jams are made.
They're fruits and sugars that are mixed together
to preserve them.
And that's really what you're doing
is you're making a preserved ferment
that you can use with your plants.
FFJs and FPJs tend to be good for three to six months.
After that time, you really need to make a new one.
So it's not something that you can save forever.
I imagine, I don't imagine freezing them
would be good for them either, because again,
you're trying to capture some of those natural organisms
and enzymes that are present in those materials.
FFJs, I really just use FFJs in those last
two to three weeks of flower.
Really when, once the hairs have started to turn
and some of the leaves are really starting to drop,
it's kind of week five, week six,
I start throwing some of that FFJ in there
with each of my batches and add that.
I'm using, I don't know, I'm using let's say about,
the mixture is one to 500.
So if you're, that would be two milliliters for every liter,
okay, as opposed to one to a thousand,
as I mentioned before, which was one milliliter
for every liter.
You're doing one to 500.
So that's two for every thousand.
So two milliliters for every liter of water.
I mix everything in gallons.
So for me, that's, you know,
that's like 20 liters or 16 liters.
And so I'm mixing things based on that.
That's about 32 milliliters of FFJs.
So I'm using 30 milliliter, I use about 30 milliliters
in every four gallon batch of water
I mix up for my flowering plants.
And I've got three plants in flower right now.
And I use that, I feed that four gallons of mixture
to them every two to three days.
Again, if I'm brewing a tea,
I'm brewing a four gallon batch of the tea.
And so I'm giving them, you know,
it's a little bit over, it's about a gallon
and a third each every two to three days.
They're getting that input in the flowering stage.
They're getting that FFJ.
So that's FPJs and FFJs.
Let's see, Allie Muffin.
Yeah, sure.
Come on up, Allie.
Why don't you join us?
I did say yes.
Let's see if we're having some problems
with letting people up or not tonight.
It's coming through fine.
I took my time hitting the button, but.
Okay, okay.
You're trying to confuse me.
It has been glitching slightly earlier
on in terms of people coming in and out,
but what a great convo, man.
I'm so happy you're introducing us.
I've been listening in the background.
I've been learning.
I missed some portions.
Like I said, I was in and out,
but what do you think, I have a question.
I mean, I don't wanna interrupt the flow,
but what do you think is a good starter
for someone that's not really ready to commit yet,
but one step that we could make,
one change we could make in the garden tomorrow
while we transition over to a more sustainable
and regenerative approach?
I think that's a perfect lead-in to my next mixture,
which is lactic acid bacteria.
Labs.
Labs, I love labs.
Labs are like a miracle.
For those that are not familiar with lactic acid bacteria
or lactobacillus,
it is a fantastic thing
that is so much a part of so many different aspects
of our lives above and beyond just gardening even.
Lactic acid bacteria comes primarily,
is made from preparation with milk and rice water.
And we'll talk through that in a minute,
but lactic acid bacteria is part of us,
is one of the things that is part of our gut health
and our gut biome.
When we tend to add probiotics,
usually we're adding lactobacillus
and lactic acids to help us with our digestion.
Lactic acid bacteria along with yeast
is actually what makes bread rise.
When you make sourdough
and you go through the process
of maintaining a sourdough starter,
you're like sporulating out this,
continually sporulating out these natural yeasts
using flour and water,
but you also have this lactic acid bacteria
that's part of that process
and is part of what makes bread rise.
It's also a tremendous, tremendous input
for plants and animals.
So lab is a KNF process of culturing
a batch of indigenous lactobacillus
or lactic acid bacteria family microbes.
Lactic acid bacteria is incredibly beneficial
for crops, livestock and humans.
I know if you have a stomach ache,
you can take a tablespoon of your lab
and it'll make your stomach feel better.
I've heard anecdotes of Chris Trump
using it to help cattle.
They also spray lactic acid bacteria
in chicken coops and pig sties
to help eliminate odor.
Imagine a smell-free chicken coop,
a smell-free pig stie.
Well, Korean Natural Farming
has preparations to help with that.
I mentioned in the very beginning,
Korean Natural Farming is a system.
It's not just about plants.
It also involves animals in many cases.
And one of the favorite things of Master Cho
are chicken and pigs.
Master Cho loves chicken and pigs
and he's got a whole set of techniques
around how chicken coops are supposed to be built,
how you prepare the bedding using some of these inputs.
And lactic acid bacteria is a very big part of that.
You can use lactic acid bacteria
to help reduce smells in outhouses.
So for natural-
Okay, you led into something
and I didn't wanna stink up the joint too much
with an interruption.
But in Iran, there is a history of folks
that outhouses used to be always
in the back of the house, in the alley,
but with a little back portion of it open.
And part of the city services
was to come and collect what was in the outhouse.
And this was used in the farming.
And my great-grandpa has passed down stories
of literally at times, folks waiting in the morning
with a shovel underneath the bowl
for the morning offering
because they happened to be passing by
and they knew someone was in the outhouse
so they didn't wanna miss out on that resource.
And it's something that was practiced as waste management
for a long time in Iran.
Yeah, there's a lot of other approaches
when you start talking about Pekashi as well,
which is very similarly linked using lactobacillus
and a bunch of other bacteria
that are consortium of bacteria
that actually create an anaerobic process
that also can be used for fermenting and for waste,
handling waste, which is tremendous.
One of the cool things about Pekashi
is you can use it on everything,
meats, bones, dairy, anything,
all the things that you're not supposed to normally,
hot compost, you can actually ferment with Pekashi
and then you can use it in your soils
and it'll break down.
It's really, really neat stuff.
But we use rice, wash, water and milk together
to create lab.
And it is the most simple thing that anybody can do.
It is one of the most simple preparations
that anybody can try.
And regardless of how you garden today,
you can actually introduce some lactic acid bacteria.
If you're in a hydroponic environment,
you can do a foliar.
If you're in cocoa,
you can actually put it into a root drench within your cocoa.
You can use it obviously in soils.
I use it as a root drench primarily,
but it's also part of some of my other mixtures
and preparations.
But basically the rice wash water
provides a poor quality food for the microbes.
The only microbes that can make good use of the food is lab.
And now we introduced lab filled rice,
wash water with a high food source of fresh milk.
And given its first shot,
lab takes over and ferments the milk,
causing the separation of the two proteins,
of the milk's two proteins.
And you'll get curds on the top
and you'll get this beautiful yellow serum on the bottom.
Anybody who's left a glass of milk out
for too long in their house
has probably seen this reaction before.
It's very similar.
You do need to use the rice rinse water
if you really wanna get a strong lab culture
because those starches and sugars
that are part of that rice rinse water
are gonna help promote healthy lab lactic acid bacteria.
So take those curds off
and you can actually save those curds,
press the moisture out of them and make your own cheese.
So you could actually start learning
to make your own cheese.
I know Wendy Kordich has a mozzarella.
She's made a couple like mozzarellas out of the cheese
that she's done her lactic acid bacteria off of.
But basically you mix sugar and those curds together.
You can take those curds and fry them.
Anybody who likes,
hey, Ollie, we got Ollie the Canadian in here,
poutine man, you want some fried cheese curds?
You can take those curds off your lab
and throw that on top of your poutine, man.
So get those curds.
You gotta bring those cheese curds in.
That material though, you can use that.
I think lab is a fantastic gateway
Korean natural farming preparation.
Most people have milk.
You wanna try to use whole milk.
One of the things that I learned
that I didn't actually really know a lot about
was how they turn whole milk into 2% milk and 1% milk.
And also yogurt the other way around.
Correct.
So yeah, I mean, we would not have yogurt,
pickled olives, kimchi, sour cream,
or any of those things
without lactic acid bacteria actually.
And so what they do is they take milk
and they pull curds out of the milk to make 2%.
That's the reduction of fat.
They're actually pulling curds out of the milk.
And so they do a single run of curd reduction,
which gives you a 2% milk.
And then they do another run of curd reduction,
which gives you 1% milk.
And then they do another run
that strips out every last remaining curd for the most part
and leaves you with pretty much
just white gray water skim milk.
So whole milk is the best thing to use for this product.
I know some people use goat's milk.
You can use cow's milk.
I know some people actually have made
some of these preparations with non-animal milks.
I'm not too sure how that works,
but I think soy milk was a better option
than an almond milk, but I'm not really too sure.
I can help direct some folks towards that
if they're really interested.
One imagines that the soy, and I don't know this,
so please don't quote me,
but maybe I can ask the YouTube watchers
and something might come up,
whether the cashew cheeses, almond milks, and soy milks,
maybe they are also a bacteria
that is predominantly thriving in vegetation.
And we should all learn about that as well.
It's interesting how they make those milks,
and I don't know the process well enough.
Yeah, so now we have this wonderful,
wonderful tool that we can use.
Lab is a germicide that promotes growth of trees
and leafy vegetables.
Lab boosts gut health and is used in K&F
for no-smell livestock systems.
It's a fantastic thing.
You can use it for your own use.
And I mentioned this early, but it's really important.
A lot of Korean natural farming involves smell and taste.
When we're making these preparations,
most of them we can eat and we can taste them,
and tasting them and smelling them,
making sure they're sweet and not sour,
making sure that they smell earthy and not rotten.
Smell is a very powerful tool
and a very important part of your Korean natural farming
and your preparations.
I was talking about IMO earlier.
IMO is amazing.
When you make IMO 3, it smells like sourdough baking.
It smells like you walked into a bakery.
It's amazing.
One of the cool things that Chris Trump does at his classes
is everybody does what we call the K&F foot spa.
And everybody takes their shoes and socks off
and sticks their feet into the cooking IMO pile,
which is like 160 degrees, right?
It's not enough to burn you, but it's definitely warm
and you can feel it.
And it's like a foot spa.
And you get the tremendous benefit
of all of these living organisms and microorganisms
and things that are in that pile sporulating.
And Chris has claimed that it helps with a lot of skin
and toe fungus conditions and different things.
It's just a tremendous tool.
And he does bury some people as well,
not just doing the foot spa,
but some people actually get in there
and actually get buried.
They don't get naked for that
because that would just be bad.
You'd be pulling IMO out of cracks and crevices for weeks,
but they do get buried.
He does bury people in the IMO as well.
So they get that full body spa of approach
and all of those natural microorganisms
and that exchange of the human microorganisms
with the microorganisms in the pile
that are being sporulated.
And it's about a connection with your inputs.
I mean, your own microorganisms
are actually now part of that pile.
They're being sporulated along
with those other tremendous ingredients.
So it's really, really great stuff.
I have noticed and I was told,
and this is good, that my compost always smells sweet.
And I took a photo of what's under the sink.
I noticed for me, I have to continuously put some napkins.
I use quite a few, unfortunately,
but one of the cool things
is I'm now able to even put straws
because in our city, they're mostly turning into paper.
So that sweet smell of the compost,
how much of it is an indicator?
And like, is it when it smells sour?
I was told it is, and I was very curious to ask you tonight
what our nose guides.
How our nose guides it.
Yeah, that's some of the difference
between how your nose can actually smell,
the difference between those aerobic
and anaerobic conditions, right?
And it's not, I would caution saying bad.
I think there's a lot of conversation around this
that's being had because nature
doesn't have just aerobic bacteria.
It has anaerobic bacteria as well.
All of these things work in conjunction together.
You need putrefaction.
You need things to mold.
You need things to break down in different ways.
And sometimes that's the only way
to break some of these things down
so that they return to the ground.
And so in general, that's kind of that difference though
is that aerobic activity tends to smell better.
A good maintained compost pile does not stink,
does not have a ton of flies
and exposed food rotting away in the sun.
A well-maintained compost pile
has a good mix of browns and greens.
It's being stirred and maintained
and monitored for temperatures and moisture
and things like that until it's dried and prepared.
So absolutely a good compost pile should not smell rotten.
But that being said, there are other farming approaches
and schools of farming that do use things
like putrefaction and anaerobic processes
to break materials and minerals and things down
to help them turn into plants,
plant food in some way, shape or form
or food for other forms of life,
maybe for fungi, for bacteria
and other things that are part of the soils.
So let's talk a little bit about, great question, Ollie.
Thank you for bringing that up.
I think, again, I think either OHN or FPJs,
but I think OHN is really unique.
And it's something that can be used really as an additive
on top of whatever you're already doing.
So you don't necessarily have to change
what you're doing today and you can introduce that.
FPJs, FFJs probably towards your ripening phase
would also be something that I would recommend
considering adding in to see if it helps, you know,
with some of the fattening or some of the sweetening
or some of the smell or stinkiness of those plants.
So OHN is another one that I had mentioned
in some of these preparations
and that's oriental herbal nutrients.
And oriental herbal nutrients are basically create
the best disease fighting health tonic
for your plants and animals.
It's basically a tincture that was considered
a warm herb tincture in traditional Chinese medicine,
helps strengthen plants and animal immune systems.
And again, I'm sorry that Nick had to drop off
because Nick was gonna.
Definitely wanted Nick to talk to the Angelica again,
but OHN is made up of several different,
extremely well-known beneficial herbs and roots.
And so those ingredients are Angelica, licorice root,
cinnamon bark, garlic, and ginger,
all of which have been known to have good health benefits,
good antioxidant, good medicinal benefits.
Licorice bark was used for pain.
Cinnamon bark has been used for helping with,
helping get people's systems running,
helping spur along their,
it's escaping me,
helping with their digestion.
Garlic is good for the blood.
It's also known to help keep pests away.
Ginger has a lot of fantastic qualities to it as well.
And each of these has, as I mentioned,
known health benefits,
but they also have known anti-pathogenic capabilities.
And OHN is probably the longest,
time process that you have to do.
Takes about three months.
And it's a process of tincturing,
using vodka, not grain alcohol.
I know a lot of us think about grain alcohol
or use grain alcohol in a lot of our preparations and things
converting cannabis and other things into tinctures.
We use grain alcohol and other things
to break the material down.
But when you're making OHN,
you actually want to use vodka.
You want to use something that,
you don't need a ton of high proof.
You want to actually stick with something
that's a much lower proof.
The cheapest vodka you can find,
again, if it's something you want to put into your body
and into your plant,
maybe you don't buy the cheapest vodka on the shelf.
Maybe you buy something that's a little bit better,
or maybe you buy something from some local distillery
that's making vodka out of local grown organic potatoes
or something, I don't know.
But again, if you're gonna go all the way,
go all the way, right?
I have to think about finding somebody local
who makes some vodka maybe.
I love it.
Or at least getting my buddy with a farm who has potatoes
to organically grown potatoes
and getting those potatoes over.
As soon as they legalize cannabis,
this man is going towards moonshine, ladies and gentlemen.
I gotta stay in the background, man.
I gotta stay in the background.
But yeah, no.
So we use vodka with those materials,
angelica root, licorice root, cinnamon bark,
fresh ginger and fresh garlic.
And basically we tincture these in a mixture together for,
as I was mentioning, multiple months.
We do multiple extractions over that time period.
So we start out actually by first re adding moisture
back into a lot of the main materials using beer.
So we'll grab some cheap beer
and mix that with our cinnamon bark, our dried materials.
So cinnamon bark, licorice root, angelica,
those things tend to be dried, come dried in preparations.
And I was in a really interesting conversation yesterday
in the KNF room actually,
where we were talking about angelica being a plant
that's hard to grow and something that isn't actually
as prevalent as it once was.
It's becoming a much more rare plant.
So if anybody's interested in making some money,
you might wanna consider growing some angelica
instead of cannabis or including some angelica
on your farm with your cannabis.
But angelica is, the angelica root is usually purchased dry
along with licorice root, cinnamon bark, they come dry.
And so you need to rehydrate them using beer.
So we'll stick them with beer
and let them rehydrate 24 hours.
And then the next day, what we're gonna do
is actually mix those rehydrated materials with sugar.
And we're gonna make an FPJ with garlic,
and FPJ with ginger root.
Again, these are roots, not fruits.
And so they're FPJs kind of.
And that's the first stage.
And we're gonna go through the normal FPJ process
with seven days of, you know, with an open lid,
the sugar, the material, letting it go and ferment.
And then we're gonna add the vodka
and we're gonna start that tincturing process.
And we're gonna stir daily, every day.
And this is one of the things that, you know,
OHN's more of a marathon, not a sprint.
And it takes, like I said, it takes a couple months.
So it's something you have to do every day.
You gotta go in there, you gotta stir these jars every day
for that tincture, it helps that material break down
and combine with the vodka.
After two weeks, you will strain part of the material out
and add more vodka into your, you know,
so you'll siphon off some of the liquid
and then you'll add vodka back into that tincture.
And then again, do your two weeks and stirring every day.
And you'll do that process five times.
Every time you do that,
you recombine all those materials back together
and then siphon off some of that material
and then add some fresh vodka back in.
And you keep doing that.
And so at the end, you actually end up
with double the volume you started with
of this magical tincture,
these beautiful glowing jars of OHN.
And you actually store them separately.
You keep these things in their original jars,
you pull off the materials, the roots, the bark,
the ginger, you get rid of those,
again, putting them in your compost
or something along those lines.
And then you keep that liquid.
And that liquid needs to sit for another three months
before it's actually ready to start being used.
So about six months, OHN is mature
and ready to start being applied and gets better with time.
After a year, it's actually starts to really hit its stride.
Two years, it starts to peak.
And my understanding is it goes on
for several years, the older it is, the better it gets.
And it's so, you wanna make these,
something like an OHN, which are gonna,
again, takes you three months and can last you years.
It's a good idea to make a big batch
so that you have enough to last for a long time.
And I really enjoy this process.
There's something about the tincturing process
that I really enjoyed.
It must be my background in cooking,
because it's just, to me, it's a fun preparation.
And the end product is amazing.
And so what you do is you,
when you're ready to use this and utilize this OHN,
all these wonderful tinctures that you've created,
you combine them in equal parts
and mix them in with all of your other preparations.
And you're using a one to a thousand ratio for your OHN.
So it's a little bit, it's half of as much
as FPGA you would use.
Going back to my example earlier,
if you're using, it's one milliliter per liter,
and FPGA was two milliliters per liter.
And four gallon batch, I'm using about 15,
16 milliliters of OHN.
So it lasts a really long time.
Which is good because it takes a really long time to make.
And OHN is just great.
Again, it's an antipathogenic.
It's a wonderful part.
It's part of all of these other preparations,
so you really need it.
And it's great if you're feeling a little under the weather,
you're starting to feel a little sniffly,
or you need a little energy, take a shot of OHN,
and it will definitely give you an immunity boost.
It definitely is a really strong product
that I've had a couple times
where I was a little sniffly,
and I just took a couple shots of it,
and garlic and ginger and all those good things
helped clear out my sinuses, and I felt good.
I was ready to go after that.
So it's a fantastic product.
I really love OHN.
Again, it's fun to make as well.
Something I really enjoy.
And in general, I enjoy the process.
Getting in there, using your hands,
mixing plant with sugars,
and creating these wonderful, wonderful inputs.
Another thing, some of the other preparations
that we can go over that I'd like to mention
are things like WCA calcium.
So everybody knows cow mag, cow mag, cow mag,
more cow mag, more cow bell, right?
But calcium, you can actually make your own calcium,
water-soluble calcium, if you save your eggshells.
Or you can use oyster shell if you have some oyster shell
that you've bought.
Yeah, go ahead.
There was a beautiful display,
and here's the natural in Korean natural farming,
of the seagulls grabbing shells,
bringing them up the beach,
eating through them, breaking them in the process,
and slowly depositing this sediment and calcium
back into the bit of grassy sort of hillsides
that lend themselves to growth near beaches.
So anywhere that there's a cliff, there's a park,
you can clearly see the seagulls fertilizing
the grass right beside the beach.
You can't miss it.
Yeah, and again, it's introducing
those natural things into your garden.
You can take those shells and crush them
and mix them with vinegar,
and allow them to ferment for seven to 10 days,
and you come out with water-soluble calcium.
Eggshells as well.
Eggshells need to be heated,
and I recommend you do it outside
in a cast iron skillet over open fire.
And you can use a cardboard to kind of wave
that inner lining of the eggshell,
the egg that sticks to the inside of the eggshell,
that kind of membrane,
will burn off and turn to dust.
And so if you fan, use a piece of cardboard or something
and fan as you're stirring these eggshells over the heat,
the membrane will just dust and turn to dust and float off.
And you're left with these beautiful porcelain-like eggshells.
You wanna cook those eggshells until they become brittle.
And then you take the eggshells,
you don't wanna burn them, do not burn the eggshells.
And again, this is why I recommend you do it outside
because it's not a pleasant smell.
You wanna go ahead and mix those and leave that in that.
You need a jar with a breathable lid.
As soon as you add the vinegar to those eggshells
or to those oyster shells,
you'll get an immediate reaction.
In many cases, it'll bubble over the top.
So you wanna make sure you put it into some place
that you're not as concerned about it
bubbling over, have a runoff tray or something in place.
And once that preparation is done in seven to 10 days,
you just again, filter off the liquid,
get rid of the shells,
and you're left with water-soluble calcium.
All the calcium you ever need
is probably in your refrigerator right now getting ready.
And every time you make eggs
or create anything else that you're using eggs in,
save those eggshells.
I like to rinse the eggs and save them in a jar
until I have a nice collection together.
And then I'll go and I'll cook them over the fire
and get them nice and hot and make some nice, fresh WCA.
And you can save those cooked eggshells
so that you can make more preparations.
You don't have to do it all in one shot.
You can save the cooked eggshells
so that you have them ready to make another batch
as soon as you run out.
It's good.
Takes a little planning with some of these preparations.
You can't just go to the store.
You need a week in some cases for them to go
and some cases longer.
So you do need to think a little bit ahead
for some of these,
but in general, it's a pretty fast preparation.
I mean, seven days and you have your own calcium for free.
And all you had to do is use some brown rice vinegar
and some saved eggshells.
And you didn't have to go buy calcium
and you're good to go with something natural,
especially if you have your own chickens
or you have some farm raised,
you have a friend who has chickens
and your neighbor get some of his eggshells.
I'm sure he has plenty.
And use those organically grown eggshells
as inputs for your calcium.
Another input that you can make for yourself is WCAP.
P for phosphorus.
So water soluble phosphorus.
And we make water soluble phosphorus using bones, beef bones.
So if you take beef bones and char them,
again on the grill, I love fire, get some fire.
You need to burn the shit out of these bones
and cook them so that they are thoroughly cooked
and have no longer,
no brown or marrow is left on the inside of these bones.
And you wanna cook them so they have a good black or gray
and become brittle.
And then you break them down and mix them with vinegar.
And again, seven to 10 days
and you have your own water soluble phosphorus.
Phosphorus is super important
for many of the life stages of the plant,
but is also something you wanna boost up
when you're in that transition phase.
Phosphorus is great for transition phase.
For getting into that,
for when that plant is maturing and getting ready
and you need a little bit of extra strength in the body
for the growth that's gonna be coming
and to sustain a strong structure,
develop a strong structure to support those fruits
when they develop.
So it's really important to get that phosphorus
in for the plants and use that as part of that transition
phase that I mentioned earlier.
That kind of teenager phase of life in that life cycle.
Then you have-
So I could consume that.
Yeah.
I love it because I am in my teenage years.
Yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I'm sure you could use some more phosphorus.
Another one is potassium.
So we use potassium as a big thing for flour
and for fruiting.
Potassium comes from basically a biochar preparation.
So primarily we use sunflower heads or asparagus,
something high in potassium.
And we, again, char them, make a biochar out of them
with a covered iron skillet over fire.
And you have to be careful not to allow oxygen,
too much oxygen into the process when you're trying
to turn the stuff into biochar,
because what will happen is it will burn and turn to ash.
And you're really trying to capture as much of the material
and phosphorus as possible.
So you're trying to avoid letting too much oxygen
into the cooking and that causing your sunflowers
or asparagus to turn to ash.
I've always had a question about this.
Is it like decarbing?
And would I be able to get away in an oven setting
at high heat, leaving it over a longer temperature
to be safe and slower in my methodology?
I can't comment on that.
I would be cautious.
Because I'm scared to do what you're talking about.
Because you're bringing it down to that level
where it's going to be smoking.
I don't know that you want that in your oven
inside your house, my friend.
OK, so we're literally trying to get all
of the biological matter smoked out of it.
I understand that.
Yeah, yeah.
Every bit of chlorophyll has to go out.
And all that, every bit of moisture has to come out of it.
But you want it to be that black but solid.
You still want to be able to see almost that honeycomb
of material in the sunflower and things like that.
So then you basically take that material
and mix it with water.
Not vinegar this time, just good, dechlorinated rainwater.
And 7 to 10 days, the water gets like a bluish tint to it, too.
It's really cool.
And then you have your own water-soluble potassium.
So we've talked about a whole bunch of inputs.
We've covered IMO, indigenous microorganisms,
FPJ, fermented plant juice, FFJ, fermented fruit juice,
LAB, or lactic acid bacteria, or lactobacillus bacteria.
We've covered WCA, water-soluble calcium, WCAP,
water-soluble phosphorus, WSK.
Don't ask me why it goes from WCA to WSK.
I don't know.
But water-soluble potassium, K being the potassium,
all those different preparations are the majority of the things
that we make and we use in Korean natural farming.
There really is not much else.
Vinegar, sugar, seawater, and the inputs I mentioned.
That's it.
It's your whole toolbox.
Everything you need to grow and maintain healthy plants.
As I mentioned, it's a system that you can eat.
And in many cases, many of these preparations
are very beneficial to us.
And they're tasty as well.
Like that OHN, that garlic and that ginger, those,
I wouldn't use them as a cocktail
unless maybe I was making a Bloody Mary.
I think they'd be amazing in a Bloody Mary or something.
But you can cook with them.
You can stir fry or saute with some of that ginger tincture,
vodka, or some of that garlic.
Wow.
Amazing flavor.
Recently, I'm just about to finish off one
that I've added an additional jar with turmeric.
Because turmeric is also a very holistic health benefit.
There's a whole bunch of health benefits with turmeric,
as well as a lot of plant benefits and natural enzymes
that are there that are part of that.
And that turmeric as well, I'm interested in actually
trying some of those preparations for cooking
as well as using it as part of an OHN mixture.
So really, really amazing.
And the ability to create these inputs, the things
that I'm feeding my plant, the ability to actually be
able to use these inputs myself for my own health benefits.
Everything that's going into the plant
is something I can consume.
I'm consuming the plant.
Plants are more healthy.
I'm getting more benefits out of healthier plants.
In addition, it's part of a regenerative system.
And if you're trying to move towards a regenerative
approach, a closed loop approach,
then Korean natural farming is something
that should be considered.
Because you're using the things that you have around you,
as opposed to bringing things in from the outside.
Sometimes wonder, why are you using oyster shell
if you're in Kansas?
Why are you using green sand if you're in Maine?
We use these products and we ship these things
all over the globe.
And it's really bad for the environment,
really not very beneficial for our plants
at the end of the day when we could be using inputs
and ingredients that are local to us.
Another great thing about Korean natural farming
that I've been told by people who are using this process
commercially is that there's a tremendous amount of cost
saving involved in it.
Because again, you're not buying nutrients and inputs
for your plants.
You're not spending the money on that.
Sugar and vinegar are much, much cheaper
than any nitrogen or any other product
you're going to be buying from any commercial industry.
And then because you are creating healthier soil,
you have less weed pressures.
So you don't need to apply weed deterrents and fungicides
and other things like that.
Your plants are able to partially defend themselves
better and have more beneficial bacteria and fungi present.
So they're able to ward off the bad guys more easily.
So you have less pest pressure.
So you're saving money on pesticides and predator pests
and other things that you might have had to do,
as well as all of the labor associated
with applying those things.
It's not just the cost of the fungicides and the pesticides
and the defoliants and all of these weed controls
and the suppressions and all these other things.
It's all the labor also associated with it
that has a tremendous amount of cost.
And these things are not good.
In many cases, they're not good for the people
who are actually applying them.
There's always got to be a strategy,
and this extends to businesses and also
the home garden, of prevention.
And you really got to decide early on where you want
to concentrate your energy.
Because you can either do what you're discussing, Jason,
preventatives that are constant and sustained
or remediation that will also be constant and sustained.
So you just got to make that decision early on.
And in the business sense, even on a larger scale,
I think of it as at times having to skip
productive, quote unquote, durations
to catch up on these remedial acts
so that we can always be acting in a preventative manner, which
is, of course, just a better use of resources and your own time.
Because it will take less time to prevent
than to remediate any issue that is.
Right.
And that gives us more free time to scout and create more inputs
and check plant health and all the other things
that we could be doing that we'd never get to because we tend
to be spending a lot of time on just basic maintenance
of the plant.
So that's really all beneficial.
And as a home gardener, I don't go to the grocery store
other than if I need a fan.
Or a new tent or something because I'm not
buying any bottles.
I'm not buying anything on the shelf
there other than maybe occasionally some Epsom salts.
I don't have to get bottles of nitrogen and NPKs.
And I don't have to buy calcium.
And I don't have to do any of that stuff.
I have it all at home.
I make it myself.
And it lasts for months.
And I don't have to do anything else.
It's been a tremendously freeing system, to be honest with you.
Above and beyond the connection I
have because I'm preparing all of this stuff,
it also has been freeing because I can get my ingredients
at the farm stand.
I can get my ingredients in my backyard.
I can get, if I need some grains or some woodchips or something,
I go to the feed store.
I don't need to go to a gardening store.
I don't need to go to a grocery store.
I don't need to pay for something that's
99% water in a bottle.
I can make my own inputs.
I can apply them to my plants.
And they're beneficial for myself.
And they're beneficial for the environment around them.
I apply these Korean natural farming practices
not only to my indoor cannabis plants,
but I'm also applying them to my outdoor gardening, my fruits
and vegetables, my tomatoes, my herbs that I cook with.
I spray them.
I mix some of these ingredients like labs and other things
into my mulch.
I'll spray them into my mulch piles
before I'll spread my mulch on beds
so that all those microorganisms and things
are kind of wound up in the mulch that I'm spreading.
And so they give those beneficial aspects
to the plants and the soil.
I'm improving soil health, which is helping capture carbon
and increase the value of the minerals and the nutrients
that the plants are receiving, which in turn I'm
turning into inputs that are putting back into my plants.
And I'm creating this nutritive cycle
of health and wealth and beneficial benefits for myself
and my environment around me.
So all great stuff.
I love.
I feel so blessed.
So just tremendously grateful that my friend Ben Morgan
dragged me to the Regenerative Cannabis Conference.
And I got to see Chris Trump speak.
And then a couple months later, he's
like, we're going to go see Chris
and we're going to go take the five-day hands-on class.
I'm like, OK.
And we went and we did the five-day hands-on class.
And it really just completely changed.
Those two things completely changed
how I looked at cultivation and completely changed
my approach to cultivation and growing.
Everything I do, everything I think about in my plants
and in my own health and well-being
as well has changed because of my learning
of Korean natural farming practices.
So I'm forever grateful to the folks
who, like Ben, who dragged me to those events
and to Chris Trump for what he taught me
and all the tremendous people in the Korean natural farming
community that I continue to talk with and learn
from all the time.
Kobe's been a tremendous mentor.
Jess out here on the Cape.
I mean, there's so many fantastic people
out there who are part of this Korean natural farming family.
And it's been a wonderful trip.
And as you can tell, I love talking about it.
We're approaching almost the two-hour mark.
We've gone for an hour and 40 minutes.
I didn't take a break.
I didn't relight the room.
I didn't thank Future Cannabis Project, Peter,
for being here.
So I'll do that.
And of course, I want to thank Allie Muffins and all the great
work that Cannabis Talk Radio and Allie do for the community.
But Future Cannabis Project has been recording this session.
So anybody who may have missed out on our conversation today,
it's been all simulcast on YouTube
and recorded on YouTube.
So be able to go and replay the entire video, the entire session
and learn more.
Hear me repeat some of those preparations and conversations
and things that I discussed today over the last almost two
hours time.
It's been an awesome, awesome grow and tell.
And at this point, I'm just going to open it up.
And anybody who has questions or comments who wants to come up,
I know, Mr. Oscar, you wanted to come up and talk
about your bone broth that we've talked
about before in the past.
I see some other great folks in the audience,
like London and Peter and Jared.
So anybody who wants to come up and ask questions or talk
about Korean natural farming for a little bit
before we close down for the night, feel free to come on up.
One of my quick questions is kind of, first of all,
I like to kind of step back.
It's like natural farming versus Korean natural farming,
where you have kind of commonalities and cultures
around the world, where if you said,
like there's this new cool thing called Korean natural farming
to someone in Brazil or somewhere in Africa
or somewhere in Europe, they'd be like, yeah,
I've done shit like that.
We've done stuff like that for generations.
Yeah.
In terms of localizing stuff, to me,
the two inputs that are kind of not local are the rice
and the brown sugar.
And, you know, rice, I feel like is kind of like you can get it
in any grocery store.
It's super cheap.
So it's not really like an expensive input.
But with the brown sugar, like I'm growing sorghum
outside right now.
Are there natural things that you could grow locally
that are high in sugar that you could use as a substitute
for the brown sugar and some of those use cases?
Yeah, absolutely.
Two fantastic points.
So, yes.
No, thank you for bringing up the fact, you know, right.
So, you know, at the very beginning, I mentioned that,
you know, a lot of us follow the school
of Korean natural farming that was propagated
and taught by Master Cho, who took hundreds,
you know, decades and probably centuries
of Korean natural farming practices and brought them
into this wonderful system that we follow today.
But there are tons of tremendous natural farming techniques
used all around the world.
And fermentation is a tremendous part of that.
It exists in so many aspects of not only agriculture,
but also food culture.
There are so many crossovers and connections between the two,
especially in Asian cultures and a lot of the island cultures
where the fermentation process is incredibly tied
in with everything that they do.
And so it's definitely a part of it.
And a lot of these natural farming practices
that we follow that are, you know,
more towards the regenerative or biodynamic or different types
of practices that we follow are similar
and have their own techniques.
There's another well-known school
of farming called Jadam, where they, Jadam was actually written
by the son of Master Cho.
So the gentleman who propagated Korean natural farming,
his son created a book called Jadam.
And Jadam is a school of farming that's actually meant
for those indigenous cultures and places
where you don't have access to sugar or access to vinegar
or access to power even.
When we're making the liquid IMO, you know,
we're using a pump and we're using power.
But Jadam and some of the practices in Jadam use
putrefaction and use anaerobic processes
and natural convection processes using potatoes
and some other really cool techniques for these places
where you may not have access to sugars or vinegars
or rice for that matter, right?
So there's definitely some other natural farming approaches.
There's other ways to make a lot of these processes.
There's different schools of thought on lactic acid bacteria.
There's different schools of thought on whether
or not you should keep different types
of fermented plants together and apply them.
So one of the things that I like to use is a little bit
off the Korean natural farming path that I learned
from a friend of mine which is more
of a natural farming technique
which is using a fermented aloe instead of a traditional FPJ.
So I take aloe and chop it up and make, you know,
an FPJ out of my aloe so I mix it all up with sugar.
But the twist is I add some lactic acid bacteria
and ferment it with a closed lid for 30 days.
So as opposed to using no lab, just the plant and the sugar
with an open breathable lid for seven days,
I'm actually doing a fermentation for 30 days
with a closed lid and lab added.
And so I'm getting, I'm using that in addition
to my normal FPJ when I'm making my preparation.
So I'm getting the benefit
of having some additional lactic acid bacteria in there.
I have this fermented material that has a different type
of energy and mineral enzymatic approach than the other FPJs.
So using other types
of natural process farming techniques is
absolutely important.
Deep bed farming is another one that's really interesting.
Lots of different techniques introducing vermiculture
into some of your processes.
When I make my liquid IMO, a lot of the time I
like to throw worm castings in the teabag with the IMO.
So getting some additional compost tea capabilities
out of those liquid IMOs kind of crossing into some
of that natural farming.
Sugars, so we can get into sugars.
I actually, it's actually recommended
to use natural cane sugars as opposed to brown sugar.
So brown sugar tends to be made by taking white sugar
and mixing it with molasses.
So if you buy light brown sugar,
it is basically a processed refined sugar
that has had molasses coated on it.
If you use dark brown sugar that has extra molasses
on the sugar, they coat it more.
What we try to use are natural cane sugars,
things that are less processed, more of a natural approach.
Beet sugars, so if you want to,
beets are something that produce a lot of natural sugars.
Beets can be used as a plant or something
that you might want to grow.
Nick mentioned stevia.
He likes to grow stevia and utilize the sugars
from stevia plants.
So today that's a common sugar substitute
that's used on the market.
You can buy stevia in a package just like you can for sugar.
And a lot of people use that as a replacement for sugar.
So again, that's another good common compound
that you can use to replace necessarily a brown sugar
or a cane sugar if you can't get that locally.
Jason, can I ask you a question?
Is that, did I get all your stuff, Peter,
real quick before we go, Jolly?
Yep, thank you.
Perfect.
All right, Jolly, what do you got?
I don't know if I heard, like you touched on the subject
and you might have said something about it.
Do I add salt to the fruit ferment
so it doesn't go alcohol or?
Nope.
No, just really just the straight fruit?
Fruit and sugar.
Or alcohol?
Fruit and sugar.
Yeah, so for anybody that's ever made Applejack
or wine, yeast is the component that actually will
convert those sugars to alcohol.
So you're cutting down your fermentation process
and you're not allowing, you're trying
to keep those naturally occurring yeasts out of it.
I wouldn't necessarily recommend using grapes
because grapes are very high in those naturally occurring yeast.
And that's why grapes actually will naturally make wine
when you crush them.
The naturally occurring yeasts grow
on the outsides of the skins.
And when you combine that with the sugars and water
and moisture in the middle of the fruit,
it actually starts that process to create
wines that eventually turn into alcohol as those yeasts eat
those sugars.
It becomes a vinegar if I don't put salt.
If I put salt into the jar, it'll
just become like a vinegar kind of thing?
The sugars are preserving it.
So that's the other thing.
Jellies and jams don't turn to vinegar.
It's because of the amount of sugar
that you're putting into those jars that
is helping preserve those fruits and stopping them from molding
and stopping them from turning to vinegar.
It's just sugar.
Fruit and sugar.
But I add sugar to the fruits?
You take the sugar, you take your fruits,
you chop them up.
You want to chop your fruits up because the skins of fruits
actually act as natural protection
and will cause some delay in the breakdown process.
So you want to chop up your fruits.
One of my favorites to do is I love to do in the fall
is like an apple, blackberry plum
using a lot of those natural fruits that
are coming in this time of year, especially
here in New England.
We have a lot of apples and cranberries and things
that we can make great FPJs out of.
And I'm sorry, FFJs out of.
And you're doing just an equal weight of fruit to sugar.
You want to fill that jar 3 quarters of the way to,
you definitely want to leave a good amount of some air,
some space at the top.
And then you want to cover that jar with a breathable lid.
Paper towel or cloth works really well.
If you happen to have a fermentation lid of some kind,
you can use that.
But those tend to be more for gassing things off
and don't necessarily let the right amount of oxygen in.
So you're better off using something like a paper towel
or, again, like an old t-shirt or a piece of cheese cloth
or something along those lines.
And it's just equal weights of sugar and fruit.
You wait a week, and you siphon off the liquid
and save the liquid.
The fruit you can then actually combine
with an apple cider vinegar or a different type of vinegar
with mother to create an amazing vinegar that
is just absolutely delicious.
It can be used in salad dressings and cooking
and other things as well.
What about bubbling aerobic bacteria?
Or can I bubble, like say I have a trash can full of stuff,
and I've been bubbling it for like a year.
That's getting into the dumb area.
And it's really a bit outside the topic for the night
and a lot of people.
Yeah.
But I would look for the book called
Jadam, J-A-D-A-M, D as in David, which was
written by Master Cho's son.
There's a whole bunch of preparations in there
about just soaking plants in water and putrefaction
and other means of breaking down those materials.
I mean, you can take banana peels and soak them in water
and then take that water a couple of days
later and apply them to your plants.
There's lots of different types of natural approaches
using similar techniques that can be used,
but that's not specifically part of Korean natural farming.
We tend to stay away from anaerobic processes.
We focus on aerobic processes.
And again, we're looking for things
that tend to smell sweet, not sour or rotted.
So I hope that helps, Jolly.
Oh, yeah.
Mr. Oscar, anything for you to talk about tonight, sir?
Yes, thank you for what you're doing.
And I came in a bit late.
I'm glad you're recording this.
I will get to hear my voice.
And that's a plus.
I came when you're talking about burning bones
and churning them to soften them, helping them break down.
I wanted to ask, what about I make broth with my bones,
and after I'm done, they're brittle.
Do I still need to burn them?
I actually don't know the answer to that question.
I imagine they would probably be good,
because I think you're breaking out
a lot of that organic matter.
But my concern is that one of the things that
we're taught when we're charring those bones
is to get them beyond the point where they're brown still,
where we really want them to be that black or that white.
And you're not quite taking it to that phase
when you're making a bone broth.
You're cooking it down, and you're cooking it down,
and it's still going to be brown.
It's not going to be black.
It's not going to be carbonized.
And I think you really need that carbonization
for that process to work properly.
So it's not about being brittle or anything.
It's about carbonizing, because they're not brown.
That's my understanding.
Thank you so much.
All right.
Do we have anybody else who has questions for us tonight?
Let's see if we see anything on the YouTube here.
I can flip through.
Yeah, so yeah, Jolly.
And just to add onto your comment here,
jadam is a was the jadam techniques
came from the son of Master Cho.
And a lot of the focus was on finding ways
to introduce these natural techniques in places
where you might not have these things available.
And other approaches to creating natural inputs
and providing really, really helpful beneficial inputs
for your plants.
Sorghum.
I see some Hawaii Sustainable's got sorghum's better than
sugar, so that's great.
Thank you for that.
He had a 12-foot plant this year, so monstrous.
Really, really great.
That's an awesome add-on, so thank you for that.
Southern Growers having some fun on here tonight.
Absolutely.
Good to see you there.
Jolly Canna.
Hillbilly Herb, Hawaii Sustainable.
Appreciate that add-in.
Jean Pieka.
King Dolo, TDT Records.
Thank you as well.
Good stuff on here.
So much KNF on tonight.
Is Wendy on right now?
I know there's a lot of overlap tonight.
I know Steve Reisner, he has his podcast Growing with Fishes
started about an hour and a half ago, I think.
There's a lot of us who are on tonight.
Just happens to be the way it is.
Fortunately, we're recording it, and it's
available on YouTube, so you can go back and listen.
I don't get jealous, so if you want
to go listen in on Steve or Wendy's conversations,
and they're both incredibly knowledgeable.
I have no comparison to their level of skill and experience
in these techniques.
They're tremendous mentors of mine as well.
Really, really just fantastic contributors to the community,
and I highly recommend you go looking them up as well
on the information they provide.
All right, so I think if there's not really
any other questions on here tonight,
and it doesn't seem like a lot of additional stuff
on the line.
Let's see, will inoculating IMO 1 or 2 with vermiculture bin
be beneficial?
So I would actually, you want to introduce that vermiculture,
vermicompost as part of an IMO 5, not an IMO 3.
You want to add that in as your IMO 5.
IMO 5 is the stage where you would be introducing composts,
whether it's lobster compost, or vermicompost,
or regular compost, chicken shit, cow manure,
things like that.
All those composts, that's where you would add that in,
is in an IMO 5 stage.
So that's where those would go.
Stonerd, I hope that helped answer your question there.
Southern grower, root cannabis root balls, that's great.
There is a ton of tremendous value in the root balls,
because they have exudites, and sugars, and minerals,
and nutrients in there.
So just really, really good, great stuff.
I know dandelion roots as well.
Dandelion roots are extremely tasty.
So if you've got some dandelions in your yard
and you pluck those out, save the roots, rinse them off,
and eat them.
They're delicious.
Really, really great.
So I think that is going to wrap it up tonight.
I would really appreciate Caleb, Jared, and Fuse, London,
Michelle, Jolly, Adam, Drew, Iceni, Rubic, Zach, Christina,
Grandma, Kep.
I'm going to have to go with that, buddy.
I'm not too good on those Cypriot languages.
And of course, I really, as always,
have to thank Nick for joining me earlier, and of course,
Peter and the Future Cannabis Project
for helping produce this show, providing the simulcast
on YouTube, and all the tremendous work
they do for our community and for agricultural community
in general.
Just a tremendous amount of wealth of knowledge
that's on that channel.
So please, if you have not already,
click on the green house at the top of the screen
and join the Future Cannabis group clubhouse here
on Clubhouse.
And obviously, give myself and Peter a follow
and join the YouTube channel, Future Cannabis Project.
The Future Cannabis 02 channel is actually
where these simulcast sessions are stored.
So if you jump on the main Future Cannabis Project page,
scroll down a little bit, you'll see the link to the Future
Cannabis 02 channel.
And that's where these recordings are stored.
So thank you again for joining me on Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
And next week, what do we got?
Next week, we have silica.
We will be talking about silica is our topic for next week.
So we will be jumping back down the rabbit hole.
Thank you for adding that, Peter.
So this was Grow and Tell Future Cannabis Project episode number
four tonight.
And our first month doing this podcast, Peter,
believe it or not, we got through a full month.
And I'm glad to be back.
And I appreciate the space.
So next week, next Thursday night at 9 PM Eastern, 6 PM
Pacific, we will be talking about silica.
And I will be hopefully joined again by Nick, as well as
a few others, as we discuss this really important mineral
and compound that is part of our garden.
Again, we've been spending a lot of time over these past episodes
trying to highlight some of the other aspects
and important points of cultivation.
So we've covered enzymes.
We've talked about flavonoids.
We've talked about different Korean natural farming inputs
now and different ways to do that.
We've talked about carbon, which is really just one
of the biggest parts of farming that people just
don't talk about.
It's the most forgotten macronutrient.
So really great to be able to bring additional highlights
and conversation around some of these other aspects
of cultivation.
And I'm very appreciative of all the folks who've been joining
and giving us all that extra contributions
and collateral information.
So thanks again to everybody for joining us tonight
for a Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell.
I appreciate you all for being here.
Thank you so much.
And thank you, Peter.
And I guess with that, we will close down
the room for the night.
All right.
The room is closed.
Thanks, everyone.
Let me go back up and hang out with my kids.
We ate dinner.
Watching the Red Sox get spanked by the Rays right now.
So anyway, have a good night.
Yeah, I don't have any updates right now.
But maybe something tomorrow.
All right, bye.
