So today I wanted to touch a little bit more about some of the really interesting aspects
of biology that we don't ordinarily think about.
So endophytic biology can be bacteria or fungi.
They live inside of the plant.
And if the fungi was in a leaf and it was fall and that leaf fell on the ground, as
that leaf started to decay, the fungi would transfer into a saprobe and begin to consume
that decaying leaf matter.
If that leaf was to fall into the water, it would morph into an aquatic fungi.
And then it can go full circle and enter back into the tree or plant as an endophyte, either
through a sucking or biting insect or perhaps a soil interaction where the saprobe actually
united with the roots and the roots accepted, you know, a spore or something back into it.
Again, not all of these processes are completely understood, but Dr. James White has been doing
work on this for years and he's got some really interesting papers out there on it.
I also wanted to talk about how two bacteria, uniquely different, can come together and
have a horizontal gene transfer and give offspring to a whole new species of bacteria in the
snap of a finger.
So there is this incredible succession or morphology that is happening below us and
around us at all times.
It's really kind of eye opening to see how quickly this succession can actually happen
on a microbial scale.
So we did have one question and I'm going to try to bring him up on the stage now.
Let me see.
No one has a hand up.
So we lost him, whoever he was.
Oh, there he's up there already.
All right, Thomas.
Go ahead and ask your question, my friend.
Introduce yourself first, though, please.
Oh, yeah.
This is Thomas.
It's a wonder how Peter always get it right.
My question is about you always talking about succession and you sometimes you talk about
how the mass migrations have happened and they probably re-inoculated different areas.
And my question is, maybe humans could have the job also.
Do you know any of those microorganisms?
I don't know.
Coming in symbiotic with the human body and then being introduced to other places that
the human could go to.
I know that the human body is almost made like 90 percent of microbes.
So I was thinking about that.
Could you please enlighten us on something like that?
That's a great question, Thomas.
And the answer is absolutely yes.
You know, you think about perhaps the early sailors and they would bring food and water.
And of course, wherever they came from, they were consuming specific plants, vegetables
and animals to their area.
So they were a giant Petri dish as they traveled around the world, not only with with physical
materials, but with their gut biome, because every time they emptied their bowels, that
would have been inoculant.
And, you know, before manures became such a stigma and we became so antiseptic and antibacterial,
we were as a species utilizing every single thing we could, including human waste in agriculture.
And nowadays it's very much frowned upon and, you know, for good reasons, because we are
we are a pharmaceutical disaster as a species.
Most of those compounds, antidepressants, anti-anxieties, antibiotics, are showing up
in fish, in the Puget Sound and everywhere because all of our wastewater is mixed with
stormwater processed to get rid of most of the sludges.
And then unfortunately, a lot of those are just passing right through.
We had a wonderful conversation on another clubhouse last Sunday, I think it was, with
Tom, a biologist friend of ours, on just this very topic of cleaning wastewater for future
generations and how best to get some of these more complex compounds out of play, either
by breaking them down or absorbing them in a manner that they can then be safely transferred
into a place to be further composted in a way that we're not under such pressure to
break the compound down.
So I would say that everything, there's a woman who did an amazing study in 2018 and
opened up a whole new world of biology.
And that's actually studying the biology associated with smoke and ash in wildfires.
So she was out here studying California wildfires and quickly realized that on the ash and in
the smoke, there was bacteria, fungi and protozoa.
So you think about the wildfires in Australia were very much inoculating the South America
and perhaps middle part of the US or middle part of the Americas and perhaps as far north
up as here.
The same thing is true with our fires, which obviously due to the prevailing wind and the
jet stream were in many ways inoculating the East Coast.
And some of this is good and some of this is bad.
Obviously particulate 2.5 micron and less can actually cause serious lung disease because
it's so small that it can get into our capillaries, clog them and become infected.
And those infection sites then can potentially allow viruses to overtake the cells.
And if your immune system isn't in harmony, potentially get you very sick.
So those are a couple thoughts on how this incredible biodynamic biosphere is constantly
re-inoculating itself.
Another thought is that there was a study done by NASA back in 2011 that indicated that
the phosphorus for the Amazon rainforest was a direct result of sandstorms in the Sahara.
So the sandstorms in Sahara would shoot this stuff up into the jet stream.
The jet stream would bring it across the entire ocean and it would remineralize either through
particle charge in the ionosphere or perhaps the particles just started to collect and
coagulate together through moisture or some other force and then they would fall on the
Amazon rainforest.
And then to take it to the next level, there was another study done in 2018, not by NASA,
but an independent that basically concluded that not only was it supplying the phosphorus,
but it was supplying a tremendous amount of nutrients, both in the form of diatomaceous
earth as well as clay and fine sand particles.
So another interesting study on nutritional or nutrients moving was a study recently done
in Egypt where the banks of the Nile have always been some of the most fertile soils
in the world.
There are floodplains there for thousands and thousands of years.
And all of a sudden the fertility started to diminish.
The crops weren't growing as big and hardy and we're having more problems with pest pressure.
So the Egyptian government started to look at the water.
And what they quickly realized was that upstream they had put a dam in another country, had
dammed up the Nile to create hydro electricity.
And in doing so had actually accidentally stopped what's called nano clay.
So that would be clay that is finer than a traditional platelet.
A good example of it would be clay that if you put in water, the water would stay cloudy
for more than two days.
And anyway, so that clay was no longer in play.
It was no longer washing up on the soil and the floodplains in the spring flooding.
And that was the cause, the root cause of the lack of fertility.
So this is what the planet does.
And the big problem we have is that this is what we're preventing from occurring as a
species at this point.
And therefore we've got to really start looking inward and finding ways to solve some of these
extremely complex problems.
If we're going to continue to, I hate to use the word thrive, but let's go, let's worry
about surviving.
So that was a great question, Thomas, and I was happy to go on that rant.
And Craig's here now.
So I'd like Craig to open up and introduce himself and let's chop it up tonight, guys.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Thomas.
How's it going, everyone?
Just getting back from work.
I'm starting to position as the compost coordinator for this urban farming initiative up in Harlem.
So it's pretty exciting.
Definitely can't stand some regular hours on the train.
So if you hear any kind of beeping or whooshing here, that's what that is.
My name is Craig Chester.
My background is I'm an educator, a citizen scientist and applied mycologist.
A lot of my background is in fungi and kind of how I, you know, how I've been able to
get my hands on a lot of different things.
And I've been able to get a lot of help from people.
And I've been able to get a lot of help from people.
And I've been able to get a lot of help from people.
And I've been able to get a lot of help from people.
And I've been able to get a lot of help from people.
And I've been able to get a lot of help from people.
So definitely in my perspective is with fungi,
understanding the roles they play in all kinds of ecologies,
and especially essentially from being
one of the large initiators of the nutrient cycling
in our world as well.
So it was kind of very apropos, given the fact
that many of the keys to understanding
these deep end dynamics are inherently
fungal connections.
Myself initially, whereas at the beginning,
I was talking about it, and thought,
you know, funny guy with the answer,
kind of microcentric, fungal-centric,
and I just realized after several years
of kind of sitting and chatting with a lot of adjacent fields
that they are their keystone, but still,
you still require all the other organisms working in unison
for them to function.
That's kind of my background.
Oh, that was cool.
Thanks, Craig.
And yeah, you know, Craig and I and Life Relief
have a study group that we often talk on Friday afternoons
about the most recent breakthroughs
and understandings in complex soil biological systems.
And I think that that's really the biggest
missing piece in traditional reductionist science
is that we're not looking at the communities.
We're looking at the individuals and trying
to identify what they do.
Instead of taking a broader sweep and saying,
this is just a nanosecond in geological time
that really, that organism, next time we go back to look at it,
very well may not be present anymore.
It may have actually evolved or horizontally transferred
its DNA into a different animal or a different species
altogether, similar to like what the canis plant does
and the breeding.
So recently, another article that was really interesting
was the understanding that fungi actually are
a superhighway for bacteria.
So the bacteria are moving in a liquid form
along the outsides of the hyphae from one plant to the other
or from one group of nutrients or minerals to another.
So there's just an amazing symphony
that's going on in this relationship between these two
radically different kingdoms in the biological world.
And more so that there's now data
showing that the bacteria in some cases
is actually exchanging cytoplasm with the fungi.
And therefore, the opposite probably
is true, so that there is a horizontal gene
transfer between the fungi and the bacteria.
And last session, we talked a little bit
about something even more complex, which is the lichen
and how lichen have this relationship between algae
and fungi and or algae and bacteria and or algae,
bacteria, and fungi.
So we are really at a cutting edge point
in our understanding of just how complex
this biological system that allowed such incredible life
to evolve to a level of dinosaurs or elephants
or giraffes or rhinos or any of these incredible super
predator cats and bears.
So in unlocking some of these tiny little intricacies,
you can really start to begin to think
about what could possibly potentially
be going on underfoot.
Another great study recently from the space station
was that they had put bacteria on the outside
to see how it would react to certain levels of radiation.
And what they discovered that after a period of time,
lengthy period of time, I believe it was a couple of years,
that when they went back and scraped off the biofilm,
that in the layered, within that biofilm,
that the bacteria had survived.
I mean, this is incredible to think that something
can live outside of a environment void of oxygen
and atmosphere and gravity and exposed
to incredible UV and radiation.
It's just, again, staggering to think
how incredible life is.
And the old saying from Jurassic Park, life finds a way.
So I'd love you to chop a little bit more up on that one,
Craig, if you would be so kind.
Yeah, definitely.
So this is something that's pretty fascinating.
And I think I know people who are familiar with Dr.
Milliam's work, the soil fluid, which
was pretty revolutionary given the fact
that a lot of people who were studying soil classically
was in extension geology, trying
to understand the components of what type of mineral
compositions led to different types of parent material.
Then understanding the geochemistry,
understanding the fact that you have different mineral
elements, different conditions that
are affecting different redox states
and affecting potentially nutrient availability.
But then the biggest contribution
that Dr. Milliam made was really pointing and paying
attention to the fact that the micro-recoverage of the soil
was there.
And it wasn't just something that just disappeared.
You get to really show it up.
And then you get to do this.
And you have an incredible environment
that can also interact with the substrate
in organic or inorganic that they were living.
So it's really exciting to that.
So the soil feeders is a great starting point
to understand those notions.
However, something that I've been really fascinated by
is that whereas Dr. Lane organized different organisms
based upon where they sit in the food chain,
the trophic, just being a fancy word for eating or acquiring
food, what's really fascinating and what gets me excited
is these interactions between bacteria and plant matter.
There's a number of papers that have come out.
In general, I think even one just this past week
was actually conducted by a laboratory in Cornell
where they basically made the connection to the fact
that one of the mysteries from the rhizophong
that along this time is like, OK,
they've sequenced their genomes.
We know they don't have any enzymes that
would allow them to solubilize phosphorus.
But it turns out when they did studies
where they were culturing these mycorrhizal fungi
in plant roots, they realized they
were able to sequence the microbial bacterial community
growing in unison with the mycorrhizal fungi.
And it turns out in general that the mycorrhizal fungi
are modifying the rhizosphere.
That's attracting and recruiting different kinds of bacteria
and even to these bacteria moving back and forth
across mycorrhizal fungi.
And also, too, solubilizing certain elements
out of the amyotilloid organic material.
What's even more amazing is that this isn't just
like a single species of bacteria.
This is a whole ecology.
You even have different bacteria that can actually
hunt down and predate other types of bacteria
and cause them to crack open, actually release,
spilling out their cytoplasm into the soil
and potentially releasing nutrients.
So this is something that's really mind-blowing.
We're only beginning to understand this complexion.
So what's really exciting is that people
are paying attention to the soil food web.
But what's really going to be coming in
is the people doing good science on these regenerative
foundations that are seeing the role
that microbial ecology plays.
Like the soil food web 2.0, where
we're able to map the interactions between organisms
from micro to macro.
So it's pretty amazing.
We're only kind of just at the tip
of the iceberg in that example.
And also, kind of insert another concept
about horizontal gene transfer.
It happens.
Organisms are pretty closely together.
Oftentimes, a lot of these jumps are facilitated
not just between bacteria and fungi,
but even between plants and insects.
There was recently a paper that came out
that showed that white flies are actually
resistant to a number of compounds.
It basically anti-insecticidal compounds
are compounds that plants produce to ward off insects,
prevent them from metabolizing it.
I think the term was glycosides.
So basically, compounds that are produced
in composition with sugar.
So for example, like, saw an ECA, like your nightshades.
They produce a notable compound, which
irritate the genus, attracts many insects
to the point of killing them, and also a number of humans
based on allergies.
And naturally, the plant will make the antidote for it.
It'll make an enzyme that'll basically break down
the glycoside and protect itself.
It turns out, white flies, some time ago,
there was a virus that basically took this gene
from a number of plants to break down these glycoside compounds
and basically infected the white fly and imported it.
So this was pretty amazing.
This was the first notion of you basically
get a transgenetic movement of a gene from the plant kingdom
to the animal kingdom, which is pretty wild.
This is why white flies are such a notorious pest,
because some time ago, there was this chance occurrence
of inheriting this gene facilitated by a virus.
So it's pretty amazing, given the fact
that we're just beginning to understand
the interaction complexities between organisms as well.
And that's just one tiny example.
You know, if you look at animals,
a lot of interbreeding and crossbreeding
had to have occurred to, say, get a fox or something else.
You know, the difference between a rhino and a buffalo,
I mean, a rhino and a hippopotamus,
you know, similar, but yet completely different.
So, you know, this has always been part of the,
you know, the fascination and the drive behind what I do
is, you know, again, it's biology.
So I'm looking at a much, much smaller scale,
but it really opens your mind
to the potential of panspermia.
Now, panspermia is a theory that life essentially started
on another planet or in another galaxy
and was transported through either a comet
or an asteroid across galaxies
and, you know, millions, billions of years,
and then got so close to our atmosphere,
which had, you know, somehow formed
and blew up in our atmosphere
and released all of these organisms.
Now, in the example I just talked about
with the biology living in smoke and ash
and the transfer of diatomaceous earth
and nutrients from one continent to another,
the reality is that it's probably a realistic theory
and a better understanding of how life was created.
I mean, there's been some interesting work done
on geochemical processes
where the potential for life to happen is there,
but it's that finding that seed,
that catalyst that allowed a biological primordials
or lack of biology, a primordial soup
to actually go so far as to create a life force.
And, you know, this is something that, you know,
I've been a big fan of redefining life.
Traditionally or right now,
we view as an egg as dead and a sperm as alive.
We view viruses as dead,
although they live in every living cell.
In some cases, they're way more abundant
than actually bacteria are.
And they were the prime drivers of all evolution.
If something got out of whack,
the virus stepped in and knocked it back.
Now, potentially that made whatever was knocked back
stronger because eventually it was either wiped out
or it figured out how to survive
or out-compete the viral infection.
So again, thinking about, you know,
biology on a really, really deep scale,
reeling it back into soil
and to understanding how to take dirt
and turn it into soil,
you need as much diversity as you possibly can.
I did a whole presentation on aquatic microorganisms
and how they in fact are compatible
in an aquatic environment
and or, you know, back in their terrestrial environment
and the vice versa is true.
So we know for sure amoebas live in dry soil
and they live in water and they're a predator.
And so to think that bacteria wouldn't
would be kind of naive.
And recently there have been some preliminary studies
indicating that potentially 80% of, you know,
biological entities on the micro scale,
so not multi-cell but single cells,
can transfer or adapt into either an aquatic
or a terrestrial environment.
So, you know, in understanding, you know,
how to again take some dirt
and convert it into super rich soil,
you really have to be looking at,
well, how best do I collect my local indigenous
biological consortiums or communities?
And so, you know, that's been something
that I've worked really hard on in the last 12 years
is coming up with manners or methods
to first compost it, grow out those organisms
so that they're environmentally ready for that environment
or I should say prepared for that environment.
So obviously, you know, altitude, humidity, lack of,
or too much, sunshine, UV,
all these things play a part in making sure
that you're not just creating biostimulant.
So a biostimulant would be like basically
feeding a bacteria another type of bacteria
and pretty much all of the products on the market now
that are, you know, basically claiming
that they're a biological inoculant.
We refer to them as bugs in the jug.
They're all grown in vitro.
So they're grown in a lab under the perfect conditions
with the perfect food, the perfect temperature.
And when you throw them in the soil,
you are basically throwing them
into a very hostile environment
that they're not prepared to deal with.
Whether they actually inoculate,
my instincts would tell me no, they're just a biostimulant.
They're just another food source for present biology,
whether it's, you know, a protozoa or a predator
or perhaps they just starve out
and release their cytoplasm.
So, you know, it's a challenge.
And so much of the work I do is, you know,
in educating people as to how best to do that
is to start by saying, okay, what is our goal here?
What are we trying to actually accomplish?
And obviously it's very simple answer.
We're looking to build soil and soil fertility.
So how do we best achieve soil fertility without diversity?
Well, the answer is you really can't.
And so reeling it back in and saying, all right,
so how do I create that diversity?
Well, the answer is to use as many different ingredients
in your composting process as you possibly can.
When I got out here to California on March 9th,
or excuse me, March 4th of 2020,
I had no idea that I would not be traveling back
across the country to do my work,
starting in Asia.
Starting in April.
And lo and behold, two days later,
they shut the state down,
they shut pretty much the world down.
And so I was trapped out here going, okay,
what am I gonna do?
And so I immediately started saying,
well, I'm gonna need compost.
I'm gonna need, you know,
need some ingredients to be able to perform my job.
And I'm gonna run out of the little that I had with me.
So I began to build compost.
And the first thing I did was look at my surroundings
and try to find as many different diverse greens as I could.
So that meant trimming the tips
of every different type of plant I could get.
And basically, you know,
cutting the new tender shoots,
chopping them up to help, you know,
facilitate a quicker breakdown.
And then of course, start scrounging browns,
any type of different sticks that I could find.
I stayed away from palms, obviously,
because they're just so diseased.
But I was cutting grasses that were growing up in concrete,
because again, if they're that strong
that they can survive a hostile environment like that,
then they're what I would wanna consider
a very biologically active and healthy plant.
And so yeah, wildflowers, succulents,
different types of hedging material, deciduous bushes.
I did do a little bit of fruiting tree leaf tips,
but that's how you do it.
That's how you achieve this collection of diversity.
And then to touch it off,
what I did was I mixed all these greens and browns together.
So if you're not familiar with making compost,
that's 66% browns, 33% greens.
I do not use high nitrogen, so that means no manures.
Well, actually that's not true.
I do use fish manure, but I have aerobically stabilized it.
And it's basically biology for the most part.
But I touch it off by going to the beach
and harvesting as many different types of seaweed
and kelps that I could find.
And I put them in a bucket, about three quarters full,
about five gallon bucket.
Came home, filled it with fresh water
until I could keep the plants submerged
without them sitting on the bottom.
And I put it in the sun and I let it ferment for seven days
and it became foamy at the top
and it had a funky kind of musk smell to it.
I microscoped it and the biological life
and diversity was insane.
It was mind blowing.
So I dumped that into my compost
and lo and behold, within a couple of days,
that went right up to 115 degrees.
Again, if you're making biological compost,
you do not want to exceed 120 degrees.
Anything above that, the thermophytes take over
and you lose diversity.
And that diversity is not gonna come back
for nine, 10, 12 months.
So it's really important that you understand
that new compost, anything that has not been cured
will not hold any biology
because it was forced to be cooked at 150 to 160 degrees
for a period of time
based on the state rules and regulations.
So that being said,
I can now take this biologically charged compost
and take municipal green waste
and inoculate the green waste compost
with my concentrated biology.
So that's a great first step to turning dirt into soil
is by putting a great carbon source
and a tremendous amount of diverse biology
back into the soil.
And then of course, immediately cover cropping it.
So cover cropping serves a number of different functions
in soil building.
First, if you understand the biological realm
around the roots of a plant, it's called the rhizosphere
and that's where all the magic happens.
So to be able to grow miles and miles of rhizosphere
through cover crops is an amazing way
to really start building tilth.
Tilth being soil structure.
The end goal is aggregation.
So in an aggregated soil,
you will be able to have a wonderful gas exchange
which means allowing CO2 that's being generated
by the microbial world to release into the atmosphere,
the atmospheric air to be able to go back down
and feed the oxygen back to those microbial communities
and let them grow out and therefore produce more CO2
for the plants above to consume and grow even more.
So it's a continuous loop, perpetual motion
that's happening on a microscopic scale.
Another thing that happens in a cover crop situation
is that you are holding moisture in the soil now
because the leaves are covering that soil
and preventing UVs from getting in there
and it also prevents the wind from blowing across it
and stripping it.
Most people don't realize that 80% of all soils
on the planet are built through transportation.
So whether that's erosion or whether that's wind,
that is how it's built.
So once you disturb it and do not have plants on it,
the wind will come in and blow it away.
And in the case out here in California,
we'll begin to make the clay compact
and turn into rather hard balls and bake in the sun
and again, bond together.
So that's the end result of disturbed and abused soil.
And so how do you reverse that?
Well, you start with adding carbon, adding biology,
adding cover crops, and then if necessary, till in.
I'm not a big fan of this.
I'd rather people roll and crimp.
So rolling and crimping basically means rolling over
the plants with something that's heavy enough
to snap the stocks or crimp them.
And then leaving that plant residue as a mat
to protect the soil, hold the moisture,
and again, further build compost or build carbon
and create more food surfaces,
sources for the biology that's in play.
And if you just continue to do this
over the course of several seasons,
you will have amazing soil
in a very, very short period of time,
whereas without these types of practices, it takes years.
So this is a quick way to rejuvenate, repair,
disturb soils back to a healthy soil system
that will function in a way that's very important.
I haven't even started talking about the water cycles
and how in a disturbed soil, you're gonna get compaction.
So therefore any rain that you do get
is not gonna infiltrate.
It's gonna wash away the surface, again, eroding it,
and you're not going to be able to store it
in your aggregates, and you're not gonna be able
to continue to grow your successionary system
of building that soil.
So the other thing that's not talked about
is that in a healthy soil system,
a healthy organic soil system,
it is actually scrubbing the water.
Yeah, scrubbing all of the contaminants, pollutants
out of the water and making it clean again
for the groundwater, which penetrates into aquifer,
which is something that we drink.
And so we are not recharging our aquifers
because we are not maintaining plants on the soil surface
and healthy soil aggregates so that every time it rains,
we're actually charging back
our critical freshwater system.
So that was quite a rant.
I don't know if Craig, you had something to add to that.
I don't see any hands right now.
So why don't you hop on and put your feedback in.
Oh, one second, I'm just plugging my phone real quick.
It's about to die.
Oh, that's frustrating.
Yes, we don't want you to die on us.
We need to keep you in the chat.
Can I ask a question about ashes?
I'm sorry, Thomas, go ahead.
Could I ask a question about ashes?
We're talking a lot about ashes and fires.
Yeah, sure, fire away.
I was thinking like if you're smoking a joint
and there's endophytic bacteria in there,
they could, I don't know, colonize your lungs,
I don't know, stuff like that.
So that's a great question, Thomas,
and I'll chime in with that.
So thankfully we have our epithelial cells,
our epithelial cells, our mucosal membranes
are aligned with a healthy layer of mucus.
So the reality in general is actually at the moment,
right now you're actually breathing in a whole range
of bacterial and fungal spores.
However, if you're a person with a developed immune system,
that's pretty healthy, you're pretty much protected.
Also, this is pretty important, also to stay hydrated.
It's one of the reasons why in the winter time
we actually see a higher incidence
of respiratory infections,
mostly because the air is a lot drier,
depends on your climate, at least for me.
I'm temperate northeast, so we have really hot summers,
humid as well, really cold winters,
but also if you're living indoors,
the humidity is pretty much drops down
and incredibly low and it gets really bone dry indoors.
So staying hydrated and staying moisturized,
especially if you're a person with a developed immune system
especially with a good amount of water and humidity
is essential because it allows your body to produce mucus
and keep your mucosal linings,
can see hydrate making mucus,
which will clear everything out as well.
So spores are everywhere.
These organisms, bacteria and fungi have been around
for hundreds of millions to billions of years
and they're prolific in everywhere.
And also, I don't know, Leighton,
this might be a cool thing kind of reflecting upon
some of your past and building,
but I do think about how oftentimes
with insurance policies, flood insurance,
it is one that is rather hard to get,
given the fact whenever there's any kind of water
introduced in the system, whatever material,
often organic materials like of origin of trees or wood,
lignin and cellulose,
whenever it gets hydrated adequately enough,
those spores will germinate and grow.
I think I heard that black mold spores are everywhere
in every single building material.
It's just a matter of them getting hydrated
in the right kind of time for them to germinate as well.
So much to the point that actually black mold
has actually co-evolved with us as humans
as we've actually used building materials.
So the reality is spores are everywhere,
both bacterial and fungal.
However, if you have a healthy immune system,
if you're able to maintain good health,
you're in a good aspect.
The only times that we'll encounter
these kind of rare infections
are usually people that are developing immune systems
like children or elderly people
who have declining immune systems as well,
aside from whatever kind of health-related
or diet-related products,
not problems that maybe combine with that factor as well.
So spores are everywhere.
And I'm guessing, Leighton, you talked about
how in the wildfires in California on the West Coast,
they just did the sample of the microbes
that were living on the smoke plumes,
utilizing those free hydrocarbons in the air.
Yeah, yeah, I think that was something I covered earlier.
And I think that was Tomas's reason
for asking that question about potential cross-contamination
or transfer through smoke.
And so, yeah, you're spot on.
And that's been a big issue, especially in Florida,
in very moist, warm areas
that if you're not living in a house,
the black mold will come in very, very quickly
and set up shop in corners and dark areas.
And especially in flooded homes,
it becomes a real issue
because they have such an incredible food sources
anywhere from the paper on the gypsum
to the cellulose that Craig was talking about
in the wood products.
So it becomes an issue.
But again, it's more of an issue
with people that have been compromised.
So someone who has a deficient or a banged up immune system
due to cancer or disease or some bad medicine
that they've been taking,
they're the ones that really at risk.
We have, like Craig said,
co-evolved with all these types of molds and spores.
The only time that really become an issue
is when we're exposed to a new organism.
So way back when during super storm Sandy,
I happened to end up getting trapped
at Rodeo Institute with Dr. Lane Ingham.
And so we were sitting around playing Uno
and drinking a little bit of beer.
And I asked her, I said,
you know, Lane, I've always had this question
burning in my mind.
And I love to hear your thoughts on this.
And I'm like, so did life come through, you know,
a miracle like a God particle or something like that?
Or did it come, did an alien fly by
and flush his toilet over the surface of the earth?
Or was it a comet?
And her answer, she laughed of course,
about the aliens flushing their toilet.
But she said, no Lane, I'm pretty confident it's a comet.
I said, well, why would you say a comet?
And she said, well, if you look back in history,
every time there was a great plague
on the surface of the earth,
there was a comet that had come by,
you know, a certain period
before the plague actually took hold.
So here's another bit of evidence
that perhaps panspermia is a real thing
and that these, you know, viruses or biology
that we as a species have not come in contact.
And when we do, bad things happen.
You know, you have a immune system collapse,
a cytostorm, whatever you wanna call it,
similar to, you know, the virus that's going on right now.
So, you know, it's interesting to, you know,
like think about like all of the things
that we have been exposed to.
And for some reason we're still here,
chlorine in our water, fluoride in our water,
our food system, all the packaging,
the forever chemicals, you know,
the immune shots that we've all had,
vaccinations growing up on,
with things that are, you know, highly unstable.
And yet we as a species keep growing out of pace
that's explosive.
I mean, we're gonna,
I don't even know how many billions of people
we're gonna be in 10 years from now,
unless we have a collapse.
But that just goes to show you how hardy
the human body is.
And obviously on the cellular level,
because, you know, that is the key to the whole thing.
We had a wonderful podcast this morning
on Peter's future cannabis project
with Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
And if any of you never heard of them,
you should definitely look at them
and understand that they are, you know,
a powerhouse in explaining, you know,
regenerative farming practices and polyculture
and how to grow biomass to feed plants.
So biomass, I mean plants,
and feeding plants with other plants
is by far the best way to have a minimal energy drain.
So for instance, if a plant wanted a specific mineral
in the soil profile,
it would have to expend a tremendous amount of currency.
So pull in sunlight, create ATP,
which is basically its currency to making enzymes,
proteins, aminos.
And then from there,
it would transfer exudates down into the soil.
It said up to 70% of all the energy the plant creates
is spent in creating exudates to feed the biology.
So the biology has enough energy to mine the material,
say phosphorus out of a piece of clay, a platelet of clay,
and then bring it back and then pull it up
and then distribute it throughout the whole plant system.
So that's an incredible amount of work.
So to take a plant that's already done all that work,
ferment it, grind it, compost it, liquefy it,
and then feed the other plants with it,
it's obviously a huge energy credit.
And so therefore that plant can then focus more
on pushing roots, which is what you want it to do,
because that's building more rhizosphere,
that's building more till,
that's building more surface area for biology to evolve,
grow out, and do its job,
versus forcing the plant to do all of that work on its own.
So as a group,
I really wish that people would start to think more
about these kinds of fertilization over bags and salts
and any synthetic inputs.
We've proven beyond a shadow of a doubt
in the last 10 to 20 years
that you don't really need synthetics.
You don't need to put any fertility in the soil.
I mean, I always ask people to get a soil
for chemistry test.
I actually ask them to do three tests for me.
Number one is soil texture.
So I know what the sand, silt, clay level are
and organic matter.
So I know if the soil's prone to compaction
or if it's gonna be an easy transfer
into a healthy soil system.
Then I'll do a chemistry test
because that's very important to understand.
Micronutrients and trace elements.
These are critical for plant functions.
You might have all of the NPK in your soil
that you could possibly want,
but if you don't have any molybdenum,
it can't pull up the nitrogen.
Or if you're low on potassium,
the plant can't transpire.
So again, the plant can't exhale excess moisture
or use that as a way to wick nutrients up.
And how well is that plant gonna survive?
So those trace and micronutrients
are as critical and more so than anything.
So by starting there, I now know where I'm at.
But once I know where I'm at,
then it's just a matter of picking the appropriate plants
to continue to push that soil system
in the successionary direction that I want it to.
So by that, I mean, if you see weeds,
personally, there's no such thing as a weed.
But in many ways, that plant is pulling up
a specific nutrient to the surface of the earth
to provide a successionary platform
for the next level of plants to come in.
So it starts with swamps and brassicas,
and then it moves all the way up into monster conifers
and redwoods where you're having a fungal to bacteria ratio
as high as 10,000 fungi to one bacteria
versus in a riparian system,
you may have less than 1% fungi to bacteria.
In a traditional soil system for ag,
we tend to look for a one-to-one relationship
between fungi to bacteria.
But this is all the foundation of pushing soil
into a more healthy, productive system.
Again, if you're missing some of the kingdoms,
perhaps you don't have any fungi,
which is one of the most fragile of the organisms
in the soil system,
then your potential for growing healthy plants,
specifically like crops, is going to be such a challenge.
And this is exactly why we've gone down the spiral
of losing nutrition in our foods,
because we've wiped out the fungi through plowing
and applications of fungicides
and insecticides and herbicides.
And so they are a critical component
to keeping the plant healthy,
mining nutrients, supplying those nutrients to the plant.
I mean, they do probably 50%
of the heavy lifting in the soil.
The other 50% would be the bacteria and the protozoa.
So the bacteria are controlled two ways.
One, if the plant is looking for a specific mineral,
it will excrete a certain exudate
to feed just that bacteria,
to grow them out as fast as they can
in anticipation of needing a certain mineral
shortly or immediately.
And so that plant has a choice.
It can grow them out.
And if the protozoa don't show up and start consuming them
and releasing that nutrient back to the root
in a plant available form,
the plant can just shut off that exudate
and essentially starve them out.
And this is another really kind of unique
or cutting edge understanding of exudates.
So if a plant leaks out a whole bunch of exudates
and there's nobody there to accept it
because of such poor soil health,
it's excreting this one for it needs a potassium.
So it's excreting a cookie
specifically for a potassium solubilizing bacteria
and no one's showing up.
What happens to those exudates?
So there's a gentleman that created a new testing standard.
I believe his company's out of Maine.
I do not know the name of the company,
but he's found a way to actually measure extra
or excess exudates in the form of volatile carbon.
So volatile compounds are like terpenes or perfumes,
flowers, they don't last long.
They'll smell vividly for a period of time,
but that's why they're called volatile
because they evaporate, they disintegrate,
they break down very quickly.
So this volatile organic carbon source
is really interesting in determining
how balanced that soil system is.
So if you have a very balanced soil system,
you're not gonna have much of that.
But if you have an out of whack soil system,
which the vast majority of the surface of the earth
is out of whack at this point,
you are going to have a buildup of that excess
volatile organic exudate.
And so what does that mean?
Where is that going?
And probably not in a direction that's beneficial
unless we have a horizontal gene transfer
and a couple of different types of bacteria
learn to eat this specific exudate
and then perhaps start performing other processes
that the plant can accept or use or are beneficial.
So Craig, maybe you could expand a little on that.
Yeah, definitely.
And I think kind of what I mentioned earlier
was that I think I talked about
the bacterial fungal reactions.
So it's kind of crazy,
because I think previously on the kind of soil food,
we talked about how, yes,
there is plant bacteria interface,
there's plant fungal interface.
However, the reality is there's even interface
where it's plant to fungi to bacteria.
So it's the kind of the factor is that
you're getting kind of these exponential effects
when you do have the additional diversity.
And so, yeah, like the reason why like,
fungi, we've diminished them is because
when we're talking about fungi,
we're talking about primarily filamentous fungi.
We're talking about fungi that actually have these
long strands of hyphae,
which make these mats of mycelium.
Yeast or fungi as well.
They can form filaments and hyphae in some cases,
but usually they're budding.
They usually play a much larger role
in the kind of earlier stages in soil development,
especially with certain types of fermentation
to make certain nutrients available.
However, through the over tillage,
you're breaking up these hyphal filaments.
And even in the soil, there isn't just mycorrhizal fungi,
there are saprobes, decomposer fungi
of a whole different varieties
and even different types of secondary
and tertiary decomposers.
So the idea is through this over tilling of our soils,
one of the, some of the earliest kind of recordings
of journals of basically Europeans
that came over to the Americas
were basically recorded more so
that they were blown away by how fertile the soil was,
given the fact that in Europe, I believe Europe,
in Europe, it was clear cut by, I think by 500 AD,
where they destroyed most of their old growth
over there as well.
So this kind of led to a number of,
number of socio-political stratifications as,
through mismanagement of soil that carried over.
So they continued on their notion
of how they went about agriculture,
whereas indigenous peoples in the Americas
were practicing a variety of different types
of cultivation of foods,
but also predominantly wanted to know
was kind of this agroforestry,
understanding that you weren't,
didn't necessarily had to plow down an entire thicket of wood
that you could do neat, nice rose crops,
and you can plant into systems to make them work.
And even to have guilds of plants
that work together as well.
So it's something that we're, we need to,
we're starting to realize how damaging and detrimental
the methods of agriculture are.
And even to the reality is compost is great,
but if you still practice tillage,
you're still gonna have the same problem.
You're still gonna get getting returns
that are a fraction of what they could be
if we minimize disturbance of the soil as well.
And understand that you're maximizing this biodiversity
by not over disturbing them as well.
And there are certain conditions
where you do have to do certain things,
but the idea is whenever you do disturb the soil,
you need to be giving it back to it
with a combination of organic matter
and the right kind of inoculum
that is going to be restoring that diversity
that might have been impacted by that disturbance.
I know it as well about percentages of biomass
of exudates going down to the soil.
What's really exciting is a lot of this research
has recently been done by Dr. Dave Johnson.
He, I think he's based out of New Mexico,
but he also does work out of Chico State
in California as well.
So his background has been in molecular biology as well.
So a big part of him is he started investigating
how to solve the problem of basically cattle manure
that was incredibly high in salt load.
If your most cattle is fed feed
that has lots of salts in it
and this concentrates even further in the manure
so much to the point where the concentration of salt
is so high it'll actually burn your plants if you apply it.
So he was looking into ways that he could make compost
and ways that you could compost these dairy manures
that often were too, basically the salinity content
was so high it would throw off
most kind of aerobic composting systems.
So I think most people have heard about
the Johnson-Sue bioreactor.
Pretty much it's a static aerated compost pile.
So pretty much it's similar to the standing cylinders
of hardware cloth that Dr. Lane has set up as well.
But the notion is it's significantly higher
mostly kind of to fit the yield of the compost.
But the idea is you have a central tube
going down the middle.
So the idea is that not one single point of the pile,
there isn't a distance further than one foot
for fresh air exchange.
So the idea is this could sit here
for the greater quarter year mixed in the proper proportion
and basically slowly decompose
but it would be incredibly rich fungal compost.
Even further could be taken even more,
like keeping seed at the process by adding basically worms
by kind of having this static passively aerated
Burma compost as well.
So some of the work he did on this as well
was by basically doing some genetic sequencing on it.
Not just DNA sequencing, but RNA sequencing.
So anyone who isn't familiar to identify organisms
will do DNA sequencing.
So we're looking at basically their bases,
their genetic code.
However, DNA is more so just the storage molecule.
What actually allows you to basically synthesize proteins,
the instructions for it is actually RNA.
So you kind of simple way to kind of analogy
give for this when anyone doesn't have a background
in molecular biology or biochemistry.
Think about DNA is like the recipe book, right?
Let's say you have a mother or grandmother
who has like a recipe for like cookies,
chocolate chocolate cookies.
However, let's say you want that recipe.
Let's say the recipe books like a family heirloom,
it's not really flown out too often.
So that book is pretty important.
So you would jot down that recipe on a note card, right?
You would basically transcribe it onto a note card.
So that note card, right?
It's handwritten, it can have tears
and you can get spill some coffee on it.
It's fine, it's a note card.
But then you would still,
you would allow you to basically turn that recipe
in the note card into the cookies, right?
You'd be able to translate it.
So we can think about the DNA being like
the heirloom recipe book.
We can think about RNA being the trans,
basically the transcript of the RNA being like the note card
and that RNA will be translated into a protein as well.
So one thing with kind of this omics approach,
omics refers to basically looking at the genome
in different kinds of way, whether it DNA, RNA,
you can look at the proteomics or even the metabolomics
and we'll get into that tonight.
But the idea is if you look at the transcripts,
you look at the RNAs,
you can see what genes are being expressed
to code for certain proteins.
So Dr. James Johnson showed that
in some of these advanced composts
that had maximum biodiversity,
the highest number of genes being expressed
for quorum sensing.
So quorum sensing is a fancery word for basically saying,
okay, who's home and who's around
so we can buddy up and do things together, right?
It's like someone calling out in a room like, hey, yo,
and you'd basically be able to communicate
with your friends, your colleagues
who they're in a crowded room
where you may be able to work with other people
or maybe not who's there.
So this is essential
because you're actually seeing these huge shifts
in intermicrobial communities interactions, right?
And one kind of thing that's amazing to think about
is that you as an individual, right?
You as a person, a human being, right?
We tend to think of ourselves as a single entity.
However, we're 35 trillion cells.
Every cell in your body has the same DNA.
However, every cell in your body,
there's roughly around 300 cell types.
Of those 300 cell types,
each one of those cell types expressing
a certain part of that genome.
That's basically what allows a photoreceptor cell
in your eye to be a rod, right?
To basically receive, basically detect photons
and translate that into a notion of light
reflecting off something in the environment
that would tell your brain that's what it is.
Or let's see an epithelial cell in your stomach
that actually is able to secrete
digestive enzymes and acids, right?
So it's pretty important
that you wouldn't want a photoreceptor cell in your eyes
or acting like an epithelial cell in your stomach, right?
So this is really important
for this kind of expression of certain parts of the genome.
Realize that these microbial consortiums,
they're not just there.
They're not just doing things.
They have these huge interconnections,
intercalations that we are only beginning to understand.
Anyway, so big loop back,
we talked about the efficiency of exudates, right?
Layton mentioned earlier that, you know,
these plants they're putting down
upwards of 70% of their exudates,
the sugars they produce during photosynthesis
down in the root system.
What's amazing,
what some of Dr. Gabe Johnson research showed
is that when you have an established microbial community,
the plant is initially putting down those exudates
down in the soil to attract the microbes it needs.
Once it has them,
and it's actually established
that microbial community and biodiversity,
it will then reduce the amount of exudates,
put it down in the microbial community,
and then start focusing on putting those resources
into its shoots, its stems,
its leaf and its fruit development.
So this is the thing about it.
Like the plant is a plant that does not have to try
to struggle to survive.
It has support of its microbial community.
So this is the thing about it.
Like, you know, it's kind of like a broken record,
talking about microbes,
but we've only just barely begun to scratch the surface
of how deep this goes.
But the notion is that the principle is simple,
understanding that maximizing diversity is important.
And we can try only,
we have means and methods
to try to get an intuition about this.
So this is kind of why it's pretty thrilling
to talk about this stuff
because we're really at a point in history
where for the first time,
using genetic techniques of a whole variety,
they're becoming even more affordable.
And then we're able to even have
the processing computation power
to process all this data that we're sequencing
and make connections between what it means in the real world.
God, now you guys know what it's like
to chop it up with him on Fridays, him and Lee.
Woo, we go down rabbit holes.
Yeah, Peter, I'm glad you got this one on tape too.
So yeah, you know,
the question that came up today in today's podcast
was who's in charge?
You know, we think of ourselves as individuals,
and we think that we have the power
to make decisions about the direction of everything
that we come in contact with in our life.
But is it really a message that we're receiving
from a cellular level that's determining our actions
and our courses of actions?
And it's a hard one.
It goes back to the question of where does the soil end
and the plant start?
You know, it's a deep one.
And again, it's a very exciting time to be alive
and have access to these kinds of information
and discoveries on such a grand level.
You know, and again, the human race,
you know, we're driving this potential
for incredible breakthroughs as a result of a community,
not as an individual.
And, you know, that's again, kind of, you know,
a deeper perspective of the challenges that we have
as well as the potential we have.
I speak a lot about plant potential and how to reach it
because again, that's the goal.
We're either trying to get buds from a cannabis plants
or orange from an orange tree.
And how do we, how do we reach that?
And how do we protect the tree or the plant
and encourage it to produce more of the things
that we want?
Well, the only way to do that is through community.
So again, like everybody coming together
and working in unison to support a system
that they believe in and helping establish
that healthy plant to help produce more nutrient dense
by-products or secondary metabolites
that we're looking for.
And so, you know, again, I love how we are diving down
a greater rabbit hole than just a simple conversation
about living soil.
But I think it's important that we do this
because this is giving, or it's expanding your mind,
opening your eyes, opening your ears to the fact
of how insignificant one little bacteria
is in a huge community.
And again, you know, there's succession.
And, you know, this is yet to get really studied hard
that, you know, it takes a village.
It takes this whole community to function
through building biofilms, to support breakdown
of different minerals and nutrients for the next level
of successionary biology to take hold.
And again, pushing the whole system forward
in a manner that your end result,
you're hitting full plant potential or full expression,
genetic expression of that plant or animal for that,
but lack of better words.
You know, again, you know, it's like healthy plants,
healthy consumers, healthy people.
And so, you know, this is why this conversation
is so important at this point in time is that,
you know, we've got a lot of issues
that are pretty damn obvious to most people
that don't have their head buried in the sand
about how to get human health back on track.
And the only way that we're gonna be able to do that
is to start rebuilding healthy environments,
healthy water, healthy food.
And that in turn will drive a better genetic expression
of each of the individuals that are exposed to those things.
And in turn, drive the whole system in a better direction.
You know, I get very, very frustrated with humanity
as a whole because we keep making this same damn mistake
for thousands and thousands and thousands of years.
I mean, I don't know the latest,
the articles keep coming up that, you know,
we're potentially as old as a million years,
the first earliest human beings.
And yet we had the most incredible potential as a species
used to do amazing things,
but yet we're governed by power and money,
corruption and greed that's driven us to a point where
at this point, we're almost all virtual slaves
to a system that we can't see, smell or touch.
Kind of like the matrix, we're just batteries
in a larger body or organism.
And you know, that's frustrating
because we are not at our full potential,
nowhere near our full potential.
I mean, the things that we could have done
with all of the money that was spent on just warfare
would be mind boggling.
The evolution that we could have become
without killing each other or creating forces,
you know, it's mind boggling.
And so at some point, you know,
I pray that humanity learns this valuable mistake
that they keep making about perhaps wanting to be
in charge or in control and how power corrupts
and absolute power corrupts absolutely to the point where
no matter what, you're not gonna let go
of your reins of power, regardless of what it means
to the civilization that is underneath you
and the community that's around you.
Sorry, I didn't mean to go down that rabbit hole,
but I think that it's an important conversation to have
to think about when you're talking about soil health
and protecting that diversity and that community
from repeating the same mistake that humanity has done.
You know, encouraging diversity
in any way you possibly can and never stopping.
You know, soil is always there to be added to
and enhanced with minerals or with biology or with compost.
And, you know, that's where you're going to get
that full potential or full genetic expression.
So one other little tad bit on the Johnson Sue,
the other reason that gentleman came up with
just using pure manure, which I think Craig mentioned,
but I wanted to just kind of send that home
was because traditionally you just compost straight manure.
It's going to get stinky and hot really quick,
but he's in such an arid environment
with so little humidity that it's almost impossible
to compost in a traditional manner
without using a tremendous amount of water resources.
So that was another one of the goals that he set out to do
was to take a by-product, a waste product,
and convert it into something that was valuable
in that temperate or tepid, or what does it say?
Extremely arid climate.
Now, Arizona and New Mexico weren't always arid.
It was an unfortunate consequence of the pioneers
moving across and coming into these gorgeous,
rich eight foot high hay fields and say,
wow, this is amazing, I can grow anything here.
And of course, what they didn't realize
was when they cut that hay down and tilled the soil,
they were exposing that fragile soil system to evaporation.
And of course, wind.
Wind is one of the quickest ways to dry out humidity.
And so quickly that incredibly fertile soil
became transported into dust,
and then later into dust bowls in the early 20s
because of this incredible pressure
to take down what nature had created
to successionary get to where it was.
So the system is as incredibly big
and as powerful as it seems,
is actually very, very fragile
when it's exposed to forces that can be very destructive.
Plows, early plows with horses and then tractors.
And it's staggering how much earth you could move or till
in a matter of hours nowadays
with some of the equipment that is available.
And we've got to stop that.
We've got to stop the tillage
and start getting into this roll and crimp manners
or methods so that we don't lose
that incredible powerful organic matter.
So quick brief discussion on soil horizons.
Soil horizon system is basically showing us
how those soils were formed.
And earlier I touched on the vast majority
of soils are transported.
So that means that they were blown or washed
into a profile.
And the reason that profile functions so well is twofold.
One is the plant interaction,
but also because it was transported slowly.
It wasn't just scooped up and dropped.
It was able to create micro pockets,
encourage biology bacteria specifically to create biofilms
and start bonding those particulate together
in creating micro aggregates,
which then as that species of bacteria evolved,
more and more communities came in
and the process kept going.
So to think that we can just scoop some soil
and throw it in a raised bed or in a garden
and expect it to just take hold and go crazy
is rather insane if you think about it.
And so I think that we with a till could literally disrupt
perhaps thousands of years of soil being transported
to build that incredibly soil profile is horrified.
And the most fragile part of the soil profile
is the surface, which is called the overrides
and O stands for organic matter.
So in a rainforest that overrides
it may only be an inch deep, maybe less in some places.
People often think that the most fertile places
on the planet are the rainforest and they're not,
they're the most fragile.
The most fertile soils on the planet
actually America has two thirds of them.
Two thirds of our country has the andesols
and hydrosols I think it is.
It's been a while since I studied my soil science.
But anyway, so those two soil profiles
are the most fertile soil profiles in the world.
And two thirds of our country are covered by them.
And since then we've plowed them all up
and turned them around and obviously
caused some serious damage.
So how do we reverse that damage?
And that's part of this living soil conversation
is how to cost effectively turn that around
and start pushing it in the opposite direction
toward soil health and building of that organic horizon.
That is the first thing to blow or wash away
when you don't have any cover or any crops
or any, if you have bare soil.
I was present during a couple of really strong
Santa Anas out here and I could literally
watch the dust clouds come in.
And it almost made me cry to think that,
you know, my God, why are these fields all just bare?
If anyone doesn't know Oxnard is probably
one of the biggest agricultural communities anywhere.
And the reason why is just because of
the incredible fertility of the volcanic soil,
the amazing amount of micro climates
where the moisture from the ocean
is driven up into the valleys through convection.
So the heating of the deserts and mountains,
the air rises and drawing in that beautiful,
cool, moist air that's loaded with all the micronutrients
from the salt air.
And so, you know, of all places in the world
to not let that happen would be right here.
And yet it is prolific, the amount of fields
that are left bare and not cover crops.
So it's kind of a horrifying thought,
but this is the reason why I'm screaming
as loud as I am around here to try to get people
to start thinking in a different manner
on how best to start rehabbing
and moving this in a better direction.
So I don't know if there's any questions out there.
We probably ought to reset the room.
My name is Leighton Morrison.
I'm a soil biologist, soil engineer.
I'm trying to educate the masses
as to better ways to utilize soil
and push ecology to full plant potential,
healthy food, and start cleaning up the water source.
And Craig, why don't you go ahead and introduce yourself?
That was great, Leighton.
Thanks for sharing all that.
Definitely want to add to it,
but I'll just reset the room and click as well.
My name is Craig Truster.
I'm an applied mycologist, citizen scientist, and educator.
A lot of my background is in fungi.
I got into studying fungi.
For those unfamiliar, mushrooms, mycelium, mold.
I always think back to kind of the Egon quote
from the Gressbusters.
Do you have any hobbies?
I collect mold, spores, and fungus.
But also the larger approach
rather than just kind of taxing on a classification.
But yeah, a lot of my focus was more so interested
in bioremediation, given the fact that
organisms have an incredible potential
to generate, utilize the sun's energy,
mostly from plants, store that in organic content,
and then use these metabolisms
to basically detoxify their environment, break down
organic contaminants and mobilize inorganic contaminants,
change them in states which they're mobile
or change them into redox states
where they're just not even biologically available.
So fungi was kind of that branching.
Once I heard of bioremediation, but then micromediation,
I'm sure everyone's kind of seen the Paul Stamets talk.
That was several years ago
when I kind of had my first viewing of that.
And definitely where I was mushroom or mycocentric,
I really kind of dove into soil and learned that fungi,
albeit they are the architects of the soil,
they set the stage for so many other organisms,
which in the synergistic effect kind of
do mind bending things.
So it's pretty amazing that capacity as well.
So currently I'm working with a number of organizations
in New York City, trying to bring a number
of regenerative farming methods to urban agriculture.
I think a lot of people have done amazing work
in kind of rural or suburban areas
and it grows indoors or commercial.
But I think really to show the strength
of regenerative agriculture is the notion
that it can be done at a smaller scale,
even in the environments most people think
would be impossible.
So I think that's kind of the future as well.
I can definitely talk more about that.
But yeah, kind of elaborating on what Leighton mentioned
earlier about the notion of geology
and different soil types, especially with soil chemistry.
We are kind of experiencing the world
based upon the ecological snapshot, right?
You know, ecology is coming go based upon events.
These can be disturbances that basically have errors.
We even classify time based upon geological time, right?
So the geological time right now is the Holocene.
We're now think we're entering the Anthropocene,
which is the fact that we've had a prolific effect
upon our environment.
But we're just in the blink of the eye
of the kind of the earth's history.
And every single ecological setting
is preset by a geological setting.
We think that modern humans kind of like started
domesticating plants and animals,
given the fact that in Africa, it was understood,
I believe this is still a current hypothesis or theory,
that the entire continent north where the Sahara was,
was green.
So our ancestors more so meandered as we followed animals.
And then there was a sudden shift in climate
and more so this desertification, this erratification.
So we started setting up shop here,
estuaries and bodies of water,
learning how to domesticate certain types
of plants and animals.
So this is something too, is that as a species,
you know, our eldest simian ancestors
were we kind of separated from, you know,
other simians, other great apes.
We understand it to be several million years ago.
Modern humans, I believe, two to 300,000 years ago.
And estimate that we domesticated plants and animals
around 17,000 years ago.
But this is just a blink in the eye
compared to the grand scale, the geological timescale.
So even let's kind of go back to the rainforest, right?
The rainforest is such a place that is so alive
due to the warm temperature
and the abundant amount of rain.
You know, most organisms, right?
You know, you gotta perform some kind of work
to generate energy to keep you going.
However, if the ambient temperature,
the heat energy available in the air is already pretty high,
hey, that's less work you gotta do, right?
And this is something we kind of take for granted
with warm-blooded.
But if you've ever seen a lizard sitting out
on basically a stone on a hot day, they're cold-blooded.
They require upon the environmental energy that's there.
And the same thing for microbes as well.
And this also can set the entire ecology and environment.
So while everything is lush and growing as well,
the minute a leaf falls on the ground
or organic matter is available,
it is being consumed by some consortium
of organism, microscopic or macroscopic.
And even further, what's really amazing
is that most of the minerals that are available
for the rainforest are actually coming
from these dust storms that basically
blow across the Atlantic.
So in Africa, in Central Africa, in Chad,
there was a once a great lake thousands of years ago.
And it's a salt flat.
It's really amazing because they're finding fossils
of like alligators and hippopotamuses and fish.
And this lake dried up and these animals are trapped in it
and they're not getting dried out,
but the nutrient rich salt flat,
along with all the nutrients in the carcasses and bodies
in Lake Chad blows over the Atlantic Ocean
over to the rainforest.
And it's pretty amazing because all those minerals
that are there being deposited with the wind.
And this is a notion too.
This is, you could even consider aerogeology,
which is kind of mind blowing, right?
Because the reality is that in a place,
the rainforest where everything is so growing so rapidly,
where the soil is so poor,
you have these amazing situations.
I think there's even been done some research
that basically lightning storms
that actually do hit in the rainforest.
Well, the energy from the lightning storm
will actually allow nitrogen fixation,
basically be sped up.
So there's all these processes by interactions
between the abiotic conditions,
whether it's weather, wind, transportation
with the biotic conditions.
So yeah, the thing is the best way
to kind of approach these things is to understand that,
and this does sound a bit cliche,
but everything is connected.
But the notion is that to think in a dynamic non-linear way,
you realize how big these things are,
that you are merely part of a much larger structure.
The best metaphor I can talk about is that
if you ever spent some time on YouTube
or read about Benoit Mandelbrot,
or you had a college roommate
that had a cool fractal poster, right?
The thing about fractals is that it's really hard to say
where one thing is.
If you're zoomed into one section,
it's hard to know where you are in this kind of structure.
It's so immense and big,
and it reiterates upon itself motif.
And much like that in our world, on our planet,
pretty much everything is so intricately connected.
We tend to forget that,
but it's hard to kind of like,
you say like, where do I end and you begin in that notion,
especially too when we're getting down
to all the different types of life,
they're able to occupy a certain niche, position,
opportunity, collaboration, interaction.
So that's kind of just a note to kind of,
kick the can down the road for conversation
if anyone's interested in any kind of questions,
comments, or what have you.
That was good, I love it.
Yeah, it's ironic that you talk about
how some of these geological events
basically laying waste to one incredible system
provide the foundation for the next one.
So an article I was reading in the last day or two
about the asteroid strike near the Yukon Peninsula,
and I think it actually formed it,
called for Mexico as the strike zone,
wiped out the dinosaurs,
but laid the foundation for the Amazon rainforest basin.
And so, these kinds of events that happen naturally
through interactions within the structure of the planet
or outside influences in the case of an asteroid,
we could talk about Mount St. Helens and what happened there,
basically devastated, I don't know how many thousands
of acres when that went off.
And then within three to five years,
it came back with a vengeance.
But you have to understand there was clearly a biological
and plant shift when that happened.
So these kinds of resets are critical
in continuing the succession or evolution
of the system as a whole.
And I loved your comment on fractals.
I mean, yeah, if you really look at a fractal,
you don't know where it begins or where it ends.
It just keeps going, it's a wormhole.
And I'd love to go down wormholes tonight,
but probably a little too late to do that.
But folding of time and whatnot.
I did see some buddies out there.
I pinged a couple of you.
Looks like you guys are gone, unfortunately.
All right, Joe's there.
If Joe, you would like to come up and talk,
please don't hesitate.
Yeah, and there are also a lot of regenerative farmers
and natural farmers in the crowd tonight.
So if anyone wants to come talk about kind of
what they're working on right now,
what they're experimenting with,
share it with everyone, that'd be kind of cool.
All right, welcome up, Joe.
Joe, please introduce yourself.
Much love and respect, my man.
Hey, thanks so much, Leighton, Craig and Peter.
I always love you guys' conversations.
I learned so much just listening to you guys.
Hey, hello everyone.
My name is Joe McGinn.
I'm over in Honolulu, Hawaii,
and I have been so fortunate to have learned a method
of regenerative agriculture that is, I believe, right now,
probably one of the fastest growing forms of agriculture
in the world right now.
That's referred to as Korean natural farming or KNF.
And essentially the system uses no chemical fertilizers,
no chemical poisons.
We use simple household items like rice and brown sugar
to culture indigenous microorganisms
and also to be able to do incredible, incredible things
like have odorless livestock,
to be able to produce our own fermented feeds
and to also be able to detoxify and revive our soils
through the power of these microbes,
in addition to a whole arsenal of different tools
that we have within the system.
So I love always listening to Leighton speak
because he provides the science
behind some of these cultural practices
that we've had here in the Asia Pacific region
for generations.
So it's bringing opportunities like this
to for us to have discussions,
allows us to bring the culture and science together
and see and understand things in new ways.
I just really grateful and thanks so much guys.
I love the conversations.
Awesome.
Thank you, Joe, for coming on up.
Johnny, how's it going?
You wanna introduce yourself?
I think you've been on before.
It's my, I apologize.
I've been super busy getting this new project going
in the past few weeks, but love to hear about
and then maybe I can, we can stoke the room with a question
and kick on the conversation
for the last bit of our session tonight.
Go ahead, Johnny.
Hey guys, I'm Johnny.
Currently living in Humboldt County, California
and really appreciate all the info
you guys are dropping here.
It's a pleasure to be listening.
So I actually have a question on brassicas
and their relationship with fungi in the soil
or rather their lack of relationship.
I was having an interesting conversation earlier
with someone who advised not to make a fermented plant juice
which is a, it's a formula used in Korean natural farming
but essentially he was advising not to make
a fermented plant juice out of running the risk
that you could damage some of your fungal associations
in the root zone.
I was wondering what your guys' take on all that was
or would be.
So I'm still, I'm still, I'm a student of Chris Trump
and I'm definitely learning as much as I can
about natural farming, but I can definitely answer
the question about brassicas
or cruciferous vegetables and fungi.
So yeah, and then we can kind of go down the notion
of anyways, more experience at using, fermenting them
for certain uses of benefits or disadvantages.
Anyway, so currently we've probably heard this before
kind of a soundbite that gets repeated, which is great.
It's really important.
So we currently understand that upwards
about 90% of all plants have some kind
of fungal relationships, some kind of mycorrhizal
association, either as a arbuscular mycorrhizal,
fungi that do not produce fruiting bodies
that make these small spores on their actual mycelium
or a ectomycorrhizal relationships.
These are fungi that actually grow on the outside sheets
of the plants and there's a whole bunch of them as well.
But so it's currently thought, so the simple notion
is that you can, it's, you can count the plants
that don't have mycorrhizal relationship than do.
However, what's really interesting is that
in the past few years, we started investigating
something called dark septate endophytes.
And what's really interesting is that we previously thought
that these were, you know, certain structures
inside the plants were some types of endophytes
may bacteria, but it turns out they are indeed fungi.
And they actually do include into the brassica
and the cruciferous plants, the brassicas.
So even further, the number continues to increase
the margin of plants that do not have a fungal connection,
whether it be a, in our, but in an endomycorrhizal
and ectomycorrhizal or even a dark septate endophyte
is that as well.
So to my current understanding of those plants
that were classed, thought not to have an association do,
but it was under a different notion that required
a different staining technique to see them
in that function as well.
So just to provide some basis on that fungal plant
relationship and association.
You know, that is a great question, Johnny.
You know, it's like crabgrass, all right.
So crabgrass has an amazing ability to excrete an herbicide
out of its roots as an exudate.
And that's how crabgrass can take hold
and get out of balance, get out of control in situations,
especially where you have high nitrogen or ammonia,
synthetic fertilizers, you've got heat
and very shallow roots.
The crabgrass grows horizontally, it does not grow down.
So it's basically a, it has the ability to colonize
and push out the other competition
because its roots go horizontally
and it can create this exudate
that's essentially a herbicide.
So my gut feeling is that, and again, I don't,
this is anecdotical, but my gut feeling is that
the brassicas have a similar strategy
for keeping the fungi at bay.
And therefore maintaining their bacterial dominant soils.
There's probably gotta be some work on it.
And it does make sense that fermenting it,
you would probably be encouraging the growth
of the bacteria that's perhaps performing that task
of consuming those exudates
and continuing to push back the pressure.
But it also could be due to the fact that most brassicas
like a different soil system.
Now, the ones that we've cultivated in the case of kale,
it's a little different.
So in a tradition or in a existing ecosystem,
most brassicas are grown, growing in a riparian system,
which is going to be very low oxygen.
And so they're gonna be associated
with what we call either oxygen or low oxygen tolerant
or facultative anaerobes,
which are also kind of pushing that system forward.
But it might be interesting to actually take a plant
like kale, which is a dynamic accumulator and juicing it
instead of fermenting it.
So now what you've done is,
and you know what I mean by juice, I mean an auger press.
So you're squeezing out the peptides, the enzymes,
the metabolites, all of the cell juices or easy water,
all of the things inside.
I would tend to think that that would be an incredible value
to an existing, whether it's a cannabis plant
or another crop, because you're not having
the association of the exudates,
you're not having the association of potentially
the anaerobes that are fighting off this fungal association,
but you are getting all of the hard work
that that plant did to uptake those nutrients.
And again, feeding plants plants is way easier
on the expenditure of energy currency,
ATP in the plant itself.
So it's a great question.
I'm fascinated by it and I'm definitely gonna put that
on the radar to keep my out or reach out
to some people I know or chase down some papers on that.
Very cool question.
Thank you, John.
Is there anything?
I think there's a good amount of intuition we gather
from a number of people.
If you're ever curious, or if you have any friends
that are actually herbalists, have a conversation with them.
I've worked with a number of powerful plants
that have a number of high nutrient profiles
and herbalism is pretty interesting.
It's different ways and ways of look at it for me,
either a bioscience model with nutrients and reduction
or kind of by adoption signatures or associations,
but still different plants.
They've evolved a strategy to accumulate
or process certain types of environments,
certain types of nutrients, certain types of conditions.
But on the brassicas note,
they're basically in the mustard family.
So in general, they're producing a number
of rich sulfur containing compounds.
This is often a kind of a defense strategy as well.
This is actually, I think a number
of beneficial antioxidants for us.
I think sulforaphane is one in general,
which can be basically help with a number
of age related processes and other kind
of stress related aspects to stimulate human health.
But yeah, understanding the plant,
what is its mechanism to help it survive
in certain environments?
What kind of compounds to produce it?
We tend to forget that, you know,
you know that basically the whole range
of basically cabbage, Brussels sprouts, kale,
chard, arugula, it's, you know, kohlrabi.
They're all part of this family
and they share some types of intributes.
And what's really interesting is that as human beings,
we've just domesticated them.
We've domesticated certain types of basically varieties
based on certain types of the plant of prominence
of making larger flowers, larger buds, larger leaves,
larger stems, larger roots.
So there are some, you know, some plants,
you know, brassicas is one of them.
They descend to basically all different,
they descend to basically all different,
these types of wild mustards that kind of were a slam dunk
for human cultivation,
probably because they were so easy to grow
even in marginal soils.
Wow, well said, Craig.
Yeah, and they provided nutrient in, you know,
so it was easy to grow in a low nutrient environment.
And yet, as we consume them,
we got the benefits of the minerals and nutrients
that they pulled out through their hard work.
So yeah, I hadn't really thought about, you know,
the level of domestication that we had done
through thousands of years,
taking crops that would grow in a riparian system
and pushing them into a production system
where we use them as staples.
So that was, thank you, Craig.
That was great.
Johnny, did you have a follow-up on that
or anything else you wanted to share tonight?
No, you guys kind of covered it.
I'm definitely going to be looking for more follow-up
on that in the future.
So far, what I've seen is kind of just,
it's like a mixed bag of answers.
Some people are under the assumption that it's,
it's more of like a defense mechanism for the plant
and it's not creating these compounds,
these antifungal compounds,
whereas other people kind of are.
So I'm definitely interested in seeing the development
and more research coming out.
And just brassicas in general, it is, as you were saying,
it's an interesting variety of plant
that just has so many different variations
that all stem from that wild mustard.
So yeah, thank you guys for chatting it up a little bit.
Appreciate it.
And Johnny, what kind of mad science experiments
are you doing right now?
And Joe as well.
Oh, I just, lately I've been doing some IMO piles
and been making lots of fennel FPJ,
which is one of my favorites personally.
It works great for the plants, but it's delicious.
It works good for ice cream topping and all sorts of stuff.
And yeah, I'm just making lots of IMO
and getting my yard ready for the planting
this in a couple of weeks here, actually.
Hey, super cool, Johnny.
I'm dealing with the not so fun side of farming,
but yet the exciting side where we're in escrow right now.
We're looking at taking over what was formerly
a certified organic aquaponic farm.
So that also has a GAP certified processing center.
So we're going through the,
that's sort of the in-between time.
Now we're not actually on there,
but we're working on developing the final agreements
in terms of how we set up a farm and how we function.
But our plan is to be able to revive the soil in this area,
maybe use some components of the aquaponics system.
There are fish tanks on site.
Our plan isn't to go full aquaponics,
but indeed to use the Korean natural farming tools
and techniques with whatever we grow there.
So hopefully we'll have some more exciting news
next time we talk story,
we can let you know about our progress in this new location.
Oh, Joe, I'm so excited for you.
Which farm is it?
And we definitely need to talk more
because the missing piece of the puzzle in aquaponics,
at least from what I've seen,
is the removal of suspended solids in the water column.
So when you have an incredible buildup of turbidity,
so that's particulate suspended in water,
you lower the dissolved oxygen,
you put stresses on the fish
so that they're not as vibrant.
When I've gotten to that sweet spot,
my water has this amber color to it
and the fish are flying around the tank.
They're so just happy and they come up and look at you
and they crash the food.
And I've been able to achieve that
with what's called radial flow solid separator.
I'll be more than happy to explain it to you.
And then you can take those solids that come out of that,
aerobically stabilize them, grow them out
and just absolutely bust the soil up crazy.
With those aquatic microorganisms.
So we will have a further conversation, my friend,
and congratulations.
And I'm counting on you to get that all done
and wrapped up, my friend.
Well done, well done.
So we have Thomas back up.
Thomas, do you have a question?
Please introduce yourself.
No, I don't.
I just came back to listen to you guys.
Thank you, you too.
Okay, great.
Johnny, yeah, that's good for you, my friend.
I'm always interested in these different types of FPJs
and the power of these different plants.
Each one is unique and individual
and provides a different volatile compounds
or volatile organic compounds like terpenes and smells,
but flavors as well.
So kudos to you and yeah, spring is here
and best of luck in this season coming up
and rock on brother.
And get the word out.
Thank you so much for coming up.
So we're at the...
Oh yeah, and if anyone is listening who maybe is younger,
kind of at the point where they're not sure
what to do with their career life,
interested in science,
one thing I think is desperately needed
is people to start doing science
on these regenerative processes.
You know, there's all this amazing anecdote
for such a wide variety of growers
that are doing living soil, soil food web,
natural farming, biodynamic, you name it,
but kind of having processes that document.
And this is the one thing where for what's desperately needed
for us to have standpoints to not so much go against
but examples to provide against conventional methods.
Because when a push comes to shove,
most procedures rely upon the reductionist models
of documentation, recording, reiteration.
And it's just currently how our society,
the structures that be evaluate and understand.
You know, I think in general, it's a blessing and a curse.
We've unlocked a huge amount of knowledge of the species
through these processes,
but kind of right now at this point,
we have the ability to interconnect and access
the widest amount of information ever possible.
It acquires a great deal of focus and attention, right?
There's a lot of information out there.
There's a lot of stuff that's flow up,
but also a lot of things.
And it's something that I think for a long time,
I found myself like, am I on the right mountain, right?
Am I climbing the right mountain?
And that's something too, I think a lot of people
kind of in the region kind of come together
while there's such affirming
and such exhilarating connections,
because you're searching for this deeper meaning
to understand the orchestra of nature.
But I think definitely with natural farming,
I know, I think Joe can mention probably,
there's been a fair bit of work done academically in Hawaii
and evaluating, but I think on the mainland,
there's a huge amount of opportunity,
especially people that are considered doing work
or even collaborating with your local extension
or people, agronomy students.
There are people that are graduate students
that need novel research to investigate.
And that's one of the big things
when someone signs on for a PhD,
it's not just about like qualifying,
taking exams and getting papers.
It's about literally contributing
something novel to science.
And I think there's a great opportunity to do that by,
if you're not in school right now or considering,
but if you're a grower making those connections,
because there's a lot of huge opportunities
and even potentially money
with a lot of these organic transition programs.
It takes about three years to transition
from conventional to organic,
but the cost if you're gonna be buying
conventional organic inputs,
you got a hole in your pocket.
Most of them don't make it.
So I think with natural farming,
a lot of these biocentric approaches, this is possible.
And I think the way we spread this
is by basically getting the attention
of the people that care about these transitions.
Currently the people have the best documentation,
the best lawyers, the best act together to function
in this bureaucracy of how our agriculture system works
are people that have conventional
and synthetic methods employed.
And I think that's a great opportunity.
Well, that was beautiful, Craig.
This has been a dream of Craig Leaf and I for a while.
And that is to bridge the gap between East and West,
between reductionist science
and anecdotal field conditions.
I am not a college graduate.
I was asked too many questions
and they didn't want me coming back again.
So I pushed on a level of field conditions.
I wanna see reaction.
I wanna see soil structure.
I wanna see plant reaction,
but I don't always have the science,
the reductionist approach to, well, how do I repeat this?
And this is the key.
This is why I started the Regen Conference with Joshua
four years ago was like, all right, you guys,
you know what you're doing, but you can't repeat it.
And that's the problem.
In order for me to teach,
I need to be able to repeat this over and over and over again
and that is the missing, that's the void.
That's the gap between science
and what's really happening in the field.
The scientific approach is, well, we could do it in a lab.
Cool, then we've proven it.
Well, no, nature's evolving, nature's in succession.
Nature is always in flux.
So it's very difficult to prove out what you can in a lab
in a controlled environment
in a completely chaotic and uncontrolled environment.
So this bridging of the field work
with the reductionist scientific fact proving
replicating ability of the educational
or university system would be freaking huge.
It's like my love, Pauline, who's staying in the allopathic,
the Eastern medicine or Western medicine system
while she's taking all natural herbs, refused cannabis
and suffered stage four ovarian cancer
which is a fucking death sentence.
All she did was take cannabis on high doses
and get hookup with an herbologist
and target her specific cancer,
her specific endocannabinoid system
and all of the information we know
about each and every one of these different herbs
and their medicinal purposes.
So to be able to do this with agriculture,
it's always been my dream.
I mean, every conference, every time I ever speak,
I pray the cannabis plant,
which is the most studied plant on the planet
in all ever human history is the bridge
that breaks down the barriers
between synthetic traditional ag
and regenerative organic practices.
And I truly believe that she has the power to do that.
And hopefully, as time progresses, the stigmatism,
the programming of how bad cannabis is
and gateway drug and all this other shit,
man, we all have endocannabinoid systems.
We never would have evolved to this point
if we weren't supposed to be consuming THC and CBD
in responsible doses.
I mean, it used to be consumed by our animals.
We used to consume the animals
and we used to have it as plants
and we mixed it in with herbs.
It's been used forever.
And then all of a sudden the system took hold
and took it away from us.
And so in many ways, I hope she's the end all answer
to take back the power of the system
that the biosphere actually is.
And awake enough humans to a point where we say,
you know what, enough is enough.
I'm gonna take back my power.
I'm gonna take back my responsibility.
I'm not gonna listen to the doctor and take that pill.
I'm gonna do the research.
I'm gonna do the work.
I'm gonna do the hard work
and understanding what's going on with my body,
what my problems are and where my system has broken down.
Not just treating a symptom,
but dealing with the root cause.
And so, yeah, Johnny, guys like you are critical
for the future in trying to connect
with these kids who wanna do good work
and replicate what's happening
in these regenerative, biodynamic, organic systems
and why it's working so well.
So it's six o'clock.
That was a real great, powerful ending.
I really wanna thank the audience
and everybody that participated and joined us tonight.
You know, we really enjoy this.
We'll be back every Thursday
from four to six Pacific Standard Time.
So please spread the word and join us.
And we look forward to next session.
So Craig, would you like to say any goodbyes?
Yeah, definitely.
I hope everyone's enjoyed and had a wonderful evening.
I'm in New York and it was beautiful and sunny outside today.
Pretty stoked after the better part of a year and change
kind of being an armchair jockey, reading.
I'm outside building composting setups
and soaking in the sunshine.
So I hope everyone's there too.
Get out, get some of that vitamin D.
Well, get some sunlight so you can synthesize the vitamin D.
You know, I'm sure someone could make a dick joke out of that.
But yeah, definitely wonderful to be here
and stoked to have this awesome community,
both on any variety of social media platformers
we may find ourselves.
All right, well, thank you very much, everybody.
And Peter, were there any last words from you, my friend?
I'm ready to go eat dinner, so no last words.
All right, I guess we'll count it down from 10
all in the room.
10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four,
three, two, one, later.
All right, that was, anyway, have a good night.
I was having fun with the grubs
that I found in the compost pile.
I was gonna do, so hold on, let me,
bear with me for one second while I get rid of the earbuds.
So I think it's interesting, like,
things that in small quantities are okay in your garden
and as they, Alex Hardy, how are you doing?
I think you and Craig could chop it up.
But like those grubs, I feel like
if there aren't a lot of them,
they're probably decomposers,
but if they get out of control,
they're probably damaging your plant.
I was gonna talk with Family Tree Seeds Tyler
just about kind of, it's like shit you find,
you know, I'm in SoCal,
so it's like what bugs are out right now.
The caterpillar are coming.
Yeah, I know, my wife definitely does not know that the,
I mean, these things are, hold on.
They're sizable.
I mean, they're like, it's like chopping a finger off
like this dude.
Yeah, the wife would not be happy if
she knew the weed and the bugs I had in the house.
But anyway, everyone have a good night.
A couple Robins to eat the,
I mean, I feel like a Robin would choke on those things.
Yeah, Cafe Bustelo is my go-to cheap coffee.
And then Don, if he's in the room or you know,
they've been sending me the good Hawaiian coffee,
which I've been grinding up the beans.
So anywho.
Yeah, I mean, the things are like the size of a,
yeah, no, Gemma is good at finding the caterpillar.
Ah, Steve, I am very excited for that.
I don't know what part of the world it's coming from.
Yes, I do need some good Maine beer.
I have right over there,
I have right over there, a fridge full of West Coast.
Actually, hold on, what am I drinking right now?
It's a Double Jack, Double IPA.
So anywho, we are shockingly with my Chinese wife
eating Chinese food tonight after Chinese food last night
and quite possibly Chinese food
the night before.
It's a minor miracle when I get to slide my Italian food in.
So tonight we got Chinese food on the menu.
All right, well, have a good night.
Yeah, I don't think I'll be back later tonight,
but God, I hope not.
Anyway, Chad Westport.
So I can't drop the surprise,
but I possibly have a very cool surprise
related to Can You Hear Me?
Oh, and Chad, we have, since you're here with me,
are you cool with some people
who wanna show their home grows
coming on the Home Grow Show?
And we could have like the viewer segment or something.
I can hear you.
Stoney Scott, yes, Steve, we can.
Let me Google it so I can see.
This is Steve's friend who is,
and crazily, there was a horrific car accident
today that when I was bringing Gemma to the,
I mean, literally on Santa Monica Boulevard,
like a regular street, one car blew through the stop sign
and literally flipped over the,
it T-boned the other car.
So this is Steve's friend.
Anyone wants to donate to that?
But yeah, no, I mean, I was literally looking,
like I actually went past the dentist
and then realized that it was on the right side
of the street versus the left side.
So I like made a U-turn and came back.
And as I was driving back,
actually, you know what I can do, Steve?
Let me, literally, I heard a screech
and I looked in my rear view mirror
and a car hit another car.
Flipped the other car over.
Wait, hold on one second.
And then I gotta go before I get yelled at for,
where are you?
Okay, so this is,
looks like a super sweet, nice guy.
Let me kill that.
I mean, I think the car going through the,
I think it was going pretty fast.
Brandon, you're two hours and 10 minutes late
to the conversation.
We're wrapping it up.
But CannaCon Oklahoma City is around the corner.
Is Brandon gonna be there?
Is Steve gonna be there?
Is Steve gonna be there?
Is Steve gonna be there?
Because I think we're gonna be there.
Although I still haven't heard back
from the people who run CannaCon.
Anyway, but yeah, I think,
oh, Brandon, you definitely need to come
if you don't know about it.
Hold on.
Hold on.
CannaCon OKC 2021.
All right, hold on.
South, that's not, oh wait, yeah, that is the one.
Why is that called CannaCon South though?
South OKC.
Okay, here we go.
So this is May 28th
at the exciting Oklahoma City Convention Center.
So anyway, that's,
is there like a, yeah, anyway.
I'm working on that.
Okay, Steve's gonna be there.
Is Brandon, no, it's not November, it's next month.
It's May 20,
all right, I don't know, it's, I hate, yeah, here we go.
May, well, all right, May 27th and May 28th.
Who else is in driving distance of,
but where's the November one?
Is that also in, is that a CannaCon in,
Steve, how far from Oklahoma City are you?
And Charles Freeman, where are you guys like,
yeah, so you should definitely go,
but what's the one you're talking about in November?
Is that also a CannaCon?
Coxarian, okay, I don't know.
I hear my wife upstairs.
So there's about one minute till I get yelled at.
Anyway, that's next month,
whoever's in that area, let's scheme.
Myriad Botanical Gardens, I don't know where that is.
Yeah, just Google CannaCon Oklahoma.
All right, I am out.
So everyone have a good night.
And Chittabob, is lobster on the menu tonight?
Yes, life is about playing defense against the unhappy wife
because then life's not so good.
So, all right, have a good one.
Johnny or John Gorski, I'm happy about that.
It's always a relief when shit arrives and lobster.
Yeah, I wish Chettor Bob had a more New Englandy accent,
but sadly he's not blessed
with the South Shore Rhode Island accent.
So anyway, all right, have a good night.
