Hello, hello everybody. Hope you are all doing well. We have another amazing, exciting conversation today about note-taking and stuff like that.
So, as you can see, I'm in the Blurple room, so I will get you right into that space right away.
So, without any further ado, let's get the daycow rolling. Hope you're all ready to go for another show.
Great show last night, too. That was awesome. Five hours of straight gold.
And of course, my computer.
My computer is being slow, so we do not have it up and running on that side quite yet.
So, I'm going to be over there in a second. Just give it a moment, everybody. Here we go.
Join.
If you click on their photo, they should have a...
Just click and make moderator.
Invite to speak.
It is about 30 degrees here in Michigan. It is bone-chillingly cold out.
So, I have that going.
It is not warm here in New Jersey either, but it is not true.
It's finally starting to warm up to minus 11 now.
It was like minus 25 earlier.
We're about 30 degrees warmer than you right now, Josh.
It was a whole night bombing eight, nine degrees here.
My greenhouse never got below 23. It's like 23 in my greenhouse right now.
It's raining. But it was a fucking brilliant day.
Wait. Who is talking Celsius and who is talking Fahrenheit?
It is 20 here Fahrenheit. I feel like I'm in a marine hole though.
It's like five degrees here in Canada.
Hey, RJ.
How is the prairie? How is it in the interior? Is it just as cold?
All right. Well, we'll get the show rolling because I doubt everybody that is here on YouTube
as well as coming into the channel as we speak, I doubt they are here to talk about the weather here.
So, without any further ado, let's get into it.
We have a fun conversation ahead and we have some other fun conversations coming up.
So, if you haven't already, do make sure to follow the people that are moderators in the room.
Follow the people next to you in the room, but also make sure to subscribe and like on the YouTube side.
But make sure to follow us up on YouTube and here as well.
We have a really cool series coming up and it's going to be a lot of fun because we're going to take it.
We're going to about every six to eight weeks, we're going to do a breeders feature episode.
And what we're going to do is a bring in a breeder to come in and chat with us.
We're going to go through the step by step process of how people select breeding, plan out their breeding,
then perform their pheno hunting, select their plants.
We're going to go through the entire process from start to finish in about one to two hour episodes every six to eight weeks.
So, if you want to take part in that and get in and do some breeding with the breeders, this is your opportunity to do so.
So, make sure to follow, make sure to click on me and check that show coming up in the next little while.
Actually, click on the club because it's coming up in the club in about February 8th.
It would be on Clubhouse and you all can see it as well on YouTube.
I have posted that the other day so you can set a reminder.
So, don't miss out on that because it's actually going to be a lot of fun.
I'm very excited for it, as you can tell.
Otherwise, I will shut up and get into today's subject because we do have a fun one.
We're going to try and make it as fun as possible because it isn't the most, you know, we all didn't go to school.
We didn't get into cannabis sometimes because we wanted to learn how to take notes.
But it is definitely a critical part of the process, taking notes, the scientific process,
understanding how to apply new products to our system so that we actually see whether or not we're getting benefits.
The critical things that make a critical thinker in the cannabis space.
So, we're really excited to talk about this because we've got a whole panel of experts that have a whole bunch of different opinions and angles on this point.
So, without any further ado, I'm going to allow the experts on the panel to introduce themselves.
Again, I'm just your host, London, and next to me is Ashley.
So, Ashley, Dr. Anubis, RJ, Anita, Josh, Corey, Johnny, in that order.
Hello, everybody.
My name is Ashley Hubbard.
I reside here in Michigan, and I am the director of cultivation for a fully aeroponic indoor facility.
Enjoyed the journey thus far.
I've been in the industry since 2014 after I got my master's in plant genetics, plant population genetics, excuse me.
And just been loving the industry ever since and looking forward to sharing some suggestions on helpful tips to take some notes along the journey.
Good evening, everybody.
I am Dr. Anna Schwabbe, and I am super excited about this discussion tonight.
A lot of people don't realize that they are inherently scientists, although some of us are classically trained to conduct science and take notes.
Everybody is a scientist.
You observe, you apply different methods, and you take what you've learned and you apply it.
So I'm super excited to actually like roll this into a ball and kind of give a little bit more structure to everybody out there who is just looking to add a little bit more to what they're doing.
RJ?
Hey, Sarah, I'm still in the lab.
Oops.
My name is RJ.
I am an extraction and process specialist and R&D technologist with Canada's leading third party extraction company.
Been involved with the plant for 20 years.
Super excited for this convo because I just started with my R&D team, so I am now doing science stuff every day and it's awesome.
So great, great convo.
Anita?
Hi, everyone.
My name is Anita.
I'm over in Ontario, Canada.
My area of expertise would be probably the marketing PR sales side of the cannabis industry in the Canadian market specifically.
But I am an amateur grower and love learning about growing techniques and my own little garden.
So I'm super excited about this discussion and am really looking forward to everybody's input.
And also a few of the brands that I've worked with over the last year really have this down as well.
So it's kind of interesting to see the behind the scenes where I get to take the products to market.
So this is really cool.
Josh?
Thanks, Anita.
My name is Josh Burke.
I'm also in Ontario.
I'm a grower, researcher, currently hash maker.
Worked in research and development for quite some time where the importance of note taking was definitely very apparent.
So yeah, it's awesome, by the way, RJ.
I didn't realize that you guys started on the R&D team.
That's awesome.
Can't wait to hear more about it.
Anyway, on to you there, Johnny.
Corey?
Hey, my name is Corey Russell.
I've been a cultivator of the plant for starting my 19th season this year.
I used to work in the largest indoor facility in Canada, 470,000 square feet.
And I have recently taken a wonderful position in the largest cannabis greenhouse.
I believe it's in North America.
Could possibly be the world.
We're currently operating at 2.2 million square feet and about to expand to 5.9 million.
And yeah, I just absolutely love the cannabis plant.
I've been an advocate and activist of the plant for a long time now.
I was rooted in California back in the good old days, in the early 2000s.
So always a pleasure to be here.
Excited to give any of my input as always.
And absolute pleasure to see you all on the panel for sure.
Much love to everybody.
Johnny, you're up, brother.
Hey, everybody.
My name is Johnny.
I'm a commercial cannabis cultivator.
I've been commercially cultivating for the last eight years.
And I'm just going to say these, even if you didn't get into cannabis to take notes and do the scientific method,
or you didn't think you were going to, you probably will end up doing it and researching and playing around with different things.
So this is going to be a great talk here in kind of streamlining that process for you.
So you can adapt your systems as you see fit and do your own tests in your house.
So thank you guys all for being here.
Thank you all.
The other guy, everybody else on the panel.
And it's a pleasure.
Take it away, London.
Well, I'm very excited.
So don't forget to check the description or join the club and all that fun stuff, because we have a lot going on.
We're going to get into this discussion right off the bat.
And I am throwing Dr. Anabas to the wolves immediately, because we're going to open this up on an area that I think is that we need to get into,
because we all have a lot of interest in it.
If there's one congruent fact throughout the cannabis space that I have noticed through every region, every person, every group,
because there are little stacks and cultures and groups that separate themselves out on their opinions and what it matters,
is we're all trying to just grow better.
We're all trying to just do better.
We're all just trying to improve from the year prior to.
So one of the methods and ways that we can do that is by sharing knowledge, because we don't necessarily have as much resources.
And a lot of these knowledge bases are cast around scientific papers and going through them.
So first and foremost, how exactly do we define what is a good paper to read?
And how do we know that this is a peer-reviewed piece?
Dr. Anabas, I'll let you get the ball rolling.
First of all, rude. Off the bat. Under the bus. No, I'm just kidding.
Okay, so yeah, there is so much information out there.
And honestly, like, trying to wade through it all, the internet, you know, discussion rooms, various business pages,
all have a lot of information on them.
Some of it is good. Some of it is not so good.
So, you know, if you, and some of it's really hard to read.
If you go straight for the scientific papers, for a lot of people, it's very difficult to read a scientific paper unless you, you know, have that, you know, background in science.
However, there are some really good informational resources on the internet.
And you can tell if it's a good resource or not, if they have links, either in the article or at the end of the article, to what they are referencing.
If they say, you can increase your biomass by doing X, Y, and Z, according to this study.
And then there's a link and you can click on it and it goes to a scientific paper.
That's a pretty good indicator that whoever wrote that article has done some actual research and knows a little bit of science or a lot of science.
And has picked it apart and it's kind of passing it to you in a more digestible fashion.
But that's not the end of the road. And that's not the, you know, like, oh, this is good.
You actually do have to like, I feel like, do click on those articles and actually try to figure out if those articles are saying what this person is also saying.
Which takes a little bit more in-depth effort and a little bit more knowledge.
But it's a really good indicator, at least for a novice, non-science person, that this has some good information.
Like, for example, there's a lot of information about tobacco mosaic virus out there in cannabis.
And I have scoured the internet and there's a lot of articles out there saying tobacco mosaic virus looks like this in cannabis.
They don't link to any article, like any research or anything that shows that tobacco mosaic virus actually shows up in cannabis.
And I have scoured the actual scientific literature and tobacco mosaic virus really doesn't affect cannabis, at least not to the extent that people are led to believe.
So that's the kind of thing you want to look for.
Yeah, I guess for a non-scientist person or somebody who's just starting out looking for information, I feel like that's a really good place to start.
But, you know, if you want to dive straight for the, you know, go for the science, you can go to Google Scholar, put in the search bar just like you do with Google.
But it's going to take you to scientific papers. So you put in something like cannabis, CBD, maybe like yield or whatever you're looking for, or, you know, light or whatever you're looking for.
And it'll pull up articles and there's usually a lot.
You'll usually run into a paywall where it'll say, if you want to read the rest of this, like you can read the abstract, if you want to read the rest of this article, you have to pay like $35.
Don't do that. Just either copy and paste the title or copy and paste the DOI number.
Then go to your regular Google search bar, put in Sci-Hub, click on Sci-Hub when that pulls up, and then put in your title there. That will take you to a free website where you can pretty much get any paper.
It's not always 100% that you'll get it. But most of the time, like I would say probably 90 plus percent of the time, you'll be able to get the paper that you're looking for.
There's a couple of other things, but that's like the main thing that I would say if you're looking for science stuff, that's how you get it.
There we go. There's the mic button. I am proud of finding you.
So I think that leads us right into, so we've identified a paper or an article that links a paper that looks, you know, it's from one of these desired locations.
It's got a reference. It's got all these doctors' names. And I have this complicated looking piece of paperwork.
Now, I believe like I'm not going to read this front to back like I would a novel typically because it's not going to, I might not get, you can, but it might not get as much value.
How would you as someone who has probably spent countless hours reading the scientific papers, Ashley, I'm going to jump away from you Anna because I already threw you under the bus.
Ashley, for someone who spent a ton of time reading these type of papers, how do you go about getting into this type of information?
So what I would always recommend is if you, so there is a lot more research coming out about cannabis.
That is one thing that I will say is very refreshing as a grower.
You know, what I would try to steer people away from just when looking up anything related to advice is steer clear of forums. Everybody's an expert on a forum.
So because you can go to Google Scholar, it's a really powerful tool.
And lucky enough, you know, people are now starting to get into the industry. So you can usually find something relating to the topic that you're looking for.
But you can, as Anna was saying, pull up under Google Scholar, the abstract.
The abstract is basically a summary of the paper, all the different sections of it summarized.
So before you really delve into reading that paper, I always recommend the abstract so you can get a good idea of what the summary of the paper is.
If you find that that's helpful to your topic, definitely take your time to read the intro.
If you're looking at kind of the helpful things after that, you can jump to the discussion or the results.
I would take a peek at see if there's any helpful graphs or pictures and then jump into the discussion and see if that full trial or research paper, what the end result was.
And if you can kind of see that that's helpful, then you can kind of tease apart the middle of the paper where they're discussing what methods they used and what the results were.
So you can kind of jump around when you're looking at a paper and really find helpful tips in those first couple sections.
So that is a really helpful way to kind of see how people have scientifically done it.
And you can kind of take some notes off of that and design your own experiment.
Ooh, I like where this is going. It's going just the right directions.
Now, Josh, as I'm familiar, you've done a lot of work in this kind of space and like tried to not sorry, not writing papers, but more like digging into papers and seeing how you can manipulate things.
Can you give an example of a paper that you found really relative and really helpful and that and why that paper was helpful in the way in which it gave you the information?
Hmm, that's a good question.
I don't know if I've I'm sure there's been one paper here or there that was a standout, but generally speaking, I would take a collection of papers.
And, you know, so like for tissue culture, for example, I, you know, I personally am not by any means an expert in tissue culture.
I dabbled in it and did some for a few months for a job.
You know, a few months for a job.
Did fine. But yeah, anyway, so the way I kind of learned with that was, you know, there was at the time maybe five or six papers on cannabis tissue culture.
And so, you know, you find them all and, you know, like Asha was saying, you'd go through the abstracts on them and see if, you know, they had anything that seemed like it would be relevant for your situation.
For myself, you know, I had to, you know, I was very interested in the results to see what they were able to achieve.
So I kind of in that situation, jump over to the results section, see if their results were something that I was looking for.
From there, you know, for myself, I was able to then jump to the, you know, to the methods portion to, you know, see how they did it.
Because there was so little information on tissue culture with cannabis that, you know, the many other plants you can just find a recipe for in literature that is going to work exceptionally well.
With cannabis, because, you know, it has such diversity and so much variation within, you know, the different cultivars and, you know, where they're from and everything.
They don't all work properly in tissue culture and by properly, I just mean consistently.
They all, you know, just as when we cultivate them, they have their own characteristics.
So, you know, being able to, you know, pull from all these different papers, you're then able to kind of see the different directions people were able to go.
And from that, I was able to, you know, kind of identify and see, you know, the different ways that cannabis reacted to these various hormones and stuff that were used in the tissue culture.
So, you know, using that, I was able to basically, you know, set up my own kind of recipe that I was able to work from and then, you know, work, you know, different sides and different angles from, you know, that recipe to be able to see what worked for different cannabis cultivars.
But yeah, so I think that group of papers would probably be one that really stood out for me that was very helpful.
Hey, London, can I throw something out there?
So I'd love to post probably one of the most helpful papers I've ever come across in this industry.
And it's talking about just pathogens and molds and things that can affect cannabis, which I think everybody can relate.
If I post that, that gives everybody kind of the ability to look at what I think is a really helpful and well-designed experiment.
And then that gives people time to kind of look through it.
And then if they had kind of any questions at the end, you dig that?
I fucking love that. Do you want to pop that? Do you know how to link it? Do you know how to link it in here? And I can link it over very easily to the Future Cannabis site.
I'll try to figure it out. I think I did last time.
If you just message it to me too, I can do that as well. I think that's really awesome. And I think you touched on a lot of awesome points there, Josh.
We're going to drop up that paper up in the top. I'm sure she'll pick one that isn't a terribly big-ass read.
And then I'll make sure to bring that over to the Future Cannabis site so you can dig into that if you have any questions later on.
But as we're on the subject, we're trying to move forward a little bit.
And because we're talking about scientific papers, I think the natural progress would be a lot of these scientific papers are based on what happens when something happens.
So say I apply humus and I apply folic. Now, before we get off of the papers and on to our next subject, I just want to ask Dr. Ana this.
Why do all papers seem to end with, we need to do more research?
That is a great question. So honestly, whenever, especially in a field that's not, I really want to say, that is not very big.
Well studied.
Well studied. I mean, people think that cannabis is well studied, but they don't understand, like, there's the plant in and of itself.
There's like the chemistry of the plant. There's the human endocannabinoid system, how it interacts with all of the systems in and cells.
It's like, so when you research, when you put into Google Scholar, like cannabis, it's going to pull up like a whole bunch of stuff that's not really relevant to horticulture, let's say.
And horticulture research in cannabis is very, very far behind because we haven't been able to grow it.
And for that reason, we haven't really been able to study it very well.
And so when we do these studies and we're allowed to do these studies under a structure like an academic facility or with a government grant or something, we're very limited in funding. Number one, space, resources, things like that.
And so we can do small studies with maybe one or two strains or maybe limited space where we can only grow, you know, maybe four strains with eight plants.
They're very small studies. And to really get good data, you want larger, you want larger sample sizes, larger numbers, which we haven't really been afforded as far as research goes with cannabis.
And so although there's a lot of studies, like Ashley said, that are coming out now, which are giving a lot of rigor to what we have previously thought or believed or have wanted to know about cannabis, the studies are small and they're not really
solidified because they are small. So what we need to do is do these smaller studies to sort of use as a stepping stone to say, yes, these are great results, but we need bigger studies.
We need more research. We need to expand this research to actually show what's going on, because all we have right now is like this little piece of information that's showing some very promising results, but it really doesn't give us, it doesn't have a lot of weight to it.
So almost every question that we answer when we do a cannabis study results in, we need more research. We need to make this bigger. We need to give more scientific validity to this because we're really not sure how robust these results are.
So before we, there was one thing that I think is really, really fucking important for this specific subject and Green Goddess is on a roll with that last question.
So I got to put this for Green Goddess who's over on the cannabis project, who asked in the chat, who pays for the research in these papers?
Like how do we know that there isn't just some government agency putting out bullshit and suppressing information? Like how do we, like, how do we judge a paper as maybe being financed by the wrong people?
If there's a specific person in the group that wants to jump into this one right off the bat, go ahead and start it. But Dr. Anubis is open to the mic.
I'll take it. So any peer reviewed scientific published study, at the end, after all of the conclusions and everything, there are disclaimers about who everybody is, what they contributed to the project, the funding sources for the project.
You want to look at those. If you see something like a pharmaceutical company or a business, they'll tell you what part of the project they contributed to.
So whether they, like, it's a CBD study, let's say, who gave the CBD isolate to the study for the scientists to use?
Also, who are the scientists and who are they affiliated with? If they're university affiliates, those are generally non-biased parties, generally.
I don't want to say always, because that's not always true. But if they're affiliated with, you know, a corporation or something like that, that should be a red flag.
And you can actually Google this, like, what are the red flags for scientific studies? I don't remember exactly what the wording is for that, but you can Google this.
But generally, academic institutions, so university studies are the non-biased sort of places where you're just doing science to answer questions and do investigations and not really do science that has an agenda.
So you're looking to see who cures cancer, let's say, if you were a pharmaceutical company that is invested in CBD.
So that's how you can sort of, like, start with knowing how do you know who's funding this?
And honestly, funding for any kind of cannabis research, as far as whole plant stuff goes, is few and far between at the moment, especially in the United States, worldwide, really.
When we talk about isolated cannabinoids, the National Health, National, I don't know how to say, NIH and those sorts of government funding entities start funding that sort of research because they have an interest in pharmaceuticals and making new pharmaceuticals, drugs, things like that.
But your whole plant research, physiology, anatomy, how the plant grows, funding for that kind of stuff is really hard to get.
Plus, academic institutions can't really grow the plant. There's now a lot of hemp research going on.
But yeah, you can't really grow the non-hemp types because that's still federally illegal, so that comes into play.
So yeah, that is a great question, though. Funding sources is absolutely something you want to look at when you're reading a scientific paper.
You want to know who funded this research and do they have a vested interest in finding specific results because that absolutely can have an influence on the findings of the study.
Sometimes I hate to say that's true, but it is.
Yeah, on that note, I remember looking at papers many years ago now, but looking at, you know, looking at the negative possibilities of cannabis.
And there was a paper written that was trying to include cannabis withdrawal syndrome into the DSM-IV.
The DSM, for people that don't know, is a diagnostic manual used to diagnose people with mental illnesses.
They were unable to get it into the DSM-IV, even though caffeine was introduced.
But when you go into a paper, you can look at the authors, and depending on the website, you sometimes have to click on the number next to their name or the letter next to their name, and then where they work will pop up.
And I noticed on this particular paper, the Cannabis Prevention and Information Centre happened to be the group that authored the paper.
Definitely something worth looking into when you're reading a paper.
Companies will only invest money into something when they feel that they're going to get some kind of a return, and whether that's a group with an emotional idea that they need to put across, or whether it's a pharmaceutical company or just someone trying to make money.
They're all out there, but there's, like Anna said, lots of good research out there as well, and lots more coming.
Yeah, I just want to reiterate the fact that we should all be considering the source of where any of this information is coming from.
It's so important when reading research articles, reading advice, reading the news, you always should be considering the source of the information.
Well said, everybody. Well said. I don't want to accidentally hit everyone with a big sound blast of wave there.
But I think there's an excellent point being brought up here. Now, if you look at the top, I have the pathogen and mold affecting product and quality paper that we discussed earlier.
So feel free to open that up and read that a little bit. And if you have any questions, we can break down how we would get into that a little bit further.
But I do want to move forward into the next portion of our discussion where we're talking about how do we test, maybe even test these papers in our home spaces?
How do we make a repeatable experience? And how do we, oftentimes, when new growers or growers, and even mid to big growers or very experienced growers, walk into a hydroponic store and there's a new salesman and they're selling something, some three, four products that have a bunch of different stuff in them.
And you're like, okay, I want to try this out or I've been reading about amino acids or humic or fulvic. Actually, you might have an interesting point to get into.
It's some sort of product that I want to test on my plants. Now, am I going to throw a hundred thousand things at it? Probably not.
What is going to be the best, most appropriate way to see if a product works and has an effect?
Let's start with something simple. I don't use humic acid in my setup right now. I'm growing in potting soil or a soilless medium, which is pretty much mulch bag potting soil, which is cocoa and peat and perlite anyway.
So, kind of in that mixed medium container culture style. How do you go about testing? Do you do humic and then you throw some teas in there? How would you go about applying a new product in this space?
I'm going to get this rolling with actually, this might be fun. Mr. Toad just rolled in, but I'm going to give you a minute to get set up and warmed up.
I'm going to jump over to Corey, who I forgot to mention earlier in the show, who mentioned himself earlier in the show, but I just want to give you a big old thumbs up and congratulations on your new job and a new position and everything going on.
Congratulations as well, third brother. You are an amazing, amazing person and a great knowledge. I'm always happy to share space with you.
But Corey, so you want to try out a new product. How do you go about doing that?
Thanks, I appreciate it. Yeah, as far as products are concerned and just kind of how to replicate it. I mean, this is perfect because I wasn't going to speak up at this time.
You know, when we do the Canabook Club, the section that I cover all the time is materials and methods.
And Dr. Anubis loves to bug me because it's the most quote unquote boring part of the paper, but this is where you're going to find out how the experiment was done.
It's going to list how they did it, even down to the brand of potting soil that they used. If it's a horticultural trial, the brand of lights will often be there.
All of your nerd information, all your geek information is going to come from that section of the paper.
And so that materials and methods there, you know, and without kind of deflecting it, but it also might be a way to kind of check and see if the paper is legitimate.
I mean, you can take a look at those materials and methods. And, you know, that's how I often do it with the Canabook Club papers too, is I take a look at them.
And, you know, it's good to review some of them. But sometimes, sometimes you take a look at it and you're really seeing that there is, you know, only one cultivar with like nine plants or something. So we like that.
So, yeah, I think that's something to really consider is that, you know, take a look at your materials and methods on your paper and really kind of pore over that section.
And you should be able to, you know, understand what you're going to do for that experiment inside of your own tent.
Hey Corey, can you just get a little bit closer to your mic? I'm hearing you okay here, but YouTube is coming through really quiet. So if you could just lean in a little bit, a little bit further.
Yeah.
Well, you got to speak up too.
Speak up and put the mic close to your face for me. It's coming through.
Yeah, that'll do.
It got worse.
My Android. So it's Android's fault.
But yeah, materials and methods is the place that you want to do this. This is the place that I've done it when I'm trying to replicate experiments in large scale. I go through materials and methods.
I might try and find a different.
I'll let them know because I think it did come through a little. I hear myself a little after that.
But you were speaking about the materials and methods being one of the most crucial parts of the section of the paper. Now I know there was a little bit missed there.
We'll jump over to Ashley because she wanted to jump in there. What do you do to try and test a new product? What are your strict rules and regulation when it comes to doing that?
So first and foremost, I will whatever product I want to trial, I will call that company and speak to a representative.
You can learn a lot about the legitimacy of a product by being able to speak to somebody and asking them questions and having them walk you through anything that you could possibly want to ask them.
They should be able to, within most realms, be able to answer that. So I would always call the company. If you don't really get a good response from their customer service rep, odds are you're likely not going to get a lot of support through that trial.
So I would highly recommend that as a first step. But we are actually trialing an experiment right now in two different strains in one of our flower rooms with some humic acid.
So I spoke with the company and I let them know this is exactly how I intend to use it. Here's how I'm going to dose it. This is the mils per gallon. Does this seem correct?
And you can have them walk you through this is exactly how I'm intending to use it. So a lot of companies will have recommendations on rates to use them. So a really helpful thing you can do is just start with what their gross schedule recommends or the frequency at which you should apply it.
So for us, we put in 15 milliliters per gallon of humic acid once a week. And what we did in our experiment to really make sure it was the addition of this humic is we have a control group where we're not same strain, same grow plan other than one addition of the humic acid.
And we're taking a bunch of different parameters at the end of harvest. We're going to look at root mass. We're going to look at biomass and really be able to have data to say by applying this 15 milliliters a gallon once a week, I got these results.
So you want to make sure you're not trialing multiple variables because you're not going to be able to say it was for sure this one product. So when you're trialing anything new, it's really important for you to have a control whether it's just one plant. It's got to be the same strain.
If you're trying to do an application, say in a small grow tent with four plants, you can apply the treatment on one of the plants at the recommended rate, keep everything the same on your other. And then if you want to trial a different product on another plant to see what that does, make sure they're all the same strain, but only apply one thing to each of them.
And then you can keep your control and you can kind of do a little trial experiment in your grow tent and take notes along the way. It's important to say this is exactly what I'm going to do for each one of these products. So you're going to want to take a list of notes for each one of your trials.
But it's really important when you're changing something to have a control so you can say, okay, this was what I know gave me this end result. And it's important to know that sometimes trials don't give you a better result. And so it's really important for you to take notes along the way so that you know, okay, I tried this. Okay, that definitely didn't work, which is something that is very much, if not the most consistent part of the scientific process is understanding what doesn't work.
And so the more we can take notes and kind of see this helped, this didn't help, and then share that knowledge with people, we can learn a lot from each other about what not to do as well. So you got to write down your successes and your failures, mainly your failures, because you want to make sure you never repeat them again.
So you can learn a lot by keeping really good notes. Something that was actually recommended by London that I loved was if it's just a little home garden, take some video notes once a week, kind of pop into your garden, give a little update on how everything's looking and kind of what you're seeing along the way. So you have a good visual representation of, okay, yeah, I can think back to that, but to have a video is really helpful as well.
So you can make these ways of setting up an experiment really easy, but for certain things like what you're applying, you want to make sure you write that down, but have fun with it along the way and kind of use a quick video to update yourself. And then you can look back on it and be like, oh, yeah, week three, this is what these look like.
I just want to say super quick, in grad school, I had this thing over my desk, it was like a cartoon, and before the pandemic, it said basically fuck around and find out. And I had to add, but don't forget to write it down. Like, honestly, that's what fucking around and finding out is, it's science. But if you don't write it down, then you're not doing science. The whole difference is writing it down. If you're writing it down, you're doing science.
Fuck around and find out, write it down.
That's awesome. Yeah, I was just gonna add on with the pictures in the video that I did a lot of pictures with phenotyping and trade tracking, just kind of came with the territory. But I found one little trick that I, you know, when you're doing 100 plants at a time, that are all different. I found, you know, take a picture of that name tag, then take a picture of that plant, take a picture of the name tag, then the plant, you know, you keep your mind, and like, that was just like what worked for me.
But like, figure out a little pattern that works for you and just stick to it. So when you're going through your pictures later, you know what it is, because I don't know how many times I took pictures of like 20 plants thinking, oh, they're all different. I know all of them, you know, so well. And, you know, then you get started looking through the pictures and, you know, you can separate a bunch of them, but then there's a couple and you just don't know. And it can be annoying. So taking a picture of that name tag and going up to that plant, very handy.
Definitely found it helpful for myself anyway.
I think that's super helpful and will really help you along. Now, what do you, I'd love to jump down and go, Mr. Toad, like, what do you do when you're, you know, offered one of these new fantastic magical products? And, you know, say the guy comes in and he's real charming and he might, you know, might have some good science and a good paper, which we talked about where to find that information.
So he's got a little bit of good science. He's got a relatively, you know, possible product. You know, how do you go about it? What's your approach?
Oh, I used to take the products out when I had a large base of patients at my club and we divvy out products to different growers, along with different cuttings that were all the same.
We let people grow them and we come back and track everything that people were doing from water sources to position in the yards. If mostly people were growing outdoors during this time, not a lot of people were doing big indoor grows during the 2015 days. I was helping most people do outdoors.
We'd be tracking basically everything that we could that would help us with trying to figure out if it was environment, genetics or grower that was affecting the outcome that we were getting from the finished products that we were using and offering in our club.
So people would be tracking water usage, the actual water source. A lot of people would start taking samples from the soil and tracking those. We'd be able to correlate all these different data points that could lead us back to whether or not a specific growing technique was having an effect on the way things were finishing.
We went from elevation, like a lot of stuff that was grown where I'm at in my specific area, we're at a very low elevation. So once we started seeing stuff coming in from patients that were up in the higher elevation, you would automatically see an increase in the product's finished appearance.
It would look better, it would taste better, it would smell better. And a lot of the growers would then start trying to partner up with each other with cats that were up in higher elevations just to try to see if that was going to affect the growth technique, which we ended up finding out basically wasn't what was happening.
We were getting cats up in the higher elevations that just had been growing longer, it seemed like, and they understood soil science better than people that were just showing up in that area and putting plants in the ground using the same techniques that they had before.
It's a long process after you have to go through more than one different grow when we were doing these. So by having a large patient base to do that, it was easier to start tracking which type of products to use to offer a higher quality product.
Yeah, because our goal, I mean all of our goals is to grow the best possible thing that we can for whatever the specific reason is. So if you can take notes, you can learn, okay, I applied this and it really increased the terpene profile. So you can say, okay, maybe I'm going to apply that.
And then the next time you can add maybe an additional product after you've kind of combed through, okay, the plants really like this. These were the end results.
Something that's important to find if it's valuable to you is you kind of have to define when you're setting it up, okay, well, what's something I want to get out of this? Is it bigger yields? Is it better terpene profile? Is it increased trichome development?
So knowing what you're looking for, or sometimes just even experimenting is fun, but kind of knowing what questions you're looking for, there's helpful things to try to track in the end product.
So if you're looking for does humic acid help my growth, something that I might try to track is does it increase my yields? And through testing, I can have that control and say, okay, well, how does it affect my test results? Does it change the uptake of a certain terpene?
So by knowing what questions you're looking for, you can look through the data and track the data to kind of lead you to knowing if this is something that's going to benefit the outcome of whatever product, whatever the end result product is.
I do want to say, that's a good point, Ashley, but I do want to say like, I know that a lot of people get really scared by the word data.
Because at least to me, like when I was little, data equals numbers and math. Data doesn't always equal numbers and math. Data just means you're collecting information.
So don't be scared of collecting data in whatever format you want to collect your data in, whether that be pictures, videos, just you can take measurements and make an Excel spreadsheet.
Like that's fine, that's data. It doesn't have to be this big scary thing where you have to actually do math. And there's lots of people out there that will help you like figure out what your data means if you just ask for it to help. So don't be scared of data.
Am I, is my volume acceptable now?
Quite acceptable.
So much better.
Thank you. Okay. Yeah, I had to disconnect from my buds. Look at that, pay $150 for your buds and they do nothing for you. I apologize, everybody. So the materials and methods.
It's so funny, the most expensive ones are the worst. Sorry, my apologies.
Good, I totally agree. If I'm looking to validate the papers, I'm going through materials and methods to understand, you know, exactly what they're doing within that experiment. And this is both when I'm trying to validate these research papers at the large scale and then also at home.
I think most cultivators can agree with me if I go through a research paper and I take a look at materials and methods and realize, you know, we're only dealing with one cultivar here and like 16 plants. I mean, I think we, you know, where we can all tell that paper where to go in that sort of discretion.
So for me, I try and go through the materials and methods and that also, you know, maybe I've had a little bit of practice now with hosting Canada Book Club and going through some of those papers.
But I do also feel that the materials and methods is one way to kind of understand if it's, you know, the kind of addressing the topic earlier of the paper being sketchy or not.
You can really understand, you know, how that materials and methods are done. And if you've looked over enough materials and methods sections, I think you can kind of start familiarizing with yourself when it, you know, the methods don't quite look like they should be, I guess, is kind of the way I want to put that.
And then lastly, just as far as products are concerned, if I'm trying to introduce a product trial, what I'd love to do is, you know, immediately look at the label and try and understand, you know, what is in this product and what are they trying to claim and, you know, then kind of go down that direction.
Sorry, I lied. It wasn't last. I wanted to talk about data as well. Now that I have a microphone.
The one thing you can do, I love to do old school methods as well. So I'm a firm believer in the four colored pen. I know exactly what blue ink, red ink, green ink and black ink mean to me in my hierarchy of notes. And it's extremely helpful for me.
So, for example, red is an attention grabbing color. So I like to put in really important headings under red and, you know, it just kind of helps me flow through my written notes side of it. And then on the other side, if I do need to have a digital copy, I have leaned into using the Google suite of products.
You know, they're free. And so you can build, you know, these forms from Google. They're free. And you just build these forms. You know, if you're trying to do like a daily check or a weekly check, you can, you know, pre build this form, have these answers, and you can just link it to an Excel page.
So you don't have to manually, you know, paste in the data all the time, you just fill in the form, and it'll automatically send it to the Excel spreadsheet. So, you know, if you're afraid of technology, please, by all means, go get a four colored pen, it will change your life. And then secondarily, if you want to embrace a little bit of technology, there's Google Forms and the spreadsheet within Google to kind of tie it all together.
I'm complete.
So let's say but I think we've talked about putting stuff into our soil, adding in mediums and keeping an eye on things like Corey, you touched on excellent place checking what's in products. If you have ammonium nitrate, like, you know, nitrogen based stuff, and you're spraying that on your plants are putting in your root system, guess what, they're going to be greener, because there's more nitrogen in your system.
And that's not actually providing necessarily more benefit to the plant growth is just providing more nitrogen. So I think that's a really crucial point. I see so many products out there, they're just like, Oh, I got this and they focus on this 1% thing. And they've got the 3% nitrogen in there. It's like, well, that's just putting more nitrogen in my soil. So you dumb, my leaves look greener, obviously.
So as a point of reference, so to like, so we see that these things are fine and everything measures out all right, Matt, like what would you do for a foliar spray when you're introducing a new one into the system? And say right now, you're not spraying your plant at all, you want to just try out, you know, a new new foliar spray for your plants?
How would you go about making that the cleanest and making sure you have the best results possible?
Honestly, I guess everybody's kind of hit it, but having a control, you know, like right now, for example, I'm running a, you know, this beanstalk like test. So I have a control of, you know, the cultivar. And it's like, well, I guess I have a couple of controls.
But I have a control, you know, like within the medium that, you know, this like cultivar, like it's naturally in or that I deem like naturally in soil. And then I have it in a cocoa version of the beanstalk.
And then, or I guess just breaking up a control that you're not, you know, like foliarly spraying, because I think I'm going to get this like way too confused by using my own example.
But I have a control that you're not like spraying with the foliar and then have a couple that you are and then just monitor. I would recommend at least waiting two to three weeks to really seeing like a full,
like two to three weeks of, you know, like doing it to get, you know, like a full out kind of like first, you know, like result, I guess, before you can really, I guess at least two or three weeks would be what I would say to get a measurable amount of start like data to begin.
Yeah, that would be really it, you know, just separating a stock that you like doesn't get it and then hitting a stock that does and going from there.
I think you pointed out something awesome for like the home grower like that in a smaller proportion, you know, like a like don't plant two seeds next to each other and put one in a fabric pot and one in plastic pot and think that that's going to test whether or not fabric pots or plastic pots are better.
Okay, not how you're going to get proper accurate results. I think you touched on a really awesome point. And one thing I think you mentioned, but I don't know, early on there is is the foliar spray that you have a test or control.
And one thing that's often forgot about foliar sprays is, is you really want to make sure you're spraying water on the other half. So if what people don't often think about is plants are, you know, they're grown out in the rain, they're grown out in the weather, there's humidity, there's condensation, water falls on the plant.
So it's, it's pretty safe to assume that there is there, there is some ability for the plant to uptake H2O that it uses for energy, you know, through its leaves and through other portions of its body.
So when you take a plant and you don't and you spray 50%, but you don't spray the other at all, how do you know it's not just the water doing what the effect is, right? All of a sudden, you're spending, you know, 100 extra bucks a month on on a bottle of something that doesn't do anything. And you could just use water that's playing the same. And I think that's an interesting point that we don't really get into.
Thank you for clarifying. I realized you said it so much, so much delicately than I did. And I think it's because I attempted to go with a different example in the beginning, but then I realized I was going to get way too complicated. Yeah. Anyway, thank you for clearing that up.
Awesome. I'm glad I can help there. Now, I think we covered that one. Was anybody's there was Anita there. Now we're going to get into one of the top points. We did have Tim.
I'm just here to like listen.
I love it. But you did drop a good chat note there in the chat is like if you're really terrible writer and talk to text is a fantastic thing. Tim, welcome to the stage. Do you have a question or comment regarding our show?
Yeah, thanks for having me. I'll be really quick. The only thing I wanted to say is if you are doing testing, whether it is a full year spray or something that you will be injecting for as far as fertilizers or adjuvants go or surfactants.
Just be sure to do a jar test to understand compatibility as you are working on building out your program. If you have any sort of precipitate, it can definitely mess with the trial, your crop or your irrigation system. That's it. Thanks guys.
Can you drop a what do you mean by jar test for people that are not as experienced in this?
Yeah, a jar test.
Because I've never heard of that.
Yeah, a jar test. Basically, when you're looking at your macro and micro nutrients, there's a lot of initial compatibility. That's why you have your A's, your B's. And then you have your micros, which you can add at certain points in time.
And so as you are doing them, A's and B's are separate for a reason, because if you mix them at certain times, they were there basically incompatible and they'll fall out of solution.
And then they can actually kind of clog your fertigation system or irrigation system based off of them not being compatible.
And so the same thing applies with pesticides, fungicides or surfactants, especially for foliar sprays. You're always going to want to see how they are interacting with each other.
Like if you're going to do a microtrol with a sea spray, for example, you know, making sure that those two things are going to be compatible with each other.
They're not too viscous. You can actually do a proper foliar spray. So basically, you can just grab a mason jar, fill it about halfway up with water.
And if you know that you have your A, your B, and then you're wanting to do full vacuum or silica, just add a little bit of each, shake it, and then wait for a certain period of time and look to see what falls out of solution.
Awesome. Excellent points. Thanks for adding that to the discussion, because I think that's super valuable because sometimes these things don't end up working together synergistically at all.
I mean, if you could have hard water or a higher calcium and you put something in your water, it could totally happen.
Yep. Or super aggressive RO water, definitely too. So you really have to make sure that those factors are also taken into account. So great discussion. Thanks for having me on.
On that topic, since you mentioned silica, silica is a classic thing that will kind of fall out of solution or have other things fall out of solution if you mix it first or really don't mix it last, something that I've noticed.
Very interesting. So let's break into the next area. Because one thing that I am, I personally do on a regular basis, and I think a lot of people might run into the same issue, and this is why I'll bring it up, is like, when I get interested in taking notes and documenting information, because I'm trying to move forward and progress, oftentimes I just try and do everything.
So what I think would be the best way to go about this is because each of us probably take a little bit of a different aspect on how we take notes.
And I believe that would be because we each either have a different methodology or we're looking for something different, whether it be a final flower product, looking for genetics for seeds, you know, it's variable.
So I'd love to roll through. Let's start with Ashley, and I'll probably popcorn it and throw it all over the place here. Ashley, you know, you're in an aeroponic facility. What are the prime factors? Because you're obviously, my guess would be for production.
What are your goals? And what notes do you take to create that you believe will help you develop better flower in the long run, if that's your goal? What's your goal and how much are you taking to get there?
So, because we're vertically integrated, one of my biggest goals is just make sure we have good variety. So if I'm introducing a new strain, something that I'm really looking for is how unique is its terpene profile.
So that's something that our end result, we're always interested to see the diversity in that. But something, you know, with us being a production facility, we're obviously looking for yields. And also we want people to buy it just because you grow it doesn't mean people are going to want it.
So you have to kind of learn and adapt. You have to grow things that people don't want. But if we were trialing something new, you know, some of the notes that I would take is, you know, the frequency of which I applied it, something along the way, you know, like I said, we're really big into taking pictures. So I'll snap a picture of that cultivar once a week.
I'll track, you know, I try to replicate the same thing. So if I bottom this strain this day or this trial, I try to bottom the other one the same exact day. So, you know, the only thing that I'm trying to really look at in my end result and say, yes, it's this humic acid that increases terpene profile. Then I know that that was successful for what we're looking for in an experiment.
So I'll look at and write down the full schedule, how I applied it. And just a quick note, something that is extremely, extremely important to write down, even if you've done it a thousand times, is what you're putting in a spray. I've seen you can devastate entire rooms just by somebody being like, yeah, I know the recipe and not writing it down. So that one I will stress highly, highly stress.
But we're looking for, do people want it? So there's a lot of things along a trial for us that are important data points. So that's why I was kind of thrown in there. It's important to know what you're kind of looking for in an end result. Is it a better taste or is it something that people really like to purchase for us and enjoy? Or is it helpful in seeing if it alleviates this medical ailment?
Kind of take a variety of different topics. Or if you think about what it is that you're looking for, you can kind of develop different questions along the way. So really be, have fun with it. I mean, write some notes and see what you can learn. Because like I said, we're all trying to grow something better. So have fun along the way. This shit's fun.
I like this. So I'm going to pop down to Mr. Toad, because I think your variability on what will be quite a bit different from Ashley. Like what type and what are the most crucial notes that you carry and why that you take and why?
For me, it comes from our breeding practice as well.
It's pretty glitchy for me. Is that just me or is it anybody?
No, that's me too.
Mr. Toad.
It's a bad internet connection guys. I'm very sorry.
You're coming through again. Do you want me to come back? Give me a couple of minutes.
I think it's my internet, man. I'm not sure if it's going to get any better or not. That's what I was having issues with earlier.
That was brilliant there. You're perfect now.
Okay. So for me, what I'm trying to do is find out with my, I use my breeding male angel as an example. I use him for 15 years and one of the first traits he had was the ability to pass as an homage.
He came and breed him in multiple different females to track what was coming back and what was being offered on the medicinal side to the patients that I was sending the crosses out to.
I was able to write these things down, track them. I used to have all kinds of different stuff written down in binders that when I ended up having to leave the club, I ended up having to leave there. That was a bummer, man.
I had so many different things tracked through breeding.
Sorry, my damn microphone is having an issue.
Sorry, guys.
Guys, keep your old notes. They're really helpful to look back on even from two years from now. They're really helpful to be like, oh yeah, I tried that. Okay, that didn't work.
Yeah, I had four years worth of notes tracked back to two different males that I was using in that time. And 100 at one point with 176 different females.
I was tracking through 20 different lines that I was running at that point. It gets to a point where it's almost impossible once you get to a large scale to start doing that on yourself without a lot of help.
At that point, I was really doing everything myself. All the tracking, all the people weren't aware of everything that I was trying to track through the processes that I was using.
A lot of people didn't know that I was running 40 different growers on one different line to find out who was able to produce a product that was superior to everybody else's and why they were able to do that.
Can I ask while I've got you there, is what have you done? Because I mean, naturally, you're talking about once you get to a certain scale, it gets really a lot more challenging.
So what have you done in that intermediate point to enable you to get a little bit more volume at it? Do you find testers is the route that you have the most success with getting that and you can talk on that?
Yeah, for me, it was running testers and having people actually become excited about that process. If you give people something that they don't want, they're going to end up returning back information that isn't going to be very good.
A lot of people won't put enough effort into what they're actually trying to produce. So that's why I used to give people products for free, the clones that they wanted. You could have the clones you were after for free if you would help me get the information back from a couple other lines that I would give to you also on that, but that weren't marked.
That way you didn't have any idea of what I was actually giving you. So you wouldn't be biased with the information coming back to me. Because a lot of people would be under the impression that a specific cultivar was going to do a specific thing.
And if you gave them a cut with that name, it automatically did that for them. So it was hard to come back with a quantifiable information that was actually going to be able to be useful, right? Otherwise, they're just telling you it did this, it did that, and that's just because someone else had said that already.
So I found doing blind tests through my testers and the patient base gave me the best information back in the long run.
Awesome.
I appreciate that. Thank you.
In FEM projects, we hunted through 500 seeds from the mom, but we put a bunch of clones of the mom throughout the grow. Sure, we remembered what it looked like, we remembered what it grew like, but having that clone grown in there with them in that environment, in that space, in that time of year and all that other stuff,
it really gives you a really great idea of how the differences and similarities from the progeny to that mom plant there. I just really wanted to point that out. It's something that I noticed that you've done that awesome way to make sure that things are going really well.
Yeah, that's something I've always liked to do if I was breeding. For me, it's the best way to get some quantifiable information set back that I can actually use and steer towards a different direction.
If I give out a mother plant and the seedlings to people and they grow them side by side and then the finished product does not give back the results that I'm after, and I get this from more than one grower, then I'm probably able to say, this isn't the direction I want to go with that line.
Instead of wasting it because I like the name of the plant or something that I took and made my own with this plant, I used the patient set to tell me that even though I liked it, it's not doing what I needed it to do.
We take that plant, remove it from the project, and insert something new in there. I did that this time with the spacey lines with Cheddar Bob with the Bruce Banner number three. By sending him the mother that actually produced the seed, he's able to see what is coming from the seed line and what he can find through the female also.
A lot of people will say they found the female in the seed line, right? I found a Kim in the Kim cross, even though they've never grown the Kim.
If I send a Kim plant to you and you start to pop the seeds out of there, now you'll be able to see the traits that the Kim has during the growth patterns of veg stages, flower stages.
How does it react to organic or synthetic fertilizers in your system? Now you grow the progeny and you can start to see the traits that are popping out of the seed line that that mother alone carries.
Now you're able to actually say that these traits seem to be coming from that mother plant instead of saying I found that mother plant in the progeny because you're just not going to do that when it's an outcrop or something else.
It's only got part of its genetic code in there, but you can see some of the homogenous traits that she may possess and that's going to help the grower learn something about his own style and something about plants, right?
When you automatically think just because I crossed to this plant that I'm going to get this percentage of seeds that are going to give the traits back to me and you realize that that's not happening, you can find out that certain plants don't actually pass homogenous traits, right?
They're going to have a smaller set of that population produce the traits that you're after, which either makes the work you want to do harder or tells you that that's the work you don't want to do and then you need to go in another direction.
Could you give three traits that you track every single time? Are you measuring the thickness of the stock ever? Are you measuring the length between nodes on growth rate? Is there something that's one of those? Maybe even almost eccentric. You're like, well, this seems to be one of those things that works out well for me.
For me, it comes down to each breeding project has different sets.
What homogenous traits that angel man had because after 200 crosses, I was able to tell what a female was starting to bring when suddenly new sets of traits were popping up that hadn't popped up in all these other crosses.
For me, it was all about the breeding of female.
You're cutting it out there.
I think it crashed a little bit there, Mr. Toad.
It's not your fault. It's the damn internet.
It's just terrible.
Sorry, there, London. I was just going to follow up with what Toad was saying there.
Just because of what he was saying, if someone out crosses something, they're going to find the mom in that plant. Talking about the Femme project I mentioned before, where we put that mom plant in with 500 S1s, only 10% of those plants were similar to the initial.
I'd say 10% were similar in several traits, but maybe 2-5% were something where you'd be like, that is the mom phenotype.
If we take that plant, that's damn near a replicate of that.
That's a lot of work.
That's a lot of work.
You really have to do a lot of work to find the proper progeny out of the seeds.
Obviously, at home, we don't have all that space.
I started with a very small amount of space in my basement.
Obviously, you can't run 500 at home, but taking your time and going through them and learning that strain really definitely helps.
It lets you get to know that strain and what it's going to do in the future.
I just want to say, I think when people take genetics class and they learn about the 25-50-25 progeny, what they're going to express, that's just one trait that you're following.
That was flower color, obviously.
In Mendelian genetics, he was tracking flower color.
When you do Punnett squares, that's just one trait.
When you're breeding a whole organism, it's all of the traits.
The probability of you finding that trait, that exact replica of what you're looking for, is really very, very, very small when you're talking about all of the traits and all of the genes and all of the genetics that every organism passes on to their offspring.
I forget that, too.
In my brain, I'm like, oh yeah, we can tell.
Oh, god, it's a fucking whole organism.
Just to bring it back down to reality about how this works, this breeding thing, it's really not just a 1-2-1 or a 25-50-25 ratio.
That's just for one trait.
I think there's a gummy bear photo that circulates around every once in a while where they take two gummy bears and they cut them together and it's all the three options.
Then you get four down the road of mixtures.
I love that gummy bear.
Yeah, everybody's seen the gummy bear photo.
But that's for one trait.
Yeah, which is great.
It's for color.
Add the packaging and then whatever all the other gummies are in there, it just gets so fucking complicated.
You add the texture, size.
It's just for the color of the gummy bear.
Forget everything else that comes along with that.
I have a question because Johnny has been on stage.
He's been a little bit quiet.
I want to throw something towards you, brother.
My question is, you're dry farming.
You don't even know water taking.
Actually, before I jump into this question for you, Johnny, I'm going to quote somebody that said something last night in the chat.
Alex Hardy said,
Mr. Toad, you've lived through that era and read through a lot of that period of time.
You have all these little notes.
Is this stuff you kept or did you have to wait until you were able to read through it?
I mean, I'm not sure.
I mean, I'm not sure.
I mean, I'm not sure.
I mean, I'm not sure.
You have all these little notes.
Is this stuff you kept or did you have to wait until one of the props came into action before you really started taking those notes?
If you're available and able to get through that.
Yeah, with writing down notes, the only time I actually wrote down stuff and tracked them 100% was when I worked at the club when we actually had legal backing and lawyers.
Besides that, I come from an era where you write it down and it's tacking on time when they do come to check you out.
So I learned to just remember it.
I don't know how I do.
So I can remember plant placed in my garden, remembered what I was eating as an input.
I can remember the patients that were coming back with the information.
I used to track everything and store that in my own personal computer.
I called my head.
So that was the only way I can ensure that my family didn't end up getting busted a third time.
Because literally that's what they're coming to check for when you can prove back in that time that you knew how to plant a seed to set the plant.
You could prove you were tracking those kind of things.
They use that to give you way more time.
It's nuts.
I think it's.
Yeah, it's good.
So we're going to open up the floor to people to come up.
And I think there was an excellent point that was made here earlier.
I forget who was in the chat.
I'm sorry I didn't write your name down.
But you mentioned I write diligent notes, but I've never gone back to read them because I think like for me, it's the same kind of factor.
If I write something down, the act of writing it down creates the memory.
And I can dig back on that a lot easier than not.
So I do have a question for the panel that was asked earlier by Green Goddess.
We're moving kind of forward in the discussion.
So I didn't want to jump back to that too much.
So I have a question for you from Green Goddess, Dr. Anavitz.
How do you get to grow cannabis for research?
Like, is there a sheet?
Can you sign me up for this?
It often seems like this unreachable point.
And a lot of people want to do it.
So do you have suggestions for those people that want to do that?
I honestly don't.
I honestly don't.
Like, I was so blessed with a university and a mentor that was able to skirt around some of the federal sort of mandate.
They didn't.
I wasn't allowed to bring cannabis onto campus.
I didn't grow any cannabis.
I had to extract DNA sort of half off campus, half on campus.
I wasn't allowed to grow it until we got a hemp growing license, which wasn't until my last year.
Honestly, it's a struggle.
It is a struggle, even for the universities that have the ability to either research cannabis in the form of hemp, so below 0.3% THC, or otherwise, which I'm not, off the top of my head, I'm not aware of anybody who has that ability.
Maybe Cornell, not sure.
But yeah, there's not a whole lot of research on cannabis above 0.3% THC going on in university situations right now.
In London, I'm sorry, I spaced on the other half of the question.
So let's pretend that like that.
Oh, just give me a second here, Matt.
I just want to dig into this.
Let's pretend that there was.
Oh, good.
So let's pretend for a second that like, you know, there wasn't federal guidelines.
Like there aren't as many federal guidelines here in Canada.
And hopefully soon, those federal guidelines will be very different in the next little while, but who knows.
So let's say there was the usual smooth avenue of methodology to go about doing this and you were crazy passionate about the plant.
How would you do this?
You know, say it was corn.
Corn is a terrible, let's say it's cannabis, but without the federal.
You know, even in Canada where there shouldn't be any barriers to research, I feel like there still are.
We know several researchers personally in Canada who still haven't been able to do like a full research thing that we would expect for like corn or soy or cotton or, you know, whatever big economically important crops.
We haven't done with cannabis on the hemp side or the non-hemp side.
I'm just saying non-hemp because blah, blah, blah. Marijuana, people hate it.
But for me, if there was no barrier to research, I want to start at the beginning.
Like we know very, actually considerably less about the plant than we know about almost any economically important crop.
Like it's insane.
That's where I would start, but oh my God, I can't even.
I can't even. There's just so many, like I see in front of me, like at least five different scientific avenues that need to be just gone down that we have just been stopped at.
Red tape and shit, you know.
So, honestly I don't know how to answer that.
I don't know where the money's going to come from.
I don't know the avenues that we, like how we're going to do it.
I don't know the institutions of how we'll get this research done.
All of it is, it's a little bit daunting, but I also feel like there are so many people out there that are growing the plant.
This is how I feel like we could possibly ask for citizen science from not just people who are growing at home, but also all of the, oh my God, what am I trying to say?
Like Ashley who grows for a company, she takes data and she grows plants and they have things that they could potentially contribute to a big database where we could collect information and we, I don't know.
I don't know if I'm making sense, but there's a lot of data out there that isn't being compiled, it's being kept to everybody's cell that we could collect.
I don't know how we're going to get there, but I feel like we could if everybody just kind of let go of their insecurities and wanted to get there.
I don't know if that made any sense, but.
Share your fuck ups.
If we all shared what didn't work, we would help know a hell of a lot more of what not to do.
Or like, hey, this is how I grow and this is what I found and this is what I did.
And if we all had a collective database, we would be able to collect a lot of information really fast because there are a lot of people who grow cannabis, whether it's in the backyard or in a big facility.
Like if there was a central, and that sounds horrible, and I know that's what everybody's really scared about, like a central database where everybody's getting collected information.
But if we could just collect our data as one big collective or whatever, we would have so much information.
And I get it, it's scary.
We can make it a strictly science database.
Yeah, and anonymous.
Like, you know, like you go through this, like, I don't know, like I know there's a way to erase your web or your IP address or something and you can go through something and I don't know, like, I'm sure there's a way to do it.
Are we talking about cultivation research or medical research?
Everything.
Because there are avenues to do this.
And like some of it is just that people haven't like actually gone the route.
No, cultivation, everything, just all of it.
So, so originally when, when, you know, like when Oregon, like announced that they were going to allow research licenses, I was like super excited because I wanted to be, or like I wanted to get one.
And so I called the state and I talked to them about it.
Like super easy.
But I was like really trying to figure out like funding because in Oregon, if you have a research license, none of the crop can go towards, you know, like profit, it has to be donated.
And like figuring out, you know, like funding, you know, like is obviously the hardest part.
But then I ran into, you know, there's a local, just like dumb luck.
There's a local dude in my town that used to work for the FDA.
And we like sat down at a coffee like one morning and he was kind of explaining like that the federal government itself isn't actually stopping anyone.
And he linked me up with a DEA like friend of his that explained that anybody could honestly be researching right now under the same kind of limitations that Oregon's doing federally.
But nobody's actually applying for a DEA 224 license, which is a license to be able to study, you know, like regulated substances.
And you can actually like go and look at how many people who have applied for these and have been approved.
And it's minimal to like none.
And the ones that have been applied actually just got approved in the last couple of months.
So like when it comes to research, it's just like some of it is getting money and then going through the actual framework to do it.
But then when it comes to medical or cultivation, you kind of have to have two different setups.
Because if you're going into medical, you have to have somebody to approve it for the USDA and the FDA.
But if you're going into cultivation, you have to have people on the ag side too.
So it's like two different.
And that's why I ask is like, are we talking about going towards cultivation or are we talking about doing it for medical science?
Because there are two different pathways.
Oh, they're both lacking.
But I can clear that up.
So the DEA back in 2016 said, well, so the University of Mississippi has had the NIH, the sole grant for producing medical or research grade marijuana since the 50s.
That's just where it comes from.
There has been multiple scientists who are like, what the fuck?
We're getting like this really shitty stuff.
It doesn't look like anything that we can that that that people are used to like have access to.
What the fuck are you supplying us with?
So that has been called into question since 2014.
In 2016, the DEA said, all right, we're taking applications.
They've had 35 applications sitting on their desk since then.
And then last year they said, all right, we're finally processing these applications.
Still nothing has happened.
So that's the DEA.
You have to have a DEA license to.
There's a little bit more bureaucracy in that it's not fully on the DEA.
It's on.
No, it is.
You can't.
You have to have a DEA license to have your hands on anything over 0.3 percent.
I get you.
But when you when when you put in that, that 224 license, there's a shit ton of like.
Matt, are you in an academic institution that wants to do academic research on the plant?
Yeah, but like I'm saying, you don't have to.
It's the finance that's stopping everybody.
No, it's not.
No, it's not.
No, it's not.
It is, but it's not.
And.
You can do the resources that I have and maybe you can figure out which way.
All right.
We will pause the conversation there and and start fresh.
Actually, we're getting really close to round about the top of the hour here.
So I think we should actually open up a space for this type of conversation, because I think.
It's an avenue that needs to be clarified.
I don't think like digging into it like this is going to appropriately necessarily cause an appropriate resolution to the conversation to this exact point.
But let's bring this conversation back up a little bit later down the road as we continue on other conversations.
We are rounding out to the hour and thirty five minute point.
And I think we should call it quits because I am for one, I was very excited about talking about notes and note taking and research papers and how to read them and and that stuff.
But, yeah, I think we could call this call this a close for today.
What does everybody think?
Does everybody agree?
Yeah, I'm good.
Sure thing, bro.
Cool.
Anita, you didn't say anything.
Please say something.
Actually, I have a perfectly post question and I can't hear you speaking right now.
Is that just me or is that for everybody?
Can you hear me now?
Oh, yes, I can totally hear you.
But I do have a question.
I want to end with you because we we did actually.
I forgot it.
There is a point that we need to touch on because you do the sales side and you're interacting with a lot of people on a very regular basis.
And I think that even though there might not be a huge amount of people here that are involved in this particular space, there are a lot of passionate people that are involved with the plant.
And believe it or not, this is an avenue for a lot of people to work in because it's going to need to happen.
The development of the sales space and education in that area is very important.
So you spend a lot of time going between grows to dispensaries, do everything like that.
Like what type of note taking do you do?
I mean, it's a lot of social conversations and stuff like that.
But is there any any highlighted points that a person like you that is connected with the company, with the customer?
Are there notes that you take that go like this is really important for the end user to receive?
Because I think that's what we always forget so often is that what we're doing here, what we're all doing here is trying to develop something for the plant and for the planet and for the other people around us.
So, yeah, if you want to jump into that and then we'll close out the room.
Go ahead.
For sure. Yeah.
Well, just quickly, I take a ton of notes.
And I mentioned in the YouTube chat that I use talk to text.
So while I'm driving, I'm talking.
Usually I'm going between facilities or stores or whatnot.
And I would for the past year, it went from one brand to all the way up to 10 brands from 40 SKUs to 80.
So that's a lot of data that I have to keep either track of or feedback from.
So note taking is like I will not remember, like as soon as I leave that door, what that person said.
So I have to document everything.
Super important thing that I try to capture is like any like marketing space and things like that for like departments.
But for most importantly, for the actual grower, the producer, any feedback that the customer is giving good, bad, ugly, anything about packaging, about the product itself, about their experience, about the price point.
Anything that the bud tenders feedback about point of sale material, all that stuff gets documented and fed back to my clients, like the producers that I work with.
So all that is super important.
And I couldn't do without it.
I do have to look over the notes again when I go back to the place.
So I can what happened last time.
So I can talk to that.
So I don't look like a dumbass.
Like I talk to like hundreds of people every day or every week.
So I don't want to be rude, but my memory sucks.
I smoke a lot of weed.
So I'm sure everybody can relate to that.
Yeah, exactly.
So I rely really heavily on documentation for that.
And for the same purposes as for a scientific purpose, you know, it's to learn more, to go back to, you know, where we're at, where did we start, where are we going, what's the feedback.
And so it's all these touch points that we're always kind of like throwing out, like measuring tools and things like that to try to like, you know, push the space forward.
And I know there's a lot of different barriers in the United States, as we know that there's a lot of different barriers that we've experienced in Canada since we've been legalized across all the provinces.
But so there's all these different things that we all have to contend with.
And so documentation is super important so we can like, you know, drive everything forward together to a better place so we can all like benefit from that.
Awesome. Well, I think that was about the best point possible because we're all looking at forwarding, moving the industry forward because that's what we're all here for.
I mean, like, look, there's 100 people in the future cannabis and there's more than that that have been in and out of the conversation.
There were quite a few people in this room at one point in time.
We're up to almost 100 people that are coming in from there.
And we discussed how to develop the industry and move forward and how to move forward with note taking in such a degree that I think it's extremely important.
Go ahead, Anna.
Hey, Anita, I was gonna say, like, I was just before you jumped off on stage and like said so eloquently all the things you just said, data to many people sounds like numbers.
When really it's just collecting information.
I collect numbers and I, you know, look at numbers and analyze numbers.
But you also collect data and you collect data from your industry from your people from what people are saying what they're what they're giving back to you.
That's also data. And people shouldn't be scared of data.
It's just information and learn how to process it, learn how to embrace it because that's going to give you information as to how you're doing.
Are you doing well in your growth? Are you doing well in your business?
Don't be scared of data. You want to you want to know you want to know.
Oh, I agree. Trending patterns are like the key for like a lot of like, you know, for all that.
Right. If you can see a trending pattern and which I am, I love any type of data because, you know, that's the only way you can you know, where are we going?
OK, let's see where we were at. And for me, that's like I track everything.
So I know if we traded our data and like if I give you my data and you give me your data, neither of us like both of us would probably go to.
So happy. Probably.
Like I would be like, oh, my God, I don't understand.
But data is is just information that you're just collecting to give you a better idea of how like how things are going, you know?
It's a good thing. Temperature checks.
I am like I have I have this thing. There might be people in the audience.
There is enough people here. If no one's ever heard of it, it's called dysgraphia. Now dysgraphia is a little bit opposite of dyslexia.
So like it's not like the interpretation of information. So like when I when I receive information, I'm reading letters, pure upside down and backward.
That's the classical definition of dyslexia. Dysgraphia is quite the opposite.
So when I physically write, I'll write D's and P's and I'll reverse words and things will things will turn out very poorly or they'll just randomize and all sorts of stuff.
It's just very challenging. So finding ways that mitigate for each one of you and also making sure that your note method, I think, works best for you.
Like, I'm not going to write a bunch of notes, but I might make a graph. I might write some numbers down and plot a graph and have that.
And I just want to leave on one last key point that I think is really important.
The speakers stay there closing if they'd like, is that one thing that was noted and said here several times that I think is very important to highlight is track your mistakes, because sometimes it isn't a mistake.
Right. Sometimes that mistake could result in something different and could lead to an exploration or a path that wasn't previously thought of.
You know, like make those mistakes, have those problems and let those problems happen.
Write it down. Write it down.
Write it down. Unless you can't write it down.
There we go. We're closing it. Follow the news. Follow everybody. Follow the thing.
Make sure to read the newspapers and not the newspapers, but the paper on the top and enjoy.
Make sure to come back for the Breeders' Panel. I think next week. What do we have next week, guys?
I have it written down here. I think we have a really fun one.
Epigenetics.
What is that? Oh, epigenetics.
Epigenetics. Oh, we do have one person in the audience that wants to pop up.
Leah, come on up. Do you have a question, comment or statement for our experts before we go? If you're coming up, what were you going to say?
If anyone's still around to while it comes up, data studio dot Google dot com is absolutely amazing for creating data sheets.
And then you can also bring in data from almost anywhere and join it and make reports, which is awesome.
So if you're not really like fully understanding or like or know how to put a huge report together, it kind of does it for you.
Like say you have like some some data points and you want to like present it to like Dr.
Anna or or just even like the future campus project.
You can all put it on there and it'll kind of put it into somewhat of a understandable fashion, which is kind of nice.
If you don't have somebody do that for you or you don't necessarily have the time to do it in another program.
So I will say, too, you can also pop all of your data because I like reading it on Daggett Academy.
So if you haven't checked that out, go ahead and do that. Small plug there. Small plug. Leah, we're going to we're going to come to you and then we're going to finish off our night.
So what what may ask me, our experts help you with. Do you have a question or comment?
All right. We appreciate whatever that was. You have a wonderful day.
We will move you to audience very promptly. I don't know if you're just trying to like, you know, shut down the YouTube by music or some crap, but we appreciate you.
Have a wonderful day. Follow the moderators. I'm going to leave this open for a second.
Make sure you follow the club moderator and ding that little bell. So you make sure you see what's going on.
I appreciate each and every one of you and keep it growing.
Hello. Add this. So before I completely screw everything up. Can anybody hear me? Can you hear me?
Can you hear me? Yes, you should. Can you hear me? Can somebody tell me whether or not they can hear me for once?
Yes. Hey, I appreciate every one of you for being here today.
I just before everyone goes, because I think it's important. Definitely. I'm watching Memphis, Gold State eating dinner.
Awesome. So let's have a look at what's going on tomorrow because we should have some fun stuff on the schedule.
By the look of it, we do. Tomorrow is Wednesday. We have growing with Marco at 1 p.m.
Should be a lot of fun. So don't miss out on that one. We have ask a cannabis nerd at four.
I don't know if Canada Book Club is playing. I don't believe it is.
So we might do a little bit longer of a ask a cannabis nerd tomorrow.
So don't forget to submit your questions for that one on Daga Academy.
You can find the link for that in the description. I'm looking at my computer, but you're over there.
I appreciate each and every one of you for coming by today and checking us out on the weekly cheddar Bob.
You guys look like you had a very wonderful chat there. Keep it going. Keep it growing. Keep it green.
I mean, I know it's purple in here, but yeah, I got really spicy salad.
And I got some cilantro. So I'm going to put both of those together.
And I'm going to have myself a nice dinner without Ninja Chuckie, my chopsticks all over the place.
