All right, pucker up those lips.
Morning.
Wake up call.
Can you do the, what is it like at the beginning of the Kentucky Derby?
I think taps or something.
You know, I haven't blown on this in a while.
I taught myself to blow a horn.
This is the toughest horn there is.
But it's cold and let me see what I can do.
But I don't use, so this is like a bugle if I don't use my notes.
Sorry, that's a trap.
Well, it takes a lot of lip strength.
Not doing it today.
That's okay.
You get an A for effort.
Yeah, no, I can if my lips were in shape, but I haven't touched that thing but this last week for like a year.
It's for sale at Silver's and Antique.
So actually, interestingly, tomorrow with Matt Powers, we're talking a little bit about Redox as well.
So this is a good, it'll be a week long deep dive.
Yeah, yeah, get people to really understand that there's not a whole lot to worry about.
It's something that's happening all the time around us and whatnot.
But on another note, before we get into the science, we had a request that a couple of times people have been asking about the hardcore.
So I'm going to tell the tale of hardcore real quick.
I was actually just riding his skis with my daughter last week.
And I inherited his fast skis.
I always thought that I could catch up with them, but I couldn't because it was 40 pounds heavier, but it was these skis that are really fast.
And anyhow, he's got the name hardcore.
His name is Corey Ehlers and he's my best buddy.
He introduced me to my daughter's mother and we skied first chair for years together.
We both showed up as ski addicts and we would compete for first chair until we met each other.
We met each other on top of a cliff with a little narrow no turn chute that I had approached for the first time ever.
And he, I'm skiing into it, saw me looking at it and introduced himself and offered me the line after telling me how to hit it.
And he wanted to see how I skied it.
And I was free heeling and whatever.
I stopped down below.
I watch him ski.
He says, man, you can ski with me if you keep up.
And every day after that, we skied together for 10 years, 120 days, 140 days a year.
And come around summer, he became my left arm.
Once my daughter was born and I started my tree service, Tree Lift.
He would basically, he was the muscle on the ground and the foreman for me when I was taking care of business, climbing the trees.
And both of us had a pretty catch and go childhood and shit.
And it's kind of interesting.
He, the dichotomy of the two of us, people thought he was just an angry dude.
It just, and there was me with good karma, happiness, and we'd be riding the chair together.
And what people didn't understand was we totally accept each other for who we were.
And the primary factor being both of us really great skiers.
He got the name Hardcore as a patroller in Mount Baldy in Southern California.
And there's a bunch of North facing guest sheets there that he would drop in on these long straights back in the day and defy all things human.
But this guy, he's pretty amazing.
He had a North Face one piece ski suit that ended up, it's now I still believe their epitome of our guarantee for life.
And Sage Cattabriga-Lusa was the first chair friend of ours and ended up getting this deal set up where he swapped out.
This one piece had been sewn over duct tape, sewn over duct tape, stitched, hand-stitched, sewn, machine sewn.
It had several layers of duct tape and gourd text on the legs.
And it was more than 20 years old when they swapped it out.
And the salesman would take that around and say, this is what we mean to guarantee for life.
But anyhow, yeah, my buddy Hardcore, he went missing one day.
Went for a hike, told his girlfriend, I'm going hiking.
And actually, two years prior to that, his son who is actually an heir, his mom.
His son's mom is heirs to In-N-Out fortune, probably 112, something like that.
I don't quote me exactly, but there's a lot of money there.
And the son eventually kind of like just disowned him as a ski bum and took his stepfather's name.
And at that point, Hardcore did not go and do anything drastic.
He called me up and says, man, I need a friend.
And he handed me the letter telling him what was up and we sat and talked.
But then he ended up getting a girlfriend and I was the third wheel.
And two years later, the son had come back to him, his girlfriend.
We all had a big group hug in my house here.
And I'd given him an oil painting.
One winter I had no money and I couldn't do Christmas.
I couldn't make mortgage.
And he came in and he took a little weight off my hands and handed me a fat pile of cash so I could do Christmas and make it through the winter.
And he didn't need to do that or whatever.
But as a thank you, I painted one of my best oil paintings ever and gave it to him as a thank you.
And he actually had some of the largest collection of my art, some of which disappeared when he died.
But this group hug goes down.
He brought me this oil painting back and says, bro, I'm moving.
This is going to go on the wall in my new place.
But you need to get photos of it now for print if you're ever going to do that.
This is the last chance you're ever going to get to that.
I'm not giving it up again.
But I don't have a wall to hang it on for about 10 days.
And so he gives me the painting and he splits and the son goes back to California.
And I hadn't been hiking because my body was so messed up.
I went for a long ass hike and get home.
And the next morning I get phone calls from people like Alex.
We need you. Like, hardcore.
So he gone for a hike up in what's called the Hellgate.
You can see it from his apartment where he lived up in the mountain that he was packed up and everything was sitting there.
And he didn't come back from that hike.
We look and look nice.
New search and rescue. And I we did.
We did 10 days until it snowed and we got the dogs out and everything.
We could not find him.
It ended up being.
This one of those missing persons off the face of the earth, the aliens took him one of those things.
It seemed like. And eventually one spring at the base of that Hellgate cliff where he said he was going hiking.
And we searched pretty good, but.
The mountaineers had gone up in the spring and we're doing spring cleanup after the snow and picking up whatever garbage on the trail.
They found a shoe and they get home and I recycle garbage, recycle garbage.
Holy cow, what's that in there? That's a foot.
And so they went up and searches found some more a couple of bones.
But literally, he's up there on the side of the mountain.
And that's his Hellgate is this tombstone on this big cliff.
And sort of I got it in my head that is a dedicated project and, you know, working with land race and whatnot.
My mentor also was like a best friend of all of us together.
We would ride the chair together in the morning and we'd go have sacraments and often the trees together.
And I thought, what a better way for us to all communion.
People put a bench up on the side of the mountain for us to go smoke on.
But imagine if we could go and gather a little bit of the flower to consume that was grown in the soil or friends.
Resting right and literally like a ritual cannibalism type of thing, kind of like the Yanomami in South America, where they when they're doing their DMT rituals and snuffs and whatever.
But they also consume tea or they'll mix in the ashes of their dead ancestors.
And they believe that the DMT, these are their dead ancestors coming to communicate with them.
But not quite exactly that far gone.
No chewing and smoking bones. But you all get the picture, right?
This is like my best friend and a lot of other people who understood him and considered him best friend, too.
He really was an awesome guy.
So I got it in my head and I started breeding or taking a bunch of cuts that I had from seed that I took to a location about, this is a Pelgate 8,000 to 10,000 feet.
I went up to about 9,000 feet and found some springs and set a bunch of clones and they passed them over alpine conditions.
And besides the moose eating them, it came out as the cookie rec in the winter with that.
And if you listen to the talk with Azarian Indian Land Race Exchange, we talk about how we're trying to find a high elevation compatible plant that would work for this project.
And how his entire concept of how he's categorizing land race and their original Himalayas and Afghanistan and stuff by latitude and elevation started the thought process looking for this particular compatible plant.
So I ended up going with the New Mexico Land Grant, which is a local American land race and I'm working on and getting really good results right now on the inbreeding protocol for a cultivar of that, what I'm going to be calling the Garcia Fernando.
We're after the guy who did not eradicate it under the order of Nixon in the early 70s.
So this is a naturalized to the southern Rockies, central eastern New Mexico, north central eastern New Mexico.
And it grows, I think that cat says somewhere between 3 and 9,000 to 10,000 feet.
Just outside of the mountain, bare rocky ground. More in the rainy years and less in the dry years.
It's been there since his family owned it. As far as they know, in 1700 when the King of Spain granted it to him.
So I crossed in with that and bred it to F2 and threw it out on the side of the mountain and allowed it to go into a kind of a feral and self-selection state.
There's like two different generations of that that I collected seed from that I hand out as freebies with purchases generally of any of my seeds.
And the seeds, when you purchase them, go to support both the agri-biome through daga.love.
And the daga.love goes to support the Future Cannabis Project as well as my efforts with, like, I've got a cancer patient that I've been treating for more than three years now.
I'm going to go visit this week and probably do a little clip with her for my Instagram page at hearty gear.
But, you know, this is where it all goes to, supporting people who have no other support.
And doing some pretty cool things in tribute to people that I love.
And that's what's hardcore is about them. I give them out as freebies. They should naturalize wherever.
Quite easily, it's quite an open pollination thing. There might be a little bit of other genetics I threw out on the side as a mystery seed.
But who knows what next is in.
And, yeah, that's the hardcore.
So, I can't think of what else maybe. You know, it's extremely skunky.
I think one of the best ways to describe how skunky it is, besides walking up on it on the side of the mountain and smelling skunks everywhere, is a couple of years ago, opening ski season and running into an old pro skier buddy.
He's not into dab pen or whatever. And I happen to have a couple of sticks of rope, a couple of joints of this hardcore with me.
And he asked if we could sacrament.
We step out into a blazing blizzard outside of this empty ski lodge that has three or four pinyon and juniper fires burning.
Filling the house up with the ions of combustion.
And I noticed, like we're sitting there and a couple of cuffs in on the stick and these people start poking their head around this big chimney we stand next to out the front and the smoking zone and they come out to smoke tobacco.
And they think there's a real skunk.
Yeah.
Hey man, I'm doing a live talk on, well, yeah, grab your ladder and sit back.
I'm sorry folks. Yeah.
Yes, so eventually the manager comes out a minute later and same kind of thing.
We got yelled at for making the whole lodge smell like a skunk and a blizzard with fire burning.
That's that's skunky, hardcore.
That's not my bro I've been skiing with actually.
It's 99 and we install swamp coolers together. I borrowed a ladder for some tree work because I got to get rid of all my trees, service gear, money to do it and my body's not.
Yeah.
Hardcore went to work for my billionaire buddy.
Anyhow, yes, that's hardcore and it's super skunky, but not all of it's that skunky. You can get different diverse greener, some of it's more succulent, some of it's more of an indica looking thing.
Man, it's put off some eight foot trees just on the side of the mountain with snow melt and rainfall.
Anyhow, that's yeah, I want that growing everywhere and tribute to my bro and
it should take just about any place. It's got that taproot capacity.
Oh, what? Someone asked what did the New Mexico land grant put into it? And that taproot, the ability to sustain drought,
literally just sometimes a couple of inches of rain in the summertime after the snow melt, it thrives.
It's got a really strong, it's able to take out beating with the storms and whatnot. Some of these things, the first year, the slope I grew them on was still unstable from a landslide and
big rainstorm came through and these eight foot plants all got squashed flat. I come out like what the rippers?
No, it was boulders, but they all just went super crop, multi top. It's got incredible vigor that way.
It's able to just take it like a natural plant should. So a lot of plants have been read out of all of the
ability to taproot like that and sustain drought, etc. Because we pamper these expensive seeds so gently and then breed from that same stock.
So you're not gonna be able to just take any old seed and toss it on the ground and hemp will escape cultivation a lot easier than most of your
hybridized polyhybrids. And those have all been, they've been hybridized to maximize double recessive traits.
And they'll refer to what we call wild if you just let them go, you don't breed them properly. And that's those more dominant traits come to the surface.
Let's see now.
Flowering time on a heart. Tell you what,
it can vary. I think it's responsive. Again, it's got a, I left it as a wide open pollinated base, but
my gorilla is remote and dangerous to get to, especially when it snows. It's like I got to go through no man's land and granite cliffs and stuff.
And so I kind of
do a tango with winter storm and like
gotta pay attention if it's going to be a season ender and snow everything and I can't get there or whatever. But
they'll take a snow hit pretty hard and a breeze and
and keep on growing without, my stuff's all in north light. No sun after
mid September.
At all, no direct sun. So, but by October 30 I'm completely, everything's done by freeze and it's done.
So some of it's going to run longer, some of it's done a little bit earlier than that. And again, it's an open pollinated genetic and I put a bunch of seeds in there so you can make that kind of selection for your locality.
It's going to trigger north to south and elevation, depending on how much sun there is. And then, you know, it might take, you select for a generation or two and to adapt a little better.
All right. And that's how, just like the garlic, it takes, it's a clone, but it still takes about three generations and it's epigenetics adapt to the particular environment when we transferred
We transferred from one location to another. Like I've noted, from my sandy alkaline location here to the
clay field on the far 14 miles away from town.
Get out here.
I am a cat slave.
Yeah.
Cool. So yeah, the hardcore.
All right. And since we got a limited time this morning, I got to bring my 85 year old father in law to run some errands at 920 ish 925 so Redox.
Redox. Yeah, I got, I got a little, I got about an hour. I can lay this all out. I think, you know, I've been a little post this morning was a little post.
Redox. What is it? Why do we care?
There's a lot of confusion. Actually, so a little over a month ago, this is one of the first things that got me back to teach and we're starting to see and people just tossing this word around. And so we get
that jargon usage is a highfalutin. I'm better than you because I know this word but but I'd seem to see that nobody really knows what this word is.
When they use it or very few people really know what it is.
And so it's actually extremely simple. It's basic chemistry concept that like if you didn't pay attention in high school, you ever asked where am I ever going to use it? This is it.
You know, I'm not going to use it. I'm not going to use it. I'm not going to use it. I'm not going to use it. I'm not going to use it.
So the we're looking at here how it works in soil and nature and how I first really understood it in soil.
Is around a storm cycle and variable point source saturation.
So you get rainfall and you get, you get percolation and you get saturation, then you get overland flow. And so air has oxygen in it and it moves through the soil when you have an overland flow.
you get rainfall and you get percolation and you get saturation and you get overland flow.
So air has oxygen in it and it moves through the soil when you have this gaseous component.
You have air spaces, pores, right? And then as it saturates, you no longer have these
pore spaces and water is a pore conductor of oxygen. While it contains oxygen, it does
not move through water as readily as it does through air. And so it's readily consumed
in our soil as soon as it's no longer being replaced. And then we have, this is where
it gets confusing. So what we're really, really concerned with here is not necessarily
redox equations, but rather the redox equation potential and the availability of these things
to take place. Okay. And so, so once we have saturation and anaerobic conditions, the standard
flow of ionic movement pieces and goes into an anaerobic state, we no longer, we have
a reduced amount and that's what confuses people is because you use, you have a reduced
amount of redox capacity. Okay. So you have, you have less reduction oxidation equation
capacity occurring and that's what we need to be concerned with. And we've all experienced
the state of anaerobic and soil over hydroponic and it's different. We need to understand
it differently for different systems. So in a hydroponic system, those Brown roots
that are slimy, right? You have lost your redox potential. All right. And so there's
no longer this, this redox occurring in soils. When it starts to stink, we've got bad anaerobic
conditions happening and root rot occurs. We have high phytotoxicity status in our soil
and that is the reduced redox capacity state. Okay. So redox is going on all around us and
understanding that the basic chemistry is where it starts. And so that's where it has
the hydrogen and oxygen atoms showing and the periodic table of elements. And so this
is super basic chemistry and these elements are all arranged based on their nucleic mass,
right? The mass of the nucleus, the neutron and proton together combine a charge that
is matched by electrons and that's the electrons in the outer valence. And this is where those
electrons in the outer valence is where reduction and oxidation occurs. And so at all times,
this is a paired occurrence. And I hate calling it actually equations because you have to
understand it's all one equation that occurs. And the formation of water is one of the most
basic redox equations. So you have reduction and oxidation occur at the same time. And so
what is oxidation and what is reduction? Oxidation is the loss of an electron.
By definition, reduction is the gain of an electron. Okay. I'm dyslexic. That's super
confusing to me. So oxidation is gaining an electron and oxygen, right? It sucks over in
this electron valence bind and you have a covalent bond that occurs, right? So there's one
electron in hydrogen and there's two spare electrons in the oxygen. And so the way they
come together and you have that dihydrogen oxide. You get water, right? Sorry.
And so looking at the different graphs, if you look up any molecule picture showing
the electron valence of these two molecules, you'll see different ways they show it.
And so naturally it's this dioxygen. But when you get the hydrogen, it has this crazy
stat. It's 70% of the universe, 75% of the universe, whatever. But it's got that
single electron. It's got no neutron. It's got a proton. And so it's just like
I need a neutron and an electron. It's just water. Boom. That's one of the strongest bonds
in the universe actually. So what happens is you have the hydrogen loses its electron to oxygen
and hydrogen gains that electron. That oxygen, I'm sorry. It seems so confusing, but it's so
freaking simple. And that's what the confusing part of it is that it's just, it's the simplest
thing. And so that's the redox is the combination of hydrogen and oxygen in the simplest form.
Okay. I'm going to go to my notes here and follow through what I had written out to
a little bit of a lesson plan here. Redox, what is it? So the potential is the issue
when reduced we have phytotoxicity in the soil. And that's that rotten egg smell, wet soil,
let's see, brown roots in the hydro system means we have a low redox potential. So I found through
all that. And organic decomposition, soil pH changes. So when we have that reduced state
and we're insaturated, the reason it starts going acidic is we have different microbes
are starting to do different things. And they take electrons in as their energy source.
I think I touched on this in our, where did I touch this? Okay. So talking about how
how rocks become soil and weathering, right? This is going on, but it's like, it's on a scale of
very small, it's a quantum style, right? So we need electron microscopes in a laboratory to
see it and stuff like that. And so these microbes will literally take different metal,
take electrons from different metals in their different states. And so, and when it's anaerobic,
you're immediately things start happening like nitrate turns to nitrogen and it's not available
anymore. Okay. You're, all these metals become unavailable. And I did screenshots of those as
well on my Instagram, but all that's going on is it's the microbes, the hydrogen availability,
everything starts using up what oxygen's available. It all becomes depleted oxygen.
That redox potential is reduced. Okay. And so I just, I started really reviewing this last night
and I won't, we're going to put this into a lot more clarified form as a class.
So the next, the next stuff is, I can't read my own handwriting. Ah, right, right. Okay.
In different systems we have, so I started really understanding how the people doing probiotic
anaerobic digesters were really working when I started to really have a conversation
with the fellows from SoilMakers about this and how dry do you want your sips to go and
things like that. Right. So this is where it gets pertinent for our soil
particle size. It gets pertinent in our containers, why we use large pore size particles in our
containers. It gets pertinent into when we get too much organic matter piling up and water can't move
through because we have capillary action is overriding gravity in a container.
All that stuff is just, but the redox, that's just happening. And then we have the potential
for it happening. And we have less oxygen availability because you have saturated soils,
because you have too small of a pore size. Right. That's where you have the reduced potential.
For redox to occur. All right. Now, this can be in a controlled situation, a good thing. You do
not want it to extend to the point where your roots rot. You do not want it to extend to the
point where you've got the phytotoxicity going on. It's just like you don't have any nutrient
availability. Okay. Those are the two major things that occur when you go into that anaerobic state
is the reduced redox potential. Okay. So the redox is just the constantly occurring
exchange of ions in a balance when molecules form from atoms or exchange. And so there's
actually five times, let's review them really quick. Five times the redox equation. There is
the combination reaction, which is where the water is formed. Okay. So it's A plus B equals AB.
Right. And the photosynthesis is a combination reaction. It's a reduction. And then aspiration
or respiration is the oxidation of that, which is decomposition, which is AB goes to form A plus B,
which is when you like break water apart with electrolysis. Okay. And you have oxygen and you
have hydrogen molecules at that point. You can create a hydrogen bomb. Pretty simple little
thing you can do at home. If you are electronics freak like my brother was when we were kids and
the police showed up with these hydrogen bombs all over the place. That was fun. Let's see.
So displacement is a one-for-one exchange redox equation. And so things where we might use that
is making our colloidal silver for reversals. Okay. But if you think about it in the largest
scale of things, definitely like gold cyanide processes and silver nitrate processes for
extracting our electroplating, those are one-for-one exchange displacements, redox
equations that occur and are part of our life. Combustion. All right. This is, I always thought
about it as just rapid oxidation, but oxidation doesn't occur without a reduction. Everything
occurs in a pair, right? So combustion is rapid oxidation at high temperatures. And that's
basically, you're taking a molecule X that's got an N number of carbon, and you're adding heat and
combining oxygen to create carbon dioxide, water, and heat in an equal number. So the basic
equation for combustion is C6H12O6 plus heat plus 6O2 goes to form heat, light, and CO2H2O.
Yeah. So that's like the sugar molecule burning. And I used to be a freak about this stuff. I
could look at a fire and just rattle off all these crazy equations of how you didn't have enough
oxygen when this happened and how it all mixed. Whatever. That's not where we're at right now,
but that is like what's going on. When you burn something, when you're cooking, whatever, you're
carousing these redox equations and there's a high potential for them to occur because there's
plenty of oxygen that's available. Again, in soils, in anything we're growing, it's the
reduced potential for redox that we're concerned with, which is a saturated state. This oxygen
does not move well through water. It moves well through air. So one of the things I put in there,
oh, let's see. The fifth form is disproportionate redox equations. And that's X is oxidized and
reduced. And these are extremely rare. So that's maybe the kind of thing that's going on in the
stars. And I did not actually find any examples of that one yet. Ran out of time here. So again,
oxidation is the loss of an electron or increasing in oxidation or increased oxygen.
And yeah, you won't be able to read. Let's see. If I can put my little thing right up to the,
I don't know if we can see. Oh, there. Yeah. It's perfect. And now I can read it. Oxidation is loss
of something. Electron. Electron or increase in oxidation. Oxygen. Yeah. So what I was trying
to show though is the electron balances and how what's going on there on. So I got it up on this
side is the water coming together and they share in an electron balance that it's really, it's just,
it's the thing that happens. And it's like, it's like trying to think about how do I shift my,
how do I shift my stick in my automatic car? You're like, you're overthinking it, right? And
it's the, it's the, do I have enough gas in my car to keep going far? Right. And that's, that's
the, it, you need to have enough oxygen in your system. And so that's why like even I do a lot
of wet foot system. My, my emic system is extremely wet foot. And like I have two forms of oxygen
input into my water, my, my nutrient film, or if it's a net flow, both of these systems have
the surface area is a great surface area that allows oxygen exchange, right? At the surface.
And the other one is turbulence. Right. And so, so a lot of people put the bubble stone in,
right? I use a drop turbulence. And so that can be six to 12 inches. And that, that's,
gosh, you're studying like streamflow dynamics and things like that. And how,
there's a guy named Rozgin who put together an entire concept of how to restructure streams,
to produce oxygenated water for fish and aquatic organisms, so that you have high redox potential
and life can occur. And he describes how you lay out your, your boulders and stuff and structure.
It's kind of neat because people talk about structured water in laying out all these
different designs in their garden to produce the spiraling effect and the different turbulence to
get structured water proper into their systems. And like I started realizing, like all this stuff
I'm doing, you place a pot on a flat flow and it, it's got a parabola around it, right? But you're,
I'm increasing oxygen through all these things as part of what I'm doing. I guess the structured
water has to do with the angle of the dangle of the hydrogens on the oxygen and where those
electron balances sit in those rings. Okay. That kind of stuff, this is all super side, but when
you start really understanding redoxes, just trying to shift your, your automatic car and it's
the matter of having the right fuel. Don't put diesel in the gas tank. Don't put gas in the diesel tank.
It's a whole different story when you start taking command of your system.
So again, it's, it's really simple. Don't overthink the redox equation. It's just
water forming and the hydrogen and oxygen forming together on that electron balance.
It's the capacity and availability of these reactions to occur that you need to be concerned
with. And that's, yeah. Some of the things that I wanted to show is how in a landscape,
I started talking about how you get, you get rain, you get that percolation, you get saturation,
this pores fill up. Yeah. Yeah. No, there's lots of pneumatics. Oxidation. Yeah. So there's
different ways, lots of ways of understanding it. And there's, there's a really neat,
just like a little set of words, like oil rig, I think is one. Oxidation is
losing electron. Reduction is gaining electron. Oil rig. Right. And again, our brains are all
different, right? We all have a different set of circumstances that we came to this room.
So I'm trying to be as broad of a view of it, because I had a very narrow view until I, it's
like, this is what I understood it as. And then it's like, really? No, it's even simpler and bigger.
And I told Pete last night, it's really simple if you understand basic chemistry,
microbiology, and weather. So yeah, it's raining, you get percolation through the soil,
and that's determined by how compacted it is, how large the pore sizes are,
things like that. How much organic matter is on top. And then you get the saturation,
which is the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the
the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
how much organic matter is on top. All those things determine your stream flow lag time.
But it hits the rocks, right? It comes right over the rocks and hits the soil.
And then you have these periods of time where your stream flow
increases,
saturation increases,
anaerobic conditions increase throughout a landscape.
Right? This is totally natural.
And so the sides of the floodplains, the sides of the stream have more water in them. They become waterlogged.
They become anaerobic. They go into these states of
reduction.
It's weird because you actually do have in the reduced
the reduced potential state you have
reduction occurs because there's no oxygen. And then you have these microbes that
will take electrons off of metals
for their energy source. And then the metals are...
Gosh, what was it?
Getting into anions and the cation exchange and all that stuff and how things move through the soil.
I think I put a slide there just describing that there's in an anaerobic or in a pond you have that organic
right at the soil level. You have the oxygenated level and then different layers and there's different microbes
stratifying the soil based on what ion or anion they take from different reduced metal forms.
Wait, are you talking from this
sequence of images? Yeah, so I think it's the last two that's just all words that describe what I'm talking about here.
But that's phytotoxic for the most part if it's a long period of time and your plant is not adapted to it.
There's definitely plant adaptations in riparian zone.
But this just shows what was a perfect status of soil.
There we go.
That slides up and down a little bit, but it's basically just saying so as soon as we go into
anaerobic state this stuff starts happening and
some
plants can deal with that. But in our SIP system for instance,
if you allow that to go through a slight change and then we also control our microbe regime
by putting in
purple non-sulfurene bacteria and our
facultative anaerobic
that creates the lactic bacteria.
So we want the lactic bacteria
for labs, right? And so we have
the bitric and
lactic acids that occurs in anaerobic conditions.
And so you want to control which one you got and you want to control your microbes.
And that's another thing with just being aware and taking control of our situation.
And my understanding, everyone says you want to keep your SIP super wet, but in my mind
I think you want that stuff to semi dry a little bit and go through the full
fluctuation of pH range as it can
through anaerobic and aerobic
potential change. You don't want it to stay
super saturated for very long, but you top it up below above the base of that water-soaked
soil above your and then it goes in and just like if you
gradually slowly adjust your pH in your hydra system
you're gonna have more stuff become available not just your main nutrients in their perfect state constantly, right?
You flux through that zone. That's what's happening in nature is
landscape becomes saturated. It dries out after storms slowly
It peaks, it slowly
dries out and saturates and there's less flow. There's less flow. There's more oxygen.
That's mostly where in its oxygenated state in most environments and that's how
our plants like it.
So there's lots of oxygen and that's why we like those large pore spaces in our soil.
I have
the post on Instagram talking about pore spaces and the physics of
capillary space in a pot versus in the ground and how you have a
break in gravity because we have a macro pore space between the pot and the earth and
things like that and
you know how we create drainage or how we can slow drainage by adding different particle sizes.
All that stuff comes into controlling your redox potential
and we want high redox potential in our growing systems.
In fact that loam, that clay loam has got that beautiful
high potentiality.
We talked about the ability of the
microbial, the fungus and its ability to move through up to a maximum of 200 psi through the soil.
That's because it needs, those good
fungi need that oxygen. So in a tighter pore space you have a reduced
reduction potential. The
mycorrhiza ain't gonna move into there. There's no reason for them to go there. There's no oxygen for them.
All right.
So that's like a compacted clay. You're not gonna see mycorrhiza growing into clay.
Anything more than like 20% you start reducing that capacity when you're increasing your clay
content. That needs to be like well mixed in 20%.
And now I'm talking that fine particle size not necessarily the
silica
aluminum structure that is clay. It creates our cation exchange sites.
Yeah, so all this stuff ties together
into all these and depending on our system we got, earth box is always moist and slightly inter-ribber facultive.
Yeah, so
right, that's the standard. That's a standard belief. And then so what you want to control those faculties, right?
If you don't add those faculties
then
you got issues. That's when it starts to stink, right? It should be
slightly moist. Yes, and that top layer gets more dry. There's always poor space. There's
versus fully saturated. Yes, completely agree with you.
I would never let it go bone dry across the board. That's not how it would work.
But the fluctuation you're adding water it depletes. You're not topping it up constantly, right?
It's not you can't be there 24-7 with a can put a float on it.
Simplify some things out and then really think that's exactly the optimum.
Different people definitely are doing it different ways. Your soil mix is gonna make a difference, right?
There's they're not even that deep of a system.
You make that system into like a four-foot deep system. It's not gonna operate the same way as when you have that one to two.
I don't know. Do people make them three feet deep?
It makes it makes a huge difference.
But yeah, most of the most of like the tomato garden ones and stuff. They're only a foot.
So
there's different ways for sure but understanding it all and why things go bad.
You see so if your earth box has gone bad and sour and roots are all rot because you've lost redox potential.
Right?
And that's what you need to be paying attention to and how do you fix that?
Some people do throw air stones in their earth boxes because that was the solution they understood and they didn't know anything about making labs.
Or EM1.
You're controlling your microbes.
That's what that purple non-sulfur is another way where you're controlling the microbes instead of just letting those nasty ones.
They end up creating toxic metal situations.
This is essentially what the phytotoxicity is.
When they start grabbing electrons from those reduced metals and stuff.
Yeah, and of course I'm not the expert on this stuff.
This is just I did a review to I have a pretty good understanding of stuff.
But it's like oh man there's stuff you haven't looked at the book in a couple of years.
And we have a lot more information.
So it's really easy to anyone just to look at the book and say,
It's really easy to anyone just like start asking these questions of your communicator in your hand.
Your phone, your computer.
And have that information.
If you skipped out of basic chemistry though it might not make sense.
You know, we'll have a joint instead of a flask.
What do I understand about the periodic table?
Basic reviews of all this information leads us to the end deal.
Which is more sustainable, more better production with less inputs.
Less energy moving things around to try it over and over and over again.
Try something new when it's been tried and true.
Yeah.
Gosh, just off the cuff.
Gosh, just off the cuff in late night.
So again, there's the combination reactions.
There's decomposition.
There's displacement.
There's combustion.
There's disproportion, redox equations.
But it's the potential of these equations to occur in our soil that we're most concerned with.
To keep a healthy rhizome.
Yeah.
Just out of place notes there.
Put it into a more concise lesson plan and stuff.
People can understand it from the beginning with graphics that are quite pertinent to what we're doing.
And we'll make it a lot more informative.
But this is just kind of like a quick overview type of thing.
And I know Pete's probably running around taking care of his business before he has to split.
So is there...
Gosh, there he is right there.
He's going to say something in the chat.
Yeah, yeah.
No, we've got 10 or 20 minutes left.
If anyone's got any questions, I can field some questions on whatever.
And if not, we can...
What is this?
Is field capacity considered an anaerobic media?
Okay, so that's a little confusing.
Field capacity is like the ability for...
After it's been saturated and then it just sits out, that's how much water is in the field.
And so you're thinking about how much water you need to put in to get you to maintain your moisture properly.
And then what was the second half of it, Doug?
And I'm sorry.
It almost was like two different questions.
Let me find that again.
Oh, here we go.
Sorry.
There's a part two.
Is field capacity considered an anaerobic media like watering to capacity?
Yeah.
So you water to capacity and it drains out.
Our media in our soil should not hold the water to the point where it stays anaerobic.
Right?
And so it's going to be different with different systems, what your soil particle density is going to be,
and what your field capacity or holding capacity is going to be.
Right?
And that's one of the reasons we don't take the field soil and put it in a pot.
It's going to be a finer particle size overall in the field because it doesn't,
it has direct gravity pulling on it against capillary action.
Okay.
And so in your pot, you saturate, it should drain out, and it shouldn't be so fine that water stays standing in any place.
Right?
You know, from what I'm telling you, you might understand that it isn't entirely horrible to have a small pocket of anaerobic in your system,
as long as it's a dynamic thing that doesn't grow big and kill, create a phytotoxic state.
Right?
But if you have a small pocket of that in the bottom of your entire root zone,
that's actually creating a different availability of nutrients in your soil.
Okay?
And your microbes, they can get close to that, and there's enough oxygen,
will be able to displace and pull things that they need.
But that's a dynamic situation and very complex and advanced soil concept.
You basically, basic growers and growers in general are going to want to keep that entirely,
as maximized potential in their system as possible.
Right?
It's just a comment.
More divergently charged, less heavy than how a CHP contains.
Yeah.
Something like a monatomic gold gets lighter.
Overcapacity is when anaerobic...
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Hold that one.
Anaerobic begins when saturation is there, because oxygen...
As soon as all of the microbes and plant and everything else and all the mineral and metals in there oxidize,
there's no more oxygen available.
Right?
And so you go into your reduced state and that's anaerobic.
Okay?
There was something about anaerobic compost and...
Oh.
Anaerobic compost is saturated to field capacity but not oversaturated.
Anaerobic.
Okay.
Yeah.
I have a broken screen, so it's hard for me to read everything.
So it says an anaerobic compost pile is saturated to field capacity but not oversaturated,
for example, which would turn it anaerobic.
Yeah.
You need enough water in the system to make things happen and keep everything alive,
but I don't saturate my aeroic or thermic pile that much.
I keep my vermicompost a lot closer to anaerobic saturation, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's excellent.
So, I haven't forgotten about...
Let me see if I can find his...
Someone asked about...
Oh, here we go.
We will get some more Afro Tiva.
If I got them, they'll be coming.
common yeah here's more o3 and o2 o3 is heavier than o2 so it sinks to gravity
surface as it does it off gases to the o2 state same effect for soil moisture
content yeah yeah yeah yeah you open up the pores open they get you so one of
the things that goes on is soil as the soil moisture it percolates down right
you end up having films on all your particles and your capillary you know if
your capillaries open up and you have a film of water and then there's a gaseous
state of moisture in those capillary zones right and somebody was asking me
to bring this stuff up a while ago there's a perfect point where so there's
definitely that's that saturated down below and then you have pore spaces it
opens and there's films coating everything and then vapor in between
right so water molecules are part of the airspace pores in those highly moist
moist soils and that's that's how the fungus and stuff so happy to grow and
get a super micro fine hairs growing and we didn't you think about like okay so
what's aeroponics or fog upon it that's exactly what's going on is they're
creating a macro zone of that micro pore space inside of the soil right and
they're they're creating all those ions and anions are available in a gaseous
form or a mist that's a again understanding just a whole nother those
systems are freaking awesome direct drive right if you understand them and
never figured out a way to do it organically because we have all the
particulate matter in the system that is driving the availability of nutrients
we have to have multiple filters and backflushing that in your system again
organic digester you can pump to make that really work in that above and
beyond the mad scientist without funding capacity here yeah so someone just
mentioned Gemma's paintings are getting bigger she actually she either draws
landscape or portrait and when it's portrait it's too big for my computer so
I had to fold it over nice but uh well why don't we end there cuz I gotta get
ready to to do some chauffeuring of my 85 year old father-in-law but uh we're
actually gonna go deep on this topic tomorrow I don't think that's gonna be
the right time because I think I have to now that kids can go places sort of in
LA Gemma has a some sort of activity possibly in the afternoon that I need to
bring her to but uh sometime tomorrow we will keep going on redox and yeah
excellent looks like he's got some better better graphics ready and I know
he was talking about it last week and it's definitely it's good to understand
it and so you can make more better decisions in your system appreciate
these for having the opportunity to get the information out to people so they
can be more sustainable in their grows and yeah so eventually we will
potentially have a guy named Olivier who's on who's French or actually Swiss
who's been doing a ton of research on this stuff so this is the slow build up
to the now hopefully if I got anything wrong we'll get it all correct to I'm
you know this is everything I just did a looked at stuff a month and a half ago
and then I did a review last night and as I was falling asleep can you read
that yeah you know so the more barometric pressure you've got the more
gaseous air is getting pushed into the soil right and so when we have a high
pressure system it's getting a shoved into the ground but when the barometer
drops and you have a low pressure stuff comes up out of the soil because it's
not got as much weight upon it right as literally we're talking about an
atmosphere of pressure that's what it is and it's been so barometric pressure you
can have a swing of the millibars is portions of atmosphere pressure is
sorry I got this might not have that exactly right but it's I got an oil
painting that I did it was a record barometer drop I was painting that's
what I titled it the sky was so eerie is it the ions and everything was
changing is is the air mass came for a storm but yeah that's that's what's
going on you literally have a change in the weight of the air pushing into the
soil and that's how most of your nitrogen goes into your soil for instance
is 80% of the air is nitrogen the weight of air shoves it in so the weight of the
air above it shoves it into the soil that's that's basically what's going on
and the availability of those things to do what microbes do with them right and
and so it talks about those microbes in my on that post a little bit just
touches on it it's like there's there's chemically there's there's chemistry
going on with with the rocks and the plant matter as it breaks down and the
microbes and so all those things were affected by the availability of the gas
and the force and that pressure the barometer change this is just the part
two of of sorry there was I know wait this is part one of the but here you're
talking eh they whether it's the water saturating it or change the pressure do
the storm front moving through this is all affected by the potential or the
potential is affected by what's there big big giant equation it's really super
simple like like trying to shift your automatic car make sure you got diesel
the diesel and gas in the gas right all right well let's end there with Alex I'm
loosely titling it Alex's land race adventures and I think next stop will be
Russia slash Siberia slash very cold climates with Russian land race bureau
and so I'm gonna reach out to him and we'll we'll lock in a he's a night owl
you're an early riser so he's working his butt off is what he is or at the end
of his night we'll just keep him up a little longer however I'm flexible so
whichever way we do we can do it all right well thanks everyone have a great
day more double thumbs up he's out all right
see everyone
