And Pedro you look like you've been doing a lot of fishing because you are a bronze God
Well, I do work outside most of the time so I'm always out there, you know getting the UV soaking it up, you know
But it's just a t-shirt. It's just a t-shirt and
But wait you let me hold on let me go to your IG when was the last time you're efficient
You know, I went
You know fishing fishing it was about three weeks ago. We went out actually went lobster hooping
for lobster
Yeah, so right now is lobster season
It ends is this month though
It's it's always the rush to go get as many as you can, you know, you can only keep so many in the freezer
so
What are what are the soak I mean I'm from New England so what what are the SoCal lobster like
Well, it's it's it's this California spiny lobster. We haven't you know from Point Concepcion all the way down to Mexico
It's that spiny, you know
It doesn't have any claws like the main lobster
Okay, so and and most of most of the fishery
In the US
Gets sold to Japan
They literally put them in shipping contained like like these big huge water tanks and put them in planes and ship them out to Japan
Which is crazy
Yeah
But we get to get them here
I'm so lucky for it, too
and
so before we went live you were talking about your so
This GMO that I'm about to smoke on is from the fall harvest that is correct and
Then you just also did a winter run. That is correct. And what were you saying about the
The
Though you said that some sweetness the winter run came out a little bit sweeter than than the the
October one, you know
And the reason why I believe it is is because I it was surrounded by a bunch of blueberry muffin plants
I think this guy needs to jump on with us
So
it was a
It's it has something to do with with that communal network that they have underneath that you know that we not seeing
Something's happening below there that we're not aware of. I
Believe that
How many how many rounds have you ran that GMO
What was that? How long you've been running the GMO?
I've had this GMO cut for about four years three four years now
Okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I
Really run indoor at all or no strictly outdoor. Everything that I do is outdoor sun-grown
Yeah
It's hard to achieve that, you know six-star hash with with with with you know uncovered
Plants exposed to the elements out there, but this season has been really special here in Southern, California. We got a lot of rain
So most of most of my plants
Were extremely clean
just by the sheer, you know volume of
Water that we got and it was nice and cold too. So it was great
It didn't it didn't you know, I don't have any any kind of
Pattery mildew or any kind of molds or anything like that. It was great. It was just one of the cleanest
If you see on my Instagram page
We we did some macro shots and you can really see those strikes and there's really no dust on that's like it's really great
I'm so lucky for this run
Do you know what you do for go ahead? I was just gonna ask him what you're doing for inputs
Everything well I have this for the winter run it was just rainwater these living soil beds are about 10 plus years
So
In reality, there's not much they need you know at this point
In the beginning of the season I do use like when I first put my clones in the in in the soil
I use a little bit of a
Fish amino acid that I make here at home
I'm proud to say that we don't use anything from bottles
very cool
ferments and you know chicken manure and you know, it all goes into the compost pile and the worms, you know
Take care of it and process it and we we you know amend
You know just tops top soil compost whenever we need it
But for the past couple years has been really really stable
All of the plants the only thing that we take from our plants is the hash
The plant goes right back to the same spot where that plant came from
stems
all the all the material
it creates a really good nice environment for the for the worms to to to go back in and and and and
munch on that
And munch on that carbon and make it available for the plants to have it in the next cycle
The more I'm hearing about this trichome science is you know, it's a majority of carbon as it is
You know, and so the more carbon you're introducing into the already
Available sources the more complex you're able to get those oils and tiles and everything else
coagulating up in there
You know, I do I do notice an extremely amount big difference, you know, I've got I'm always a student in my
You know, I'm always learning and I'm always running a bunch of experiments in my backyard. You know, I have I have small
maybe three by three
motor crates that I've run living soil inside of them and those beds are not part of my communal network and
I can put the same strain right next to each other one in the bed
With the communal network and the other one on
Let's create the sitting on concrete and and the plants that are sitting on the crate will get affected by IPM and in reality
I do that for for if there's anything that's gonna come into my into my my area
It's gonna attack those plants first because they're just not as healthy or they don't have that communal network
So, you know, they got they don't got their homies to back them up through that network
Yeah, yeah, I think I think they communicate yeah, it sounds hippie but that fungi network it really is
It's it's I mean, it's like the way magic happens
So
It's been working for me for the past, you know ten plus years
I ran indoor for a long time ran GDP and you know in soil as well
And I also did you know hydro, you know regular general hydroponic and I can never been
I've never been able to to be able to replicate those same terpene profiles or the amount of resin that these outdoor plants
Produce I truly believe that
The resin is a media in which
the plant can absorb the light is exposed to and
The light is exposed to and trap it if it makes it's kind of crazy
some of these
like
When you have when you have plants that are directly exposed Southern, California, we get sunshine most of the time
When you got that bright UV hammering these plants, it does something special to their resin and makes it golden and makes it
shatter ETC
Levels or THC a levels or
Through the roof, you know, and I'm not testing I can just see by we know how fast stuff butters up if you not
Are not careful with it
Just quickly is that like a USB microscope like a
like what what microscope we're using to look at the
To do the macro stuff. I can go get it if you want to look at it. It's yeah 200 times
My you know microscope that you put you clip on your phone
Literally. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, if you want to grab it and show people. Yeah one second. I'll be right back
And I'll just go through some of up there's the fish in
Damn
He's a deadliest catch
Fishing
Fishing is my drug of choice. Ladies and gentlemen, I gotta be honest with that straight up
I smoke hash used to take the edge off when I'm not fishing
But here it is
Well, hold on sorry I was on the
Yeah
It works great I
Primarily I
Use it to look for IPM. I'm looking to see you know, look for bugs or you know
I'm always looking at the neighbors plants to make sure
I'm not having any issues
Coming my way. So I'm gonna
Me and my wife are kind of OCD about keeping our plants clean
Inside the house and outside the house. So if you're not out there looking then, you know, things things are gonna get by
They're gonna come looking for you
Exactly
Yeah
Well in the
Melton hash I'm gonna I'm gonna make a little flag got some melt
from superlative solventless
Tonight's I was at a melt event down here in Chicago made gallery. How did you pronounce that the first time?
DB, I don't know. I don't know. I want to get the first pronunciation DP. How was the melt event?
It was nice man, it was really cool
Yeah, so
He's gonna come and chat with us sometime fire
Nice. I had a really good time
Wait for this. I'm waiting for this GMO right now to get a little warmer
Yeah
Face if you're not careful
I came a little late. So I got a busted out guy. I got a light club
It's fire that's looks really nice
It's you stupid. Hi
That's
What I love no, you get that like full body high, you know, like yeah
I'm just kind of you kind of don't get that from your
pressed rosins I
Agree, I I've been smoking. No, I don't like press Ross
I've been smoking milk here for the past. I'm enjoying it
But so in the fall what did did you what did you grow besides the GMO or was it just that I know
No, I grew a bunch of different strands
Lemon heads which is archive. It's face off OG times lemon G one of my favorite ones
Actually, that was that was my my Eagle Clash entry
I
Also grew blueberry muffins from the humble seed company. I grew
My stupid fruits from plenty of years that I've you know, caped some cut I grew strawberries and cream f2
Papaya guy from a sonic
You know, we did some we did some stuff this season and
Also pop those
so back in
2005 me and my wife took a trip down to Costa Rica and I brought down some
granddaddy purple that we were growing here in Southern California indoor soil and
Actually, we flew
To Costa Rica with about half an ounce and we were smoking there one of the waiters
We stayed in a playa hermosa right on the beach. He smelled what I was smoking and came up and
You know, he asked me what I was smoking and you know, it took a couple hits two days later
He showed up with a sack and there was like six buds in there. Maybe five
Big ones one small one and it was a really skinny sticky
Tropical
Tasting bud that I've never had before and we were so lucky. There were six seeds in there and
I put a little bit of surfboard wax on them because we were down there in a surf trip
Coated those beans with a little bit of surfboard wax and I stuck them right here in my ear cartilage
three and three
Brought them back to the US popped all the seeds
Open pollinated made some seeds, but the terpene was what I was looking for
But back then in 2005 we were we were we were growing for flower
Mostly, you know wait and and this this plant wasn't producing the weight
so we kind of put it on the back burner and come you know come this year and I decided to pop some just to
You know, I'm going through my library of seeds and I came across those seeds. We call them tropical sex
I don't even know why we did but that's what we call them back in 2005 or
2006 when I open pollinated them and
I found one that it was just out of this world
it's unique and
If we get invited to the next Eagle clash, I'm thinking that's what I'm gonna enter
That sounds that sounds amazing sounds interesting I love the story behind it and you try some of those tariffs now
I've had a lot of people try to try it and to see if I can pinpoint because now we kind of almost trying to
Call it like what the fuck is this because no one knows I've had a mace try it. I've had sour waves tried
I've had you know people that been around in the industry for a long time that I've smoked a lot of stuff and
We can't put her or thumbs around what it is. Be honest with you. So which is unique
It's very unique I like that that's a good thing. Yeah
Nowadays everything's mostly everything's tasting mostly the same
That's pretty amazing if it in skittles is some kind of mumbo or rainbow belts or something, you know
Skittles hash maker for sure. You definitely know
so yeah, but
That's what's up, man. And GMO is one of my all-time favorites. I just love that skunky
Bunky ass tasting garlicky onion
Dirty, you know sock you think the armpit that stinky little jazz like oh that funk
They're just like it get you smell your nose. Just oh
Smells like gypsy armpit. I love just opening it up and like go to Starbucks go to Starbucks open up a jar and everyone's
Just like yeah
Exactly like everything bagel I got left underneath this I love dumpster for a week
Yeah, what what cut are you running?
You know, I got this cut from my good friend ants in your pants. I think it is complex. Okay? Oh, yeah, that's it
That's whatever. I got it from ants in your pants, but it's the one it's definitely the one
Yeah, I love man. The GMOs are great. Yeah Cheers
Cheers
I'm gonna go in for a dab with some GMO here in a second. I smoke cold start guys
I don't know how about mr. Live bubble hash himself
Yeah
Yeah, well, I hope you guys enjoy I
Hope you enjoy I'm gonna
Light this up. I'm gonna go in cold start. I like to enjoy that low temp first and then I scorch it at the end
I like it that the bloom method that
Simply Adam kind of teaches
It's a cool cold start like that
Yeah, take it to get a little bloom of it to give it a little bit of heat get the initial real ones that are
light and
This is how you're gonna be able to to to you know, tell everything it's gonna tell you a story and dry
Getting to the end dry dry. No water
Dry no water
Why don't you try it one of these days I'm going to it's a lot
It's I got you dog, I'm gonna take I got you and take it let's smoke your way your hash
As you can tell you know, my dad rig doesn't have a drop of water and the reason why is because they don't need it
It's enough surface in there to cool it off
Wow, oh, yeah
Mmm so tasty
Mmm, we got no water. No water. Let's go. No water. All right
Watch you notice a difference. It really right in dry slurper
Dry slurping. All right
What rig is that this is a
Honestly, it's a Chinese rig but that's a bear bear quartz
Round round bowl thick bottom. Oh, yeah, those retain really well. It's easy to clean
This is a chip glass
This is an early early early chip custom. I'm so yellow. Is that a break?
See him with with Yoshi lip wraps, so it also changes to like a pink pink. Yeah, I'll both pink. Yeah. Yeah
Decent I actually gotta fucking put some water in this just eat the ice about I'm poured out. I got you
I'm actually Monday's
Where my q-tips, how'd you like it Peter? Did you try it?
I did I just went to open the garage door now how
Since you're somewhat of a novice on the hash game. How do you like a difference between a full melt and a cold cure rosin?
No, no, he's asking me
I
Like for the and then you had fresh press the other night too, right
Yeah, hold on we have some right now that's what we have right now, yeah, oh that's what you have right now fresh press
Okay. Okay GMO some GMO fresh press from the man, right? Yeah. Oh
Yeah, I like getting in fresh press because then you can manipulate it to however factor you like it and you watch those changes
In between it if you do like to watch it butter up a little bit or whatever, you know, like it gets
Interacts with you know people get it, you know get into it
You know what? I mean instead of just being like here you got to take it this way
Yeah, and it's you know, half the time is you know dry or whatever?
Yeah, yeah
I've been liking kind of those those jam text people have been messing around with a little bit but not every is cultivar dependent
You know not everyone react, right? So absolutely you got to have something that it's gonna allow you to do that. Yeah
Yeah, like I have I
Have this really nice turp from
Archive lemon heads. It's absolute lemons. I
Don't know if you've tried it Peter or not
But I just I just recently went to Portland like two weeks ago and I got some of their lemon peel while I was up there
clean
their lemon turps
When you pop that
Let me know
No, it's it's it's here. It's already here. It's a second time. I ran it. Oh
But the problem with that resin it doesn't it doesn't
It doesn't butter up really fast and it's not really greasy
It's really on the dry side, but the limelight
it's it's it's really really pungent and and almost overwhelming and
Sounds nice. Yeah
So, how do you guys like that GMO
Dry dabs. I like it
A little bit jealous. I like how it leaves that coat of
Ration this all over your airways and honestly GMO is one of the only one only the only
Hashes that I will ever smoke and and drink coffee with
Okay in the morning in the morning. It's just it's it's meant to be together. It's like holy matrimony man. It's like
It's meant to be together. It really is
I can dig that I can see that. Yeah
normally
When you when you take a swig of coffee and you smoke something it definitely gonna taste like coffee
But there's something special about GMO that it's almost like a coffee kalua garlic. It sounds crazy. I
Can dig it I
Could try that in the morning. Yeah, you should cuz nothing pairs with coffee quite like garlic
You'll see what I mean, I'll be up early in the morning shoot me a text. Let me know either you love it or you hate it
Yeah, I gotta eat some breakfast food with it
Some bacon coffee
And GMO are you using the dab X right now?
Yeah, how do you like it? I
Love it. I mean, I don't like
for me to use a rig is like
Like I'll take dabs if I'm at an event with one of you guys who like
In front of me ready to ready to hit
So that's like this thing so easy
Nice I kind of miss mine. I was kind of looking at
That primary
Surface where it warms up your oil and then it drips down to the bottom where it actually gets evaporized, correct?
Yeah, I
Was just wondering how easy it was to clean, you know, because I mean I'm out there I carry my dad rig with me
Oh, it's like standard PPE. I have my hard hat
I smoke a lot. It's you gotta make sure you have you dad break clean in order to get
It's easily cleaned I put the
Changes in yeah, I put the chamber in a bad guy
So if it gets too dirty and it cleaned out really well, I traveled I brought mine
I brought mine to Portland with me mines in my like a little car right now. I forgot it on the commute home
I can't use in it
Break apart super easy. Just take it off the top
Then here's the chamber exposing the chamber fully magnetic
Then if you want to take the coil out no twisting needed just pull the coil out completely magnetic
Drops right back down. You need to get down to the bottom chamber to clean it
Just magnetic Wow. Oh, that's what the chamber that's where that's the coil right there the hole
And it's American made right to American made, California. It's like local. I think it's like yeah
Yeah, I I went to their facility. Here's the
Here's the resin was awesome. That's all the reclaim
Here's two little extra little storage bins that you can just travel with you don't want to take a slick with you
Just like to pop some hash or whatever in there and just I didn't even know
I was a dab. Yeah, you just fucking pop it out scoop your dad put it back in take your dad's only decent
You have travel. Yeah, you have a travel like dabs like nice then it also comes with like a bunch of other stuff
They're just awesome. Yeah, believe it or not. I still rock in the old car to number one the first generation
Yeah with the titanium or the quartz
You know, I have all of them
You can or just got to make sure you got them, you know everlasting
Iser and I mean it's it's rocking like day one
We I had a car to be one and they were amazing
DP and I were just talking about the car to be to
Like not even an hour. I could probably a couple hours ago talking about how awesome they are
How I want to try one
I've just seen so many people ripping them out events and they flip in cloud and I love how like the aspect of the LCD
Screen you can also program like your program like the FCP logo into the startup
So when you start up the product your logo pops up onto the main screen
There yeah, because I've seen a people come to Michigan where they started up. It's just super. I mean, that's just super cool. It's badass
Yeah, so that's good user interfaces and yeah, you can like mess with it. Yeah, I really love it
I like I like I haven't played with one but like from what I've seen
I've tried I've tried most of them except for the dab X. I can't wait to try it. It's nice. I love it
Nice all three of all three of us rip on one
I'll take a dab on one right now. The GA GMO tastes great dry smooth as can be
super garlicky super funky
Coats your mouth completely I'm tasting it as we speak three minutes after the dead
It it does that was greasy one. It's just like coat. Yeah
Yeah, it does what the Tropicana does but funky yes Peter, how is that I have this why I
Forgot that I had it. This sounds like I should
Dab X attachment for your bone for a 14
Yeah, you just
Double click it and it just goes to town
What and travel that's the best travel device ever that's that one must express
Love it. Yeah that one. That's a great device. I've been wanting to try that one out
Yeah, that's something I feel like I could use more than just the dab X itself and that
Accessory, it's just so compact
It's nice. So it fits in here. It's a game-changer
You got a 14. Is it a 14 male?
Yeah, I think so I think maybe a male is it a male
Let me see the bottom of it. Let me see the bottom of it
Yeah, that goes right now that's yes that goes that goes yeah, that's the coil that's the coil and then what's the other side
Let me see the other side the glass side
Yeah
Take that off, right? Yeah. There you go
There you go
Like I see alright, so it's it's the same it's almost the same exact
It's the same as that but just for the piece
And
then is there a
Is there a cap with it? I think there should be maybe that's what I was looking. Oh wait, you know what?
Take the one off your dab X. Well, that's those that was choice B. I hear it or it's could be different size. I don't know
That one looks awesome. Though. Yeah glass
yes, so it's a for roller city, it's a
14 if you if you want to hold it up hold up that little device. It's like a little 14
It's basically like a little square battery. Yeah, it's a little yeah
battery that is that you charge up that you recharge and it has a
14 millimeter male glass and that you stick into any piece. That's 14 millimeter
And then you have the coil you have the coil that you'd have on the dab X here
But just on that small device Wow, and that battery is is that magnetic on the side?
Yeah Wow is oh
My gosh, that's that's awesome
That's pretty fucking cool, man. That's fucking awesome Peter
We need to get that guy on man, I don't need to talk about that
Every week I'm like you ready? Oh my lord. That's a killer product. Wow. I love them. Yeah
You got it. So in there in their facility
He has like all these massive monitors in his office with his CAD designs of these things
like just kind of like rotating in 3d and then you go to the next room and it's like
the 3d printers the size of
Like a sprinter van. Mm-hmm. Just like big boy 3d printers and like they do all this fabrication stuff
It's just a cool place yeah
We should make a team trip down there
Dude that'd be nice to go hang out. That'd be nice. I'll bring some turps man. We'll get everybody
All right, so I got to charge this thing up then or wait
You're like
What you telling on their potato salad ice cream
overnight oats
Nice, and my dogs healthy over here. I got my munch on some girl Scott, but he's
Yeah, maybe yesterday pretty good that dried up those are fire, okay nice
Got some walnuts cranberries bananas. Oh, yeah, that's the exact same way. All right
So I need you guys grow
Yeah
What are you guys excited about poppin next season or whenever you guys happen I
Just got I'm in early veg right now, I just transplanted out of the solo cups into city pickers
Topanga across to the root beer. Oh
And I did a couple of those and I did a couple from mean gene and then I did a couple of
Dutch blooms dosi liquors, which are really nice
nice and then I have
Myers Creek's testing his
Lemon degreasers, so I'm gonna green lined up and the waves. Yeah waves from raw genetics
I just washed it super fire
If I didn't just throw it
Yeah waves from raw genetics, it's slushies crossed apples and bananas apples and
Crossed apples and bananas
I'm excited. I was going through my my seed library and I found some seeds from early 2000
Strand called blue satellite
blue satellite is
Blueberry
times shish kaberry
By far one of the most gracious
Blueberries I've ever washed grown
Super excited. I got those seeds that
Back in the 215 time or
215 era right? I don't know if you guys remember in Hollywood. There was a place called medic and what they gave the the
doctor's prescriptions right next door. There was a there was a
Dispensary and I was able to score those seeds there. I popped one one
one one one
Package it was like 20 20 seeds back then and I found a really really nice
Blueberry washable. It was amazingly coated with with resin. Unfortunately, I lost it in a fire
So
I'm hoping to maybe this
Pack will have something similar to that. I
Haven't heard of that from a while blue satellite blue satellite. It's a special one, but you know about it
That's what's up. I want to say almost from
The canon Bible
The person who crossed it but
Yeah
That's an RV that's cool
I like I like that people are going back in time instead of
Trying to recreate the next height new runs or something, you know new gelato or I don't know
not that there's anything wrong with those cultivars, but
It's nostalgic and stuff that I that I like, you know that I that I you know
If I can get a get a hold of some old ak-47 seeds
The first stock that I bought from I don't know where in Europe they came in an umbrella, it's funny
That's so cool
I love hearing about how like all the like back in the day when people had to get seeds and I
Really? I guess not that back in the day in the time frame of things, you know
Only recently we've been able to to go out there and openly buy
seeds and stuff so I love hearing about the getting them in like a fucking CD case or
Cassette case or something, you know
Yeah, fucking toy or something, you know be ordering from but you know
high Times Magazine ad
That's awesome, it's funny
but
I would say maybe 50 to 60 percent of the seeds weren't working. They weren't what they said. There was the honest with you
But they were the ones that they did the day, you know, they were the ones so
Right now I'm in the midst of moving right now
But I talked to Peter today and I am going we're gonna go through his little bank of seeds and see what I might snag the
pop
Nice my next little hunt in the three by three. Yes, and I won
In my one in my one. Yeah, I'm just gonna grow a frog and just grow one plant out
Do that sticky Richie that soda across the?
What is it that he has on there Peter that one he has a bunch of yeah
Really stuck out to me
There are a bunch of soda
Pretty high right now
I want to have one room for one massive plant
Might even be a two by two might not even be a three by three and there is
What kind of light you got rocking I haven't purchased the light but I think I'm gonna go with a black dog black dog LED
Just cuz I got someone that works there and it got me a little good discount on it. That's always nice. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, I've been hearing a lot of really good things about
For people doing like outdoors and stuff or doing light depths like light supplemented
Greenhouses and such people really killed in the hash game doing that kind of stuff
I
Think we just had someone on I think we just had someone on the vessel. I guess I was talking about that
Yeah, that's all that's the both worlds type deal. Yeah
Yeah, Chad
Where's the yeah the good yeah, the soda fountain and
Then there's the soda pop and then there's the most soda. That's it. Yeah in my
Backpack show I think I might need the most soda
That's a Moroccan cross with a Pakistani and then that cross was Soto Wow
Wait, wow, that sounds fire. It sounds like a heavy hitter
Yeah
This next plant I girl will definitely just be friends and family
Anyone that's given us hash back to all of y'all obviously then no one else just wants to try their product in myself
So obviously I don't think I'm gonna get too much off of one plant
I'm running out of space in the backyard to to keep adding more genetics
It's like the good thing that we have a lot of winners, but I'm running out of space. I
Saw you have some chickens. Yes. Yes pterodactyls of hell. I love
If you're a bug
Exactly those fuckers got low jack on worms man. Let me tell you it's great
I just put them after the winter run came out
I let them loose inside the beds and they you know, they've been out all the roly-poly's and
They really do and they inoculate everything, you know what their biome and it's it's great great stuff for you know
the top, you know this season I added I went to
There's a farm in Escondido
It's a mushroom farm and they take all their wasted blocks and compost them
Yeah, and they offer it for free to the public. Well, you got to do a shovel it yourself and
this season my all my beds got an entire six inches of
Mushroom compost and
We got so lucky that it rained right after it got
You know fully hydrated and I mean I got mushrooms growing in the backyard. It's crazy. I love it
That's awesome. That's awesome
You know, that's what we wanted to do with the mushroom blocks from the mushroom farm is to basically compost them
So I'll be a psych to do that
Absolutely, yeah, what is it mountain mushrooms?
Mountain meadow mushrooms just look up
If you ever interested in going to get some of that compost, it's the only
Mushroom farm in San Diego County, I think and they're in Escondido
Fire
Great stuff
These worms really love it
Perfect
I
Got stone for a second
Back I just got back from a melting bit. So yeah, it's just getting started right now
Well, I guess for him it's uh, it's like 1 in the morning, right
One more so I need to take
Yeah, so I couldn't figure out how to get this thing to actually
Hit
And
Then you push and then it has a chamber like a car on it, I believe
Yeah, no, I hit the button like I hit the button five times to turn it on. I hit the button two times to
Get it going, but then it didn't like buzz again. And when I hit any button after that nothing happened
Is that working out? I think you pull so I'm gonna go back to this one. Just Google how to use dab X
And I'll show you
Google's my best friend sometimes
I'm smoking the winter run GMO melt right now and it has that sweetness at the beginning and it's crazy
Yeah, that's what you were talking about before yeah and so so
Was the winter harvest all GMO or was that also a bunch of different stuff?
No, I had a bunch of blueberry muffins around all the GMOs I had that Costa Rican strand
I had three different kind of blueberries actually one two and three actually the ones that I kept I had
some papaya got from a sonic I
Had a sunny D's sunny D's is a cross that I did in my backyard in 2019. It's
88g 13 hash plan times mimosa times strawberries and cream f2
Ran that as well
Super tangy female
Love it. That sounds awesome
Are you originally from California I
Was born here in California, but I grew up south the port of a yard on a little town called Mexico
It Milaki in Jalisco, Mexico
Cool. Yeah
My mom and my dad traveled down there when I was a kid and they decided never go
You know, they they bought right on the beach. That's sick. That's super sick
It was I grew up and right in a palapa and that's you know, we're fishing comes about, you know
And it's certainly on the ponga get up in the ponga and just go out fire. Absolutely. I had a ponga
I had jet skis I had you know
I was that one local kid that knew how to speak English and had all the bud
You know what? I mean have the good you're the popular one. You're like the most popular one
I was I was the popular and the most hated one because everybody was jealous, you know
You know I surfed you know back back in the 90s in Mexico, you know prior to NAFTA
There was no such thing as going to go buy a surfboard at a shop in Mexico, you know
So all the boards that we got were used from travelers and we had to trade whatever we had to do in order to get
these boards and board shorts and leashes and wax and I mean I would we would steal the
Big thick candles from from church the Catholic Church, you know the big-ass candles
Yeah, it cut him in China, you know because we didn't have wax. Yeah, you know, that's awesome. That's super innovative
I love it. It's done or ingenuity all around dude
Yeah, and then you got the Lord's blessing as you do it to you know, wherever you're going you're grinding or if you're surfing
You know, yeah, sure. Yeah, it's you know Lord's protection wherever you go, man, the Holy Seal
The water is really my thing. I
Fish I chase big big game
That's the big the biggest tuna that I caught last season was about 195
Fishing in the ocean and all that stuff is it's something that really I
Feel more comfortable in the ocean that I do on the 22 freeway to be honest with you
I'm scared of big bodies of water man
It's it's me out
There's they got like octopuses and sharks and stuff
They're gonna eat me. They're gonna eat me. I'm gonna eat you
I'm gonna eat you I'm gonna eat you
Octopuses and sharks and stuff
They're gonna eat me man, man you what jaws too much man
I go to the white man. I live in Chicago. I'll go down to the lake and I think there's fucking sharks in there
so
So check this out guys. Just just a little
Information probably you probably guys not gonna care but we are been blessed here in Southern, California
Since 2014 we've had bluefin tuna had showed up in our shores
The people believe there's plenty there's other you know, so many reasons why people think they're here
We haven't had a Pacific bluefin tuna in our coast since 1906
Wow
We we caught some there was a bunch of tours happening in Catalina Island
At night doing
spotting flying fish the rich and the elite people were able to go down there in the 1900s and
Spotlight these flying fish and they noticed these big blue bluefin tuna eating the the the flying
and
They they went out there and they start catching them and in you know two years later to disappeared
No shit, they founded the Avalon tuna Club and no one knew where they went
There were somewhere in the Pacific and people believe because of Fukushima that meltdown they had in Japan with that radiation stuff
That the tuna migrated this way that conditions was just perfect. We have the proper amount of bait, but it's just been
world-class kind of fishing
Right here six miles to 60 miles from our shores, which is epic
That's a long way away from land, dude
It's that's really cool though, I went I went I went
Fishing when I was younger in the ocean. We got a bunch of sharks
Not big ones or anything small ones, but it was fun they fight like hell it's a lot different than bass fishing and such, you know
Absolutely, absolutely
The cool thing is you can jump on a sport fishing boat in San Diego Dana Point
They'll take you out bunch of professionals
you can rent a fishing rod if you don't have one and and catch you know to have the opportunity to
Sleep in a bunk have a full galley with burgers cooking and catch a fish of a lifetime, you know
It it's pretty cool man. A lot of people are getting into it. It's becoming a really big sport
Because of it you ever go fishing Peter he's drinking his kombucha
Immune
I was gonna say a little bit on the East Coast
Gotcha
And any any big game fishing or anything like that before no
I've never I've never gone deep-sea fishing, but I live I live back
I live my family's back on the East Coast
So we fish a lot of inshore fishing a lot of red fish a lot of flounder
What a striped bat. I like a lot of striped speckled sea trout
Yeah, there's there's big bluefin
Atlantic bluefin, you know that what does that show wicked tuna or whatever?
Yeah, yeah Boston, yeah, yeah, they used to kill that's where that's why I thought it was really
Surprising when you said there wasn't any tunas. It's 1906 out there
Well, it's it's a different. Wow. It's amazing that like just
You know, it's a it's a different breed or different
Species I should say of tuna the Atlantic tuna versus the Pacific bluefin tuna their cousins, but they're they're
Completely different critters
We had some family friends who are tuna fishermen and
Yeah, that's tough it'd be like sell for
$30,000 a fish or something and yeah pepper pepper was saying a jungle the jungle boys crew. Definitely. Yeah, they all are in deep-sea fishing
yeah, and then also I
Saw a couple other people that were really really really big in the fishing
Yeah
Yeah, oh, it's a it's a Carlos Carlos from Ziggy's
Carlos from Ziggy's the owner of Ziggy's he's really there their families really big into deep and going and picking up tuna nice
Oh, yeah, super cool. Yeah, I've always want to do it, but uh, it's just uh out of my price range
In the springtime come over bring some gas money and a couple joints will go fishing I'm down dude, I'm down, bro
That sounds like that sounds like a killer time I've gone
I don't know that got only fish I've done since I've been here in Cali was cuz I live in Marina del Rey
So I've gone over the Fisherman's Village's jumped on the little boat
Pay like 45 bucks render rod and just cut my fish for the day and just come back in flayed him up and just gone
Home. Yeah. Yeah
Actually do the buddy that's in town right now
It's real real fun time
Absolutely, like 25 people on the on the boat all the whole every rods everywhere
Yeah, I'm gonna take some to the pod the biggest fish
Did the only downfall about them party boats is just the amount of sheer amount of people fishing and if you catch a fish in
Lifetime you're gonna end up take old dangle with someone else. It's terrible. Yeah, I definitely agree
And and the sea lions chase you they know the exact
Sound of that motor and they chase you all day and whenever you catch a fish you better hurry up and crank that fucker up
To the deck is not sea lions gonna get it in, you know
Do about it, you know
To those big old things that get on top of the boats to
Their huge road, I would not want that thing coming. No, I'm shooting it. No, I hear those
I hear those things croaking in the morning when I wake up
And you can't shoot them you can't do nothing to them they're protected in the state of California, you know, and yeah
Even dangerous. No that thing will eat you. They are way overpopulated to tickle. No, you don't come up here
Strong they're super strong to their yeah
I saw this
Where they made this one a big
Inflatable like thing to lay on because he was wrecking everybody's fucking boats by just wanting to lay on them
Yeah, and Dana point to have a huge problem with them where they in the marina
That they go and they destroy so much property that the the marina
Drilled a bunch of Home Depot buckets on the side of the marina
Hoping to keep the animals from from getting on to the docks and and destroying property
But now the entire harbor of Dana Point is littered with buckets. So create a bigger problem. It's just
And don't even get me started with the sea lions
They're just way overpopulated
You do a slashing
We got what was that? You're a spearfishing. I
Spearfish any abalone any abalone when catching abalone kitchen?
We cannot harvest abalone in in Southern California, that's a California thing, but I I blew water spearfish
You know, we go out what's called patty hopping we go. Oh, that's a nice marble
We go out and find these kelp patties in the middle of the ocean and sometimes they're holding the rot or yellowtail or sometimes
I'll be
Tuna and we throw bait. They don't bite and if they're not biting then we shoot them. That's awesome. That sounds sick
You know
I've done like Hawaiian sling and like Nicaragua a couple times but Hawaiian sling in I I mean yellow
Here in Southern California
You know
You can go down to both a chica with the Hawaiian sling and you can get your limits a yellowfin croaker in 10 minutes
Wow, really?
No one does no one spearfish them
They're used to people swimming with them all day and and not doing anything to them until you know
Someone with a spear shows up in this and boom and next thing, you know, you got yourself a full stringer in no time
You know, it's crazy. It's almost cheating, but it's legal
Well, I'm doing that soon
My parents sent me my Hawaiian slings
They got it. Let's go my flippers everything. Let's go brokers and get the limits all the time
It's just you know, I didn't get this fat for no reason man. I love you my fish tacos, bro
Me too brother. Oh my gosh some beer-battered fish tacos. Let's go. There's a medallion there
Making my stomach hurt
I was gonna say who's high is it dad time?
One more
I'm gonna smoke some lemon heads lemon heads
archive seeds
Lemon G face off OG one of my favorites out there. Love that lemon turp
There's a big it OG
Mission Hills processed it
Friend Cory grew it
Nice
710 had the
The lemon heads number four
On their menu on their list for a while and my buddy in
Ordered it. I tried it fell in love with it got the seeds hunted and I found the flavor that I wanted in
There's a nice lemon head number 12. I call it has number 12
I
Mean lemon heads I've had is from 17 labs
It's fire. I love them. It's crazy. It's a crazy killer train. Yeah
That's like one of the made that's one of their main strains that I love
I'm glad you do fire. I'm glad I was able to find it so I didn't have to buy it
I
Got some Z skittles times lemon heads right here for some time left nice friends and family
Number jar
Beautiful well Cheers
Yeah, so there's the 710 in California
Because someone's talking about the cut because I think it started in Colorado, right
I
Think I think I think the Calif some of the growers from California went to this event at grassroots
Oh, really?
well, that's awesome and
But I'm blanking on their names
Yeah, I agree the 710 labs in Colorado is not the same I agree to pick it up a lot a lot when I was younger
so flooded
Colorado a bunch but now in California, they just released the cold cured here when which they've had the cold cured in Colorado for years
They just finally released it here, but it's only for medical. You only get it on the medical side
Yeah, because two gram jars because the two gram jars you only get it on the medical side. They do two and a half and two
gram jars
It's actually super fire, but it's it's honestly kind of hard to get your hands on and it's expensive
For what you're gonna get and then what's going on to with all their fats
Peter you're kind of quiet man. What's up?
Peter I can't boot you next time. I see you. I'm pretty high. I just get it at the grocery store
Oh, I thought I just I bought I buy like big
Joke, I thought it was some like some pineapple something that you're getting from like some byproduct
No, I would make I used I made kombucha a long time ago
I kind of want to make it again because I drink so much of it. I make it all the time. I
Use it for foliar doing veg
Right
One of my favorites is high business a bisque's flour kombucha
Really? No, you could do that. It's super cool. Yeah
Basically you can make a butcher with any kind of tea if you got cannabis water hash runoff
You can make kombucha with that
That sounds fire. Yeah
I thought was great
Do you when you when you are?
Jarring your Ross and do you only a fresh press?
Do you cold? Yeah, so I only do
I
Press to order whenever I need it. Cool. I keep it. I keep it sealed vacuum sealed and frozen all the melt
Yeah melt and then whenever I want to do a little resin or rosin I
So all these all these resins that you're smoking right now Ross's right now you have
Melts for them. Correct. Oh, sweet. Sweet. Cool. Cool. I
Smoking right now the winter run no spring run. Actually October October run last last season
Cool. Yeah
Yeah
This this winter run I haven't done anything with it yet. It's still frozen. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah
Yeah, I'm smoking the GMO winter run. I'm smoking the GMO
This this winter run I haven't done anything with it yet. It's still frozen. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah
That's a good thing
Grab some chunks here and there. It's my wife's favorite. So I
Like GMO
Absolutely, you know my buddy that's in town he does not like GMO
He's a GMO hater, but it's some people he isn't you'll love it. So they're out there 100% He smells he's like, oh
He'll just a get some off in the GMO Deb he'll respectfully decline it I'm sorry dog. I'm allergic
You know, you know what? I noticed that I'm not least I leave the group of people that I know
That that don't like GMO normally don't like in-and-out burger, too. So they don't got pretty good
You don't like in-and-out burger, man. I mean
I'm happy at least at least today. I picked him off off the plane. He was like man in-and-out burger. I got you
He's got he's got some good taste the GMO taste is not there
Not at all, but I love it I love it not at all. I love it. That's hilarious. I need to tell them I love that
I
Like in and out
Yeah, I haven't had in a really long time I didn't get it today
but they just open a new spot here like maybe about a block and a half away from me and
You know, I spoke to my lawyer I I could soon for
bodily harm I
Gained about 20 fucking pounds ever since they moved over here
It's their fault you're like I live I live in the neighborhood and look at me on the consequence
I have to live with this
I'm just happy
Telling you double double
extra extra extra grilled onions
Yeah, yeah and close by I'm a double double protein style
animal style chopped chilies chopped chilies
Ryan extra tomatoes
Sounds so good. Yeah, I haven't gotten a while
Had a couple fries, but just have a little cheat meal earlier. But but do you do you eat the cheese paper?
the cheese paper
Part
Yeah, you can you know once it gets all juicy
Anyway before right definitely a couple bites
And they they change these recently change their job Chili's because they're having a
hot chili pepper
shortage in California, it's like, oh boy, yeah
Hmm, so the change now are you the chopped chilies now?
They're really just changed like a month ago another now just banana peppers just sweet banana peppers. Really not spicy at all
Yeah, I went in. Yeah, literally I went in I went driving today to he was there
I got a little side in there just you know, I I noticed that the long ago. There was a sriracha shortage to
Yeah, that's good maybe bro, they literally they don't have their hot chilies anywhere I heard someone like over talking about it
Crazy
He's like we don't know how long it's gonna be in we're sorry and she's like man
So I wanna bring my own. I'm like, yep. That's what you gotta do
That's crazy. You know
Yeah, at least we were getting a lot of rain though really yes needed that been great my beds are soaked
I
Have so many hubs outside full of rainwater that I'm psyched to just use instead of like
my hoses
I'm like, I have at least a couple weeks worth of water nice in buckets and
barrels nice
Not on the last one
Anyways
What do you guys think spring is gonna be a rough spring or what do you guys
Anticipating for weather coming up here. I
Think we're a good spring. I think so, too
Yeah, I think it's gonna be a very nice break old but we had a mild one in Chicago
Yeah, it's good. It's me colder definitely than usual, but I think it's me nice sunny
Daily had today was a nice nice nice day
nice nice nice day
follow a lot of
Oceanographic data because of you know, I follow
migratory patterns of these of these fish that I think about and some of these experts are
Predicting that we're gonna be having a lot of cold water and her coast
Which we haven't had in in a long time or or shores
This the sea kelp has been dying because the water has been so warm and
Apparently we're supposed to have a about maybe 10 years of cold water spell here in Southern, California
Which is is it gonna put a put a pause on some of the pelagics, but it's a good thing for our coast
Yes, you know Wow
well
Those big huge storms that we had in Alaska really pushed down a lot of water and you know inertia
when energy moves big volumes of water if you know, the water follows the energy and
That's reality what's happening out here is crazy
Yeah, buddy. He kill what said?
SoCal having a real winter means we're gonna have a real spring 100% I think so. Yeah, and you know
For a while, you know, he knows he's seen shit, you know
He knows the patterns he I mean he lives in Fallbrook so I think right, okay, yeah
So
We have a moment of silence for a small chronic break
What have you been smoking on a straight GMO all night getting your straight walked out stone
Peters lit already
No, I need some I need some art beyond some animals earlier too, so I've been pretty stoned. Oh, yeah, I've smoked like shit
Tonight I tried this earlier. This is like solventless nanotech a juice nice. Yeah, it's
Interesting. It's interesting. They definitely it's there in the R&D project. So it's definitely not what they're gonna be giving out the
people
But it was interesting. It definitely gets you high
My wife made for roll-ups
for roll-ups and
I had a piece earlier today and it's kind of already kicking in
I like that for roll-ups. Those are sweet
It sounds so yummy 45 you fruit, you know be a kid be a kid again, bro. Yeah, that's yummy
Strawberry blueberry and put some 45 you in there and kinds of magic happen
What I think
It's his fruit roll-ups your your fruit roll-up. Yeah, like a couple years ago
Maybe a dog. Oh, yeah. Yeah, they're pretty good. They work
It sounds amazing. That's a dangerous that like if you're super high and you have a high blood pressure
That's a dangerous that like if you're super high and you have all these fruit roll-ups in front of you
And then they also get you super high
Yeah, my buddy may be starburst and like I've been I lost three days of my life
you know, so so a while back I gave a
sonic a bunch of seeds for free seed a and I
Think as lying around the corner so I showed up with the turtle and I'm just you know
I mean I'm doing my thing
You know what? I'm doing and I had maybe about 30
For roll-ups that you know if you got four or five or whatever, you know, you would get a free for roll-up
you know, I wasn't really selling them or anything like that, but I
warned people to not consume them there and
You know, I after I be my wife left the event people were calling me like hey, bro
I'm gonna park a lot and
Try to leave for about four hours and I just can't go anywhere man, would you put
Like what the fuck man, it's like warning man do not fucking operate any fucking equipment
Under under eating these fruit. Oh, dude. It's like I told you it's funny
Off the experience that next time I see you. Yeah, absolutely
remind me
It's not crazy
Emily half of one. I'll bring you I'll bring you some I have some super chill from from puffins all the list
they're also like vegan and
Doesn't he have like the super deserty one with like marshmallows and
I've only had his I've had his freeze-dried had puffins freeze-dried Skittles. I
Recently had some freeze-dried ice cream the other day. It was a man from the ogre
I don't know who had it, but my buddy Sunda had it there in these old there. Yeah, there are these little two
Little two so good. You like you the key lime which one you had a key lime
It was some kind of berry or whatever. Oh, I'm about to I'm about to get a lot of those
I'm about to get a lot of those in the hope of the next like week or so
Yeah
So bad how many how many loves did you get DP?
To what was that? How many lows fire? It's super fire. How many loaves did you get? I just have this one
Oh, I think I get I can get more though. Um
He did this strawberry banana one. That was that's the one I was asking
Yes, you had you had the strawberry banana
My cat the one I was just playing with looks like he's finally awake because he got into that shit last night and like he
He was knocked the fuck out man
Yeah
I'm only only had like a little bit cuz I didn't want to eat the whole little
Piece of bread cuz I ate a bunch of it yesterday. So I got I was wrecked last night. And so I
Just had it on the on the desk or whatever and I get up and it's all gotten into and stuff
I'm like, oh, so I'm like looking around for my cat
He's like sleeping in my old arrow cloner that I have like sitting over there. He's just all curled up. He's done
Okay, buddy. You have a good day
I need a strawberry one. Sounds great. That sounds amazing
They're all medicare that's super cool. I love anything that's homemade
It was all solventless
Yeah, it's awesome
I'm trying I'm trying to I'm trying to hopefully get into making some of my own just like
Simple solventless syrup like simple syrups just a solventless
Maybe like thousand two thousand milligram bottle of just simple syrup use coffee anything you want to add it into yeah
Take bites out of it
I'm not even cutting it. I'm just gonna bite out the loaf
Got milk
Got loaf got loaf got hat
It's a big bite. It's a dry bread
Literally got hash anyone got hash anyone here got hash anyone in the comments
What hash are you guys smoking on one rosa? What's all the list?
And we would solve ins or solvent solvent lists is everyone smoking on right now. I
Hope everyone here smoking on solvent list though
If not, though, it's okay. No, it's not that's okay, too
If it's done, well, I agree. Yeah
Okay, sir, see you're right, I'm sorry, I'm sorry
Looking flower. Yes. Yeah, I agree. Let's smoke flower instead
Wow, I'm talking with a 2019 bubble hash that's fire
Yeah
Yeah, Alex Alex from yesterday man, I want to his hash looks awesome. Oh my god straight golden. Oh my gosh
It looks so good
I'm just talking to my buddies at dinner about it for like 30 minutes about how awesome that he wasn't
But that probably never seen golden hash like that. I've only seen brown black
like a temple ball is just like
Oh
That was cool, that was cool to see that that's cool. Yeah
So like living in a country I've never even seen that ever that good of a like quality
I'm thinking this season. I'm gonna temple ball about 200 single ones and in agent for
and
Just keep them, you know number them up, you know one out of 100 or whatever cool and
Just keep them in you know, little turkey wraps
Yeah, just you know temple, but I always age hash myself, but you know
it's becoming a little bit more people are becoming more aware of
Okay, so what do you do what's your process to aging your hash
So what I would normally do is I would pick a
Nice micron like maybe maybe between a 73 and a 90
I would I would I would get
turkey turkey bags and
I have a I use normally those IKEA bottles where I bottle my kombucha with a pool boiling water in there
I flatten it out melt all the glands really good get it all the oils nice and
Melted fold it over plenty of times and when that oil is really nice and malleable I
you know, I would just wrap it up and close it with a piece of string or something and let it sit in a
You know dark spot in the closet, you know exposed and
You know, let it let it age and within like two three weeks you start seeing that separation
like on the oil, you know on the edges of the
Of the plastic of the turkey bag and
You know, eventually when does it does it like butter up like kind of like with hash type deal?
Absolutely, that's what you use, you know
What kind of material you use?
the reason why I like to use that number is because
It's it's it's a more of a depends strand dependent to normally those bigger heads are really the oily ones
And those are the ones will butter up really really fast
You know from you know, you know from the 90 all the way up to the 160 some of those big
160s are huge fucking glands full of resin and they're just different
Then especially I heard on outdoors
Yeah
It's basically a big old heads, you know little fingers
Use trichromes
pain a lot of
You know resin
Yeah, and I heard they'll carry some that other ones aren't gonna really carry, you know, yeah
Yeah, so
But I do enjoy
You know smoking aged hash. I don't let it age too much because I do believe it it degrades quality goes down
You know, I don't know if you guys
Were on hash church yesterday. Yep
You know Marcus had a 15 year old hash
That you know, he spoke about what it really tastes like and at one point that hash was firing on so
Yeah, oxygen is killing us. You know, it just degrades stuff
Yeah, absolutely. It's all how you're storing it and
That's why I think it'll be cool. What happens with those that hundred you set aside, you know what I mean?
I'm sure some will go through
different
Yeah, it's gonna be a little experiment
Me and my close friends actually it's gonna be gifts for Christmas and you know stuff like that
Close friends remember instead of you know getting gifts to get gifts
Same with my family. Yep
Whether they like it or not
Nah
Where's Peter fucking eating shit in the fridge Peter you got the monkeys bro, he's get some more kombucha I do
Yeah, he's getting some more kombucha. I
Know Peter too. Well, he's just now very high right now
Good that GMO does the job man. I'm glad you enjoyed it. I'm glad you guys enjoyed it. It's fire
That's awesome, thank you. I appreciate you boss
cat
I truly believe it's important to if you're gonna put something in a jar and call it something it has to be what it is
You know, there's a lot of people out there and not saying anything
But they put stuff in jars that call it whatever it is, and it's not
Or they don't take it to term, you know, yeah, yeah
Especially on something like a GMO, you know, I mean somebody can take that real early
But yeah, it's one of those things that I say, you know stretches legs out. Yeah
It's a good thing about outdoor. You don't have to fucking pay for the light. So
Right. I can't wait to get in some outdoor action, man. I'm really excited life will never be the same again
I know it yourself up a nice, you know set up do hugel culture is gonna save you a lot of time and watering
Microbiology is gonna be just crazy abundant
Yeah, man if you're gonna plan it plan it right from the beginning
Absolutely, absolutely
I want to be able to look into the property see what I can utilize from there and if not from there just
the immediate, you know
vicinity community and such
I've been trying to do that around here, even though I'm in the city and and such but I try to utilize what I can and
Just just practicing for when I get to a large area, you know, absolutely trying to cut down on my own little
Footprint and waste and do my little part I can do. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, it's a
Go ahead. Oh
No, I was just gonna say it's 1215 here. I'm probably gonna
Let's wrap it up. Let's wrap it up. That's a good end point. I
Got frozen ding-dongs to kill. I'm gonna jump straight into bed
Rosin ding-dongs to no. No. No, these are store-bought frozen ding-dongs
Costco so
Next time I grab my freezer do it. I'm a shout out on Instagram
All right, man
You guys have a good night. Thanks for the thanks that you guys enjoyed the chirps
We did you know, yes, sir
Yes, everyone everyone watching man get your hands on some of this
Daggadot garden
Pedro good night. Yes. Have a buenas noches
