Alright, here we are.
So again, I just germinated my seeds.
I got 10 out of 10 on the Nakatomi plazas to pop.
And what I'm doing is I'm taking them and I'm putting them into some Royal Gold King's
Blend mix.
It's not super hot, so it's not going to burn these fresh seedlings.
But it is going to give them a little bit of food.
And I like to start them out in these little four inch containers.
So that's what I'm doing right now.
I'm just loading everything in.
I got my tags so I can mark them, my pen.
And I got my tweezers.
I like handling them with tweezers instead of my fingers.
It's a little bit easier to pick them up and then put them into the soil here.
Got my measuring cup.
I'm starting them off with about 50 milliliters of water.
Yeah, that's the beginning of their journey for the Nakatomi plazas.
Let's put one in the soil together.
Pretty simple process.
Start get my tag.
Take this out.
We're on number five right now.
So you are number five.
Booyah.
Put this into my soil.
And I'm going to make a little divot with my pinky for the seed.
You don't need to go deep.
Again, the general rule of thumb is just about the width of the seed is how deep you want
to go with it.
That applies to almost any seed.
We're doing cannabis seeds.
So I'm going to take it about a quarter of an inch down.
Now see what I did is I grabbed it in my little tweezers here and put it in the soil.
Again, we're putting that white tip down.
We're putting the shell head up.
That's the way it's going to want to grow out.
I am gently covering it here with soil.
Give it a little tap.
Come back with my 50 milliliters of water.
I'm going to start off just kind of around where I place the seed.
And then I'm going to go right on top of where I place my seed.
So I'm not watering the whole thing at this point.
It's only 50 milliliters of water.
So I'm getting the area right around the seed nice and wet to keep it germinating and to
keep it growing its tail.
I don't want to suffocate it, but I also don't want it to be too dry.
So I'll keep my eye on that.
Checking back in with the Nakatomi Plaza 10 test beans.
These is, or this is day nine now of these plants.
And as you can see, they're still numbered.
They're going through.
You know, it looks like number two might have the most growth as far as leaf spread goes
on.
But you look down here, you know, you got number eight and you got number 10.
Those look like the tall ones of the bunch.
Everybody is going pretty good, pretty much on the same pace.
Number nine though, number nine is the runt.
So this is how the Nakatomi Plaza seeds are looking on day nine.
Day 15, this is how the Nakatomi Plaza's are looking.
We still got some that are taller than others, but again, we're about to transplant them
into one gallon containers and we're going to soak up some of this space, you know, from
the soil up to the first cotyledon.
So these will actually look a bit shorter here in a minute, but yeah, you know, they're
all fairly level.
Nine is still kind of the runt.
Eight and 10 are pretty tall.
Number two is looking nice and squat.
But this is how things are looking.
Day 15 on the Nakatomi Plaza's about to give them some water and put them into their one
gallon containers.
We are checking in with the Nakatomi Plaza.
This is day 29.
Starting to see some similarities in morphology.
We'll go in for a closer look, but let's take a look from above and you can kind of
see here everything.
Ooh, let me turn on my auto focus.
But these are in one gallon containers in the Sohum Living Soil and again, 29 days.
They've been sitting under these, the Spider Farmer F1000.
So a hundred watt light, hundred watt light.
It's only at 60% and as you can see, it's, you know, well above the actual plants, but
you know, plants don't need as much light and veg.
Giving them a little less light is kind of a way to control the speed of their growth
as well.
And I've been doing that a little, just trying to juggle things here.
Y'all know about rotation, but things are getting freed up.
I might up pot these soon, but I also might keep these in the one gallons.
We'll see.
But anyways, this is a Nakatomi Plaza's day 29.
Hey everybody, Chad Westport here with another update on the Nakatomi Plaza tester group.
I put 10 seeds in and I've got 10 growing right now.
Let's kind of take a real quick panoramic view.
There's stacks, you know, too deep here.
Five per row.
Let's go in for a closer look though at this Nakatomi Plaza.
This is kind of a good aerial view of the Nakatomi Plazas and they're at about eighth
or ninth node.
I'm already starting to see what will be the determining factor for sex on a few plants.
I know I got one female in there already.
Another week they'll reveal itself more.
But as you can see, you know, fairly uniform as far as, you know, height goes, morphology
and structure.
Some are a little bit tighter on the inner node spacing.
Some are a little bit looser, but again, relatively all the same height, which is helpful in the
garden when you're planting a whole bunch of seeds.
Two things that I wanted to point out though, as far as the question of, did you see anything
different or funny?
Not really.
I did get a dragon leaf though, a dragon's tongue.
Look at that.
That's kind of cool.
And you can see right here where it just split into two.
I flip it over to the backside and you can, you just see, you know, it's again, I call
that the, the dragon tongue leaf, but dragon tongue leaf on one plant and on this leaf,
you kind of see how the other half of it didn't really form here.
Little mutant leaf, but again, this is the only leaf on this plant like that.
And these genetic type of things, they just happen.
So I'm not very worried about it.
Fairly common actually.
And plant number nine, which was the runt from the beginning, it's totally caught up
with all of the other plants.
And it's actually sitting a little bit lower in the soil.
So it looks maybe an inch or two shorter, but there's less soil in the pot.
So really it's the same height as everything else.
So the runt fully caught up.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm just going to go in and defoliate.
I'm going to remove all of these large fan leaves because I want light getting to the
branches stretching below.
And again, because this is just a grow out, it's a test grow.
I want to see how it grows for you.
Or well, I want you guys to see how it grows naturally.
I'm not going to do any training or anything like that.
Just a little light defoliation and let the plant do its thing.
Hey everybody, Chad Westport here.
We're checking back in with the Nakatomi Plaza test grow.
And I just got back from a week in Mexico.
And you know what that means.
My plants look fucked.
Okay.
So as you can see here, haggard.
You think after the month in the Netherlands and losing plants, I would have learned.
But I really didn't think the person watching the place could do this in just a week's time.
But they did.
Now, after Netherlands, I had bought the autopot so I wouldn't have to worry about things like
this again.
Well, yeah, but I also didn't have these plants mature enough to be in the autopots yet.
So it was still a hand watering system.
And here we are.
We'll go in for a closer look at the leaves.
And I also want to show you something interesting about how I've noticed these deficiencies
are actually probably lockout because of fricking bad watering practices has shown up on these
plants.
So let me explain for you.
First a general look over all of the plants real quickly.
No vacations.
All right.
So my interesting observation is this.
We see this side, which is under the light, looks a little bit.
Well, fuck it is haggard.
Sorry, I swore there, but it is.
It's haggard.
But if you look at the other side of the plant, actually, let me just quickly demonstrate
this.
So this is the side that's under the light, right?
Not looking good.
That's the side that's under the light.
Now the side that is away from the light, you're looking pretty green.
Like you don't have any of the same damage.
You actually kind of look healthy.
But the side that was under the light has the deficiencies or the lockout.
So why is that?
Is it the light that is causing this?
Is it the photosynthesis process of the extra light that's causing this?
Is it potentially the extra transpiration from these leaves drawing in more nutrients?
Or if it's locked out, lack of, because it's photosynthesizing more than the side that
was over here in the kind of the shaded area.
Why is that?
Why is one half of the plant looking so haggard and the other half of the plant looking good?
I think your inquiring minds want to know.
And just to show that these are repeatable results, you know again, this one under the
light in the corner, the side that's not in it, well, it looks nice and green.
Okay, so let's go to this next one.
Dude, haggard.
Look at that.
No bueno.
So while I was in Mexico, that showed up.
It's directly under the light there.
But again, if I flip to the back side, the kind of the shadowy side, it's a lot more
green.
So, the sides that were under the light, haggard.
The side that was in the corner and not getting the direct light, green.
Interesting.
A lot of times that people start to see little brown spots on their leaves, they'll think,
oh, calcium, that's the issue.
And in a lot of cases that is.
But that's not what we're looking at here.
Leaves do have brown spots.
And this is actually very advanced stage.
But we're looking at likely is a phosphorus deficiency.
And it's not a deficiency in the soil.
It has been locked out because of overwatering.
So how am I going to correct all these things?
Let me tell you.
Well, we know this happened because too much water in the root zone.
They're also getting a little bit large now for these one gallon pots.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to up pot them.
That is going to kind of help the soil dry out a little bit.
Kind of find an equilibrium with its new soil.
That will help the root zone.
That's going to bring in some more oxygen.
And then I should be able to get proper watering back on track.
I'm also going to defoliate the large fan leaves.
The ones that are looking haggard.
And you know, even the green ones too.
It's about that time.
I'm going to hold off on doing some cutting of the lower branches.
Just because I want this to get through the stress it's currently under.
I want it to get through the transplant.
And I want it to handle the defoliation.
So not going to toss too much at it.
But as somebody who's testing genetics, this is a great but unintended test of their solidness.
So yes, you can thank the person who were watching these while I was gone in Mexico
for this unintended torture test.
But thank you everybody for following along with this Nakatomi Plaza grow out.
I really appreciate it.
You can find more of me on the website ChadWestport.com.
Don't forget Instagram.
I'm there at Chad.Westport.
And of course right here on YouTube, Chad Westport.
Thank you for hanging out.
I hope you continue to follow this grow out of the Nakatomi Plaza.
They should be available already, if not very soon, on the Daga.Garden website.
Alright everybody, thanks for hanging out and until next time, party on!
