12-hour, induce them like as soon as they've rooted, right?
And that kind of helps keep them, it just manages the stretch because the stretch
is so crazy and it goes on.
But yeah, if you make a, if you're inside and you veg a plant for like two and a
half, three feet, or let the haze plant, it's game over.
Totally.
Particularly those, those A5 CBHs or C5 Cuban black haze crosses
from diesel cartel, having seen two different runs the first run, they were
veged out a lot and it was just fucking completely unwieldy.
And the second one still some veg and still unwieldy.
And talking to Jay trees, he said that if you go Barry, like Ryan was saying,
go immediately into flower with them.
It's manageable.
And you can do a nice seed green with a bunch of little, you know, they'll end
up becoming two, three foot tall plants even when you just go straight into flower.
But there'll be way more manageable than if you give them that foot when they just
become in the amount of stretch, the amount of vining-ness.
Yeah, exactly.
Total nightmare.
Yeah.
Unmanageable.
Try it too.
It's kind of one of those things that you'd think, you know, people that have
kind of been weaned on growing Indica or Indica, Afganica plants, like the short
stocky plants, hazes are really equatorial.
And so don't like, don't, don't be afraid to try rooting them under 12 hours
because you really, on some of the phenotypes, they'll actually produce like
cola straight up just doing it that way.
So it can be actually a pretty efficient way to grow them.
So my buddy who runs a lot of, oops, sorry.
So my buddy who runs a lot of sativas, he's just like, yo, run it at 11 hours on,
13 hours off, and then the last, you know, 11, 12 weeks run it at even 10 hours on,
14 hours off.
You guys condone that?
Or is that like kind of shoulder shrug, whatever?
Cause I'm, I'm, I'm doing it.
I'm, I'm definitely seeing less stretch than expected, but there's still
stretching the curve.
I'm more into like the whole daily light integral philosophy.
Like I think if you look at like how it's not just how long the light cycle is, it's
like the quality of the power of the light during that time.
And you can saturate plants like for sure.
If you have really hot, like high intensity or high quality lighting and good intensity,
you can really saturate plants with too much light in a day and it stresses them out.
So I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't
so I don't, you know, I don't really think it's too, too necessary to be doing that.
I think it's also harder for production to be managing that kind of stuff.
Maybe on like a home style environment.
I just don't know if there's any real measurable things that show that it
actually in haste, it actually hastens flowering and makes it quicker.
Um, but root restricting those plants early on, not, not root restricting them,
like I'm saying, like, don't let them get big root systems.
Don't let them grow tall.
If you flower them small, they really become quite manageable, like all
the way through their life, you know?
So that's what I would suggest.
For sure.
It just sounded like bro science.
Just wanted to check the room.
Well, in a way, I think that's what the conversation is about tonight.
Right, Trav?
Like, it's like, how do we know what we know and what, what has validity?
Like what, what knowledge truly informs and how much are we relying on?
Just stuff some dude said, you know, which is inevitably in this community,
you know, it's been going on for so long.
Most of the, the, you know, air quote evidence that we've talked about in this
community is a lot of these, like just agreed upon facts that really don't have
any basis or study, at least they might have basis, but they don't necessarily
have any study.
Nobody's really investigated them.
Like, you know, I'm going to throw out like putting on, like, you know, people
have heard like the ice cubes on the roots or 20, 48 hours in the dark before
harvest, all these kinds of things.
Right.
And there's just tons of them.
There's so many of them.
Trimming leaves when you're taking clones, like whatever it is.
So how do we know what's like a real measure, you know, and how do we go about
as we look at what this plant for things like breeding and development, right.
Yeah, that's a good segue.
And, um, we are live on the YouTube.
So welcome YouTube audience.
Um, we were just shooting the shit waiting for the YouTube to come on live.
Um, we discussed the hazes and growing methods for those.
So that's kind of what you caught the tail end there, but, um, yeah, so we're
today's discussion is really about what Ryan just mentioned.
Epistemology in philosophy is the study of knowledge.
And so how do we know what we know?
Um, plant breeding is something that has been going on for tens of that.
Well, between 10 and 12,000 years, people have domesticated plants.
The vast majority of plant breeding that's happened in human civilization
and in history has happened in a pre-scientific context where people
simply were coming into contact with plants, finding uses for these plants,
domesticating them, selecting them and using them for their particular uses
without necessarily knowing the underlying mechanisms that they were
working with, but nevertheless accomplishing a lot over that time period,
the first, you know, 12, 10,000 years of plant domestication.
But it wasn't until really the late 1800s or the mid 1800s that a lot of
the natural sciences emerged and the theories that form the foundation of the
modern biological natural sciences and those that inform plant breeding came
into being, and so it's, this discussion is really just looking at some of those
historical events and the development of the ideas and how plant breeding became
a scientifically sound area of study.
And one thing about plant breeding is that it's a very multidisciplinary
field of science and a lot of methods and things that we understand about
the world actually emerged out of plant breeding.
And so this is the discussion about those facts and we understand this plant
and developing our own knowledge base around it.
And, you know, it's one of those things where we have a lot of pseudoscience
and bro-science that has proliferated within the cannabis community over the
years, and that's largely a phenomena of prohibition and the fact that many of us
have kind of been excluded from academic inquiry.
It was difficult back in the day to come to your professors and
start talking about cannabis.
I know that I was lucky to have some that were open to the discussion and were
interested in the topic or at least interested in discussing it with me.
So I, you know, I appreciated that opportunity, but I know that wasn't
afforded to a lot of people.
And so, yeah, the hope is, is that we can just sort of dive deep
into that subject matter.
And I can get it started also, just a lot of, as pretty much everybody knows,
the theory of evolution is at the foundation of a lot of this and Darwin's voyage
and insights when he went, I think it was the SS Beagle.
I could be wrong, Ryan, you could probably correct me.
Yeah.
So he, Darwin was a young man who was in elite upper crust society of England at
the time, and he was given an opportunity to go out on a voyage on the Beagle.
And he went on the Beagle around the world, and he was given an opportunity to
go out on a voyage on the Beagle and he went on the Beagle around the world.
In particular, went to the Galapagos Islands where he was the naturalist
on board who was there to, you know, observe, describe, and catalog all of
the different flora and fauna that the expedition came in contact with.
And through his expedition, he ended up observing all sorts of variation,
localized variation, particularly on the different islands between bird species.
And he took detailed notes and records.
And after returning back home, he formulated over a series of years, his
theory of natural selection and eventually published his book on the idea.
Another gentleman named Alfred Wallace came to a similar idea with similar
observations and kind of spurred his discussions with Darwin, spurred Darwin's
impetus to get the Origin of Species, I believe the book is titled, published.
And that really set off the field of, it established the foundation for the field
of modern biology as we understand it, or at least the theoretical foundation for it.
And so one of the interesting things about Darwin was that Darwin's observations,
he lacked an understanding or an explanation for heredity.
He didn't have a way of explaining how one generation led to another generation.
And it's pretty interesting that at the same time or around the same time he did his work,
Gregor Mendel, an Austrian monk, was working with peas and developed a theory of
inheritance and his theory, he published a study on it.
It got circulated a little bit and then was essentially lost to time for about 40 years
between 1860s to the early 1900s when it was rediscovered.
And in the ensuing time period, a field called the biometricians, they were a Francis Galton,
Darwin's cousin, and a lot of different scientists in the, I believe it was the Royal
Society in England.
They ended up developing on Darwin's theories of evolution and they were an entire school of
thought that was very mathematically inclined.
And when Mendel's theories were rediscovered, there was a big conflict between the two.
That conflict then raged in academia and science for about the first 20 years of the last
century. So from 1900 to about 1928, there was a big debate that was eventually settled
through what is now known as the modern synthesis.
And that was done by a bunch of statisticians who were able to take the mathematics of the
biometricians and Galton and the theory of inheritance of Mendel and kind of combine the
two. And when they combined the two, and this was R.A.
Fisher and C.
Walright and J.B.
S.
Haldane were the key theorists in this, that essentially established our understanding of
evolution that has persisted for about the last hundred years.
So that right there is my rundown of the scientific foundations.
And we can kind of go into a lot of the different controversies or individuals and
characters or how this information is relevant or pertinent to what we do nowadays.
But that right there is my encapsulation of the 60 years that established the
epistemological foundations that have led to the insights that we now see as modern
scientific collaboration.
Yeah, it's interesting.
There's so many things that go along beside that, right?
Like not only academic and in terms of like even the evolution of society that was going
on at that point in time.
There was a lot of change in technology happening, right?
So we started looking at everything differently.
How can industry, how can the industrialization of society improve plants?
And we needed to, right?
Because they were feeding, you know, they had to have these huge farms that were feeding
these populations, especially in the States.
I think that's what spurned a lot of that technology.
But Darwin's, you know, I think one point to consider when we're talking about Darwin, he
did that. He got on the Beagle, I think when he was like either in his teens or early
twenties, like he was quite young.
And he didn't publish Origin of Species until like he almost, you know, like there was a
real rush for him to publish at the end because, you know, he was sick and he wasn't
going to he wasn't going to live.
Right. So you kind of have to wonder, ask yourself why he didn't publish in that whole
time. I mean, we're talking like it must have been at least 40 years, right?
He was quite older at the end.
I think I'm not actually sure how old he was.
Someone can Wikipedia it.
Point is, there was like he had this whole he knew in publishing the Origin of Species
that he was essentially saying God didn't create.
God didn't create the earth the way it is, that these that all the organisms and everything
that we see around us have evolved through like, you know, many, many.
He didn't realize it, but that they had evolved through other forms and that slowly over
time, it's the selection of those forms that resulted in the diversity that we have today.
Right. And, you know, we don't have to get into his finches and like, you know, he
essentially went from island to island in the Galapagos and noticed that they had the
exact same birds that essentially appeared identical in every other regard than, for
example, the beak size.
But the different birds, the same population of birds, what he theorized, ends up on
these two different islands.
And on one island, the food source required the bird to have a big beak.
And on the other island, the food source required the birds to have a little beak.
And so over time.
You know, on the one island, the birds that had the genes for the smaller beak, beak
sizes, they had an evolutionary advantage, and so they got to have more offspring.
And then on the other island, the guys with the big beaks will be more efficient at
collecting food and surviving, and therefore they would have their genes would be
left over. Right.
So. You know, without getting into the whole topic of God and religion, I think this
conversation really is based in, like, you know, the science and our scientific
understanding of the world and how that applies to.
The discussion of, like, you know, the discovery of plants and how to improve them
and how to develop them, which is really what's happened over the last, say, 150
years or less.
Yeah, no, it's really interesting.
I would encourage anybody who can to get Robert Allard's book, the let me get the
title right. Principles of Plant Breeding.
The original was published in the 60s and the second edition has been published, I
believe, in the late 90s.
But his book is one of the best.
It's kind of the gold standard in terms of introductory plant breeding books.
But the nice thing about it is that it really gives this full historical perspective
that goes all the way back to the earliest forms of domestication and then brings it
up to the present with, you know, advanced biotechnology.
But the one of the key things is that there's been and.
Ryan's right, there was a lot of.
There were a lot of social dynamics that played into the delay in developing these
sorts of understandings of the plant.
So we had all sorts of cultural biases that precluded a scientific, rational sort of
understanding of the universe because we had other explanations and stories that told
us how the world worked and the universe worked.
And, you know, there were plenty of inefficiencies in the.
The government systems and the religious cultural norms that pervaded.
And that largely held back agriculture.
If you look at, for instance, like Ryan, you mentioned industrialization, like you
look at all of Europe through the 1800s and into the early 1900s, it's feudalism and
autocratic religious governments were the ones that were the last to modernize and
develop industrial societies.
And, you know, for better and for worse, I mean, like both sides.
I'm not saying that atrocities haven't been committed on all sides and that the
history isn't like pretty awful in regard to all of the different players in those
historical time periods.
But when we look at the development of scientific plant breeding.
Yeah, Darwin's theories completely overturned our previous understanding of the
world and Mendel's as well.
And so one of the things is, is that like it's pretty interesting that Gregor Mendel,
as an Austrian monk, used the scientific method to demonstrate how inheritance works
and from his work, we have a direct line from Mendel to the rediscovery of Mendel's
work to Wilhelm Johansen and essentially the foundations of and the terminology, what
William Bateson as well.
He was a British scientist in the early 1900s who was an early Mendelian, who I think
he first coined the term gene.
But Wilhelm Johansen and or he coined the term genetics.
Wilhelm Johansen coined the term gene and genotype and phenotype.
And so all of these ideas that are at the foundation of what we discuss in plant
breeding were developed by these individuals who used experimental science to
demonstrate and prove what they were able to, what they were observing in terms of the
natural phenomena.
And without that sort of experimental evidence based observations and the, you know, a
system of knowledge that was predicated on that form of proof, we wouldn't be where we
are today and we wouldn't have an understanding both of the natural phenomena that we
experience just generally in terms of evolution and the ones that we tried to use and
manipulate and develop in terms of conscious plant breeding.
That's crazy, I'm just looking at the timeline, they were essentially alive at the same
time, more or less.
I mean, they both died within a few years of each other.
If they had known of each other's work, I mean, that would have really changed things.
I heard a story once that Mendel actually did have a copy of the journal that he had and he
never read it or something like that.
Who knows the truth to any of those kinds of stories?
But, yeah, I mean, you know, they lived with the technology that we have today and the
idea, the ability to share ideas quickly.
I mean, man, I think we're making leaps and bounds.
We're making gains in understanding leaps and bounds faster than they were back then.
So.
Yeah, does anybody else have any other stuff they want to mention on the topic?
I mean, I guess really to me, what it comes down to is how does it inform what we do
work-wise? How about you, Trevor?
Do you have something specific you're going?
I think primarily understanding these principles and understanding the history of how
these principles were developed is helpful.
Just generally speaking in actual application, I think that we spend on this, you know, on
these roundtables.
We oftentimes get into the nomenclature debates and a lot of this nomenclature arises out
of this time period and these thinkers.
And so it's helpful to when people get into debates and arguments about genotype and
phenotype simply to refer back to the origin of these ideas and who came up with them,
what they were doing and how they were, you know, Wilhelm Johansson, for instance, being
the person who developed the distinction for between genotypes and phenotypes.
He did a study that looked at the weight of or the size and weight of beans in inbred
lines. And he looked at the variance and established that it was environmental and not
genetic and then developed the terminology that we now use for phenotypes, which are
the observable characteristics of a plant or a trait.
And genotype, which is the underlying genetic constitution of the alleles or the plant for
that characteristic.
And so by understanding what his studies and how he did it and just referencing back to
that, we can save a lot of time and a lot of unnecessary like squabbling that happens in
the community. And so I think that it's helpful for people to go back to these origin
points and bring that forward and not lose.
You know, we don't have to reinvent the wheel constantly when we talk about these
subjects and when we apply them in our own work.
And that's something that I feel like we unfortunately have done for years in cannabis
is either invent new terminology or think that we're, you know, somehow different or
separate from a long history of plant breeding.
And all of that's there and we can just tap into it.
Yeah, I was I was going to add on that even the moon cycle, right, that was work and
observations done by, I believe, a French monk and I couldn't find his name.
Unfortunately, I was looking for it in the background, but it's still carried forward
today in the Farmer's Almanac.
It's still being printed out and there are observations of different effects of moon
cycle by a monk.
So, yeah, these things go back a very long time and many of us still use that today.
We, you know, pop fresh seeds on the full moon because of that anecdotal knowledge
passed on by that monk that many of us have inherited through all of these farmers,
traditional farmers channels even.
We do block it in the summer, we do block it at like between 5 p.m.
and 11 p.m. is when it gets dark this far north, usually at least in the middle of the
summer. And so at 11 o'clock, I come out and take out the tarps and let the plants
breathe the natural dark air for the rest of the night.
And anyway, you do that every day, of course, when you're doing flipping crops.
Right. And you really you can't help but notice the like the cycle of the moon and the
position of the moon in the sky, like all that kind of stuff.
It just becomes just so obvious.
Right. I think it does have an effect.
But, you know, like you said, the monk, he was a monk.
I mean, Mendel was also a monk, right?
Gregor Mendel was a monk.
And, you know, I think we got to understand the context of which when he figured this
stuff out, he was probably growing peas for the kitchen, right?
For their, you know, their stock over the winter and everything.
I mean, in the summer, you grow your ears crops.
And that was probably part of Mendel's job.
And so he was just going about doing his job and he started noticing all these different
traits in the pea plants.
Right. There's like green peas and yellow peas and peas that were wrinkled.
You know, the actual peas themselves were wrinkled or they were smooth.
And he looked at all these, you know, many, many other different traits in the plant and
the plant. And, you know, over a series of years, making specific controlled crosses
and keeping the seeds from those crosses separate and planting the lines, you know, we're
talking like dozens of different lines of peas and specific crosses that he made between
those lines. I mean, that's a lot of record keeping to do.
But he grew out a bunch of all these different specific crosses and started to notice that
there was these patterns that would appear or that like certain traits would appear in
certain, you know, cross families.
And then those traits, like they might disappear for a generation, they just be gone.
And then the next generation, they'd come back in like 25 percent of the plants.
And so he recorded like very careful statistic, statistical data as he was going through
probably like a series of years of of pea production for the monastery.
Right. Like he's feeding all the brothers, all the monks.
And anyway, like that's a lot of work.
It's like a really crazy, crazy kind of project to take that on.
Right. But he just wanted to understand why.
And, you know, they were probably working back then developing rudimentary methods to
plant the seeds.
And they were probably developing rudimentary lines anyway, like any gardener will save
the seeds from the best plants.
And I think that like anybody that's been growing pot for a bunch of years knows the
same thing, right?
Like you use your best plants and the ones that you want to be like that one in the
future, you keep the seeds from that guy.
So it's not that's not hard to figure out.
Like that's humanity has figured that out.
Like like Trevor was saying, saying like 12 years or 12,000 years maybe.
Right.
And we've been doing that for a long time, just kind of choosing our favorites.
But there's this whole other level of science that you can apply to it.
And so, you know, it's not even really I guess in a sense, it's not even really science.
It's that Mendel noticed these patterns that occur in nature.
Right. So it's not science, it's nature.
It's just that through analyzing them and really paying attention and meticulous
record keeping in math, we've come to be able to refine these kind of laws of nature
that are just they exist.
Right. We know that they exist after Jesus, millions and millions of experiments in in
all these different species.
And so we really understand like.
The inheritance and the genetic inheritance of of plants and how we can.
How we, you know, through an understanding of those natural laws, how we can actually do
much, much better as plant breeders.
Right. And that really hasn't been applied to cannabis.
And I think that's kind of really why, you know, obviously an understanding of Darwin is
important. To get the idea that, you know, we are like our ancestors.
Right. And every organism is also in that same way.
But through, you know, what we call that was natural selection.
That was how the environment and the world has shaped organisms, organisms.
You know, kind of the next step is what we call artificial selection is really where
humans are selecting organisms for whatever trait.
Right. Be it like, you know, chickens with large breasts because they've got the huge
amount of, you know, meat for chicken breasts for food production.
And we do it with cows, you know, high producing milk cows or whatever.
But we do this to all all organisms really that we use for agriculture.
Right. Pigs and obviously wheat we were talking about last week and strawberries.
But everything like we we improve all species that we grow for food and other species
that we, you know, we breed for other purposes like dogs.
Right. But we can take these same techniques and understandings that we have about
genetics and apply them to cannabis.
And that really hasn't happened really very much in the last 30 years, I'd say, if not
longer, because it really has been focused on all this bro science.
Right. Like, you know, I got that dank weed.
Let's cross it with something else dank and then we'll get double dank.
Right. With lots of terms.
So we you know, you can still have that same mentality.
You can still have that same mentality, but if you use the science and the understanding
and we start looking at traits as like, you know, or a plant as like just really a
collection of traits, if you collect data on all those traits and analyze like, you
know, what's the chemistry of the flower, what's in the resin?
Right. That should excite anybody that's a consumer, because by by essentially breeding
what's in the resin, we can make cannabis a better user experience.
Or, you know, we can make a triple dank, for example.
Double, triple dank.
Yeah, I think I think that's that's all very, very useful.
And thinking about like Darwin and how is Darwin applicable here?
To my mind, it's incredible how much of science really developed in figuring out this
problem, which was taking Mendel's work.
And there was you'll see it on forums even.
You there will be people who will kind of dismiss Mendel and be like, oh, yeah, cannabis
isn't garden peas or this dismissive attitude of the fact that Mendel was fun.
He was primarily looking well.
He was looking at what we call quantitative or qualitative traits.
So a single gene controlled the trait.
And can I just say something that I hate to cut you off?
I'm sorry, Trevor.
He actually so when when he publishes paper, there was only like, I don't know, a set
number of traits, like seven or 11 traits or something like that.
But he actually collected data on way more traits than that.
Right. It just turned out that on the on the seven that were in the paper, like you're
saying, they were.
Qualitative were they were qualitative traits that segregated, they weren't continuous
traits like height, right, or what we now know to be.
You know, qualitative or quantitative traits, so I just wanted to point that out.
So, no, you're totally right.
And I believe it was 16 traits that he kept data on overall.
And that's a that's a good point.
That's really kind of there's this misconception that he.
Only looked at the simplest traits, and the reason he did that was that it just conformed
and he could prove through his statistical analysis, he could really demonstrate, look
here, this trait is disappearing in this generation, in the F1 generation, but then
reappearing in the F2 generation.
And this really helped to demonstrate.
Well, he he developed a number of laws.
He developed the law of independent assortment, the law of segregation and observed,
though it wasn't necessarily formulated as a law, the phenomena of.
When it was rediscovered in the 1900s as being like insufficient for explaining
evolution and the continuous traits and variation or the continuous variation that we see for
a lot of different traits like height and human populations and things like this, and.
As a result, there was a big, you know, intellectual battle and debate between the
Mendelians and the biometricians or the the Darwinian school of thought and developing
that, like working out those problems really developed the our understanding of
quantitative traits and the inheritance of continuous variation within a population.
And that's something that kind of cracked the code to a certain extent.
If you were to do breeding and not have, you know, modern genomics or technology, just
having the information that was developed by, in particular, R.A.
Fisher and C.
Walright, that information and the ability to track and improve upon quantitative traits
in continuous variation within a population is really where a lot of the gains have been
had. And I feel like that's something that if people go back to that time period, understand
that information or just really dive into quantitative traits and quantitative trait
inheritance in particular, that that's the that's the next level of breeding that goes
beyond all of the the bro science that we've been like.
Everybody knows a Punnett square.
Everybody knows that there are, you know, big A, little a, a big, a big, a little, a
little a sort of like diagrams.
That's that's all nice and well, but it's really when you get into the work that was
done to develop the modern synthesis and evaluate quantitative traits and inheritance
patterns, that that's where we get into.
Pretty intense math and kind of the field of statistics has been developed by well, and
data, individuals, data collection to support that.
Right. And I think that's kind of what's like missing in this.
I mean, you're not wrong to say all these things, right?
The problem is, is who's set up to do that?
Right. You're right.
And and to grow it's again, it's not just about collecting that data over one generation.
It's then making the controlled process and growing them out under controlled conditions,
again, multiple generations for any given project.
And in order to be able to collect the data that we need to generate.
Really, the the the analysis of qualitative quantitative traits, right, and those like
you said, those those things come based on half the population, but you also need to
grow the population in every case.
And I just don't think that most people in cannabis are set up to truly do that yet.
I mean, you know, Yvonne is is probably on a different level because of the hemp factor.
She can do these kind of things.
Or Evian, I'm sorry, she can do these kind of things outside, we're doing in greenhouses, I
don't know anybody that's producing drug cannabis that's really dedicating that amount of
space to truly be able to capture the gains that you're talking about that come in like a
really I mean, when we're talking KTL, we're talking like large populations, right?
You know, you have to be able to see that whole variation that exists within the population
to really be able to capture the analysis or capture all the data for the analysis.
Right. So and I mean, the one example would probably be the work that you guys did.
Yeah, and I would say that that is not even like, you know, I wouldn't even say that was big
enough to really be able to do that kind of analysis.
We were we were looking at chemical markers or chemical patterns as markers, but they
inherited more or less in like they weren't like.
When you're breeding terpene profiles, it's either or like they essentially inherit as like we
called them cassettes, right?
It's like you can pull out one cassette and put in a different one and all of a sudden you
have a different song.
Right. And so.
The the terpene fingerprint at least kind of inherits as a set, it's like you can't just take
one terpene and like drive up limonene or drive up Lunalool, right?
It doesn't seem to happen that way.
So, yeah, and like, you know, like look at the let's look at the work that like, you know, for
example, relief phenotype mutants like the Freak Show or Hive's work with the Baster
cannabis, right, the Australian Baster.
Those those both inherit in a in a simple qualitative way.
Right. And so it's like really these kind of breeding projects have really been quite more
amenable to the site.
That was kind of the structure we've been growing up until last year.
It's really not much longer than
where the producer of
cancer
was just to
be
successful
to have
So, for all these kinds of systems that are taking work to truly, truly do that.
Plus, I have a question on top and regulations, it's a pretty big ask.
So, I don't know.
We definitely need to move past this ridiculous insane amount of regulations
because it costs a lot of money on every level of the industry
for the retail, the distribution, everything.
But it also takes away from the ability to capture the data that you're talking about,
real scale data sets to be able to do that analysis.
And yeah, I don't know.
Who do you think is doing that?
Is like, you know, I know BAM has some large populations,
but is keeping that type of granular data on that new plan?
At the point, the only people that I think are really doing that are people in handbook
and the Crawford Brothers folks that are operating in that area,
mostly because of the situation where it's just cost prohibitive to do that.
And the California vaccine, I know industries that are going through large populations,
they're not really doing at least ones that I know that are doing population runs.
It's all pheno hunt for clone selection.
Like, that's all it is.
They're not, if they are doing breeding, it's not based on any form
of quantitative trade collection, at least that I know of.
Listen, the strawberry industry essentially works that way, right?
Like, they don't really breed because it's like somebody said the other day,
the dude from Dark Heart, I mean, they're octopoids, right?
So it's like, it's really complicated, eight sets of chromosomes.
Try like figuring out the gene interactions on that and making crosses in a controlled way.
There's just so much variation, you can't, it's like really hard to do.
And so for those kinds of species, they become, let's grow out huge fields
and then you just walk the fields kind of like, you know, Burbank style and find
that killer one individual and then that gets cloned and reproduced,
cloned and that's how they plant the crop, right?
So who knows where cannabis ends up?
I don't think it's, you know, it's diploid.
It's a lot easier to manipulate the chromosome levels and understand the gene interactions.
I think we can still do it all that way.
But who knows to what degree?
I mean, like the kind of the unsatiable demand of the market for new flavors, like, you know,
you get a type that you want to breed into a line.
By the time you spread the line, nobody wants that anymore.
You know, that's a possibility too.
Who knows?
Do you guys know the timeframe between the Mandel, when Mandel was doing his work
between the introduction to the quantitative trait thought?
So Mandel died in like 1884.
So when are we talking QTLs?
I don't know.
So it's kind of complicated because the biometricians really kind of get their start
with Francis Galton and Francis Galton would have been around that time period in the 1800s.
By the early 1900s, he was like old and was kind of like retired
and had passed on the torch to I believe, Carl Jaspers.
But there was a lot of data just looking at large populations, like human population data sets.
And so there they understood what we would now call a quantitative trait with a traditional
sort of like bell curve distribution existed in populations.
It wasn't until R.A. Fisher wrote a paper, I believe in 1918, that took, it demonstrated
the mathematics of Mandelian inheritance and that sort of quantitative distribution
or bell curve distribution.
And he very clearly and kind of like everybody agrees that he answered the question with
this 1918 paper and demonstrated how the two can fit.
It's I believe called the infinitesimal model.
R.A. Fisher is a huge figure in statistics.
He developed experimental design, the theory around experimental design and how you do
randomized studies.
He developed a whole lot of different formulas and important theories in statistics.
And him and C. Wall Wright were kind of the two main figures at the time.
But it was really in the 1918 to like 1928 time period that the papers that were key
to really synthesizing those two ideas, Mendel's ideas and the Darwinian's ideas into a coherent
theory.
And so that happened, yeah, from 1918 to 1928.
But there had been like a preceding 18 years of a lot of debate.
Yeah, Nielsen L., who you referenced before, he kind of they did the first real quantitative
work, I just looked it up in like 1908.
So that whole kind of time, there was kind of a lot of it.
Keep in mind, too, and we're talking about, you know, First World War, Great Depression
kind of area, right era.
So Great Depression, it was definitely important to be figuring out how to feed more people,
right, make better crops.
So there's money put into ag definitely back then, on behalf of the government.
You know, and I think people were really trying to really study these things.
And like we said last week, too, I mean, you know, I don't think the American society really
got their shit together until like the 1800s, 1850s to start being like, you know, let's
take all the different types of corn or different types of wheat or whatever crop it was and
grow them all in one location and start evaluating them.
Right. And and that spurned like a whole lot of thought about not only.
Well, that's been a whole lot of thought about what are the best plants and how can we breed
them and make crosses between them?
Right. And inevitably what happened is when they started growing all these unique
populations that different families had brought with them from Europe, probably.
Or they were collected from whatever group, when they started growing them all together,
you notice like the differences between them and the next step is like, well, what
happens if we make this type with this type?
Right. And when you start making those experiments, you actually see just because of
natural when you take wild populations or like even, you know, unique like you like
unique different heirloom varieties, say different varieties have been held by a family.
And you cross those things together, you get what's called heterosis or hybrid vigor.
Right. Like there's a benefit to crossing two distinct gene pools that have been
uniquely breeding within their own family for however long.
When you add in the genetic blood from a different side, from a different family, you
get like a boost in vigor.
And so when they started noticing that that happens, like, you know, you'd get like
maybe 20 or 30 percent more bushels per family.
You know, you'd get like maybe 20 or 30 percent more bushels per acre of wheat or
corn when you would do these hybrid crosses.
And so in doing these crosses, people started to really think about, holy shit, we can
actually, you know, look at the difference between crossing these ones.
What if we cross those ones together?
And they start forming different types of experimentation and a whole study of science
and how to collect the data behind that to really make sure that like.
You know, you want to be doing the math on this stuff, right, when you're talking about
like feeding a country or feeding a whole society.
Right. Like cannabis breeders haven't really been.
It hasn't been as crucial for us to figure it out.
Right. It's like cross the wheat together and maybe get better.
We cool. Right.
We at least we get different weed.
Um. Corn and wheat and all these different crops in the last 100 years have really gone
through this like rocket ship to the moon development, like the yields and corn and wheat
and barley and all those crops has increased like massively.
Right. Like many times over compared to what it was 100, 120 years ago.
And cannabis really hasn't, I think, for the most part, benefited from that kind of breeding
program. Right.
So I think kind of the point is to understand these things so that people can understand
the importance of going and going back and.
Just following some of these kind of basic natural laws of inheritance.
And creating plants that are a lot more uniform and just bigger and better on any given
tree. Yeah.
And I think that's a Nilsson Elsa.
I'm glad you brought him up.
He's somebody who he worked for the Savlov Institute in Sweden, where it's a it's one of
the older and I believe it even has like gone on to become some large agro industrial
magnet. But it was a government run endeavor that was dedicated to breeding different
cereal varieties for Sweden, because obviously, if you're in a country like Sweden, you
have a lot of environmental pressures that make it difficult to cultivate things.
And so there was a concerted effort by the Swedish government to actually develop
varieties for the region or for their national agricultural endeavors.
And Savlov, what they did there is very interesting.
They brought on an early Mendelian.
Then it went to another gentleman who has almost the exact same name as Nilsson Elsa.
It can be very difficult when you're going back and reading the history of it to discern
which one of these Nilsson's is the, you know, which one is which.
But yeah, they also developed the pedigree method and kept incredibly extensive pedigree
data. It's you mentioned this just a moment ago, Ryan, and that's something that you find
with all of these individuals.
Mendel kept extensive, incredibly detailed notes.
Nilsson L, same thing.
The Savlov really developed the pedigree method building on Phil Morland's isolation
principle, as it was called prior from the French seed company.
And then later on in the 1920s at Savlov, they did extensive mutation breeding where they
x-rayed seeds, barley seeds, and through those x-rays mutated a bunch of different genes
and annotated all of the different mutations that they had made across the genome.
And I believe it was through work, it was either through that work or through similar work
that they developed a knockout for susceptibility gene that has persisted as one of the main
disease resistance genes in barley for a very long period of time.
And so it was a very effective example of mutation breeding.
But so he's a very interesting figure and he was one of the first people to demonstrate
quantitative traits.
Another individual kind of closely associated is Edward East.
And Edward East was a Harvard-based geneticist who did work that he demonstrated the theory
of heterosis and worked with corn.
And he also demonstrated quantitative traits in tobacco plants.
And one thing that I think that is an analogy that I feel is a lot more applicable for
cannabis is we have a population that is very much akin to the population of corn a
hundred years ago.
And just as those individuals who 100, 120 years ago, Edward East, George H.
Shull, took corn that was in a relatively open pollination population, very heterozygous,
then subjected it to pretty intensive inbreeding over a series of generations in isolation,
and then made a series of experimental crosses and demonstrated hybrid vigor, that that's kind
of the population that we've got with cannabis.
And once people start doing the work of inbreeding these lines and then making these real
F1 hybrids, kind of akin to the work that David Watson did back in the day, we'll actually see
those gains and see that combining ability that you're not really like, I'm all I love polyhybrids.
I grow and smoke plenty of them.
But I feel like when you breed something that has been inbred for a series, like a number of
years, the resulting offspring produce a much more intensely vigorous, just the Pina F4s crossed to
the ADA G13 hash plant are an example that comes to mind.
They've, they're both relatively inbred varieties that then when you cross them together, produce
very uniform offspring that grow as well or better than the parents do.
And so you can see very clearly like, oh, these two lines have gone down.
They've been inbred somewhat.
We combine them and the offspring, not even collecting data, just on site, you can tell that
the plants are that much vigorous and taller than their parents.
That being said, data collection would be better to actually be able to quantify that and then be able to make
selections based off of that.
But that's something that I've found is, yeah, it's helpful to actually do the work that lets you see the
example or see these ideas play out in your own work.
Yeah, well, I think for the most part, like it's the, how do you look at these things, right?
I mean, trying to figure out potency as a guy on the hill in Mendo or Humboldt, wow.
I mean, it's pretty difficult to do that.
I just don't think we can really measure those kinds of traits and truly do the level of
improvement on a population level that needs to be done.
Those people, these people that have gotten us to where we are, you know, Watson and et al., like
everybody since then.
We've gotten the plant a really long way and we figured out a lot of stuff about it, including
isolating tons of really interesting nose profiles.
And we've even done a pretty good job of bumping potency.
You know, unfortunately, the chase of that potency, I think it's kind of fucked the industry
over the last few years.
But, you know, I keep having this thought, like the stuff that we smoked five years ago,
nobody would buy it today.
Right, like it wouldn't, no distributors would buy that stuff today, at least where I in the
market I am. We've got state run distributors, but they are independent in the sense that
they still get to make the decisions on what buys and they based, they buy based on what
sells and what sells above 20 percent.
And so what we were smoking, like even 10 years ago, most of that stuff, all those great
flavors that everybody really enjoyed and was perfectly acceptable for everybody then
wouldn't even be able to be sold.
So, yeah, I don't know, I don't know where I'm going with that.
No, I well, I agree.
And I've thought about that just in terms of probably about five years ago or seven years
ago, thinking of how the California scene was hit, excuse me, incredibly hard by the
the clone only name game.
And if you didn't have gas in the about seven years ago, it was pretty much impossible to
sell whatever you had.
And it felt like all those flavors that were so common in the aughts of the first 10 years
of the medical scene just disappeared.
And you could get Gorilla Glue, you could get OG XYZ, you could get anything that was
gassy, but finding fruit flavors, finding low THC, more turpy varieties was almost
impossible in like the middle of the 2000 teens.
And it's only become worse.
I mean, now things have gotten it's got to be purple candy gas.
If you don't have purple with a candy name and a gassy nose, it's just not going to sell
in California.
Yuck.
Yeah, it's like I mean, I like that as well, but, you know, it's kind of like the
demobification of weed.
Right. It's like everything's got to be like blonde hair and, you know, whatever.
I don't know. It just it screams LA to me to a degree.
Funny how that dictates like a whole degree of influence over the whole culture.
I mean, culture that spread not only across the country and state, you know, but it also
spreads to Canada and for sure internationally as well.
I know the UK picks up on that kind of trend.
I'm sure other parts of Europe do as well.
Man, a bad example.
I just don't find it necessary.
Like, again, like, you know, if all that weed was good enough, it was good enough to
smoke like 20 years ago or 15 years ago.
It's really no different than what's available now.
It's just there was more diversity of flavor.
Right. I find like people kind of consume cannabis to the level that they're satiated,
whether it's like, you know, a gram or whatever, you know, or seven or three quarters
of a gram kind of thing.
The joint is a joint. You smoke as much as you need to get high and then pretty much
people put it down. Like, I don't know.
I don't really, you know, even on that kind of note to like even this lab testing stuff,
it's so you can manipulate the numbers in such a way.
And even there's like a natural variation, I think that people can exist like that kind of
machinery and extraction process and everything like there's going to be probably a 10
percent like range of variation.
Right. And so if there's a 10 percent range of variation, there's no difference between
30 percent, 33 percent.
They're the same number.
Right. But for marketing, everybody wants to chase the TAC.
So anyway.
What's up, Mark?
Hey, how are you?
I'm well, how are you doing, dude?
Good. I'm just listening.
I don't know that I could add much to this conversation.
Yeah, I remember the.
The chemistry discussion we had a while ago and just how far back I didn't realize when
you came on, how deep and how early people were doing, you know, the actual chemistry
distillation and figuring things out on a molecular level.
You know, I'm a Dr.
Mishulam sort of kid.
I know that name.
I don't know all the others, but it was eye opening to hear some of the early chemistry.
And yeah, I just feel like that's another another area where cannabis is very
multidisciplinary.
We were just talking about the data collection and, you know, breeding for potency,
having a chemist.
Yeah, sometimes we could be useful.
I mean, there's the interesting thing you bring up, Trevor, is that, you know, a lot of
people and Rafi did just terrific work.
I mean, his his biggest discovery has really been the discovery of the endocannabinoid
system, more so than the isolation of THC.
He often gets credited for first isolating THC, but I think we now know that a whole lot
of other people had isolated that they just didn't know what they had.
His contribution there is he was the first one in modern era to have NMR to be able to
solve and elucidate the structure.
So that's what he did.
And the way that he isolated it, he did not get isomerization.
Previous workers like Adams and other people just beat on this thing so hard that by the
time they got it into a flask, it had already isomerized over to Delta 8.
So, yeah, it confused early chemists because they didn't have the level of sophistication
of instrumentation that more modern era had.
And Michelin was sort of at the front end of that in 1964.
But then he did he followed up that initial discovery again with a whole lot of work that
described the chemistry of these cannabinoids and how they're synthesized and how they
interconvert, how you can convert CBD into THC.
I mean, actually, Adams demonstrated that, but then Michelin went back and re-demonstrated
it and was actually able to show that you could actually isomerize CBD to make either
Delta 8 or Delta 9.
But it's preferred that Delta 8 is just thermodynamically conferred.
And so that's why you see this preponderance of Delta 8 that's out there now, because
people are just beating on it with a acid sledgehammer to push it over into making a
psychoactive substance from CBD.
So a little off topic on what the room is, but any other chemistry questions?
No, but it's a totally valid point.
And, you know, like it's funny because I think that this is actually like a good the
whole topic really wraps together for me in terms of cannabis.
I mean.
You know, no one's thinking back probably more than 100 years in cannabis, but what's
happened in cannabis in the last 100 years?
I mean, what Mark was just talking about, Roger Adams was discovering CBD or isolating
the first CBD.
They were breaking down the plant to look at what was in the resin.
And the first molecule they found was CBD.
That was like 1940, if I'm not mistaken, Mark.
Yeah, yeah.
That was around 1940.
But before that, supposedly this group in 1896 at Cambridge University vacuum distilled
an extract of chars, which is certainly enriched with THCA.
Right. And so when they when they distilled it, it decarboxylates.
And so what you're going to get out of that distillation is THC.
But when they were analyzing the material, I think it oxidizes in the way that they were
doing their combustion analysis.
So what they thought they actually isolated was CBN, cannabinol.
And for years it was reported that, yeah, there's a ton of it.
It's maybe an Easterfield, right.
In 1896, first isolated cannabinol.
But if you look at their boiling point, and so the boiling point is a point at which a
pure compound distills, the point at which the liquid turns into vapor.
If that's on a pure compound, those boiling points are unique.
And so when you look at the literature for the boiling point of THC, they'll always say,
yeah, it's 155 centigrade.
But what they don't say is that Mishula measured that 155 at 0.05 vacuum, right.
So under a vacuum pressure, yeah, that's what THC distills at.
It distills at a much, or boils at a much higher temperature.
And if you look at the boiling point that those Brits measured back in 1896, you got to
remember, 1896, these fuckers were contemporaries of Edison, right.
The light bulb was just invented, right.
20 years before the discovery of the electron.
So these people were fucking ahead of their time.
And if you look at their boiling point, their boiling point is spot on with Mishula's boiling
point and data from my own lab.
So I can tell you categorically that they did not isolate CBN in 1896.
They isolated THC.
And if you read their paper, you'll see that there's nothing compelling that they did
to convert the extract over to CBN.
And you could talk to many a chemist out there today, making CBN from THC is not trivial.
I mean, it does happen in a natural process.
It naturally converts.
But if you want to convert a bucket full of THC into a bucket full of CBN,
that's not a trivial reaction.
So there's nothing that they did back in 1896 that was compelling enough to basically say
that they actually treated this extract in a way where they were actually going
to see conversion over to CBN.
So I believe that they actually isolated THC.
So when people say that Mishula was the first one to isolate THC, they say, no way, man.
The Brits did it back in 1896.
And then they didn't have the structure right.
But then a guy named Robert Sidney Kahn in the 30s, this is again pre-Adams now.
So before Roger Adams, there was this guy, Robert Sidney Kahn.
I think he started in New Zealand but ended up in the UK somewhere or in Wales, I think.
Robert Sidney Kahn.
And he was the one who actually figured out the formula of THC.
And he took the data that they got from Woods, Bivy, and Easterfield.
But he actually did some more experimental work and was able to actually,
the first time you see the structure of THC written in the chemical literature,
it's in Kahn's paper from 1934, which again predates Adams by 10 years.
So this is where Adams came in.
You know, Kahn and another guy named Alexander Todd over in the UK did an awful lot of work too
to try to isolate and elucidate the structure.
But this was, you know, again, back in the 30s and 40s when they didn't have, you know,
modern chromatography or any of the modern instrumentation that,
meshulam and then, you know, now we have today to look at these things.
So these people were certainly ahead of their time.
And yeah, Trevor, I totally, I love the pre-meshulam cannabinoid chemistry story.
And again, against all the headwinds of prohibition and being illegal, I mean,
there's actually a whole lot of work that was done prior to meshulam's, you know,
well-publicized discovery.
And it wasn't until again, yeah, 1970 that it actually, you know,
wound up in the Controlled Dangerous Substance Act.
So, you know, before that it was, you know, open to do research.
And the funny thing you'll hear in meshulam's movie, The Scientist,
is that he wrote off to the National Institutes of Health for grant money early in his career
and they turned him down saying that the NIH wasn't interested
in the active components of the plant cannabis sativa.
So then he published his stuff in Journal of the American Cannabis Society in 1964.
And I think it was a year later, maybe two years later, the head of the NIH,
I forget what his name, I actually looked him up at one point, went over to Israel
and basically smuggled 10 grams of THC back to Bethesda to the lab that did the seminal work
on a lot of, so that's where Marilyn Huistis did her work on the metabolism of THC.
Ultimately, the work that led to the United States government patent
on the neuroprotective properties of cannabis were probably experiments derived
from the government's stash from which they smuggled over from meshulam's lab.
So that's kind of funny.
And I think Rafi tells the story that he isolated it from Lebanese hash, from hash that was,
I guess, from Lebanon that was confiscated in Israel.
So yeah, that story is pretty funny actually.
Yeah, him getting on the bus with the hash.
Can you picture him, right?
As a young man, you know, with this leather satchel with five pounds of hash and people
just like looking all at him.
Yeah, that's exactly what I thought.
He's such an unassuming man.
I mean, he's just such a cool guy.
He's a great mentor for a lot of us in this industry.
Yeah, if you're not familiar with his work, definitely read up on his work.
His work, and I think maybe more pertinent to this room would be the work of Paul Malberg,
right?
Ryan, wouldn't you think Paul Malberg is kind of like the plant equivalent maybe of Rafi?
No, I don't think so.
I don't think so.
Because his, I mean, he did some early work, but I mean, even, you know, you got to give
love to El Soli too.
I mean, I know people hate him because he's got the DEA license and he essentially works
for the man.
He is the man.
Yeah, well, we'd all like to have his, the ability for what he can do.
I mean, that's, you know, such a privileged existence to be able to be, have a university
type laboratory and be able to investigate the compounds of cannabis.
I mean, yeah, of course, everyone's going to hate on him, right?
He's a super, super nice guy.
We named in American Chemical Society, you know, we have a cannabis chemistry subdivision
and we named our traveling fellowship after him.
We call it the El Soli Award.
But yeah, he's really, he's a super nice guy.
I mean, again, probably maybe not in the most desirable of positions in terms from, you
know, everyone thinks, oh, Mississippi, that's the weed monopoly of the government.
How could they have this weed thing?
And you have to do a grant through NIDA and that lady's just terrible.
I don't, I don't like that lady at all.
I've met him at academic conferences and he's a nice guy and I'm, you know, I would be seen
as being on totally the other side of the fence with him.
But I think the truth is, is that the new world, like that fence is coming down, right?
Well, and he's got a smart, so El Soli's got a startup, right?
Like he's, he's, he's not, yeah, he's doing stuff in the industry now.
And I guess there was a guy from the University of Colorado, his name slips me right now,
but actually he was trying to, again, show that it's not safe to be smoking cannabis
from the University of Mississippi, because I guess they found a bunch of cannabis.
But they found a bunch of pathogens, I think, on some of the government issued weed that,
that just wasn't, wasn't cool, right?
I mean, you're not allowed to have those pathogens on commercial cannabis for sale.
Why is the government handing out moldy weed?
Yeah, I believe, I believe Sue Sisley did that study, Mark.
She took, she took some herb that was shipped to one of the few remaining federal patients.
Sent it to labs in both Colorado as well as California.
And both of them did not meet the California or Colorado spec.
I believe the sample that was sent in Colorado tested for E. coli and pesticides.
And the one in California failed for total aerobic bacteria and pesticides as well.
Totally.
Thank you, Mike.
Hey, nice to hear from you, buddy.
Good to see you.
Thanks for coming up.
But yeah, that's, you're totally reciting the study that I'm referring to.
Yeah, it wasn't Colorado, it was Sue Sisley.
That's right.
Yeah, and it looks like the DEA is going to start opening them up.
I know there's been a couple of rounds where applicants have been allowed to apply.
They're all, DEA and NIDA obviously aren't expediting those applications by any means.
I think there actually has been a few of them that have taken it to court in order to
try and get those licenses issued.
But what we're going to start seeing is that they are, the government is actually cultivating more
cannabis this year.
They've actually requested, sent out several requests for additional producers because
they are seeing the research requests increase.
And I think they're starting to see the barriers in the wall, if you will,
to academic research slowly starting to crumble.
So if the researchers can't get it from the vets,
they're going to just go to the local dispensary and that creates a uncertainty in the research.
No, they can't.
They can't even do that.
They've already licensed some companies, and I know there's a company in Canada that's already
done genetic exports to these companies in the States.
But my understanding is that it's essentially all R&D for a future pharma
type product, like essentially opening up R&D and cannabis production extraction methods
so that those companies might in the future serve some pharmaceutical play.
Like those people certainly can't
afford dealing with anybody in the dispensary world.
And researchers like are definitely not supposed to be buying
cannabis from dispensaries.
Unfortunately, those two, as long as federal, you know, we've got federal,
sorry, we've got federal prohibition in place, stuff stays sticky in the States.
It's a real shame that it's like that.
I think everybody looks forward to a time when all those interprovincial borders are gone or
interstate borders are gone and you can do business across the board under full legalization.
Seems to me they're setting up two systems, though, and I don't know how
soon that's going to happen, but we'll see, I guess.
Well, and if you're in the medical profession and you want to, if you're concerned about how
cannabis interacts with other medications or patients with other preexisting conditions,
wouldn't you want to study the cannabis that that population actually uses?
Right.
I mean, why would you study some moldy, dried out stuff from University of Mississippi?
If what they're consuming in Colorado is really dank, moist, freshly grown weed.
It doesn't make sense on the terpene level too, because I remember,
Ryan, I don't know if you remember this, but I think someone shared with us the terpene analysis
of what was that fellow, the guy who used to get the can of joints?
Yeah, Irv Rosenfeld actually posted.
Yeah, remember on Hash Church, Mike, someone,
so on Hash Church, I think we actually had someone share with us the terpene results,
and there's basically nothing in there.
0.2% terpenes, 4% total cannabinoids, I believe of that 4%, 3.8% of it was THC,
and it was actually shit to him four and a half years after the harvest date.
Well, not only that, they dry it in like a gas dryer in the field.
So, I mean, we're not exactly talking high quality inputs to begin with.
So that whole program was designed to fail.
The whole program is designed to feed weed into the system so that any research will fail.
Like, you know, we're not talking about stuff with real scientific credibility here.
This is designed to fit a system of prohibition.
But, you know, like, kind of on the topic, I think that the whole thing in terms of epistemology,
like, cannabis really is an interesting plant in a way.
And it's been used, you know, it's been used, someone's gotten feedback.
Can you turn your mic?
There we go.
You know, we have been studying cannabis on various levels for, say, 120 years, more or less.
You know, and we talked about it in terms of when, you know,
we really started looking at these things in terms of quantitative genetics.
Our ability to, you know, our ability to understand these things and investigate the plant has really
grown with how science has developed over the last 120 years.
Right.
Like, I mean, the crude extractions that Mark was talking about earlier in 1940,
they were relatively crude extractions.
And even the ones that these British guys, you were talking about those British group
that was isolating THC.
I mean, boiling point is, you know, it's an effective way to measure a compound,
but there's definitely, we have much better scientific methods to identify a compound nowadays.
Right.
And so, you know, kind of in the context of learning and like the study of knowledge,
I think even the study of cannabis has really been dependent on what the scientific tools
we've had on the day to look at.
Right.
You know, for example, in Rob Clark's book, there's this study that he cites,
an author named Warmke, W-A-R-M-K-E.
And they did this study on, I think they were looking at,
I think it might even have been the Colchicine study where they're looking at polyploid plants,
which we were talking about last week.
And they made polyploid plants.
And I think the one thing that they did was they looked at the polyploid plants
and the way that they measured the potency of the polyploid plants in this study was to like,
they had, they used to have this like organism called Killifish.
And essentially they have these tiny little fucking fish,
they put it into a tank and do an LD50 test with whatever compound they were using.
And that was like their way of measuring the potency of the cannabis.
And it was like a completely fucking useless assay, right?
Compared to something that we would do nowadays.
But, you know, really what we want to do is use technologies that can inform our decisions
with the cannabis, right?
And, you know, I think really 2007, we started really testing cannabinoids,
even in the California market for dispensaries.
And call it really 2011, 2012, 2013, until like, you know, terpene assays really became standard
in the industry in California.
And spreading from there, like we haven't really been looking at a lot of this stuff.
Sure, you know, there's that paper, whatever it was, Mark,
Meshulam's group, I can't remember who the co-author was.
But it was like, anyway, late, late, late 80s, maybe.
And they first looked at terpene.
What's the paper you're referring to?
It was Ross, it was El Soli and Ross.
But they essentially did like a breakdown of the volatiles in cannabis.
And that's really when they first started looking at,
you know, terpenoids and things like that.
Only in one sample.
I mean, it wasn't a huge thing, but nobody really started looking at cannabis in that way
until at least 10 years later.
Yeah, actually, Ryan, you should know this is a little Canadian trivia.
The first folks to actually report a GC chromatogram of the volatiles of cannabis was a
Canadian group in the early 60s, right when gas chromatography was first
coming out as an analytical method.
And so this group, I want to say it's 1964 or something like that,
in Nature or Science, one of the big journals, yeah,
published the volatile profile of the cannabis plant.
It was a bunch of Canadians, cool.
It's about time you Canadians did something useful.
I'm only kidding.
Do you know if it was Ernest Small?
Because he was kind of just starting around that time.
Ah, it might be.
Let me, I'll look it up.
I got to go get it on my computer.
I'll send you the reference later though.
Cool stuff though.
Yeah, I think prior to that, they weren't able to determine what the chemical structure was.
I think Raphael went into the 60s knowing that he was looking for a C20 or C21 hydrocarbon
terpenoid, but wasn't able to differentiate the rings until he actually discovered them in 62,
63, and then published the paper in 64.
So all of the previous, am I correct on that Mark?
All the previous papers were just based on the boiling points.
Um, well, they had the structure down.
I mean, so the way, so if you go back to atoms, the way that they would identify
natural compounds that they would isolate is they would do chemistry to those compounds
and convert them into something that's known.
And so a lot of times they would degrade, you know, natural organic compounds with
oxidizing agents like potassium permanganate.
And obviously like some compounds, it would just chew up the compounds, but other compounds,
it would like, you'd be able to control the degradation in order to identify a degradant,
which can give the chemist a clue on, okay, if this is what's degraded from this compound,
what does the parent compound look like?
And so it was Michulam who actually degraded CBD to determine it, to correlate its natural
configuration, right?
So, so the optical activity of, of chiral molecules is that you could have a right-handed
and a left-handed version, right?
So they're, they're non-superimposable mirror images of each other.
And like with Marinol, I just had to explain this to some regulators the other day, in
the synthesis of Marinol, it makes a 50-50 mixture of both the right and left-handed
compounds.
And so 50% of the mixture is just not natural and not, I guess, as biologically active as
the naturally configured material.
But when you're doing, when you're doing synthesis like that and you're building a
compound up from scratch, you have to establish a, a, a chiral center, which is an asymmetric
carbon that's not its superimposable mirror image.
It's just either the right or the left and not a mixture of the two.
And if it is a mixture of the two, it's what's called a racemic mixture, because now those
are sometimes difficult to separate.
You can't necessarily separate one from the other.
But so, so Meshulam's, the importance of Meshulam's initial work was that the researchers
who were isolating THC up until that point were getting mixtures of both Delta-8 and
Delta-9.
And if you read Meshulam's paper from 64, what he did was a very careful purification
procedure where he, he made a crystalline derivative.
He, so he reacted the THC.
Yeah, I think it was, it wasn't THC.
He took THC, I think he chromatographed it.
So he talks about this in his paper.
He chromatographed, you know, a hash, just took the hash, dissolved it up in a solvent,
ran it through a column, and then took the THC pure fractions from that column and then
made a crystalline derivative by reacting it with something called a, an isocyanate.
So an isocyanate reacts with an alcohol to make a urethane.
And in this case, if you make a isocyanate, if it's the, I think it's the 3,5-dinitroisocyanate
or the 3-nitroisocyanate, one of those makes a highly crystalline derivative.
So you see what you can do here is you can take a compound, maybe that's not completely
pure, and now make a highly crystalline derivative, which you can recrystallize and recrystallize
over and over again to get that to absolute purity.
And then what he did was he hydrolyzed off the urethane.
So the urethane was a crystalline derivative, then he hydrolyzed the urethane, then he short
path distilled his product.
And that's where he measured the boiling point of pure THC at 155 at .05 millimeters
of mercury.
And so, yeah, so that 155, or I guess that translates in the 315 Fahrenheit, I think
that's right.
That's usually what THC's boiling point gets reported as in most literature, even
in technical literature, and they forget that that's at a vacuum of .05.
So that was always just a big sort of big misinterpretation of the literature that needed
to be corrected when I started doing a deep dive into cannabinoid chemistry about 10 or
15 years ago.
Hey, Mark, you know any interesting tests to, like the beam test to identify rare cannabinoids
in situ?
So a wet method like the beam test?
Yeah, I mean, I'm just, you know, I'm...
Yeah, no, so the beam test that Mike is referring to is the test for identifying a CBD
cultivar, I guess, or that's what it had been used for historically in the field because
it's just a wet method.
When I say wet, you're actually taking a sample, crushing it, trying to get some extract
of the plant, and then treating it with...
Typically it's like a 10% potassium hydroxide solution, or maybe more like 5% potassium
hydroxide and ethanol.
And so the basic nature of that solution will immediately turn purple if it comes in contact
with CBD, and what you're forming there is CBD hydroxyquinone, and so that's just an
indicator that there's CBD in the mix.
You can't, unfortunately, use that to quantitate and tell you how much CBD, it just basically
gives you a positive identification that CBD is present.
If there's no CBD present and it's just THC, it should be either like a light yellow or
an orange at best, but it shouldn't turn pink.
If you see any hint of pink or purple, that means that there's CBD present.
What I don't know what happens, though, Mike, if there's CBG present too, because as you
know, CBGs like CBD are both hydroxyl groups on the compound are free, so it's sort of
what you'd call a substituted resource in all.
And the resource in all in CBD is the reason why it turns that purple color.
So I have a feeling that if there is CBG or CBGA in the cultivar, that you could certainly
see a little bit of purple color because you'll get that hydroxyquinone as well.
Although it's probably definitely a different wavelength because you have different spinach
on the ring, but you'd need a spectrometer to differentiate that.
But in the field, I think that, yeah, you probably wouldn't be able to tell one from
the other.
Yeah, if it's CBG and CBD, it'll turn red to purple.
And then if it's pure CBG, it'll kind of stick more with pink.
You also can't use, you can't distinguish hemp cultivars because you can't segregate
type 2s and type 3s.
It only gives you the presence of CBD.
It doesn't tell you what is without THC, right?
What was the other thing?
Oh, for anybody paying along, KOH is pH up.
So essentially what you can do at home is take any type of cannabis or resin and make
like a little bit of an ethanolic extract or just like ethanol or even isopropyl acid
out like rubbing alcohol extract.
And if you take like a little bit of that, like a couple of drops, essentially say two
or three drops, put it on like a white porcelain dish of some sort, and then just put that
in the window and it'll evaporate.
If you come along and put a drop or two of pH up on top of it, you'll see this pink
purple color appear if what Mark was talking about, if CBD is present.
So there's a little home chemistry for the detection of CBD for you.
Yeah, so you could take like one crystal of Drano, right?
So Drano is sodium hydroxide, right?
It's a very, very strong base.
You don't want to touch it.
You want to just sort of pick it up with a tweezer, one little crystal of Drano, you
know, drop it in.
Yeah, maybe like a shot glass worth of alcohol.
And you can have a solution there that you can test for, that you can use as a test indicator
for like the beam test.
If you Google beam test, you'll find the Gold's Cannabis Chemistry book, which is
a pretty useful chapter.
There's a lot of incoherence to it, like it's just sort of cobbled together.
But I've learned a lot from reading that.
There's gems in there as well, for sure.
Yeah, you could tell he was either busted in the middle of writing it or something,
or he was like the, it doesn't flow very well as it reads, but it's full of a lot of
useful information, including the beam test.
That's where I learned about it.
Yeah, I think he calls it beam test.
I'm not sure, but yeah, it's pretty simple to do it for anybody at home that's a grower,
because you probably have THF.
So if you do, and you're rubbing alcohol, you can do this.
Sometimes it's easier to do it on filter paper, because that kind of holds the resin when
the alcohol evaporates.
So what do you got to say, Trevor?
Well, one thing I, this is kind of going back a ways, but it's something that kind of bears
pointing out.
A lot of our understanding of the plant comes through government institutions, a lot of the
science that was conducted.
And so, you know, Elsoy's name's been mentioned, and you'll find dozens of paper references
to the different work that he's done.
Prior, there was Carlton Tucker, who was the director of the plant.
Down at Mississippi, and he was the predecessor.
And Malberg's been mentioned, who worked up in Indiana.
So Carlton Turner.
Yeah, yeah, he later became, like, he was like, I think he was Nancy Reagan's favorite
drug guy.
Like, she really liked him as a drug researcher, because he essentially would say what she
wanted to say.
Anyhow, he was, he had that spot before Elsoy.
Yeah, he said wild stuff.
And he also, yeah, his work, he really got the University of Mississippi research facility
off the ground in 1969.
And it's interesting how that was started in 1969.
The single convention had been, I think, signed earlier in the decade, but the Controlled
Substance Act came online immediately afterwards.
And they became, after, from 1969, 1970 onward, became largely in control of academic research.
Well, the DEA was the agency put in charge, but University of Mississippi carried out
most of the research.
And Paul Malberg, or Peter Malberg, I could be mistaking the name.
Paul Malberg.
Yeah, Paul Malberg.
Yeah, and his team in University of Indiana, and their work with, particularly with trichomes
and resin.
It's interesting how a lot of this research agenda has been dictated and determined either
by prohibition or at least in part by institutions that are having to navigate that.
They are, but it also has to do with what the students are interested in.
I mean, you're right to say that Malberg's research was mostly trichome.
I mean, they were the first to isolate, not isolate, but they did.
They had an enzyme, or it wasn't an enzyme, it was a silver stain or something, but it
would bind to THC specifically.
And so they did like cryo sections of trichome and then stained the trichome and were able
to show that THC was only found bound in the resin gland.
And then they later developed a method for going in with like a tiny little stretched
out glass pipette and taking resin out of like one resin gland, right, and then analyzing
that with a GC.
So that was kind of where it started off.
But Hillig did all his work there, right?
Carl Hillig.
And yeah, David Watson had provided a bunch of genetics for that thing.
And Rob had been working at Hillig's lab for a while, not Hillig's lab, I'm sorry, Malberg's
lab, but all that isozyme work that they did, which was not really trichome or trichome
chemistry.
It was more based on like a, it was kind of genetics, but it was really using proteins
rather than genetics, but it was looking at the proteins of genes.
So it's, you know, it's kind of along those lines.
It certainly wasn't chemistry.
He kind of, he fleshed out, I mean, the pathway was already in the literature, but he was
the one and it was his experimental data that showed unequivocally that cannabinoids
accumulate in the trichome.
That's his contribution.
Malberg.
That's Malberg.
Yeah.
And I think that if you look, if you look through that story too, Ryan, I mean, if you
look at his early papers, I think he was always pointed in that direction and his literature
just makes a wonderful, wonderful story.
I actually, there's, there's a link out there on the web where you can open access
all of Malberg's literature.
I think it's a, it's a hemp company that paid for his, his literature to be out there
on the web.
So it's all available at open access and it is anybody who grows cannabis should be
reading Paul's literature there.
It is absolutely, I think very important.
Oh, I agree with you.
And his work with Hilling, especially, I mean, Hilling was a student at his lab and, you
know, now that, you know, now that you say that, Trevor, you're, you're right because
Hilling's work was on actually the terpenoids in cannabis, which of course is a resin produced
or a trichome produced profile.
And I, they, you know, they sourced a whole bunch of genetic variety or genetic, genetic
diversity to use as the basis for the study.
So they were looking at terpenes and I assume when they were doing that work, because they
had the plants growing, he used the isozymes as well as like a second way of looking at
the same kind of diversity.
The only problem I have with Hilling's work is that the ends are so small, right?
And you look at like the number of plants from any given population, it's really kind
of disappointing because, you know, what we know about cannabis for sure is that there
is all this genetic variation.
If you only select one individual from all these different populations and then you say
there's variation, it's like, well, yeah, there's variation for sure.
But like, what's the scale?
What's the variation within a family, right?
Let alone between families.
So, but yeah, no, Malberg's work is fascinating for sure.
Check it out.
Yeah, another place I think it's on when I did searches for it, Future 420,000 or 420,000.
That website has compiled all of the research as well.
So you can find it easily in PDF form there.
And yeah, it's really, it's very interesting going through and finding all the connections.
And those, there's Mississippi, there's Indiana, there's, there was also much more
prohibition related work carried out.
Well, Mississippi, obviously, but then up in Connecticut, New Haven, and then over in
Montana with Dr. David Sands, I believe, who did work with Fusarium Oxysporum or whatever
the name is for Fusarium and tried to develop sort of a pathological, biological control
for cannabis.
And the first time I ever read about that was in International Hemp Journal and Watson's
and Robert Clark's work there.
Yeah, well, you know, for people that don't understand the context of that, Fusarium Oxysporum
is a microorganism involved in wilt.
But, you know, for those, we were talking again last week about bananas being attacked
by this race 4 pathogen that's essentially killing all of them.
That is Fusarium Oxysporum.
And so it gets into the soil and it kills not only does it kill the life plants, but
it stays there.
And if you plant it again, you can't essentially can't plant there again.
And they found a variety of Fusarium Oxysporum, I think it was in Hawaii, but I'm actually
not sure of that.
And they essentially found that it attacked cannabis.
And so they wanted to develop that as essentially a bioweapon against cannabis.
Right.
And obviously people lost their shit because, well, that's what we do.
Yeah.
Kazakhstan.
Was it a Kazakh variety?
That's interesting.
Yeah.
I know they wanted to bring it to Hawaii or something like that anyway.
But yeah, it was people fucking flipped out about that, of course.
I mean, it's the type of thing that can go horribly wrong, right?
Like you release an organism like that into the environment that gets it.
We shouldn't be probably doesn't matter the species or the crop.
We shouldn't really be developing.
That kind of technology against plants or plant pests, it's like we just don't have
that whole systems understanding of the way that these things work to go and release them
out into the environment, like with no controls is really not very responsible.
You know, and I'm sure someone's going to say that the same thing that we do with genetic
modification is the same thing.
You're right.
To a degree, you're not wrong.
But with GMOs, we have these very strict regulatory processes that plants have to go
through before they're allowed to be or even plants, but all animals, they have to go for
a whole other level of review by either the EPA in the States or the FIA in Canada, which
is the Canadian Food Inspection Agency.
Because, again, you don't want to release these things out into the environment that
might interact with native plants in some way.
And then, you know, we've changed things in a not positive way.
Yeah, and it was doubly bad because it was also a genetically modified or an enhanced.
There's a patent, it's since expired.
But if you go and look up Dr. David Sands and look into the research that he did at
University of Montana, you can find both the work that they did, the articles that was
reported on it in International Hemp Journal, and also the patent that they pulled.
And it was some sort of increased virulence in the pathogen as well as what they were
claiming, at least.
And so it's definitely something that not only is it bad because they're trying to use
a biological mechanism for controlling another biological mechanism on that particular plant,
or another biological mechanism on that level, when you're trying to eradicate, because the
intention was quite explicitly to eradicate cannabis.
That, yeah, that could be obviously have dire consequences.
And they were also genetically modifying it or increasing virulence.
So that's something that it's the research agendas historically have been determined
by the DEA.
That's the kind of research that they've prioritized.
And that's not to say that it's like monolithic.
There's been people and there's been research that even when it's been used for, for instance,
a lot of chemical finger typing or fingerprinting was designed to try and trace back and assess
the point of origin for different imported cannabis.
That information then in another context has given us the information that we now use for
most of the GC testing that has told us particularly as you like recounted from 2007 to about 2011.
That information fundamentally changed the way that at least in California, the way that
cannabis was grown, bred, etc.
People were able to make determinations based off of lab reports.
And one of the, you know, we've seen the way that's gone with THC and it's not necessarily
an ideal situation, but the project CBD and the discovery of type two cannabis in drug
cultivars was something that was facilitated by that.
And it really, it led to a blossoming of that type of cannabis.
And that's something that I think, well, even though these things were developed in a sort
of prohibition model or mindset, the research and the knowledge that's there to the extent
that we can take it is incredibly valuable.
Yeah, it's funny.
It's kind of the same way with genomics, right?
I mean, genetics started that way.
They were trying to figure out how they could tie, you know, genetic profiles of cannabis
varieties.
The Australians were first, but like you said, New Hampshire, New Hampshire, New England,
I think, or maybe it was, I'm not sure where it was, but somewhere up northeast with Heather
Miller-Coyle and they were doing all that DNA work with the idea about, you know, being
able to essentially genetically fingerprint plant.
And then anybody that had that plant was part of a criminal conspiracy to cultivate cannabis,
right?
That was their argument.
I think these things have kind of gone by the wayside because it's like really, you
know, it's not really realistic at this point in time, but they were looking at like even
isotopes of various, Mark, if Mark is still here, you might want to be tapping on this.
They had, they were doing some type of isotope analysis showing that like isotopes that were
present in the water and therefore incorporated into the plant, it might not even have been
through the water.
It would have been through like water and soil would provide a chemical signature on
the plant and through that they could do what Trevor was talking about, you know,
identify specific shipments of cannabis as having come from a certain origin, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
I'll buy into that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I think there's isotopic ways of, of, of labeling things, but you can also
use it for dating, right?
So they can look at the natural decay of an isotopic signature to tell like when it was,
when it's, when it was originated.
Is that what you're referring to?
No, more where than when.
Oh, where?
I don't know.
I'm scratching my head on that one.
I don't know, Ryan.
This is a long time ago.
That's something I read about that they were, the cops were doing.
So yeah.
Didn't they base a product, Ryan, off of that?
Like there was somebody that took that research and I'm trying to remember somebody who took
that specific set of research and was trying to like market this product back based on
the research.
And I can't remember.
I'm trying to see.
It was like a bunch of years ago, but it was like, that's essentially, it was like somebody
took that research, tried to create a product based on that, that was like somehow applied
to that, then they would be able to track all of these things.
And to me, it was gross.
Well, that never ends well.
I know, it was gross to me.
I was like, oh, yay.
I was trying to look it up right now.
I don't have zero recollection of what the name was, but if anybody else does, it was,
I thought that was fascinating.
I wanted to add something to what you were saying, Trevor.
You were talking about the government and early, early researchers in cannabis.
We'd be remiss if we didn't mention H.J.
Walner at the Federal Bureau of Narcotics Laboratory.
Every time I try to Google that string of words right there, I get the DEA website.
So I can't find out exactly what the history of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics Laboratory
was, but in his 1942 paper in the Journal of the American Chemical Society, which is
available for everyone to read, this is H.J.
Walner, W-O-L-N-E-R.
He published the synthesis of THC acetate for the first time.
So, you know, when you get all these people, you know, bitching about THC acetate being
around, well, again, it was the guy from the government's paper that published it for
the rest of the world.
So, but Walner himself was a great chemist.
You could tell.
I never met the guy, but I've read just about all of his papers, and you can really
tell how brilliant some of these people were just by reading their scientific publications,
because they're just so well worded and eloquent.
And again, this was before the advent of NMR or HPLC or GC or any modern methods of
experimentation and analytical characterization that we enjoy today.
These guys figured out the structures of these molecules.
That's how badass they were.
And so if you look at Walner's paper from 1942 and you look at the structure of THC,
it's almost right.
It's one bond removed from being Delta-8, but the fact that he was able to basically
identify everything.
I mean, this is, again, standing on the shoulders of the Brits and then R.S.
Kane and Todd, who was before them.
But Walner was clued in just like Adams, that these structures are out there and in biology.
And so the other cool thing I just wanted to point out about Walner is he characterizes
his distillate and then acetylates the distillate.
So I mean, right there in a government publication is all you need to know about how to make
THC acetate, Trevor.
Yeah, no, that is, that's funny.
I'm going to pull up those citations and share them on IG and hopefully.
Yeah, I hear, let me, I give you that Walner reference.
I had it pulled up on my phone for a second.
Hold on a second.
I'll tell you exactly what it is.
Yeah, it's the Journal of the American Chemical Society, 1942, page 26, volume 64.
Yeah, that ought to get you there.
And he hydrogenates.
So this is interesting.
He hydrogenates the tetrahydrocannabinol acetate.
So yeah, so you'll see these products out in the market today.
That's how relevant this chemistry was.
I mean, here it is published in 1942.
And I can see this on my LinkedIn feed, you know, basically hemp hucksters selling THC
acetate, which is basically the acetate made of Delta-8, right?
Because they're making Delta-8 from CBD.
So THC acetate, HHC acetate and HHC.
So again, all made possible through this wonderful publication in the Journal of the
American Chemical Society on work funded by, assume, what was our tax dollars at the US
Bureau of Narcotics Laboratory, which probably was some kind of predecessor to the DEA, right?
Or something.
But again, when I try Googling that, all I get is DEA's laboratory.
So I wonder about the history.
Like maybe this was that Connecticut lab, Trevor?
I don't know.
I think that the name sounds very familiar.
It's if you read the Brotherhood of Eternal Love, the Senate subcommittee hearings on the
Brotherhood of Eternal Love, it was held right at the time period when the DEA was created.
And they refer to the preceding agency.
And I'm pretty sure it was the Federal Bureau of Narcotics.
And it's also in those subcommittee hearings, you can see a picture of a
hash oil laboratory that the Brotherhood was operating up in
Upper Peninsula, Michigan, back in the 1970s, late 60s, 70s.
More good information in government documents.
Crazy.
I went to Michigan Tech.
So I spent six or seven years of my college career in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.
And believe me, there wasn't a whole lot of cannabis up there.
I remember having to go down and go on Grateful Dead tour to bring good cannabis back.
Because I don't know that there was a whole lot of cannabis activity going on up there.
But that's really interesting to know that.
Wow.
I'll have to ask around about that.
Yeah, no, and I'll throw that up there as well.
But I just spaced out what I was going to say.
But totally, their government, oh, that's what it is.
I'm not sure if this is precisely what was getting referred to earlier, but
the Steep Hill Laboratories, most of what they did, what both Steep Hill Labs did and what
Phylos did was essentially just take the, there was a Japanese group.
I can't remember the author's name off the top of my head.
But there was a group in Japan that did a number of different things.
Group in Japan that did a number of different studies, and they were able to determine the
male associated markers that are used for most genetic or most of the early genetic assays
that were sex determination kits from both Steep Hill and from...
Everybody.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
It was, that was Sakamoto.
That was 1995.
They found the male, what they called MADC or MADC, which stood for male associated DNA in
Canada.
He's actually a really interesting dude.
Their lab actually also discovered, I think, CBD acid synthase, the enzyme, and maybe even
CBC acid synthase.
But they've done some interesting work.
There's an old interview with him in the International Health Association Journal that
Dave and Rob used to write.
They're quite old school, both guys.
And like I said, 95.
That was the first paper that I discovered that had, that was like a real world application
for cannabis in molecular genetics world.
Sorry, in the molecular genetics world.
It kind of blew my mind.
I was like, holy shit, there's some university somewhere where people are actually looking
at the molecular genetics of cannabis.
This is so cool.
And I was like considering applying to go, you know, but like, can I go and live in Japan?
Like, I wonder if I could go and study that.
But yeah, old school, very old school.
What's it like doing R&D in Canada on cannabis?
Can you do R&D in the university?
Now?
Yeah.
Oh yeah, it's blowing up.
We got multiple universities doing cannabis research.
So are there programs that are teaching cannabinoid botany and cannabinoid chemistry and extraction?
I mean, I get people asking me all the time and unfortunately, the US universities are
still tied to mostly just treating cannabis as a social studies class.
And they can't really, they can't really, I mean, there are a couple of universities
that have been proactive in getting involved in hemp.
And I know that there's a couple of breeding programs.
I know there's an active breeding program at University of Minnesota and a couple other
places, but it's really been, again, just few and far between.
You'd think there'd be a whole lot more going on, but there just isn't.
So Cornell's got a great program.
They have a whole hemp breeding program, tissue culture, the whole bit.
There's a couple of researchers that are doing different projects there.
And then in Canada, for sure, like University of Guelph has a couple of research labs.
There's one at the University of Laurentian University in Quebec City, and they've got
like the first professor who's like cannabis genomics fellowship or something.
I'm not sure what they called it, but it's not a program, right?
It's like they've got one doctor working on that thing.
It's definitely not like you can go on and enroll in a whole cannabis program there.
But yeah, there's some active labs that are starting to set up and look at various things,
you know, cannabis tissue culture protocols, growth production things.
That's why I sent you that one on that article this week on that academic fraud, because
that guy had published on a cannabis, they did a cannabis NMR study.
And so with all his other works, work coming in to disrepute and that whole story about him,
you know, it kind of put all of his work in disrepute, right?
Or at least potential for being fishy.
So sorry, I didn't explain that very well.
There was an academic in Canada that was involved in like essentially DNA barcoding of
all these different health products.
And he wrote like a pretty impactful study that got picked up many years ago
on fraudulent, like essentially they did DNA analysis of like,
you know, vitamins and stuff like that to look for the herbs and plants that were supposed to
be in these natural supplements and found that none of the natural supplements or many of them
didn't have the DNA.
Well, you can do a whole bunch of shit in processing that destroys DNA.
So just doing an analysis is not enough, right?
That type of analysis is not enough.
And a whole bunch of people questioned his work.
But, you know, there's been a whole bunch of really bizarre stuff like he's at conferences
presenting on topics and like stealing images out of, you know, scientific papers and presenting
them as his own work and just changing the labels on the graphs and stuff like that.
Like a whole bunch of really bad academic behavior of stuff that you just like,
it kind of puts the whole academic institution into disrepute when people are doing that,
because the whole thing is based on trust.
And if you've got people that are, you know, milking that trust and publishing fake science
for profit, it fucks everybody.
Right.
Because it calls the whole profession in disrepute or whatever.
So anyway, that's what I was talking about.
Ryan, I just texted you screenshots of those two early articles from that group in Canada.
I don't recognize any of those authors, but you might know those people.
Is one of them Beckstead or Small's early co-author by chance?
It's the guy's name is Negan.
That's like a walking dead joke for people who don't understand.
Hopefully someone got it.
But yeah, it's N-I-G-A-N.
It's not Beckstead.
Beckstead published with Small, but no, it's not him.
In 1965, I mean, this is pretty early on.
I think Small didn't start really looking at cannabis until maybe 67.
So that's it.
Yeah, I mean, I don't think I got through.
I mean, the other one I'd sent you too was a paper from 61.
Again, I think this is a different group from Canada.
I think this is the group that I credit, again, for first using gas chromatography to identify
the terpenes.
That other group was the first group I believe that isolated them through steam distillation,
right?
Hydro distillation, steam distillation.
I want to go find these and read the paper and see actually what the chemical breakdown is and
where the material is from and all that kind of stuff.
You probably will see the fingerprint in it, but I wonder how good their accuracy is.
Well, so these were the first people to basically unearth the terpene profiles in cannabis.
And you'd think that, again, in between that and the discovery of the cannabinoids, let's see,
is Mike still up here?
Yeah, Mike's still up here.
I was talking about this before.
That they would have put together the entourage effect or the ensemble effect a lot earlier than
they did, right?
Because they knew that these herbs were fragrant.
And I think it could be deduced just from the molecular weight that it ain't the cannabinoids
that's giving them their fragrance.
I find it really interesting that the way that that relates to modern day policy is now in
Pennsylvania, they can't use cannabis smell as probable cause for searching your vehicle.
They used to be able to say, oh, we smell cannabis now, therefore we can search your
vehicle.
So you'll love this, Ryan.
So the attorney that argued this case that set the precedent in Pennsylvania, well, he
actually, I know him and we reached out to each other and we're talking about various
aspects about legalization and whatnot.
And I said, you realize, Patrick, that what gives cannabis its fragrance are the terpenes,
not the cannabinoids.
And terpenes are ubiquitous.
They're all throughout the plant kingdom, right?
Well, I don't exactly know what language he used, but somehow he used convincing language
in a courtroom predicated on that argument that terpenes are everywhere and you can't
use just terpenes, the ones associated with cannabis, to assume that they're coming from
cannabis because they could come from numerous other sources.
And so that's what unraveled the weed smell not being probable cause in Pennsylvania.
So it's always good when science can impact things, right?
That's awesome.
And it's also, we were just talking about Ernest Small and one of the age old taxonomic
controversies sort of arose from Richard Schultz, who apparently at the behest of the Brotherhood
of Eternal Love, went out to Afghanistan in the early seventies.
And that's when he made the classic, 1974 was when the paper got published, but made
the tripartite taxonomy of cannabis of Indica, sativa, rooter, Alice.
And part of that was as a legal defense on a technicality in the way that the laws were
written based off of it being cannabis sativa.
And so he tried to argue that it was cannabis Indica or something along these lines.
And Ernest Small was kind of the counterpoint and he worked for the Canadian government
and did work in taxonomy and produced an alternative taxonomic breakdown of cannabis.
And it's been an ongoing academic debate and source of all kinds of confusion amongst the
pop culture and individuals trying to interpret some of this information and apply it.
But yeah, it's another interesting wrinkle there.
Yeah.
Rob tells a story about that.
Something I never really pointed out.
He says, go back and look at those pictures of shelfies in the field.
There's nothing like he's looking at a few plants.
And apparently when he went over there, it was like the off season or the harvest didn't
well happen months ago.
And the only thing that were left were these scraggly volunteer crappy plants that were
left in the field.
And he's there doing this analysis on the brotherhood of eternal love, or at least so
the story goes, so that he can come back.
Obviously, he took a payout.
So, funny.
Yeah.
And he would serve as an expert witness for different defendants who had been busted with
cannabis.
And this argument was his taxonomy was part of how he was brought in and legal defense
was raised using him as an expert witness.
And I believe some individuals got off early on, but it was pretty quick that this legal
argument ended up falling by the wayside.
But it definitely had an impact on both pop culture and the scientific community.
So, Mark, I'm looking at, I found those studies, the essential oils and their constituents.
They're like isomeric bisabolines in oil of, well, that's just obviously some extraction
buffer, but Santalene, gamma Santalene and gamma bisaboline.
Yeah.
Which, you know, makes me think, I mean, the boys at SC Labs have this thing they call
the swag flag.
And typically when plants are high in bisaboline.
Right.
Right.
Those oxidized terpenes that are the swag flag.
Yeah, I love that.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's interesting because, again, I think if you see this in the Malberg work a lot
and you see it in other prohibition era research where they're relying on confiscated
cannabis, right?
So sometimes you go to the materials and methods section of these papers, it'll say where
they actually got the material from.
And I think, yeah, Malberg relied, I think, a lot on confiscated cannabis.
And he's at the University of Indiana, which I don't know about you guys, but that's like
one of the most cannabis unfriendly states.
You could pull over by a state boy after smoking a joint.
You might go to jail in that state.
But truth be told, I mean, it's really interesting because a lot of the research, even like El
Soli's research.
So I mean, El Soli has published an awful lot on all these compounds that are formed
on moldy cannabis, right?
So if you look at, I think he had a phytochemistry paper, I want to say like about eight or nine
years ago.
Can't remember, but it was all these hydroxylated cannabinoids, right?
And so he, and again, the way that it was presented in the paper is that he's discovered
these new cannabinoids.
But I think what he discovered is what the cannabinoid biome looks like on moldy weed,
right?
Because basically it's the hallmark of bacterial oxidation is you form, well, you end up forming
things like ketones and aldehydes and carboxylic acids, all trying to convert this hydrocarbon
into some kind of carbon fuel or carbon food that they can actually live on.
And so those are the same type of oxidation reactions that happen with the P450 type enzymes
in the liver, right?
So they go after allylic positions and whatnot.
So if you look at like El Soli's paper, he'll publish just this myriad of compounds that
they get out of the cannabis down there.
But I don't think that those are widespread and they're not made by the cannabis plant.
I mean, they're all, basically you could see the cannabinoid it used to be before it
was metabolically oxidized by some fungus or bacteria that lived on those plants.
So, and I'm not, I don't mean to be, you know, throwing any water.
That's still good chemistry.
It's still good to know what happens when fungus and mold inhabits weed because you're
going to get hits in your potency because now those cannabinoids are going to be transformed
into these hydroxylated compounds.
And that's interesting, right?
Because I think if you look at the CB1 affinity for 11-hydroxy, it beats THC itself.
So it's more potent than THC as a binder to CB1.
So I don't know, maybe some of these mold derivatives are actually interesting.
New cannabinoid therapeutic targets, but they're not ones that are made by the plant intentionally.
They're made by plant material that's not harvested and properly cured or properly kept
in a sanitized environment.
So they basically have fouled this cannabis and now they believe that the University of
Mississippi, that they've discovered all these new cannabinoids.
I think all they've discovered is what happens to cannabis when mold infests it.
Oh, come on, Mark.
There might be some medical benefit to those.
Paid for by Nobel Rochers.
You know, I think it's a fair commentary.
I mean, I don't know if you know Mark or Arno has a cat, Mark.
Yeah, I do.
I know Arno.
Yeah, so Arno's an interesting cat.
So but when he did his thesis in Holland, when we were talking, I think kind of 2006,
2007, maybe when he started, and he started coming in and they wanted to look at cannabis.
That was his project.
He was in Holland and they were looking at a medical cannabis program.
And so the Dutch government put some money in for him to do some research.
And he started looking at all the chemistry and what he realized was that even the standards
that he could buy for cannabis for THC and CBD, they weren't properly.
Quantified, right, like what came as like a 90, you know, 99 percent mix really wasn't right.
And so every measurement that he made, assuming that it was what it was advertised to be,
was essentially, you know, off like his calibration was completely screwed up.
And he essentially took on the understanding that, like, everything that had been done,
all the research that had been done in cannabis were interesting, like
like facto heads or kind of like directions for future research, but definitely don't take
anything that had been done in cannabis as fact and certainly do go in and look at things like.
You know where the plant material came from, for example, right, like
me, this one kid come from Australia and he presented I was at my CRS conference,
which is the International Cannabis Research Society. And this kid showed up and he was doing
his grad program or whatever, might even have been an undergrad program. And he got up and
gave a great presentation showing that terpenes could be essentially correlated from the potency
of cannabis, you know, not only potency of cannabis, but like THC specifically.
And I knew because of the work that we were doing at the time that that just absolutely wasn't the
case. Right. And we had control of all of our samples and the origin of the grow and how they
were grown and the genetics and when they would go to the lab. So we controlled every factor
where they only had the lab and they were getting samples given to them by the National Police
Force. So by definition, they're subject to whatever samples they're getting. Right. And so
their conclusions are already flawed because it's like essentially you can say, you know,
rather than looking at cannabis, you can say, OK, looking at like Australian police samples,
these are the conclusions that we were able to make. Right. But that really doesn't tell you
squat about like the species as a whole. Anyway, yeah. When you read these studies, keep in mind
and always go to like the materials and methods and see how do they grow the plants? Where did
they come from? What time of year were the plants grown? How are they harvested? You know, because
a lot of the practices that are done in these scientific research laboratories are nothing like
the way that we cultivate cannabis for recreational or medicinal production.
So well, these are really like they're not. Yes. Well, they're interesting tidbits. They're not
like, you know, it's not dogma. Sorry, Mark. I was just going to make a general statement that for
the most part, several of the several of the components found in cannabis, including delta
9-THC are metastable. They're not, you know, they could be stable in the flower and they could be
stable in an extract. But when you get them in a highly purified form, they tend to not be stable
for reasons I can't. I can't fully explain. So so what I'm saying is that you could see
little to no degradation in a THC enriched distillate or extract that's, you know, anywhere
between 85 to 95 percent. THCA is an anomaly there because because it's a crystalline solid,
you can crystallize out THCA and that is probably infinitely stable if held at the right temperature,
i.e. in the freezer and in the dark and under nitrogen and in a moisture free environment.
You could probably save THCA crystals for millennia. I don't think, you know, it's just
like it's a salt and salts form a stable crystalline lattice structure, which is a low energy structure.
And yeah, once you get THCA as a crystalline compound, it's pretty stable. But what I'm
finding in some of my work is that when we go to isolate cannabinoids from cannabinoid enriched
extracts and try to get them like ninety nine point nine nine percent pure, getting that last
little bit of purity out from, say, like ninety six percent and up is really a challenge because
there's some type of oxidation degradation product that's in some of these cannabinoids that
I think it's it could be the quinone. But I think I found a very unusual result in the lab last week,
which is that when I leave them out exposed to air, they typically go from a yellow color after
chromatography. They're kind of like light yellow, very, very pale yellow in color. And then on
standing overnight, they turn like a rosy pink color. Very, very odd. You know, I'm like, oh,
shit, it must be degrading with oxygen in the air to make the quinone. That sucks. I don't want to
degrade my stuff into a quinone. But when I run the NMR, I don't see any impurity in the NMR.
And very peculiar, I took the material up and I heated up in a heating mantle and put it under
high vacuum and the color went away. It returned back to the golden yellow that it was. So that
tells me that it's forming some type of reversible complex with the oxygen in air. And I don't
understand that chemistry at all. And I've only observed the phenomena a few times, but it is
really fascinating to think about, you know, what could be going on there. I don't know, Mike, any
clues? Have you ever seen that before? With a very, very pure cannabinoid. Yeah, I call it the
red ring of death. Happens CBD and THC. So you have to put a nitrogen blanket on top of distillate
jars. Yeah. So red ring of death, I think, is pretty well documented that that is the quinone.
And that formation of that quinone, I don't think is a reversible reaction. I think once you
once you degrade the cannabinoid to its quinone, I think that's a one-way trip, man. I don't think
you can go back. So whatever this phenomena is, again, this and it's the only data that I have
because I did run an NMR while it was in its yellow and while it was in its pink stage and I don't see
any difference in the NMR whatsoever. So there is some type of reversible complex that it makes with
air that can just be vacuumed away. So I just found that is a very interesting anomaly, but
try to figure out what it is. Could it be hydrogen bonding from the moisture in the air?
I have no idea, man. I have no idea. I mean, the pink color, see, I thought pink was going to
purple. I thought, oh, okay, I must be making quinone. And I know I could run a UV spectrum,
a UV-Vis spectrum and start to see that maximum grow at longer wavelength. I forget exactly where
it is, but it's somewhere out there, like at 325 or something like that. And you start seeing a
lambda max out there. And I know for a fact that you can make basically CBD hydroxyquinone. And
when you see CBD products out there, so like lotions and liquids, balms, belly jellies,
whatever, you know, when you see stuff turning pink, you got to wonder if the CBD that they put
in there isn't going off to CBD hydroxyquinone. And a little bit of that hydroxyquinone goes a
long way to make a lot of color because it's really intensely purple. So maybe just a little
bit of it happens, who knows. Yeah, it's interesting that you found it reversible,
especially when you're exposing it to heat. I would expect heat to increase the rate of that
reaction. But you said you put it back on a mantle, pulled it back and exposed it to heat?
Yeah, yeah. I mean, I was like... So you're pulling the air out of it, eh? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Actually, I have a manifold that I can flush with nitrogen. In this particular case,
I didn't flush it with nitrogen. I just left it exposed to air. And so it turned pink just on
standing over the weekend. And when I got in on Monday, I was like, oh shit, that stuff turned
pink. That shouldn't be pink. So I put a heating mantle on it, heated it back up, and as soon as
it got up to temperature, it turned yellow again. And there was no sign of any pink color whatsoever.
Distillation temps or just...? No, not even distillation temps. I was thinking about
distilling. 60 centigrade? I was just trying to get rid of the last little bit of residual solvent
in there. So I figured, well, let me put on a heating mantle and see if I can just strip the
last little bit of solvent off. And that's when I noticed that what was pink went back to yellow.
What temperature did you heat it to? 60 centigrade or 100 plus centigrade?
I don't know. Just put it in the heating mantle and turned it on to like 40 or 50.
It was hot to the touch. So yeah, it wasn't at distillation temperatures, but it was hot.
Was it hot enough to boil off the water?
Yeah, I wasn't clear when I'm boiling here. There wasn't any water present.
Yeah, because it would have been post-como. This isn't a water-based process.
Yeah. And it was sealed overnight with your Schlink?
No, I don't think it was sealed. I think it just basically saw air over the weekend. So I usually
flush my back ballast with nitrogen and then just let it sit with nitrogen over the weekend. But no,
I just opened it up to air and then just turn off the lights on the lab and went home.
Yeah, that's interesting. I think it might be either the presence of air or presence of oxygen
in that air. My only guess might be that if there's moisture in the air, you might have
some trace hydroxyl group breaking off. But there's no real mechanism I can think of.
Yeah, I don't know. I'm baffled by it. I mean, I went and looked at the NMR and expected to see
this thing all degraded and it wasn't degraded at all. So whatever that color is, it's just a
little bit of trace amount of compound. And I think I know, again, if it is the beam reaction,
maybe what it shows is that my compound is sensitive to basic conditions enough that
I have to look at the pH and make sure I don't get too high a swinging pH. And maybe a high
swinging pH makes a little bit of quinone and a little bit of quinone colors a lot of material.
I just can't explain the whole reversibility of it. That just doesn't make any sense to me at all.
But maybe it forms some type of...
Yeah, whatever is creating that optical reflection, it's got to be capable of being
back out.
I had the courage enough to actually reach out to Meshulam himself and ask about this phenomena,
because I figured, well, if there's anyone who knows about this, maybe it's Rafi, right? You
would probably know, right? So I reached out to him. I don't have his email. I do actually have
his email address now that I think of it, but I just reached out.
This ros color oil turning yellow, then turning... Yeah, and what I didn't tell you, Mike, is that
I could take the yellow oil, I can put it back under vacuum and it turned yellow. So whatever it
is, it's a true... I reached out to Rafi just by LinkedIn, and I didn't even expect to get a
response because I figured out he gets probably a million. But actually he got back to me.
He didn't answer the question at all. He just said something like, oh, it's your column,
try a different column or something like that. Or he just threw a softball answer over the fence.
It wasn't what I was looking for or anything. I expected, oh yes, we've seen this before,
and this is how you keep this from happening. But no, I guess this is a new phenomenon to him
too as well. But I didn't exactly elaborate on all the chemistry I was working on or else
that would have been a much more involved discussion with him. But no, it's cool when you
open up your inbox and you see that you have a message waiting for Rafi Al-Mashoula.
He is the godfather of cannabis research, really. I mean, and whether he found it first or not,
he is definitely the person that globally people look up to in terms of cannabis knowledge. And
the findings that have come out of his lab, not only on whatever chemical structure and all that
kind of stuff, but even like you said, the discovery and the cloning of the receptors
and the ligands that bind to that receptor, he's the top of the deal. And he definitely deserves a
lifetime achievement award for what he's done. He may actually even receive the Nobel Prize for it,
right? Which I think is probably like, that's not an exaggeration or not hyperbolic.
I think he could win the Nobel Prize in Medicine for the discovery of the endocannabinoid
system and probably share that prize with Alan Hallett and
well, William Devane passed away though, didn't he? So I wouldn't share that with him. So yeah,
probably just with Alan Hallett and maybe Roger, right?
Yeah, maybe. I still think that they would lean toward Mr. Hallett.
Alan Hallett definitely played a role, but I think that Mr. Hallett's role is a little more
overarching. I think the beautiful thing is that, I mean, now, I don't know if you're aware of this,
Ryan, but in some states, they're giving out research licenses. I know they tried to do this
here in Pennsylvania and it kind of failed miserably. But in certain states, they're
giving out research licenses for groups to do fundamental research. And it's interesting to
think that, again, fundamental research can actually be done outside of the Schedule I,
University of Mississippi, DEA, NIDA monopoly, right? So hopefully, I know that like Sue Sisley
wanted to do studies for PTSD and didn't want the University of Mississippi Cannabis, but wanted
local cannabis that the local veterans that she was looking to study consume. I mean, it doesn't
make sense to get this moldy US government-grown weed when they can get really dank butt at their
local dispensary, right? So I think that there's just enough to challenge. So when states give out
these research licenses, that there's enough now to challenge the government system and maybe there
can be more research, more bonafide research that is outside the auspices of the federal government
until the federal government catches up with the state governments and ends prohibition.
Yeah. There's definitely work happening at different state levels, and it's interesting
to see how the research is expanding. It's weird. It seemed like there was a small period
early on. I know Steep Hill was doing research with different,
UC Boulder and Steep Hill seemed to have a relationship together,
but it also seems kind of like what Chimera was, or Ryan was saying.
There's been a bifurcation where it's almost as if most universities are having to go into that
DEA, NIH, NIDA world and being cut off from more of the medical sources, even though there's an
opening up or an increased emphasis on research that's being promulgated through the federal
government. Unfortunately, it seems like it's still within that framework. Those early studies,
they were interesting in terms of the cross-community research. I guess a recent
example of that would be the Thial paper that showed, or Mario Guzman and Josh Del Rio were
co-authors on the paper. It's interesting to see some guys who have been growing cannabis for years
providing samples that were used in a study that has now garnered them academic authorship.
It's highly unusual to get authorship over providing a sample like that. It's definitely
looking bizarre, but you know, whatever. I certainly don't care.
I think all those things are welcome contributions, but it is funny.
I think just to point out the work that is going on at Oregon, right? You guys all saw that paper
on CBDA and CBGA and the spike protein of COVID. Then there was the work done also at Oregon State
by Professor Robert Strongin on some of the degradation products on vaping.
There's one school in a state where, yeah, cannabis is totally legal. In fact, aren't all drugs
legal in Oregon? I think all drugs are legal, right?
Be criminalized.
Yeah. Why is there a barrier to do research on something that, yeah, okay, granted is federally
illegal and granted that the federal government gives a lot of renewable funding to these
universities in the form of NIH grants and NSF grants and petroleum research fund grants?
And Department of Energy grants. All of these are basically our tax dollars funneled to
researchers to better the understanding of science for society and to make America a better country.
With all those things in mind, again, why can't there be research at the university level
when this product is completely free, well, not free, but completely available
to consume in the state?
Which is a federal funding issue. That's the number one. You just cited that. That's the issue.
It's just across the board.
Yeah. I guess the point that we were talking about, and so what I was trying to say is that
a couple of states around that very funding issue that you're speaking of
have instituted research programs within the state. I know Colorado is one. I believe that
Colorado basically put together a couple of research programs between the University of
Colorado and Colorado State and Fort Collins with local businesses around genetics, around
cultivation. I think there was a program that was around pesticides and what testing can be done
on pesticides that are allowed. I think there are states that are trying to do something here.
I guess the real disappointing thing is that, again, we're the people who pay our tax dollars
to the federal government. The federal government not giving out research grants to do
important research that can enable just leaps and bounds of new understanding of what
cannabis can or can't do or what the issues are. I just had a recent inquiry on someone who wants
to learn cannabis extraction. Can you tell me what university do I go to to learn how to be a
cannabis extractor? It's a shame that we don't have more academic grassroots efforts to basically
do research and just thumb their nose up to the federal government and say,
you know, we can get private or institutional funding to do this research. We don't need
government tax dollars because this is very important research and it needs to be done.
Well, Mark, I think we're already there. I mean, the universities are allowing privately funded
research. I self-funded a hemp fiber board research study at WSU's at one of Weyerhaeuser's labs.
You know, even the OSU studies, you know, they're primarily looking at derivatives of hemp
because hemp was technically legalized under Farm Bill. But, you know, the majority of the
research in the THC space are privately funded through private collaborations with universities
and private companies, just because the universities don't want to submit those
applications and put their other federal funding. That's at least what I've heard from Oregon and
Colorado universities. I think, you know, now that it has opened up here in Canada with federal
legalization, there are several universities that are interested. There's a few that are
starting to make those moves to start doing some of that research, but I haven't seen any
large scale grants issued yet. But I think the same thing is going to happen with cannabis.
Most of the publicly funded institutions are only going to allow publicly funded research that
complies with federal law, unless if you happen to be self-funding a private study. So, you know,
most of those self-funded private studies aren't going into the public domain. At least the ones
that I've done at MSOs haven't been publicly published. Yeah. I mean, there's a fair amount
of work going on in Colorado right now. I mean, I'm not going to Google it right now, but I can
tell you that there's a couple of hospitals in the Denver area that are specifically looking at
PTSD. I'm sorry? Yeah, I know Sue was working with the Denver Veterans Administration.
Yeah, there's a couple. I think you, Denver.
This is targeted towards pediatric disorder, and I want to say that they've actually taken up
on, you know, something that we know is going to work, which is
sub-psychoactive doses of THC to control nausea in pediatric chemotherapy patients.
For some reason, I have that stuck in the back of my mind, and I think I saw that in an email,
Barry, and I'd have to go back and look and find out exactly where that work is being done. But I
think it might be privately funded, but I think it's going on at a hospital in Denver.
Some other, I guess, more exciting stuff, again, in this whole psychedelic
renaissance that's happening now, and maybe, again, psychedelics will help because it appears as though
somehow psychedelics got ahead of cannabinoids for treating many different psychiatric disorders,
including PTSD, including depression, and I think that's a really interesting thing.
Including depression and other behavioral things, but you would think that, again,
going into that, researchers would want to look at how the endocannabinoid system and maintenance
of endocannabinoid tone can really help with some of those psychiatric-type disorders.
The last thing I just wanted to say, because I know that Evian, I know you had something to say,
and I cut you off before, and I feel bad, but now I forgot what I was going to say. Oh, I know what
I was going to say. Oh, so y'all know, I know him from Clubhouse up here, the pot doc, Mike
Getsy, I think I'm saying his name right. So we are collaborating on a Delta-8 paper, and so on
this paper, we've looked at a lot of literature out there, and there's a ton of literature,
a ton of literature on THC, both Delta-9 and Delta-8, and we actually found the Rosenkranz
paper from 75 that talks about lethal doses of THC, and I didn't know that this was out there,
but basically there are two papers done by the same group. I think there's a government
connection to Trevor, to just get Trevor thinking about it, but certainly they were government
funded, but both of these studies show lethality in animal models, looking at administrations of
very extremely high doses of THC. They were looking for, were the LD50, and I believe
they did establish an LD50 in an experimentally validated study, and I was unaware of that.
I think I want to say, you know, I want to say it was in mice, and I'm not looking at the paper
right now, I'm just looking at my phone, but I'll run down on my computer and let everyone know.
I think it was in mice. I just wanted to look up Rosenkranz. There's two papers. There's one in 75,
and there's one in 73, and they basically looked at, one was the inhalation toxicity
of THC in mice, and the other was oral, where they were just giving, you know, just super large
amounts just orally, and looking at, you know, at what dose do the animals finally succumb to.
Okay, I just wanted to share that, because again, when I discover new shit in the literature like
that, like here's stuff that's, you know, almost older than me, right? This is from 73 and 75.
I was born in 62, but when I find, so I was always told you can't die from THC, you can't die. Well,
these animals certainly perished from THC intoxication, so I didn't realize that there was a
established LD50 in animal models for THC, so you learn something new every day.
If you smoke 15 kilos in 15 minutes, you might have a problem.
Yeah, I think in the inhalation studies, they did, mice ended up dying from oxygen deprivation,
more so than THC, but yeah, they hooked them up on a ventilator and pumped them full of pure smoke
for the equivalent of several hours, but I think when they determined it was the LD50, it was
something equivalent to, you know, 10, 20 kilos that had to be smoked in under, it was either
5 or 15 minutes. Oh, there we go. Yeah, thanks, Trevor. Yeah, this is a later one from 1981.
On monkeys? Yeah, looking at monkeys, and I'm not the best with all these numbers, but it says
monkeys received a single IV dose of CBD or CBCH as an aqueous emulsion, and LD50s were
212 and 270 milligrams per kilogram, respectively. The larger doses of CBD elicited tremors, convulsions,
hyponia, a whole bunch of different things, cardiac failure, survivors from smaller doses
recovered in one to three days, and liver weights decreased 19 to 142 percent. I mean, yeah, this is
just awful animal study. Then the lower, here's the hashish oil containing 11.6 or 31.1 percent
delta 9 THC caused muscle spasms, salvation, dyspnea, arrhythmia, and hypothermia.
But my quick back of the envelope math, that's roughly, I'm an 80 kilogram person,
200 milligrams per kilo, that's about 17,000 milligrams, so I'd have to eat 35,
somewhere between an ounce and 35 grams of extract in order to OD or LD?
Yeah, and so that's on CBD, and THC is actually way higher, surprisingly,
326 to 435 milligrams per kilogram. Yeah, now that's super, super, super high. You got to
remember that things like aspirin, I think, is 150. I think caffeine is like 200. So,
yes, so those numbers are super, super, super high.
I'm really proud of you guys for putting out this important safety data so that our viewers don't go
over the limit. I know a lot of us come close. On caffeine?
No, on THC. So everybody just remember, no more than 35,000 milligrams per 15 minutes.
It's only 35 grams. Don't eat an ounce of extract.
Well, and those aqueous emulsions, I mean, my gosh, that's got, I mean,
Yeah, there's probably more cutting agents going into the monkeys or mice than there is.
Well, yeah, I mean, like what's all that surfactant going to do? Like, what's the lethality
of the juice in the syringe minus the cannabinoid, right? Because if you're putting all that
surfactant in there to get all of that cannabinoid, I mean, that's a healthy dose of cannabinoid.
And as you know, it's not very water-soluble. So to make it water-soluble, you're adding a
whole lot of something else, right? And that whole lot of something else, what is it? It's
something that basically emulsifies fat. Well, you can't just universally take and eat or consume
fat emulsification molecules because it'll fuck up your membranes, right? I mean, it's just gonna,
you know, at some point it just becomes basically a detergent, right? That creates a micelle or some
type of structure to solubilize oil molecules, right? So basically you're using, you know,
detergent type molecules in these formulations, right? So, you know, I don't know. I was talking
about vaccines and the formulation that vaccines are contained within and not necessarily thinking
about the danger of all the other shit that's in there, not the mRNA, but, you know, anything else
that could be in there. Because I think that there is some adverse reactions to vaccines.
And I don't think it's to the mRNA. It's probably to the other shit in the cocktail.
That's just, you know, speculation on my part.
And I did pick, pull up the 1974 article or paper and it is in rats. So we have the
LD50 for both rhesus monkeys and rats and... Yeah, Trevor, just because you have them side by
side, how do they compare? Like, is the rat's number lower than the monkey number or are they higher?
Much higher, actually. So the...
That makes your penis.
They use rats for THC models in cannabis research because, like, they just don't respond the same
way. They're essentially fucking indestructible. Yeah, no, this is crazy.
Yeah, that's not a good comparison. Unfortunately, you can't just compare across
animals like that and then try to extrapolate the humans. It's a whole different ratio
of like liver and everything. It's just not...
Yeah, so the LD50 with the emulsion was 800 milligrams per kilogram with the sesame seed
oil or sesame oil formulation, it was 1270 milligrams per kilogram.
Right. So these things are pretty safe. That's pretty non-toxic at that dose.
I'm sure that that was a study where they were testing sesame. The sesame was a sesame oil-based
model. I'm sure that was...
Yeah, and they used tween 20, I think, which is a polysorbate emulsifier to emulsify that
sesame oil. But the thing is, if you... God. And again, there's... I mean, this is the problem
that's out there in the market right now with cannabis beverages, which is that the more
cannabinoid you try to put into water, it just... Especially like a 100 milligram cannabinoid drink
in like eight ounces, I mean, good luck. It's going to lose the potency to the sides of the
walls of the can and the container that that's in. And I don't think anyone has really solved
that problem because the can liner that's used in aluminum cans is a very hydrophobic material.
It's got a trivial name to it. It's slipping me at the moment, but it's a highly cross-linked
resin that's basically just a barrier between the acidic environment of some of these beverages
and the aluminum, which would corrode like there's no tomorrow if there wasn't a liner in there.
But those liners basically destabilize a lot of these cannabis cannabinoid-based emulsion systems.
And what you might think is a 100 milligram soda pop is only like a 40 milligram soda pop because
60 of the milligrams are sticking to the side of the wall of the opaque bottle that it comes in.
So I don't know that anybody has solved that problem. And it seems like the more powerful
the surfactant that they use in that emulsification system, the more bitter
taste you get. Now there's a product out there called Bitter Block, which supposedly is a
low-taste emulsifier that works well with cannabinoids. I just haven't used it yet.
But I still have not tasted a high-potency cannabis beverage that tastes very good without
putting a lot of sugar, sour, or carbonation into it to kind of mask the bitterness flavor
of the emulsifier that's keeping that cannabinoid in water.
Are those emulsifiers become more or less soluble at various pHs?
Say that again?
Would those emulsions have a longer shelf stability at say a higher or lower pH?
Yeah. So there's two types of emulsification agents. There's ionic and non-ionic. So you're
talking about ionic ones that are going to have different properties at different
pH. Your ionic or non-ionic surfactant, well, I think tween 20 is non-ionic, but I think there
are ionic versions of that. It's basically just a polymer of sugar, right? And it's something that
basically can disperse oil in water. And, you know, again, the most common example of this is
milk, right? Milk is emulsified fat in water. And you can't see through milk because the emulsified
particles scatter light, right? So I don't know if that answers your question, Mike. I mean,
I know that there's non-ionic and ionic ones, and there's things where you could basically
change the pH and what is like a flowing liquid turns into basically like a cottage cheese
at the wrong pH. And you could also see noticeable color differences too,
because those groups are sometimes, they start making colored species as well.
But most, so like if you're using off the shelf stuff like something like polysorbate 80 or
polysorbate 20, I mean, those are out there. Those are synthetic materials. But you could also use
natural materials like lecithins, right? Lecithins are phospholipid type compounds which are isolated
from natural sources which act as fat emulsifiers. So, but there are some pretty elegant solutions
for making water soluble formulations out there. The real question is, is A, how do they taste?
And B, what's their shelf life? You know, those are just two incredibly hard challenges with
cannabinoids because cannabinoids just don't like being in water.
Yeah. Hopefully we can up the dosage in some of these regulated markets because
at least in Canada has a max 10 milligram potency and that's a fourth of the effective
dose for many of the patients. Fourth to 10th of the effective dose. So yeah, I think there's some
potential. There's obviously with, there's ways we can certainly fill milk with a variety of
different densities of fats. So there should be ways that we can, I've seen up to 35 milligrams
per ml load rate, but most people are keeping it at about 20 milligrams per ml.
I've seen some pretty concentrated drinks, Mike. I saw this one, it was a ginger ale tasting
beverage. It was definitely carbonated and definitely sugared up and it was a hundred
milligrams in, I want to say eight ounces. I think it was eight ounces and it definitely was,
you could, you could taste the cannabinoid. I mean, you'd be like, whoa. I mean, it's like,
yeah, not like taking a dab hit or anything like that. It was just like very interesting
administrative route to consume high potency cannabinoids is through a beverage.
Cause you also have all the other sensations of the beverage, right? It's, it's, it's got the
effervescence because it's carbonated. So you're getting that carbonated punch. You're getting a
whole rush of sugar because they got to put enough sugar in there because at a hundred milligrams,
that stuff is just going to taste like, you know, whatever, you know, it's just going to taste
really bitter. I think. And cannabinoids themselves, I think have little, little to no
taste. I mean, I've tasted low dose cannabinoids in kind of like seltzer formulations and they
really don't have much of a flavor at all. At least CBD, everyone's like, oh, CBD tastes like
cherry. I think that's only when you, when you, when you vaporize it, right? It's not, CBD has
almost like a, when you, when you consume it orally has more of a, I'll say like a Listerine
flavor, at least to me, it has tastes like CBD isolate. It tastes very medicinal. I don't really,
it doesn't really have much of a flavor at all. And THC to me has hardly no flavor at all.
What do you think gives the burns when you get it on your tongue? Like you, like your fingers,
you've been holding fresh plants or even I associate it with the same compound that may not
be, but you also get like, you never want to like rub your eyes when you've been working.
Yeah. I mean, I think that that might have to do with the volatile mix of those,
those thiols are, could be irritant compounds. Certainly. I mean, some of the, some of the more
volatile compounds, Ryan, probably not even terpenes, you know, like, you know, like those,
those thiols in particular. But I would think again, you know, if you look at it, so
if you look at, if you're just looking at the cannabinoid themselves, cannabinoids may not
be the problem at all. It might be all the other fragrant components in there that are really,
that people are reacting to or being sensitive towards.
So I posted a picture of that JC trace from the article you sent on my Instagram.
It's interesting. I mean, it's a leaf sample. So obviously it's, you know, it's a little bit
biased, but the, the four predominant terps, or at least the ones that are labeled are
Imoline, Pteryxolone, Lavinine, and Uricine. So it's like really not that much different from
today's favorite cultivars, right? Well, they, they got it into the literature. I mean,
you got to at least applaud them for it, right? It's like, Hey, cannabis is a fragrant
herb. Here's what gas chromatography does to it.
It's right. It would be interesting. So do you know these researchers at all? It'd be interesting
to see where, what happened to them and where their career, what, what their careers were
before and after this paper? Yeah. I mean, I don't know. It's 1965. It's really like 55 years ago.
They may not even be alive.
Well, you can just, you can Google them and, or just look them up on SciFinder or something and
see what kind of other papers they publish. Maybe they were just analytical guys and they
just stumbled into this thing or, you know, who knows? Probably. I mean, there was a lot of,
there was a lot of trying to figure out what cannabis was back then. I mean, remember back
then, you know, if you think of the context of the time, they didn't even know what TAC was,
right? So the general theory at that point in time, or at least I don't even know what was
that point in time, but until much later, like, you know, who Gabriel Nahas was, he used to be
involved with NIDA. And anyway, he essentially thought the cannabis acted by fluidizing the
lipid membranes of cells. And like, you know, so they, they had no, and he was the head of NIDA,
right? So, or he was way up there in, in like the anti-drug thing, but I think he was on,
he was a research scientist. And so their understanding of how cannabis worked in the
body was like just a shot in the dark. Yes. They knew nothing. Right. And so I think in the context
of that, like, and also remember it's like, you know, it was becoming a problem drug by,
used by the hippies. Like it wasn't even 19 fucking like Woodstock hadn't even happened.
So Ryan, where's Eastview, Ontario.
So it says source wild growth, Eastview, Ontario.
I'm looking at that right now. I think it's probably near Ottawa, but it's,
oh no, it's kind of near Kingston. It's like, think of like where,
you know, kind of like the Northeast corner of Lake Ontario.
So is that a, is that a herb growing area or.
No, it's like cottage country, you know, it's like a thousand islands kind of thinking of it. I don't
know if you've heard of a thousand islands when it's near there. It's not really.
Yeah, I think they grow good weed up there, don't they?
You can, yeah, for sure. You can. I mean, it's like you got till mid-September,
maybe the end of October, end of September, early October in the right season, it gets pretty wet.
It's like Northern, it's more North than most of Vermont, right?
Kind of North of like Syracuse, New York kind of area.
Yeah, but it falls in the St. Lawrence watershed, right? So there were going to be,
you know, dating back into history, there was, you know, prior to anybody being interested in
the oils, hemp was commonly grown in the colonies as a, you know, cordage and tonnage. So I'm
assuming here, but it's likely, you know, what was once cultivated for hemp fiber that then became
a feral, whatever, local land race.
Yeah, I don't know. We haven't really had many local land races up here.
It could just as well have been grown wheat. I mean, it was becoming, you know,
60s, people were planting seeds back then, but who knows? I didn't actually look into the
materials that deep.
Yeah, totally.
Well, obviously these guys had some kind of funding of some sort to do this work way back
when. Do you think they actually had Canadian government funding?
Yeah, I mean, it's in Ottawa too. So it's like Ottawa was kind of, we've got the facility in
Ottawa, which is where our small work and it's kind of, it's called the experimental farm.
And, you know, back when they were kind of like, you know, really figuring out colonizing Canada,
kind of again, like think like, you know, around Confederation 1867, 1870s. And just after that,
you know, when you're going to take over a country, you're like, okay, what trees work here?
What crops work here? And they had this big place in Ottawa called the experimental farm,
where they do all this research. It's more or less in the middle of the city now,
but it used to be on the edge of the city. And it's like, they grow tons of different,
like there's a huge Arboretum there where they brought, you know, trees from all over the world.
You think a paper like this in the early 60s, Ryan, would have gotten all kinds of people
interested in cannabis saying, wow, look at these compounds that are in there.
Wow, these are terpenes that are in all other kinds of things. Try to figure this thing out.
This is 10 years before the Controlled Dangerous Substance Act, right?
Ryan Neuhofel So think about this, Mark,
like literally at this experimental farm, like that study was 65. So 67 to call it early 72,
Ernest Small grew like 300 or something excessions of cannabis from all over the world.
And it was essentially people from all over the world, you know, have researchers from all over
the world, said cannabis samples. And I think even like the University of Mississippi said samples.
Because they were doing some collaboration. And anyway, Ernest Small was also, obviously,
as you said earlier, you know, he was testifying in these court cases. But the reason he was
testifying in these court cases was because he was the expert that collected all this diverse
cannabis from all over the world to grow in the experimental farm in Ottawa. Right? Well,
the experimental farm in Ottawa, like I said before, it's like north of fucking,
you know, it's north of Vermont. So it's pretty, pretty cold, pretty early winters,
like comparatively. So if you're growing like seeds from Jamaica and Mexico and Colombia,
you know, Thailand, all these places from all over the world, they're not going to mature,
they're probably not even going to flower. Right. And he also one thing that Rob pointed out, Rob
Clark pointed out is he had no Afghanica, they had no actual true, you know, air quote indica
variety that they were growing in there. So their sample set was flawed. But they grew all this
stuff and did chemical analysis on it, not looking at terpenoids, really just looking cannabinoids.
But again, even the cannabinoids were based on a lot of these plants were non flowering material.
So these plants never even got really a chance to express their cannabinoid profile, right?
So a lot of the old characterization that was done in categorizing cannabis was like,
not only was it a missing data set because there was no Afghanica, but it was also
done on mostly vegetative plant material, which and remember that Ernest Small was the guy
that essentially drew this point three percent line in the sand of like the difference between
drug cannabis, non drug cannabis, and that that is really what has gone on to inform
regulation all over the world, right? Like it's fucking bizarre, but that's just part of
prohibition. We have topic here, Trevor, dude, you can save us. Can you bring us back?
Well, no, I was just going to follow up and mention that it is pretty amusing that most of
the science of cannabis is based off of the Canadian study where, yeah, most of the samples
weren't even flowerable. And if you go back, we talked about this pretty in depth in a previous
episode on chemotypes. But Ernest Small's work has really impacted a lot of the understanding
of cannabis for better and for worse. Like he's done good work and I understand why people
like his particular approach to the taxonomy of cannabis. It's very clean and neat. So if you want
to just have a simple, it's all one species and not different subspecies or excuse me,
taxonomy, if you get into it, it's kind of silly when you go and break it down on the
the epistemological foundations, you can go back and read Linnaeus and look at the
history of this sort of approach to categorizing the natural world. And it's something we've kind
of been saddled with from the 17th century to the present and for better and for worse. But
Ernest Small is somebody who in the field of cannabis has done a lot of the work in taxonomy.
And there are some other people. John McPartland over at the University of Vermont has worked with
Small and some other researchers. I think also Jeffrey Guy and him co-authored a paper. I believe
Jeffrey Guy is associated with GW Pharmaceuticals. I could be wrong about that. Jeffrey Guy founded
GW Pharmaceuticals. He's one of the founders. He's the G in GW. Yeah. Do you know who the W is?
That one always catches everybody. But he always gets published on those papers. John McPartland
co-published a bunch of papers with Jeffrey Guy as well. But Guy did jack shit. I mean, he's not
part of those papers other than the funding. So it's another one of those weird examples of
someone's name in a paper that they really had nothing to do with. Jeffrey Guy is not a scientist.
He's the one that had the idea to develop a pharmaceutical company using cannabis products.
And he came from like they had like a slow release opioid drug or something like that. That was where
he made his money before he got into cannabis. So he's like a pharma stock company building bro.
He's not a researcher. He's full of jazz now, right? No, I understand that he's actually quite sick.
I don't even know how the condition is, but I know a bunch of years ago he was quite sick and was
stepping back from GW Pharma and had nothing to do with the company. His wife holds all the shares.
So which makes sense. Obviously, they put it in her name so that if he ever has any legal trouble,
you know, the funds are isolated. Yeah, I don't think from my last conversation with him, I don't
think John's doing anything with them anymore, neither. So I think he's completely separated
like like our friend Sam, right? Yeah, I mean, again, they pay John,
I think just to be keeping John was a full time employee there. Right. He was like a part time
employee. He still runs with the. Yeah, he was a consultant who was on retainer. Yeah.
Yeah. But it was really on retainer, I think, to be investigating these more like.
I could be wrong on this, but my impersonate my my impression of it was that he was more.
Doing like research of interest that could be marketing materials for GW, right, like
to create this image that they were doing this other type of work, right, that was really
investigating the plant. Whereas, I mean, the reality is they're a pharma company, right?
So all that extra shit is really like. I'm not calling Johnsburg flop because it's not flop at
all, but it's really like kind of extraneous to their business model, right? It's more,
in my opinion, for marketing and position than than anything related to their core business.
And I'm in my five year plan. I think I shared this with you, right? I'm sure with everyone
else. My five year plan is to move to Vermont in particular, so I can work with John.
It's like, yeah, he doesn't leave. He's he's busy with his practice now and he sees lots of
covid patients, so he's not doing too much too much in Canada. No, they're swamped with covid.
John is such a nice guy. He's super, super nice guy. Yeah, he's super smart. And he's like,
really, he's like, I think he's the why the most widely published cannabis related author,
like publishing or that has published. I mean, he's published on everything from like
identifying new pests, new molds and bacteria and bacteria. Ancient remains.
Right. Ancient remains to like, can cannabis like seed pass through the human digestive tract like
and all this and genomic barcoding like he really has touched on all these different topics.
Pollen study, you know, pollen studies. He's huge into history and like,
you know, sorting out like cannabis evolution through depositions of pollen at certain times.
Right. And we're talking about like, you know, hundreds of thousands of years old sites that
they're they're looking into. So anyway, it was really interesting. He's like super interesting.
And John McPartland, if anyone is interesting, if you just look up McPartland cannabis, you'll find
a whole bunch of stuff. Yeah. Didn't he write that paper with Ethan? The sum of the parts was
not the title of that one. Yeah, that's a great paper. He's he's he's really like if you go to
the IRS and you know all there's all these people like including the Shulam, but then they publish
on all these different topics. And John is kind of published with most of them. Right. Like it's
he's really John. Like I said, when I say he's like the widest topic, cannabis related topic to
publish with, he really is the dude, you know. So, yeah, much, much love John McPartland.
I love those pollen studies. I just I want to say there are some really interesting stuff in there
because it's like such a rare thing that anybody's really looked into that deeply. And I remember
really enjoying just checking it out. It's super cool. If I could pull it up.
He also co-wrote what he actually wrote, but he co-published with Dave and Rob,
Hemp, Pests and Diseases. So if anybody has that big green hardcover book
called Hemp, Pests and Diseases, which is like, you know, essentially the bug book for cannabis or
one of the better ones, that's John McPartland as well.
Yeah, I'll let you know on a little piece of trivia, too. You remember our friend,
Chief Seven Turtles, right, Ryan from Hatch Church?
Yeah, Scott, of course. Yeah.
Yeah, Scott. So Scott and John were roommates.
That's right.
Oh, God. What a crazy life, right? When your roommate ends up being John and just,
you know, and Scott ended up being Scott. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, I mean, they were. Yeah. They've clearly got some common, honest roots with the
point. Well, they're both they're both brilliant individuals. And I was so lucky to know both of
them that, you know, I mean, it's just yeah, people who've inspired me, they fall into that
bucket of like the ten smartest people I've met in my entire life who like inspire you to be your
best, you know, when you're around them. Yeah. I got to point that out for Trevor.
Reciprocal recurrent selection.
Yep. That's immediately what popped into my.
Yeah, that Chiefs of Eternals, so that dude that wrote that article with John McFarlane.
Says the acoustic dude, he plays like acoustic music. He was like a one man acoustic guitar act
out in in nightclubs and he crushes it. I mean, he sings Billy Joel and Bruce Springsteen and
Peter Gabriel, like the artist. I mean, he's got an incredible voice. He's an incredibly talented
guy. Just one of those characters you meet in your life. You're like, holy shit, that motherfucking
guy. It's like, yeah, it's like what put him together, man. It's like, yeah. And so I can
imagine him and John as college roommates. Oh, my God. That would have just been crazy.
Yeah, no, that is quite the connection.
To have those two, it's a it's quite amusing, actually, because, you know,
anybody who knows that name knows that name from sort of the quote unquote gray literature
is that sometimes gets quoted in Oregon.
Since he or since since he tips right since many tips.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sense of me tips and his articles. If you look in
the hemp pest and disease guide, you'll see a bunch of references
in that work and in some others. And I believe ethno botany, cannabis and ethno botany by
Robert Clark, you'll see similar references to Chief Seven Turtles. And yeah, that's that's all.
John's work is really incredible. There's it's been mentioned the pollen studies.
One of those pollen studies is the Tibetan pollen study that essentially
came to the conclusion that cannabis, the place of origin for cannabis,
was in an area in Tibet twenty nine million years ago about. And that's when it diverged from
humulus or hops. And that if you read the materials and methods in that paper, it's really,
really interesting because there's these huge pollen data sets and they're
they're chronological, like basically archaeologists find fossilized pollen and
there's dating for this fossilized pollen and there's huge databases that exist for this
information. And he went through and developed a method that was specific for isolating and
identifying what would most likely be cannabis, because there's a couple of different kind of
hard to determine or differentiate fossilized pollen. But he came up with a method that it's
all laid out in the methods and materials section in the paper.
And it's very interesting for people who like to nerd out on this stuff. But
yeah, that's how they were able to identify different pollen sites across Central Asia
and that were associated with cannabis and date it back to 29 million years.
And they did another paper following up on it. I think it was in in Europe during the Copper Age
and kind of following cannabis and its evolution or like its development in
in Europe in I'm not sure exactly the date range the Copper Age is, but they did that study
the one that you mentioned about digestive tracts is very interesting because there are some
passages in there that they go into quite a bit of detail about how many seeds make it through the
human or the dog digestive tract. Well, yeah, like I mean, it's so weird. It's very atypical science.
But the guy that he co-published with that is a guy named Steve Noreen, who's a friend of ours
here in Ontario. And the incident that he was working in, they had like this artificial stomach
digester machine that somebody had designed to act like a stomach. Right. And so they put some
of the seeds through this. But John also did a an in vivo human study where he ate a bunch of
cannabis seeds and then proceeded to shit in his garden. Right. He's in a special
toilet that he developed that essentially deposits the seeds. And they were able to show
for sure that cannabis can pass through the human digestive system. And they showed it both in like,
you know, an experimental model with a fake stomach digester. And they showed it in people
by eating seeds, which is really like bizarre science. It's not normally the way that it's done.
But, you know, when you're asking the question, is cannabis passed through seeds and are humans
involved in, you know, is that the route that cannabis used to spread around the world?
You know, that's the only way to answer the question, right. Or at least to show that it can
be done. Yeah, I think that it helps answer the question of so some big dates in the origin and
dispersion dispersal of cannabis is are 29 million years ago in the Tibetan Plateau,
Central Asia, cannabis and hops diverge. Six million years ago, it makes it to
central basically the Eurasian steppe, Ukraine. Two million years ago, it makes it to Far East,
like North Korean peninsula. At least that's kind of rough outline from a number of different
papers, McPartlin. There's another paper by a group of Chinese authors. Well, there are two.
One was more recent, that's a little controversial. And I think it was Zhang or Zao was another paper
from 2018 that talked about that wrote on the origin of cannabis. But those dates.
Six million years ago, predates for cannabis to go from the Tibetan Plateau all the way to
the Central Asian steppe or excuse me, the Eurasian steppe in like Ukrainian area without,
you know, humans weren't around six million years ago to do that. So a human or excuse me,
some other mammal, which I think is kind of one of the implications from this bird is birds. And also
any like they really showed that a mammal could like I know that it was dogs and and humans that
they show and one of the differences that was kind of the point of the study, Mark, is just
that birds typically crack seeds, right? They don't eat them whole. And typically they don't
have seed does not pass through birds without being destroyed. Yeah, and this one showed like
in very precise detail how many like also the differences between a wider tooth set for humans
where you'll lose more when a human eats the seeds because there's more cracking, but still
some make it through and they germinate and there was also a control and that was also part of the
study that showed that the seedlings were more robust. The humanure seedlings. Yeah, they were
co-planted with a with a bio stimulant inoculant, right? Yeah, bizarre. Anyway, he's it. But John,
it sounds weird what we're talking about. But anyway, he's really interesting, dude.
And he's also published on he's come up with a different a couple of new classifications that
he thinks are sub types of cannabis unrelated to, you know, sativa, indica, afganica. I think
he's got a couple of types that he's published on as well. So it hasn't really taken off for
whatever reason, but it is out there. He's definitely published. Yeah. And you mentioned
the the hemp book or the the pest book, Hemp Pests and Diseases. That was also the book where I was
introduced to Lester Dewey. And so we're talking about some of the science of cannabis. One of the
first scientific cannabis plant breeders was Lester Dewey and the work that he did prior to
prohibition for the U.S. Department of Agriculture and kind of. Different time, different motivations
and goals. But he did work at the Arlington Experimental Farm, which was in Washington, D.C.
or on the outskirts in what is now the location of the Pentagon. And that book goes into details of
that. And I think it was Vera Charles as well, who was a pathogen and pest researcher who worked with
hemp and the two of them worked together in Arlington and they bred one of the first ever. I think it was
the name escapes me. It was an interesting kind of goofy name, like
conglomeration of Kentucky and China. But the variety that they produced of hemp was one of
the first F1 hybrids. And he he's associated with breeding trials. And there's some old pictures of
some grows in Nevada in the 1920s, I think, from his work. So anyway, there's there's some very good
old research information that's in that book. It's valuable for that reason. And then obviously for
all the practical applications with pest management.
Does anyone from the audience have any commentary or things they want to
chat or contribute? Jason came up here. Hey, Jason, how are you?
I'm doing well, Dr. Mark. Thank you very much. I'm back, actually. And that's why I
automatically popped into the top because I was up here earlier and came back to the conversation.
And it, you know, I guess in many ways, we kind of looped back to the beginning conversation. So
when we were starting and waiting for Peter to get going and get things off this evening,
we were talking about a lot of citizen science, so to speak, you know, talking about doing these
observations and experimentation, which is what science, you know, what science is really
observation and experimentation. And we do it as growers and cultivators and agriculturists and
whatever. We're constantly doing this, something we do all the time. And often, I think, really,
you know, what is it that separates a true scientific paper or true scientific research
from this citizen science to create these papers, to create this level of, I guess, trust or
value? And some of it is what you were mentioning, which has to do with having good control groups
for your experiments. But I don't, I think, you know, to your point, these guys were, you know,
curious about how much, whether those seeds would make it through human waste. And so they set up
something in their backyard, right? The difference being they had control groups and they are
quote unquote scientists. And so they wrote it up and they had all their numbers and their
statistics and everything else included. So that's what, listening to the conversation,
that's what came to me was that, you know, circling back to what we were starting with earlier,
I think, you know, we have been doing a lot of this science and experimentation for a long time,
but many of us never wrote anything down because it was very dangerous to do that.
And so now hopefully we'll have more people taking down more statistics and numbers and
things that can then be analyzed for research purposes. So that's my two cents. Good to see
you, Dr. Mark. Thanks for prompting. You bet. Yeah. I mean, I, there's not enough hours in the
day for all the literature that's out there and even in adjacent areas when you're looking at,
you know, all the advances in biotechnology today, just to understand, you know, like what's
going on in the world we live in, you know, with viruses and vaccinations, it forces you to
go back to understand the central paradigm of biology and structure and function.
And yeah, I mean, there's, I always have like about 10 or 11 papers on my computer desktop
that I'm reading at any one time. And I would just say that it's a great time to be in
cannabinoid science because there's just a plethora of research going on around the world.
There's a multitude of clinical trials going on right now. I think you can get a, I think it was
at clinicaltrials.gov and look at the list of clinical trials. You can just do a keyword
search on cannabinoids or CBD and see what's being done. You know, the FDA a year before last
published a list of here's what we, you folks who want to develop cannabis and cannabinoid
medicines, here's what we need to see at the FDA. And I think there's a lot of companies who are
looking at, you know, chipping away at that data set and trying to understand the safety of these
things and trying to be at least the best product stewards they can for this miraculous plant.
I will say that there was some interesting IP things. I don't know if you saw that last
study with like, you know, there's just like the intellectual property that you were talking
earlier, Dr. Mark, about the different research studies, specifically the CBDA one. And there's
definitely some pretty straightforward, you know, saying that like the actual research and the IP
belongs to the universities so that people need to do their due diligence when they're
utilizing that information to create products and other things, which I thought was a very
interesting, very like very public statement to make. And not surprising, but so just, you know,
curious if that's kind of the school of thought, if it's coming even out of the universities that
they own, like that IP, basically. No thoughts on that.
Well, I think they were careful, especially with this time, like I think, you know, Dr. Frey was
talking about it in the clubhouse room on Saturday, cannabis and the human body, that, you
know, a lot of noted people like herself and others. Jay Han, I think also was asked by Forbes
and Rolling Stone, oh, does this mean you could smoke weed and not get COVID or if you have COVID
smoke weed to get yourself healthy again? And yeah, just a lot of misconceptions, you know,
so like you point out, you know, intellectual property is very important, especially if it's
generated in the universities, because most of those universities today will have some type of
tech transfer department whose job it is to monetize the research discoveries at that
university to help pay for overhead and costs and more research and bigger football stadiums and
things like that. It's really nice when, yeah, again, like there could be a discovery like this,
like here's CBDA, right? And so I think there are a lot of CBDA products out there.
And here's research done that's published in the public domain that basically says that
here's not a proprietary medicine only available for high dollar costs from Pfizer
at the drugstore. No, here's CBDA, right? And CBGA, which are components of hemp that are out there
in consumable products today. Thank you to the Farm Bill. And that, you know, yeah, do these
studies, you know, basically say that if you take these extracts or have these types of molecules
in your diet that you're not going to get COVID? No. But all it points to is the pharmacology that
these compounds bind to the spike protein, which is very important for binding and ultimately
transmission of the virus to humans. So it's a worthwhile site for more research to understand,
is there a therapeutic efficacy in treatment or is there a therapeutic efficacy in just having,
you know, again, these cannabinoids in your diet such that you have a basal amount of them in your
body and that you can fight off the virus that way? I don't know. I mean, both of those are
very intriguing notions, but I think the only thing that this paper from Oregon State does and
the other papers really just scratches the surface on the pharmacology of what we know about what
these compounds could potentially do. I don't think there's a therapeutic useful result from
the paper that basically says that you could fight COVID by smoking cannabis or by smoking hemp or
taking a CBDA tincture. I think it's just waking people up to the fact that the acidic forms
have value. And I think also just like the way you were speaking about Raphael Michelin's work,
and I think, you know, about three years ago, the breakthroughs they had with stabilizing
the acid forms with the methyl esters was like a huge deal three years ago. And I think that was
like the race to create these synthetic compounds that could be patented. So, you know, it's all,
it's all fascinating, really, when you look at it. I think that was like this last big buyout with
Pfizer and I forget the name of the other company, but it was because, you know, it's like synthetics
that can be stabilized of those acid forms are going to be kind of like the medicine on the
shelves in the future for all sorts of diseases. So, you know, it's like we have the raw form of
the plant and then we have, you know, the future of where all of this is kind of heading in weird
ways. So it's fascinating. I was going to say earlier, it's kind of been a long day and I kept
getting work calls at the beginning, but, you know, I just, I really appreciated the, you know,
Trevor pointing back to like the foundations and I had wanted to jump in and just say, you know,
it's like, there's these, it's like the timeline of the breeding story. And I know Trevor and
Ryan, you guys have been working really hard to share the information about the historical piece.
And then I feel like, you know, there's like this new basis of foundations with what's been
happening more with the molecular breeding and the different things. And like the breakthroughs
in the past 30 years have been really incredible really. And even in just the past few years,
you can see like just the leaps and bounds that, you know, so it's like almost like there was
the original foundations and then there's this kind of newer, like the new school. So there's
like the old school base of foundations. And then there's this really interesting, like new school
direction that seems like it's just rapidly speeding up in the past few years. And then even,
I mean, I will just say, even in the past year, it's like people are starting to kind of,
it just seems like the science is really taking off in different directions with the more research
that we can get. And it's pretty fascinating, honestly. I mean, just even the fact that
we now have, I think I said, or just like the genome sequences public, you know, or there are,
they're getting some cannabis genome sequences public. So it's just, it's kind of like we're at
this bleeding edge of what's happening next with these new foundations and how they can apply
with the tech and where it's all going now is pretty fascinating. So I don't know if there's
even a question there, but I just, I missed that little section where, I don't know if you guys
kind of went into like how it applies. I always love to think about it as the future cannabis
projects and like, there's the historical and then there's like, where's the future going?
And it looks like it's really been ramping up with the breeding. So just some thoughts.
Well, it's amazing what happens when you allow the research to happen. We've lost 90 years.
Totally. I think about that all the time. I mean, that's what I see those. I'm like,
I kind of like, I get mad about the politics. Cause I feel like politics are really holding
us back. Even though like in today, what was like the stupid, like the, the safe thinking
act past like one of the house for like the sixth time. It's like, okay, like really, can we like
get with the program that we need to, you know, we're just like missing the point. I think a lot
of the time with this stuff, it's super frustrating. I hope that we can, I don't know.
I feel like almost there's like this, like there's this handoff to big ag that kind of happens where
it's like, you're just kind of giving it away. You're giving away by not allowing it to be,
you know, accessible or, you know, I don't know the science. I think that the, like there was
another like the data sets also just that are being posted more frequently. And I don't know.
I just, I think that it's like the leaps and bounds. I'm curious, like Trevor and Ryan's
person, the leaps and bounds of where the science is heading after like this next newer set of
foundations and Dr. Mark, of course, everybody just curious what your thoughts are and Michael.
I don't know. I mean, there's two, there's like, there's two kinds of publications. There's
publications where people are showing yeah. And yeah, look what I can do. Right. And they don't
really disclose, but you gotta understand there's this whole game that goes on with
people developing IP. So when you're publishing on what you develop an IP,
part of what they're doing is building a case in case
their patent is challenged and they end up in a court of law. Right. It's like you can point back
to a scientific journal and say, like you can point back to a scientific journal as a landmark,
right. Or a moment in time and say, hey, look, we had this thing back then.
Or even if it's not a discovery of a thing, it's a discovery of a technique. I mean, for example,
there's a publication done on terpene synthase papers, and essentially they showed they were
looking at these terpene synthase in cannabis. But what they actually published on was terpene
synthase as in hemp, right. In finola. Well, who fucking cares? Like it's not really informative.
Like your average person can't come in and take the information that was in that paper and use it
to their benefit in a program. So what they're demonstrating is, hey, look, we can do this
technique in cannabis plants where we're looking at the terpene synthases. And here is the proof.
You guys can all have access to the the hemp variety that we did and you can see the data.
But what they're telling you is we're also doing this in drug cannabis and they're not disclosing
any of that information. Right. And so, yeah, so it's really important to keep in mind when you're
looking at these scientific journals. In anything that you're reading, right, like anything that
you're reading, question what it is they're telling you, what are the words they're saying,
but also why are they telling you that information? Right. And, you know, that type of thinking can
obviously get into this paranoid fucking crazy shit like we see with these trucker morons driving
around Ottawa, because, again, it's like you can't like at a certain point in time you have to not
like there's certain things you don't question. I'm not saying don't question those things
at a certain point in time, like. You have to believe in something, right, so you can't
question everything to the degree that it's like you don't trust anything, but part of critical
thinking is being able to evaluate not only the information and part of evaluating the information
is who is the person telling me this thing and why are they telling me this thing? Right. And
just understand that like scientific articles, they don't go through this peer reviewed journal to
become. Like the the word of the divine, right, it's just somebody saying something for some
reason and very often they're trying to publish the truth, but sometimes it's somebody planting a
flag in the sand and saying I have this landmark at this point in time. Right. So it's just anyway,
it's something to keep. Yeah, I think a lot of the research that we have seen and will see is stuff
that there's a lot of interesting information about the history, the origin,
deeper sort of stuff like that, not more. I don't necessarily think there's all that much
practical application day to day for most and most people who are breeding or working with
cannabis from the research that we're seeing out of academic institutions. I think once the cost of
genetic sequencing and genomic screening for particular markers comes down, it may become
a viable application for particular breeders or cultivators. But, you know, right now,
no, basically no one is screening their populations for the different terpene synthase genes that were
elucidated by the Judy Booth papers or Judith Booth papers. And so I feel like a lot of it's
it's it's giving us some information. The CBD stuff was somewhat helpful. The Dima Hare papers
and things like that gave folks a roadmap. But I think honestly, look at patent like
patents are oftentimes the most informative documents because people are literally laying
out. Exactly. Yeah. That's where you get the good details. Oh, no, there's tons of information about
the people don't even look at them for sure. There's tons of because they have to disclose
the things that they're defining their boundaries. So it has to be very well written.
Patriot got a point out to Meyer, the mayor, the Meyer, it's the Meyer. He's Dutch. He's not
Spanish. So the J is not an H. It's like a Y. He's a Dutch dude that was went to the University
of Wageningen, which is kind of like the Holland's Davis. Right. It's like the big ag plant breeding
university. And, you know, the Dutch like Netherlands is their second largest. They're
actually not their second largest export. They're the second largest exporter by value of agriculture
globally, which is pretty fucking incredible considering how small of a country they are and
also their agricultural conditions. I mean, essentially underwater. So everything's grown
in greenhouses, but they really have their shit together in terms of ag. So they're, you know,
their plant breeding program is really, really substantial. And anyway, Dave found him as a
hemp student that was essentially characterizing hemp varieties for a PhD program. And they,
you know, Dave and Rob brought him in and essentially taught him the world of drug cannabis
instead of free in the in the order farm greenhouse. But yeah, just want to point that out,
because I've already said a couple of times, he is not Espanol. That's funny. I've always thought
that he was just going through the, you know, reading the literature and not actually knowing.
Yeah, I heard you say it was like, oh, he's so funny because he's just like, you know,
like his deal is he's like, he doesn't even really like cannabis. It was something that
got assigned to him as a university topic for his grad program. It was like, no, you're on the
you're on the hemp program, dude. And Dave understood the value that he had earned,
you know, doing that. And he understood plant breeding and he could put him to use
under his directive. But his passion is sugar beet. Like if he had, you know, had his dream
career, he would have been like breeding sugar beet, which is kind of a funny thing because
he made some incredible discoveries in cannabis or at least prove some things that
and you and I are going to talk about that on one of our shows. But like,
he was a really good scientist, like in the evidence is in some of his old papers.
There's stuff that he wrote as like an aside because he proposes a model. And aside,
if that's not right, it might be this. And sure enough, it turns out that,
you know, even when he was wrong, he was right. Like he really is a super, super smart dude,
clearly. But yeah, anyway, sort of. Yeah, no, he's he's another.
And people should search his name as well. Him, John McPartland, Ernest Small, Carl Hillig.
Obviously, Robert Clark. There's there's certain authors where you can just
you can pretty much find out the entire history of cannabis, or at least if you go through the
bibliography of their papers, you'll end up going down the rabbit hole and having it all
all unfold. And he's he's done a lot of good work also.
One of those early he did work on characterizing germplasm and diversity of cannabis. So that's
something in in hemp, in hemp. That was yeah, that was his thesis.
So he actually has a book that they published. But, you know, it's funny again, you know, I hate
to broad beat the point, but it's like if you kind of look for like the commonalities and all those
people, it's like it's Dave Roth. Right. So when when I hear again, why is part of the reason I
get so bent out of shape when I hear people slagging David, calling him a DA or a C agent
or whatever, all this nonsense and shit about it. It's like you couldn't be more wrong. You
couldn't be like picking on someone that has done really more for cannabis than anyone on the planet.
Yeah, no. And you find a lot of those. I mean, really just look at a lot of the papers out there
and the the scientific studies and a lot of the genetic research. It's it's either
purple cush, I think a chem dog or a finola or one of the hemp varieties. And then anything else
is coming from horticulture and a large segment of the research out there comes from those
from their collection.
Now, even finola came from David, right? I mean, finola was a variety that was registered by Jace
Calloway, who you mentioned last week, but that was two populations. David gave a bunch of money to
the Vavlov Institute back after prohibition. After communism failed in Russia, David had
contributed some funds to the Vavlov Institute because they had this massive collection of hemp
germplasm from all over the world. Somebody in Russia, Vavlov, had gone around and collected all
these different hemp germplasm from everywhere. And anyway, in return for the donation,
they had offered David some some cannabis seeds to play with, to play with. You know,
they asked him essentially if he would like anything from from there to look at. And he asked
for he said, what's the most northern variety that you have? And so they had two populations.
And I think I've told the story on here before, but that had been labeled in the Institute as
Lot 313 and Lot 315. And David drew them out side by side and decided that they'd been collected.
I think he knew that they had been collected within a certain range of each other, like quite
close. And he decided that they were the same family because they were indistinguishable
from him looking at them with a plant-breeder's eye. And so he crossed the two together
and called that 314. But those seeds were then given to Jace Calloway and Jace took those off
to Norway, I think it was Norway. No, it's Finland. That's why it's called Finola.
Took them to Finland and selected the phenotypes that essentially became
Finola. But, you know, even that work is his days as well in a way. So
it's, you know, it's hard to understate his influence.
Yeah, yeah, definitely. And also people can check out the
Robert Clark and Mark Merlin's paper. I think it was 2015 or 2016. And that paper does a really
good job of talking about some of, well, the breeding work for skunk number one and going
into a lot of detail and really gives the, if granted, this is more old school, I mean, not
the modern day stuff or the cutting edge science, but it really gives you a model for how you would
do population improvement and selection to breed something for, on large scale for general and
specific combining ability and how you could take a sort of
quote unquote land race population, create hybrids from that and have polyhybrid and
then work that polyhybrid line down to inbred stable line.
So you guys don't breed under a full moon?
I'm sorry, that was terrible.
Only under a full moon in front of a fireplace, like a bear rug, bear skin rug.
Do you play Barry White when you breed your plants?
I said that from the standpoint that I saw some of the high tides that put out from a farm
that was like full moon farm or something like that. And I know that I had started the
rabbit hole of calling them out and saying, just because people have been doing a certain thing
for millennia doesn't necessarily make it right. And I know that this is kind of
jumping in back to what you had said that not to question everything, but just because a large
just because a large population of any community has been doing something doesn't necessarily mean
that those are in fact correct practices or that they're actually going to have any real merit as
far as improving cannabinoid or terpene profiles in plants. So this is something that I kind of
called out high times and I was just kind of almost being a troll and just saying,
how far you guys have fallen with your content? Because I think that at one time,
high times had a lot of problems in regards to being able to get information out. And this is
predating the internet when there wasn't a lot of sources to be able to find information on cultivars.
When Tom Forsythe died,
and Forsythe, however you pronounce his name, he was the original founder of high times. When he
died, he had cancer or something and he left. He essentially left high times to,
the idea was that it would fund normal, right? And it would fund
prohibition. And instead what happened was a bunch of lawyers took over the company and kept
all the money for themselves. And that's pretty well documented. You can go and check it out if
you want to look into it. But high times is bullshit. Many years ago since it's been a bit
of a fucking scam. I know they've taken photos that I own that are my photos and they've published
them without my consent. And also to many other people. I know a couple of somebody contacted me
at one point in time and was like, let's fucking sue you guys. We're doing a lawsuit and we want
you to be a co-applicant and all this stuff. And I was like, dude, whatever. I don't fucking
time to be dealing with you and high times. But definitely recognize them for what they are,
which is, you know, they got bought out. Right. I think I can't even remember the
Martin family by the point. Yeah. One of the Marley's part of that at the same time that all
happened. Well, that was no, that the Marley's came in, like we're talking 15, maybe even 20
years later. Like what happened when Forsythe died, you know, when I had Rosenthal left many,
many years ago. And it was like, that was pretty fucking slimy shit back then. Because again, like
when he died, the founder of the magazine died, he had essentially left the empire
to fund normal and candidates for form in the United States. And instead, a bunch of lawyers.
Yeah. And high times. I mean, growing up as a kid, reading it, it always,
it presented an image of some massive scientific and like, what actually is Dutch agriculture.
And what Ryan was just referencing about, particularly their controlled environment,
greenhouse, agricultural production. That was the image that was presented through high times,
it was as if there was some sort of massive, scientific, it's all above board, so they can go
and do everything that, you know, you can only imagine the cannabis cup, right? It was
totally, totally all of that.
They were selling an image, they were selling a reality. I mean, when I first went to Holland,
I realized what it was. And what the Dutch seed companies were, I was like, wow, this is
really fucking disappointing. So essentially, the whole global fucking cannabis gene population
is being bred in like closets and tiny little spaces by people that have no clue what they're
doing. Just because, like it's a profit machine. And more or less everyone in the world thinks
that there's an actual industry behind it. And I guess to a degree, there was an industry behind
it at one point in time. I don't think it was ever what it was sold to be. But you know, before 1998,
you could do seed production in Holland. And so what would happen is people would
build these like 20,000 square foot greenhouses, substantial size. And they'd fill it with weed,
and you'd bring a male plant in, and you'd have the male plant like right in the middle of the
aisle, say of these huge, you know, greenhouses. So the males were clearly visible to anybody
walked in, because if you're walking down the aisle, you're running into the male plant.
And they'd let them go until like, you know, you know, two, three weeks until the male looked like
it was ready to drop on. And then they would very conveniently come in and like cut that
plant down and replace it with one that was like, you know, three weeks earlier. So it always had
the appearance of being a seed production site. So that if the police showed up, you'd say,
look, there's male plants in here, we're clearly making seeds. Right? And they didn't even I've
heard of people like back then walking through the greenhouses with hemp seeds, and they'd
sprinkle hemp seeds on top of the plants. Right? And so if the police ever did come on, they'd say,
look, there's seeds in the plant, you can see them in the crops. But really, what they were doing is
they were disguising massive cannabis flower production under this legal loophole that allowed
people to produce cannabis seeds and greenhouses. But truthfully, there was no breeding work,
like nobody was actually doing any real breeding that whole Dutch story about anything real
breeding going on in Holland is just in the cannabis industry, at least that has not really
been the case. It's been to me, like I always once I came to understand that I saw like,
the Dutch seed industry kind of as like wooden clogs, right? It's like a tourist industry.
It's something they make specifically for the tourists, which was so damaging to come to
realize like at that time, because it was like, really, this is the whole fucking global germ
plasm for this species is this like, that's not really a good sign. Luckily, very shortly after,
we've started to have more medical laws and cannabis relaxation where we've got legal
protection in various districts, and we're actually doing doing work again, it's starting
to happen again. So but we can do a lot better and we need to.
But yeah, I feel like that's something that the Dutch scene really shows the constraints
and the limitations of working with a limited germ plasm doing very, very limited selection
and bad selection and bad overall breeding practices. And it's kind of the reason why
Dutch, Dutch haze is typically kind of, just stereotypically the thing.
Can I make this point too? It's like, you know, Rob makes this point in a book,
I can't remember if it's the Merlin book, or it might be advances in hemp research. He also wrote
a section on that where he got into the breeding of skunk one and northern lights and their genetics
behind all that stuff. But anyway, he makes this interesting point is like the foundation of like,
pretty much the entire cannabis gene pool that most people work from, is really like a hybridization
of five, maybe 10 plants together, and then their offspring. And that makes up probably like,
I don't know, anyway, it was probably more 10 years ago when he wrote it. But even today,
like I'd still say it's like, a significant chunk of the gene pool is part of that
descendants from that. And sure, there's been a little bit of mixed things kind of put in here
and there. But like, overall, we're relying on these like very early crosses that you were
talking about that, you know, David made in the 70s, or the early kind of California hippies made
in the 70s. And maybe even late 60s, when they were crossing either the pure equatorial types
from, you know, Mexico, Colombia, wherever, Jamaica, like all those kind of places,
kind of between themselves. And then in the 70s, when the Afghanicas came in,
and those things started getting crossed, it's like, back then there was a shitload of
heterosis that was going on, because those truly were independent gene pools that hadn't been bred
back together in a long time. And so when you bring those two things together, for the first
time, you get heterosis. But that heterosis has carried us till today, we haven't really done
too, too much, I think, like really, really seriously. So we put a lot of weight on those
few things to have carried us this far, you know, we can't keep going down within these lines,
kind of the way we are, where that consequence is coming, you know, it's kind of inevitable.
I think that's why it's important to breed the things that you actually enjoy using,
and has medical values that have...
Yeah, so many of the varietals that we call the Jamaican varietals, Mexican varietals,
they didn't evolve in the new world, they likely, as was spoken about earlier, they likely came from
genetic lineages that evolved in the Gobi Desert in Eurasia, and then were likely distributed and
spread around the world during the, what we call the colonial periods, you know, starting in the
1400s, through the 18-1900s. And, you know, when you bring, you know, Spanish or French hemp
varietals to the new world and introduce them, allow them to be cultivated for tonnage or
dunnage, there's going to be evolutionary adaptation to that local ecosystem, right?
Yeah, but those, no, no, no, those varieties, like European hemp, was not what founded
South American varieties. That's like, they're African descendants, for sure. There's no way
that's European hemp. I mean, European hemp is fiber-encoded. It's not, there's no drug content
in that. They don't have the genes for it. Well, the reason why they don't have the genes is
because the genes were bred out of them, though, correct? Because they, you know, I'm talking about,
you know, in the 1700s, when they were bringing cannabis varietals, they weren't testing for
THC at all. I think it goes back before that, though.
They were independent uses. I mean, look, Northern Europeans have been, hemp is huge over in Europe.
I don't know how much time you spent over there, but like Italy, Germany, England, like France,
there's hemp culture going back, tied way into, I mean, you know this, Mike. I mean, the hemp
is what, like, allowed the, you know, people to make it across to the new world, essentially,
right? It was like all the cordia you had to sell, that was all from what we call cannabis sativa,
what is like in the literature, truly cannabis sativa, which is fiber hemp. There's no drug
content to that shit. And that's like really an independent lineage to what, you know,
what O'Shaughnessy called cannabis indico or, you know, Indian hemp, which is really the equatorial
form of the drug plant. Right. But that's not what, they weren't using that for, like,
the Brits didn't really even realize that that was a thing, I think, until...
So Jefferson on his Monticello farm, actually in his journals, wrote, actually wrote about how they
would harvest half of the field in the last week of July in order to use it for fiber.
They would pollinate a quarter of their field, that way they had seed for the following season,
and a quarter of the field they would specifically not pollinate.
He didn't actually specify going into how it would be used, you know, smoked or otherwise,
but there were, there were multi-cropping hemp both for, predominantly for fiber in the colonial
period. Yeah. Okay. Right. But that's what I'm saying. That was like fiber hemp. That's not
drug cannabis. Drug cannabis wasn't really understood by, I'd say Western Europeans until,
you know, 1800s, like in that, in that kind of area, like we're talking two different eras.
What was, what was originally brought over, but, and then when they started bringing over,
like a lot of this has to do with slave trade too, like, unfortunately,
when they were bringing people over to the new world to work as slaves, those people were bringing
the plants that were culturally important to them, right? That's the seed that ended up in the drug,
in the drug, like call it your Colombians, Mexicans, whatever else you want to add from
South America, Central America into there. It's kind of all derived from that, but that's not,
that's not European cannabis sativa hemp, right? Those are different drug groups.
They're different for sure. Yeah. The, the McPartland papers kind of interesting on this
McPartland seems he talks about the cannabis gene pool in, in Europe,
dating back to the copper age. And I'm pretty sure that cannabis germplasm in
like way, way back dating from about 6 million years ago, all the way up through to
essentially the present was ostensibly hemp. It's really in the 1900s though, that French and
French and Ukrainian breeders really made a concerted conscious effort to steer and breed
away from THC and really hit that like 0.3 mark, the arbitrary 0.3 mark of THC percentage. But
over in China, you can definitely see, or like East Asia, you can definitely see that there was
different cultural complexes that had different selection pressures that resulted in different
end use products throughout Asia, essentially, I shouldn't say China, but in East Asia,
there was clearly a hemp culture that was selecting from a population that had THC in it
would have been selecting away from THC and selecting for more of a fiber seed hemp sort of
base and use. And there's, they have a much larger use as well of cannabis, I would say in Asia,
then like that part of the world, if you think like Western medicine, everything,
I think that that part of the world was really looking at plants in a more advanced way than
the Europeans were of the time, right? Like they went to plants for medicine, they did everything,
they did, they used every part of the plant. I mean, they would breed for seed, they would breed
for fiber, they would breed for everything they would use it for, for pulses, for roots, like
they were really on top of that stuff, I think more than the Western world. And I think that's
also like probably pretty obvious in their, in their like philosophy and medicine and everything,
right? But yeah, those, I think they're also closer to the center of biodiversity than,
you know, again, unfortunately, a lot of this history is written from like the
Western European perspective, right? But I think what the crop that they were using had been,
again, it was just selected plants that humans had gone. And if you look back to
all the stuff that you've been talking about, Trevor, and McPartland's papers on all that,
that all that pollen work, like, they're dating cannabis way, way back thousands of years to these
places in Europe, right? That clearly had to be brought by cannabis, brought there by humans for
human use. But that's hemp. Like, that's not drug cannabis. And those, like that part of the world,
I don't think really knew about. It's pretty clear in the history books, that they didn't
know about that kind of drug cannabis until they spent time and they were down conquering India,
right? Yeah. And you look at the archaeological data, you know, the oldest uses that have been
discovered for hemp were likely used for hemp was likely used for tying hides together.
So before we actually had transition, hominids transitioned from hunter-gatherers to an agrarian
society, they were actually harvesting wild feral hemp and using it to sew hides together.
Now, as they began to transition to an agrarian society, likely due to the cultivation of plants
and production, potentially of alcohol and productions of grains, you started to see that
domestication within the cannabis and other agricultural crops, you know, things like apples.
But there's, yeah, there's a fairly long use of it for its textile use. I think the use of it
for seeds or food properties and then medicinal properties did come later.
But yeah, the early nomadic hunter-gatherers would have been looking at it, you know,
trying to use it throughout its life cycle, right?
I definitely second that. My understanding was that the cannabis plant has just migrated with
humans from the cradle of life or what we consider the Middle East now and obviously went the
direction of humans and the migratory path. So it all started within that area, you know, migrated
down into Africa and then from that standpoint, then whenever it got into the Americas, started
in South America and then went up. But...
It predates. So if the sort of like composites sketch that's out there now is right, it split off from hops in somewhere around 29 million years ago, I believe.
And then by about 6 million years ago or I could be mixing it up. It could be that hops and cannabis split off from the rest of the cannabis family in around 29 million years ago.
And then the two of them diverged about 19 million years ago.
And then about 6 million years ago, it made it to Europe.
Over the Himalaya.
Yeah, over the Himalaya into like Ukraine roughly. By about 2 million years ago, it had made it onto the Korean Peninsula.
And then it was like, you know, it was like a hybrid.
And then after that, we the dating that I'm aware of really kind of starts to be come into human contact or the possibility for human or hominin.
I think hominin has been around for a long time.
for human or hominin because I think hominids have been around for 250,000 of the last two
million years so roughly a quarter of that we've had modern human. Yeah and there there seems to
be some indication of I think 30,000 years ago it reaching into South Asia into the Indian subcontinent
and the human there's some really good papers uh Cannabis Ethnobotany by Robert Clark and
Mark Marlin goes into a lot of the diffusion and dispersal of cannabis and there's I think it's
Chris Duval he's written about cannabis in Africa in particular and there's another author who's
written about cannabis in Africa there was also a book written by a bunch of anthropologists and
I believe it was written by an anthropologist who worked for the United Nations back in the 1970s
and it has some very interesting books about the diffusion of cannabis and one particular about
the diffusion of cannabis throughout uh southern Africa or sub-saharan Africa and
yeah so that's it seems from what I've read also what Ryan's saying about
um the transcontinental uh slave trade and something about African slaves who were taken
from Africans who were taken as slaves uh to the Americas having either some form of doll or a
uh in their clothing actually having seeds sewn in and that being the an actual documented historical
source for how seeds made it from Africa into the new world and thus explaining
drug cannabis germplasm in the new world um and also there's an interesting story about
um during I can't remember exactly the time period but there was a certain time period when
the Portuguese monarchy uh fled Portugal and was in um in exile in Brazil and when they had Brazil
as a colonial holding and in that time period supposedly the queen was introduced to cannabis
was introduced to cannabis and became very fond of with fond of cannabis and there's some
historical documentation of that yeah Queen Isabella she used it to treat her cramps
I think it was Queen Victoria that's definitely a real deal they grew it in the bridge garden
what are your guys thoughts on the fact that there is really not a lot of wild cannabis that it has
kind of escaped human hands and then gone back to like a feral state
I mean before you know having a little bit of misconception in regards to it being
um a wild I plan my vacations around traveling to places that hopefully have
indigenous cultures cultivating locally adapted cultivars because those look you know when you
when you look at you know hybridization and you know and domestication you know we we view
with within modern science of you know creating a hybrid stabilizing that hybrid generally takes
eight to twelve generations now the same thing's going to happen you know each and every time
you know a cannabis farmer in some far-off valley happens to get new genetics those new
genetics are gonna you know be hybridized into his locally adapted crop you know statistically
speaking the prodigy are going to be half genetically the father half the mother but
evolutionarily the ones that are more locally adapted are going to be the ones that went out
and the ones that are adaptable and you know have the traits that are desirable are going to be the
ones that get selected so you know there is an ongoing evolution that that's happening where
you know these localized land races are slowly evolving so I you know I think it's actually a
really good thing that as much as I hate to see these genetics you know California or Dutch
genetics getting brought to places like Nepal or Morocco I think that in some cases there's going
to be you know that genetic biodiversity expansion is going to allow for some of those rare cannabinoids
the double recessive traits to finally get expressed.
Morocco isn't an indigenous area of cannabis that was brought to Morocco as well it's not
that's not like a natural center of origin for cannabis so all cannabis to Morocco is imported
look cannabis is what's called moblegadet crossing species and so essentially it's like a big
fucking orgy with thousands of people right and like all individuals are fertilizing all
individuals and so that's just the way that it grows that's the way that it pollinates that's
the way that it propagates in nature so land races by definition are what we call heterogeneous
populations heterogeneous populations of heterozygous like there's all sorts of types
built into a land race and they're almost always heterozygous at any given locus which means
there's a shitloads of genetic variation but there's also like a built-in massive amount of
built-in genetic diversity so that as the population goes from like yearly environment
to yearly environment like call it changing environment wherever it's moved that it has
enough built-in genetic diversity to be able to survive that some plants are going to be able to
survive and make seed okay you might lose like a big chunk of the plants right but there's
typically always enough and we're talking like we're kind of more talking more natural
seed populations these things have like enough genetic variability and diversity within them
to be able to take over almost you know like cannabis has been grown on seven continents
at this point in time i believe but really isn't like i think you could say it's pharaoh on six of
them um it's you know that's pretty diverse that's pretty like adaptable as a plant um not a lot of
plants can do that so and i think that that speaks to the genetic diversity of the plant but i don't
when you're talking about like i think that we get all excited about that whole introducing genetics
thing i i do think that i'm an ideal world chair we'd like to protect all of these populations
from outside influence but reality like
like i don't know how much time you spent in morocco but i've been down there a few times
and you know done provided seeds to people growing down there and stuff
just through legal seed sales in europe and it's like
there are millions and millions and millions of plants being grown down there
even if half of them were import dutch seed
like the vast majority of pollen flying around is from
what has been like the hybridized descendants of the natural type right and that which is like
it's like a pollen soaked environment right like which essentially makes it impossible to create a
homozygous lineage right it wasn't homozygous to begin with it was all heterozygous they were huge
hugely heterozygous like we are land races they were heterozygous they were like i said heterogeneous
populations of heterozygous right so and that's the natural way that cannabis breeds it's like
it's kind of crazy to think that cannabis has been anything else sure there are like
some very rare populations like you know like some like deep chunk i don't know you know deep
chunk it's like a an afghan inbred afghan line but it comes up essentially as a variety like it
comes up more or less like clones all the plants look the same but it's like that's a rarity in
cannabis right like and that's been bred like that's been bred through time by people
probably like we're talking like well more than 20 probably maybe closer to 100 years and who
really knows but the vast majority of wild cannabis and even hemp like even if you go
looking in a hemp population there's a shitload of variability if you grow like 100 even 1000 or
10 000 plants like the variability within a farm or within a any given like large seed lot in any
cannabis population is massive and that's kind of could be expected of like if you look into the
breeding systems of obligate outcrossers which cannabis is like we it has male plants and it
has field plant female plants like they really have to have sex with another individual of the
opposite type to be able to have progeny right and that type of breeding system truly truly truly
builds in genetic diversity and you want like i've said this before but if you want a perfect
example of that is look at humans because we're also obligate outcrossers and look at the genetic
variability and even phenotypic variability that you can see across the world right like
we've got all types all colors all everything right there's tons and tons of variability and
i think that cannabis is really quite like that closer more so than closer to how tomatoes breeds
for example so i'm ramping yeah so but back to the question back to the question i think
question was is it are are there still indigenous or land-raised producing regions i would say yes
are those land-raised populations slowly getting polluted probably but the you know dilution of the
the increased introduction of new varietals is only going to get diluted out right so sorry i was
like i did rant on that their cannabis is what's called a wild weedy complex and so essentially
like what we bring in out of the wild or what we did bring in out of the wild when they're truly
wild when there truly was wild cannabis many years ago possibly hundreds or about thousands
years ago when we bring it in we start cultivating it in like under cultivation we change it right
and because it's an outcrosser that pollen flies back out to the wild population and we've now
changed the long population right and so mcpartland again we've talked about a bunch on this episode
he actually you know he was kind of one of the people that brought up these like
like does cannabis even really exist as wild you know and i think most people that they think you
know that there's certain places like even like going to russia and collecting seeds and that's
ruderalis like dude ruderalis is like probably a sub variant of sativa right of fiber hemp it's
not its own type um so and again it's like that's already removed from what we found in nature and
now it's like kind of like they call it a camp following plant right it's kind of this like
organism like dogs that kind of comes along with us for the rotten ride but it's always
backbreeding with the with the wild population or whatever is the most wild population which
to a degree adds in domesticated like domesticated traits back into the wild population making it not
what it was right and so like anyway in in the context of like does wild cannabis exist i don't
think it does i think that it is a wild weedy complex and there is like more or less sure maybe
some valley random valley up in like somewhere you know has some type of rare thing that has never
been touched but i think that like for the most part wild cannabis isn't even really a thing it's
like what exists are like feral or semi-feral dogs right yeah i think that's the case at least that
seems to be the case from the scientific literature um ernest small john mcpartland
robert clark a lot of people who have been involved in this debate and discussion
seem to be of the opinion that there is no longer any quote-unquote putative ancestor or wild
undomesticated pure uncontaminated cannabis populations that exist out in the world um
but that's also a bit different from the question of land race populations there's a lot of
there's a lot of terminology and like issues and debates and feelings around these terms but um
land races are essentially just varieties that have been under cultivation by
groups farming using traditional practices so the question of whether or not they are
can i just update that and say for use right yes yeah totally totally
yeah and so totally it's for a specific end use and in
that context that's those are threatened genetic resources around the world um
pollen contamination or contamination from outside sources can be a threat and there's
um the author's name is escaping me right now i think it's
lauren
r it starts with an r i'll have to look it up but um there were some papers in the mid 90s that
really looked at this and went into the dynamics of how quote-unquote hybrid swarm i believe is the
term that was used in the paper but it's a thing that if you really look at population genetics
there has to be a sizable amount of gene flow that happens from one population to another
that happens typically more than just once and then there needs to be a repeated process of
like essentially incorporation of useful dna if the you if there isn't anything useful
in the um whatever's been crossed in there typically isn't going to be any adaptive
gain from this you know foreign germ plasma or genes and it probably won't be incorporated and
over time the chromosome blocks are going to diminish and so yeah there is some foreign dna
in there but it takes a certain set of population dynamics for there to be an actual
extinction event and the paper um i believe is called hybrid is extinction through hybridization
and it's possible i think one of the examples that is given is um there's either a type of coyote or
a type of wolf where this has been an issue where a particular group of the population
the subpopulation essentially has hybridized and the genetic integrity of the subpopulation has
been threatened by the larger germ uh larger populations so that to my you know i i hate to
represent i'm sorry um but it's happening with squirrels as well like you know what i mean like
this is kind of i think that what we're learning is this is kind of the ongoing
evolution of things and you know if you even look at covid
like compare covid to the flu in like 19 you know we say oh like the flu of like 1918 or whatever
like does anybody ever know like how that flu changed over time right and with covid we've
seen it go through this massive evolution we've never really looked at these things before right
to understand like that these things these diseases that we would just label as oh you've
got this right we would never have this genetic information before today and so
and so i you i think that's kind of the deal about evolution is like genetics flow and whether it's
through an animal moving genes around the planet or it's humans or it's whatever genes flow between
population to population and that's just part of the natural evolution of things and for us to think
that we can like keep it the same as it was is kind of naive and not not only that it's like
we're discussing this in 2020 or 20 whatever 2022 this was an issue in like 1965 1970 when the united
states was going around the world and like through the un suppressing like all these cannabis
producing cultures that were all over the world like that's what fucking had an effect
on the cannabis gene pool right 100 i mean that literally that book um uh the
i mentioned it earlier the anthropology book it literally is documenting a lot of those cultures
in the 1960s and 70s around the world and they're all gone and that's that is the thing that has
destroyed quote-unquote land races and the cultures they were the cultural again it's like a land race
again i'm sorry trevor a land race is for it's a variety maintained it's more or less a variety or
population maintained by a culture for a cultural use so when the culture is gone who maintains the
plant right like we don't know what those traits were what it was to be able to recognize the types
to to reproduce to make that type of thing that was special for x purpose tie sticks or whatever
it was right but like that's really what land races were um so anyway yeah
yeah so i i'm of a similar opinion um in terms of one there is wild cannabis but it is not
some primordial cannabis they're domestic feral escapes and that most land race uh
populations have been impacted but i don't necessarily think that that's the impact is
like ryan was just saying it's the impact on the cultures the genetics they're still out there to
a certain extent and i don't think that this idea of foreign germ plasm unless it's just in
completely replacing traditional germ plasm i don't think it has the impact that
um a lot of people think it does mostly because the population dynamics that you have to have
for that type of extinction level event are not the ones that you're going to get with a
as ryan has also described with a obligan outcrossing species
so one of the comments on the youtube page where did it say extinction events lead to
smaller pockets of genetic population so obviously prohibition was a extinction level event you know
imposed by various governments leading out of the 72 signing of the singles treaty
obviously as we've had many governments now implement programs of prohibition and eradication
any of those populations of people that were cultivating it you know spiritually medicinally
etc you know those populations were likely dramatically reduced in size i don't want to
say that they were eliminated because i've been in places and you know northern india himalayan
mountains bangladesh burma thailand all the way across the himalayan mountains all the way to
azerbaijan and there are still local varietals out there that do not look like anything like the
uh modern day varietals we would see in our modern grow rooms but you know they're also not
really desirable they don't have the traits that are desirable to be cultivated in modern
programs you know ryan you mentioned it earlier many of those equatorial sativas don't produce
the bud structure that sells on the shelf right so when i grew my i did a lamb's bread haze cross
last summer and while it was wonderful to grow on a personal level could i justify cultivating
something like that in a commercial scale probably not so i i do think that the the
prohibition has led to an extinction level event that extinction level event within cannabis has
isolated many pockets within it but many of those pockets have led to the genetic biodiversity boom
that we're seeing today in modern day so yeah well and you know that you're you're definitely
not wrong on that man i mean like even look at like when dj stuff came out right uh or you were
growing back then but dj short when he started doing the blueberry thing i still got some of
that azure haze cross yeah that stuff had been kept outside well that's it as you're crazy because
that stuff had been kept outside of the rest of the drug pool in his own little kind of
greenhouse environment and not really much farther afield and he kind of did his own thing
independently and so when it came out and it got crossed into everything else like really the plant
in my opinion the plants that shit like really shone when it was crossed as something else
right and it's because it had been in bread and kept separate and then when you crossed
back the other stuff you got that heterosis about hybrid bigger um so yeah for sure there are like
little pockets of stuff that was left over but i again if not it's important not to forget that
like you know the the unbcp or the the office of drug control policy like their mandate at one
point in time was for cannabis to be extinct on the planet um and so they definitely went around
the world and mostly at the behest of the united states stomping on all these cultures so they could
shut down for you know foreign cannabis production which was ending up in the states which was where
it was a problem right so the states exported that prohibition um yeah and cannabis took a big hit it
sucks but it is what it is and it's like you say like it kind of does make all that stuff more
valuable but land races have always been kind of wild weedy anyway it's like if you grow land
races you realize there's a lot of garbage in them right you got to weed through a lot of crap to find
the stuff that has traits that are even valuable to put into a breeding program
let alone jam you know and i think a lot of the stuff that people are going back and finding stuff
even in afghan populations like you know i someone brought i met a dude there was a traveler and he
had this whole collection of cannabis seeds and he was like oh i was just in pakistan and afghanistan
and he was like a white dude but he'd apparently been born in india and had traveled traveled all
over the world that's what he did he's just a traveler and i was like really it's like you're
just there and he pulled out his passport and showed me the the stamp from the crossing between
the two up north and i was like wow you were there okay cool so i've got a bunch of seeds for
him and there was some interesting stuff in there but it was certainly like i would think that that
it had been somewhat modernized right like because that's what farmers do it's like if you're growing
like corn and you see like some new guys got some new corn variety across the world you can grow
twice as much as you can you're growing get them off your corn you're gonna get those seeds and
bring them in right it's like that's kind of what farmers do so it's as much as it's like nice for us
to say like we got to protect that diversity which i don't disagree with who are we to to
deny these people the access to see if we can grow more better for them right it's like it's kind of
there's a bit of an ethical dilemma there i agree with you sorry can i just say we need an
international institute where we can grow cannabis and that's funded and we can do all these things
that we're talking about because like i said michael you're not wrong right like everything
you're saying is absolutely 100 spot on i was just going to say that uh it's getting late for me so
i'm gonna bounce i apologize for not getting in the conversation earlier i had work shift that i
had to do so i was kind of bouncing back and forth and just kind of jumping in and out so anyways you
guys have a good evening michael it's a pleasure meeting you evian trevor peter uh
see you guys yeah i gotta hop off do some destruction as well i'll talk to you guys later
cheers
maybe the five hour mark is a good uh end point since i gotta put my three-year-old to bed right
now yeah sounds good does anyone oppose that dr christ are you good with that i'll take that as a
yes all right trevor do you want to kill the uh clubhouse room cool we'll do um thank you everyone
for joining us everyone on clubhouse and on future cannabis project oh two um ryan thanks for
being on with us for rapping and it was great it was really good um i appreciate having you
and just you know this topic obviously getting your perspective on it is good and i i hope that
people can come away from the discussion knowing that there's there's a lot of different
fields of science that have not only informed but also emerged out of plant breeding and our
understanding of really the the grand theory of biology and the work that went into that
over the last hundred plus years and so it's interesting there's a lot of a lot of different
avenues if you like math and you're into that statistics is right there uh the entire history
of human and plant and animal evolution and development is there and all sorts of different
ideas so i think it was fun to explore some of those with all of you and thank you again
peter for giving us this platform and the opportunity and have a good night everyone
night everyone
all right i can take the headphones off in nine eight seven six five four three two one
five hours my god of eating dinner uh so anyway uh what is it monday night uh
we're succinct succinct as uh brevity and succinct that's what we're known for but uh
i know we have stuff going on tomorrow and then tomorrow night i think we have
uh possibly uh jackson mean gene from mendocino and eclectic elegance and hopefully mr toad
talking shop and raising money for health care related causes and issues so uh that will most
likely although i haven't totally set it up but uh be at nine o'clock pacific time so with that
uh yeah terse would be another another synonym and hopefully everybody appreciated the uh
the elsa and supergirl cameos supergirl is upstairs waiting for me to put her to bed so
everybody have a good night
