Hello fellow growers, this is Chad Westport and today we're going to pop some seeds, or
get some beans soaked, or as the scientist guys would say, we're going to germinate some
seeds.
I'm here to show you probably the most common ways that people are going to germinate their
seeds.
Today we are going to do some rockwool cubes, we are going to do direct sow into some soil,
we are going to do the paper towel method, and the paper towel method can be done a couple
of ways.
You can put it between two paper plates, or you can put it in some Ziploc bags.
So we'll do both of those.
Over here we've got just some jars, we're going to fill those with our pH water, I pH
it to 6.5.
That might not be important to everybody, to me it is.
So pH 6.5, water to pop my seeds, and over here I've got a variety of seeds.
For genetics, the new ones I have right now, I've got an Afghani x Dutch tree, I've got
the Afghani bat cross, those are the new ones, those are the ones I expect a really high
germination rate from.
I'm also testing some of my older gear, I've got a Harlequin x Secret Sauce, and Secret
Sauce isn't really a strain, that's just my Secret Sauce.
I've got a Northern Lights number 5 x Go Time, which was from Jinx Proof Genetics.
I've also got a Jax Cleaner 2, which was from TGA Genetics, times that to my Secret Sauce.
Then I've got a really big bag here of...
OK, Secret Sauce x the Agent Jack, that's the one I've got a whole bunch of.
The Agent Jack is a F1 cross of TGA's Agent Orange and Jax Cleaner 2.
So I want to see what germination rate I get from those.
First I'm going to show you the water soaking method.
Before we do that though, I want to stress the importance of accurate labeling.
I've got all of my little containers labeled A, B, C, D, through F.
I've got them all written down here, corresponding what the strains are, the year that they were
made.
That way I know what is what later, and that is so important when you're testing because
you don't want to get these things confused.
The simple method of cracking them in water, the soaking method.
You're just going to take your container, going to fill it with a little bit of pH water.
You don't need it super deep, I'm filling this maybe halfway and that's fine.
Just going to do that.
You're going to take your seeds, going to grab a pinch here, and I'm just going to drop
them in.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
And as you see, right now they are floating around.
They're in the center, and we'll see if they sink and open.
So let's go ahead and do that to all of the other seeds.
And there you go.
Everything is soaking now, and we're just going to let that overnight to see if they
keep floating or if they sink.
And when they sink, hopefully they open up and they sprout a tail.
That's how you germinate seeds just in water, the soak method.
Now I'm going to show you the rockwool method.
Before I do that though, I just want to show you something simple.
Again, I've gone ahead and I've labeled everything.
Everything needs to be labeled.
And I've poked my own holes through the rockwool.
Pretty simple.
Two holes, each side gives me two tests on the beans in the rockwool.
So I've got my pH water.
Just going to give them a nice soak.
You don't want to get them too soaked.
You still want there to be some air in there.
Yeah, this is nice.
You can kind of squeeze it.
You get a feel for how saturated they are that way.
Yeah, that's perfect.
Perfect happy combination.
So again, yeah, I'm just going to take my seeds and I'm going to start plugging them
away in there.
And I want to say, before we put the seeds in here, the seeds have a side with a dimple.
It's usually the fatter bottom part.
And then the side where it kind of comes to the point, that's usually the skinnier part.
Now, when you're putting them into the rockwool or soil, just like this, you want to put them
with the skinny part down.
So dimple up, that is going to help it come up and grow out of the medium.
So I'm just going to tuck it right down in there.
And I'm actually going to give it just a gentle little tap down into the rockwool with my
skewer.
And now repeat.
Now I'm only shoving them down maybe an eighth of an inch, not deep at all.
And there you go.
That is how to put seeds into rockwool for germination.
Now let's do directly into the soil.
I've got it split up and marked out.
I've got it labeled up here as far as what we're doing.
Again, you want to make sure you keep track of what is where so you know what kind of
results you're getting.
Okay, I'm just going to gently water this a little bit with my pH, just pH to 6.5 water.
Again, I don't want to soak it because the seed's going to need some oxygen, but I want
it wet enough to crack that hole.
Okay, so that's probably good.
And I'm going to do two seeds per quadrant here.
So I'm just going to poke a little hole, poke a little hole.
And that is quadrant F.
Okay, make sure I get the right ones in there.
And again, when you put the seed directly into the soil, you want that side with the
dimple, you want that side facing up.
So the sharp pointy side you want down into the soil.
General rule of thumb is you're going to plant the seed twice of its width.
So if you have a seed that's basically a 16th inch wide, you're going to bury it an eighth
of an inch deep.
So not very deep, especially for the cannabis seeds.
Put it in there like so.
Take this one, put it in there like so.
I'm just going to tamp it in.
Oops, that one flipped around on me.
Again, I want to make sure I get it the right way down.
Little bugger.
Okay, then I'm just going to kind of gently give it a little hug with the soil.
I'm not going to bury it deep again, but I do want contact with the soil and a little
something over it.
Okay, so that's that side.
And I'm basically just going to repeat.
And there you go.
That is popping seeds in soil.
For the paper plate method, all you're basically doing is putting the seeds in the paper towel
and then covering it up with the paper plate to create sort of a humidity dome, if you
will.
I've already got these already laid out, and as you can see, they're labeled.
You can see the seeds on the back.
And let me show you how to do this.
Basically, you just want to take your paper towel, your pH water, get it soaked, wring
it out a little bit, unfold it onto your plate.
This is always the hard part, getting it separated.
Okay, there we go.
Separated there.
You take your seeds, you put them in there, and they don't need to face any special direction
because you're just going to fold this over, kind of tuck them in, get them nice, make
sure they have contact.
I'm going to fold it over again, stay nice and wet.
Boom.
Take this, put it over there.
There you go.
You got the paper plate method for popping seeds.
We'll finish up here with the paper towel method, which again, is very similar to the
paper plate method.
You're essentially getting your paper towel, you're putting a little bit of that pH water
on it, let it soak in.
Okay, now the hard part of separating your paper towel when it's wet.
Oh, I got it.
Okay.
Unroll that there.
Okay, so I've got that done.
I'm going to take my seeds, and again, they don't need to go in any specific direction.
Some people will actually take the Ziploc bags and hang them upside down because the
root will grow down.
They are in touch with gravity.
Gravitropism, I believe it is.
Some fancy word, but yeah.
The roots will want to grow down, but if you lay it horizontally, not a big deal for this
portion.
So I take my wet paper towel, it's got the seeds in there.
They got a nice little hug, so there's contact there.
Take that, slide that into my Ziploc bag.
Try to keep everything nice and separated, and I don't actually seal it, but I do kind
of keep it closed because as you can see on the one I did earlier, there's a little bit
of moisture and condensation building up around it, and that will keep them kind of moist.
My room temperature right now is about 70 degrees.
I do not need to use a heat mat.
If you do use a heat mat, if it was the winter, I would.
If you use a heat mat, don't put these directly on the heat mat because it's going to dry
out the paper towel.
It's going to be a little bit too hot for that fresh seed, so just raise it or elevate
it a little bit off of the heat mat, and I always recommend that even if you're doing
clones.
So that's just good practice.
You want to keep these in a dark area.
Light's not necessarily going to hurt the seed, but light and water, that can lead to
algae.
The molds, that can hurt the fresh seed.
So yeah, just keep them somewhere relatively dark, relatively warm.
We'll leave it like that, and we'll check in with them soon.
Okay, here we are 24 hours later.
I'm looking at all of the seeds, and all of the seeds have sunk to the bottom of the jars.
So that's a good sign.
Hopefully, next thing is they will be opening up for us.
You can see the three seeds here in the water have cracked.
They've opened up, and the tail is starting to come out.
These are ready to be placed into the soil.
Alright, so I'm going to go ahead and put one of these seeds into the soil for you,
and I have tweezers to do that.
You want to be gentle.
You don't have to use tweezers, but I like to use them, especially when getting them
out of the water.
It just makes it easier for me.
So I'm just going to reach into here, get my seed, and again, you want to be careful.
You don't want to pinch it on the white part.
The white part is sensitive.
This is the tail, the taproot, and you want to put that down into the soil.
Another thing I like to do when starting a seed in soil is, here's the top of my pot.
I have it kind of carved out here.
I'm going to put the seed down here in the bottom.
I'm not going to bury it too deep.
I'm actually only going to bury it maybe an eighth of an inch.
But what this allows the seed to do is it allows it to get laggy and spread up, and
then you can backfill, giving it more support.
Because sometimes seeds, they stretch up.
This is a way to give them support in the pot.
So I have it.
I'm going to put it here.
Again, I'm going to get the point down.
Let's put a little soil over it, and there you go.
It's in the soil.
Looking here at the seeds that we put in the paper towels, two of these three have already
opened up.
Their tails are coming out, and I'm going to take them out of the paper towel so that
the roots don't grow into it and get damaged when you transfer.
I'm going to take them out right now, and I'm going to put them into my soil, and then
I'm going to tuck it back in and let that other seed stay in here and pop for another
day.
We're five days into it now after we put the seeds into either our soil, our rockwool,
our water, or our paper towels.
And now we're just going to take a look and see what we have.
After five days, your seed should have cracked and opened a tail.
You hope to see that within 24 to 48 hours.
Sometimes it could go as long as seven days, maybe even as long as 10.
But really, after that point, there might not be too much vigor in the plant, so get
a new seed, get something that's going to crack, get something that's going to grow
pretty fast.
So let's take a look at these paper towels in the Ziploc bag, which is typically my preferred
method.
And you'll notice here, as I flip this over, there's condensation, which helped keep the
moisture in here the whole time.
I never had to add any water to it.
I just kept it in the warm place.
So paper towel method in a Ziploc bag.
Let's open it up and see what we get.
Here we have our results from the paper towel in the plastic bag.
A, this is an old strain.
Not good results.
0 for 5.
B was 3 for 3.
That was a new strain.
I already put that into the soil.
I took those out after 48 hours.
I just kind of let these go to see what would happen and to kind of give you an example
of why you don't do this because it grows through the paper towel.
But C, this is an old strain I have, about 6 years old.
It is 3 of 3.
Those cracked.
D is another old strain.
This one got a nice big root on it.
These two didn't crack though.
E, another old strain.
No action there.
F, this is a new strain that I have and this is 3 for 3.
And again guys, I should have taken this out 48 hours into it because they have grown through
the paper towel.
And you want to be gentle on these roots but I will show you later how to easily get around
this issue.
So there we have it.
Pretty good results.
Let's go and check the paper towel in the plate method.
Oh no!
Checking everything 24 hours into it and my paper plate is dry.
Needs more water.
Got to do that now.
So learning from that mistake quickly, I replaced the paper plate on the bottom with something
that's not going to absorb the water because again, this absorbed the water, the paper
towel's dried out.
That was no good.
You need them wet to pop your seeds.
So I put them in this.
I've got them wet.
Let's open it up and let's see what we got.
Here are the results of our paper towel in the plate method.
Nothing going on with this old strain.
This new strain, we got a nice tail here.
One out of three.
Here's the old strain I have.
It got a tail, got a tail.
So two out of three there.
Two out of three here.
This one's getting a longer tail.
You can see that there.
That one didn't crack.
Nothing going on with these.
And then this one, which is a newer one, three out of three.
But I wanted to show you here why it's important that you take these out after they sprout
a little tail.
You know, right now you can still manage these.
You could grab them.
You could take them.
You could put them into your soil.
You could do whatever.
I'm just going to shake those off right now.
Put those there.
And this is why you want to take them out, because this has actually grown through the
paper towel.
So you know, you don't want to damage the roots when you're putting them in.
In this case, what I would do is I would just kind of split the paper towel here.
And I have my access to it.
But again, you want to do as little touching and damage to these as possible.
And there you have it.
Here are the results from the plate with the paper towels.
Let's see how it stacks up.
Now we'll look at our direct sows.
The first direct sow we have is our direct sow into soil.
And I've got it all labeled here, what they are, gridded out, easy to keep track of.
Again, kind of seeing a common theme here with the results.
A and E, both older seeds, not having the best time with germination.
But my newer strains, we've got the B, two for two right here.
And we've got F, two for two right here.
So again, the newer strains are coming in at 100%.
And the other two older strains I have here, one for two, one for two.
So that's kind of holding steady as well.
That's the direct sow into the soil results.
Let's check out the direct sow into rockwool.
And I just like to add that.
Normally I wouldn't put this many seeds in one container.
I only do one seed per one container.
But this was a germination test.
This was about seeing what popped up.
This wasn't about growing these plants any further than this stage that they're getting
to.
So that's why I have so many in one little space.
And the same holds true for the rockwool.
You know, one seed, one space.
That's how I rock it.
Now we get a chance to look at our rockwool, which is another method of direct sowing into
a medium.
We just placed our seeds in there.
And this isn't really a method that I use.
I don't use rockwool frequently, but it is something that people do.
So I thought I'd include it in my germination tests.
Getting a little bit different results with this.
One thing that is holding true is my newer strains.
Excellent results.
They're both 100%.
You got two for two here on what I labeled as the B strain.
And then I also have two for two here of the F strain.
All of the other strains, the older strains, they didn't have as good of results in the
rockwool as they did with some of the other methods.
One thing I do want to mention about rockwool though, is sometimes you'll see the seeds
in here at top.
It may not look like it popped, but if you flip it over, all of a sudden you see kind
of like a taproot sitting in here.
So sometimes again, sometimes it looks like it didn't pop because it's not growing up
like this.
But you flip it over and you see that, hey, instead of growing up, it just kind of grew
down and you've got your root anyways.
So just something to keep an eye on with the rockwool.
And there you have it.
After 48 hours, I pulled a couple beans that had already cracked out of the water as well
as the paper towels.
And I put them into soil because I just wanted to make sure that they were going to finish
the job.
And so they did.
Again, I have them marked here.
These are the two new strains that I've been doing.
All three from the water that cracked popped up.
The two that I took out of the paper towel earlier, those have popped up as well.
And I even took some out of the water for B. And they're coming up too.
I got one, two, three, four of those popping up.
And again, no way would I normally put this many plants in one container, but this was
about germination.
And I just wanted to follow the job through and make sure it completed its job of popping
up above ground.
So there you have it, guys.
I think my results are in.
Paper towel in a Ziploc bag followed by direct sow into soil.
Those were the two statistically most effective methods.
Overall, the new strains, ones that I would expect to have germination rate, they all
performed equally.
The F was 100%.
The B, 14 of 16, I believe it was.
And it had two problems with the paper towel in the plate method.
So overall, great results on germination from my newer strains.
The older strains, eh, decent.
Not so, eh, whatever.
It is what it is.
But there you go, guys.
That is kind of a overall tutorial on how you can germinate in a variety of different
methods.
So my name is Chad Westport.
Thank you for joining us.
I am from Twin Peaks Cannabis, and I hope to see you again on the Perfectly Imperfect
Grow Show.
Thank you.
