Back in our lives, Future Cannabis Project, FCP02.
Everybody in chat joining us, thank you very much.
And everybody on the replay,
we appreciate you tuning in and watching the show.
Today we got a pretty cool show that I'm very excited about.
We're gonna learn a little bit about growing in cocoa.
And we're gonna learn it kind of like the title says,
from the novice to the expert.
There's a lot of routes you could go with it
and we've got the right person to talk to about that today.
Joining us as the guest, we've got Dr. MJ Coco,
who you might know from cocoaforcannabis.com.
But please, Dr. MJ Coco, say hello to everybody.
Hello, thanks for having me on the show, Chad.
I appreciate being here and I'm looking forward to, yeah,
getting in and talking about some cocoa.
Awesome, yeah, it's absolutely my pleasure.
I appreciate you making the time tonight
because this is an important subject to me.
I kind of go with a variety of different mediums.
Cocoa is something that I grew commercially in.
So that worked very well for me.
And I wanna learn a little bit more about
maybe what I could do to improve my game
and maybe step it up even to the next level.
So hopefully we'll cover those kinds of things tonight.
We'll try, we'll try.
Yeah, we'll get there.
And everybody, hey, in chat too, guys,
please feel free to fire off your questions.
I'm gonna try to keep track of those
and I may write them down at the moment,
but I'll also put them up on the screen as we go
because I know you guys are probably gonna have
some great questions for us too.
But let's kind of start it off.
You know, you've been around for as long as I can remember.
I've been going to your website
and using that as a resource, but how long,
or when did you get into gardening?
And was cannabis kind of one of the first things
that brought you to gardening
or did gardening kind of bring you to cannabis?
How did that relationship come about?
Both, I mean, lots of things have brought me to cannabis
over the course of my life, I suppose.
Not just gardening, but I think gardening's actually been
certainly one of the things.
I guess if you go back far enough,
yeah, I was messing around trying to grow plants
in my closet back in the 90s,
not very successfully,
but it didn't really do much with cannabis
as I developed most of my background, my education.
Got into horticulture as a grad student really,
and looking at horticulture for other reasons.
I was coming at it as a cultural anthropologist
looking at peasant farming systems
and understanding how sort of peasant farmers adapt
and change and maintain their patterns of farming
through the years, how they're responding to changes
in the world around them.
That brought me into a lot of contact with agronomists.
And I did a lot of sort of brokering
between farmers and agronomists.
It was a big part of my field work
and a big part of the sort of outreach work
that I did during my field work.
And then I came back, I was actually,
while I was writing on my dissertation
and suffering pretty badly from a form of arthritis,
I was taking really expensive biologic medicine
for it at the time,
and then the insurance wouldn't pay for that anymore.
So my rheumatologist was actually suggested
that I consider using cannabis
as a form of treatment for my arthritis.
And I mean, I could have like fallen off the table
when he suggested that to me.
Like it was at the time,
like I had basically given up cannabis as a grad student
and was trying to focus on my dissertation
and trying to sort of be studious and all of this.
But I had used it quite a bit sort of off and on
as my previous experience trying to grow it in my closet
probably would have attested to.
So I was keen on the idea.
I thought that was pretty nifty idea
for my rheumatologist to be suggesting this to me.
And I was definitely of the opinion at that time.
I was like, to be recommended cannabis,
you'd like have to go to a special doctor
and you'd have to ask for it yourself.
I was just floored that my rheumatologist
was gonna be suggesting it like sort of unprovoked.
So yeah, I got my card.
I found really good relief again
and sort of thought back over the course of my life
to like different periods where I'd used cannabis
and hadn't and my arthritis had always affected me worse
when I hadn't.
So that got me back sort of into it.
I quickly wanted to grow my own.
And yeah, I got into sort of the online growing communities
local growers.
I was living in Los Angeles at that time.
For indoor cultivation is really different
than a lot of the work I'd done in horticulture before.
So it got me thinking of a different set
of sort of parameters in terms of one of the key things
to be thinking about, to be optimizing for
what are the most valuable and expensive inputs and outputs
and how do you really evaluate the quality of the harvest?
These are all questions that I'd thought about
in probably more detail than most people do
in terms of peasant farming systems
and peasant farming systems are just different
than sort of commercial based capitalist farming.
Peasant calculus is really different.
And it was interesting.
So I really sort of dove into thinking about that
and that really led me to choosing to grow with cocoa
and to then really trying to understand the media
inside and out and understand sort of how to grow
the most efficiently.
I know a lot of growers are both A,
sort of passionate about the environment in different ways
and especially a lot of organic growers
and farming in general is this thing
to sort of really get you in touch
with sort of the organic world, right?
Growing stuff.
But at the same time, growing in a way
but at the same time, growing indoors
has a tremendous impact on the environment
no matter how you do it.
So one of the things that I wanted to really try
to pay attention to was specifically sort of that balance
and the most sort of expensive from an energy perspective,
from an environmental perspective on those lines too,
growing indoors is recreating the sun.
Outdoors, the sun is free, light is abundant and free.
Yeah, and in an indoor setting,
we're putting a ton of energy into sort of recreating that.
Most of us don't have options as cannabis growers
but to grow inside.
So it's just a totally different sort of set of calculus
in terms of what you think about
or what I was thinking about
in terms of how I wanted to grow.
Well, it's interesting too
because you took kind of a little bit of each
from your experience in the field work.
Obviously you realize that certain outdoor practices
weren't gonna relate to what you were doing indoors
but you took kind of the philosophy of maybe closing loops
or trying to reuse resources
or find a way to minimize costs essentially.
Because correct me if I'm wrong
and obviously this is paraphrasing
but with the peasant farming,
it's more about using what's available
versus bringing in sources.
Is that kind of summarize it or well, get close to it?
Because that's what I picture with you going indoors.
Well, one of the biggest differences really
in the economics of peasant farming
is that they're using their own labor
and they don't pay themselves anything.
And so most of the traditional ways
of sort of evaluating farm productivity
were like profitability.
I mean, there's no such thing as profitability
as a peasant farm
because there's no way to subtract the value of the labor.
And peasants aren't trying to motivate
like the difference between the value of the labor
and the value of the revenue like a capitalist.
They're trying to satisfy their needs
using like you say, the resources that they have access to
I would say rather than just sort of what's available.
They really have to economize though.
And they think about sort of,
you know, the peasant farmers that I work with,
most of them belong to government programs
that give them fertilizer
that they can use on their fields.
And, you know, the sort of,
I don't know, the very thoughtful farmers I would suppose,
really, even though they're getting it for free,
they really pay attention to sort of how much
they're gonna use and how valuable that is to their plants,
if it affects their harvest at all, these other things,
because they can sell what they don't use.
I mean, they're really sort of conscious
about economizing on the margins
and thinking about doing things efficiently.
So yeah, that's a big part of it.
The difference I think really gets back to,
in our situation and one of the big advantages,
I think of, you know, hydroponic methods in general
and cocoa in particular,
but among other hydroponic methods is speed.
The speed of growth that we can generate is just faster.
That's not reduces the grow time,
which then reduces the amount of time
that you gotta run the lights
relative to the amount of harvest
that you're gonna realize for that.
That's the reason that most commercial facilities
grow in a hydroponic based or in a soil as media,
because you can get that sort of better turnover times
for in that capitalist production,
it's important for profitability and all these other things.
But if you're just thinking about sort of
the amount of energy your grows absorbing
compared to the amount of cannabis
it's producing out the other end,
that growth speed is an important indicator
of sort of overall efficiency and overall impact.
It is, and I do see it a lot,
or very commonly on the commercial scale.
Yeah, you know, if you can take two weeks off of every veg,
do that enough times a year, you have an extra cycle.
And wow, with commercial facilities
that adds up very quickly.
So that, yeah, definitely gets used.
Yeah, the extra cycle, right.
And for a home grower,
just being able to like turn off the lights for a month,
you know, I mean, or whatever,
turn off the lights for a couple of months,
save on their electricity,
or not have to grow over the summer when it's too hot
and having to really waste electricity on different things.
That's what I always try to do is sort of plan my grow
to work with things as much as I can.
Yeah, that's sort of what brought me to cocoa.
And it's really different than the way I would grow
in an outdoor setting in a lot of situations.
And it's just different, it's a different calculus.
Different beast, definitely.
But I have to ask this basic question
because I think back to my first closet grow
before I knew anything about any kind of plants
and how well it didn't turn out.
I've got to know that that initial failure,
can you go back and pinpoint where you went wrong
on that initial failure?
Oh God, no, it's like everything.
I started with bag seed.
This is like a pretty typical story, I think.
That was back in the days with like,
you'd get like a lot of seeds in your bag there.
So we launched a whole bunch of them
in little party cups, didn't have enough light,
didn't know what we were doing at that point with nutrition.
Didn't remember to like check on them on a consistent basis.
I don't know, like one of those reasons
was enough for the little seedlings
to just sort of like lean over and die.
Thinking back, yeah, they got pretty stretchy,
lack of light and I mean, I don't know,
we just had no way to recover from there.
Yeah, I didn't even know about light cycles at that point.
I mean, honestly, the grow that I'm thinking of,
it was in one of those big like Evian bottle things.
Top came off, we had a little light,
but I think it made it to maybe like the fifth
or sixth node and then it was done.
That was about as far as I know.
I think you got further than that first attempt that I did.
But you know, it's good and it's fun to remember that
because it's nice to sort of,
I deal with a lot of growers that are brand new to the game
and having similar struggles.
So it creates a great deal of empathy
to sort of recall those early adventures in growing my own.
It does, it does.
And speaking of new growers,
and again, this applies to all growers,
but I'm just gonna say new growers for the moment.
Usually you're walking into the grow store
for the first time you've found those bag seeds
or you've grabbed something online,
you won a contest, whatever it is, you're ready to grow.
You go into the grow store
and you typically have your bags of soil
and you have bags of cocoa.
How can you tell us for someone who doesn't
or wouldn't know the difference,
just kind of how the two differ in general terms
without being super science on it,
I wouldn't throw that on you.
But just kind of the common differences
between a common bag soil and cocoa for people.
Well, cocoa, first of all, I mean, it's a good question.
The one interesting sort of caveat of this whole question
is most bags of soil aren't actually soil.
They're made with a peat based media.
And often other things, other amendments to that peat base,
but a peat based media is technically soilless.
Soil, like for soil sake is a media that consists
with a base of either sand silt or clay.
And most of the things that you go
and like buy potting soil or something
is actually a peat based media.
Peat is organic matter.
It's degrading organic matter.
It's basically a fossil resource too.
So that's one sort of aspect of what's in those bags
of soil, they're not sand, silt and clay generally,
they're peat.
That always gets me.
It's the soilless soil, the soilless medium,
but it's soil.
All of this is soilless.
Cocoa is also soilless.
And cocoa, rather than being sort of
almost fossilized organic matter,
it's not a peat isn't fully fossilized,
but it's ancient organic matter.
Cocoa is from coconuts that grow on trees today.
And for a long time, horticultural cocoa
was purely a by-product of other coconut harvesting.
It's become a large enough industry now
that they do grow coconuts just for cocoa coir.
But most of the cocoa coir is related
to other forms of coconut extraction,
either for fruit or for oil or other things like that.
So they're kind of taking a waste product,
closing a loop as we like to say,
but they're taking a waste product
and turning that into an actual product
in a different industry.
Yeah, yeah.
And before cocoa was largely used
as a horticultural input, as a horticultural grow media,
it mean it was accumulating in piles outside places
where they would process coconuts.
So it's just the tough outer layer
tough outer husk of the coconut
in some state of sort of breaking down.
You have coconut chips or cocoa chips,
which are still like basically hunks of the coconut husk.
You have the fibers, which are sort of the stringy things.
Like if you ever see a picture of a coconut,
it's got like the fibers peeling off of the top of it,
right, those.
And then the cocoa peat, which is the finest sort of grain.
It's like a dusty material almost.
They're all good sort of to use in combination.
You wanna have some sort of chunks,
some chips in your cocoa blend.
You definitely wanna have some fibers
and you need some peat.
The larger particle size peat is better
than the smaller particle size peat
because of the water retention, air retention properties.
We have to say that one of the big advantages of cocoa
as a grow media is that it has an ideal air to water ratio.
But that's, I mean, it's a little bit of a gloss
because the peat itself holds onto really too much water.
The fibers don't hold onto like any.
They do sell some coconut products that are just the fiber.
It's like a bird's nest material.
Sometimes it's even called bird's nest.
It's really tough to grow in that
because it doesn't retain like any water.
You have to, I mean, it would be fine sort of maybe
as you're in your drip bucket for your DWC or something,
but it's not gonna be good for a container based
because you need the peat to hold on
to some of the moisture.
The fibers really do help with air
and they help move water around
when you're fertigating or watering the top.
Now, speaking of aeration,
I've used a product sometimes that's mixed
and it has a little cocoa chunks in there
and that's kind of cool.
But sometimes when I'm feeling the four by four inch
little flats for clones or seeds,
I'll just break them up and spread them all about.
How about different items like perlite?
Yeah, you wanna break up like the bigger chunks.
The bigger chunks are just gonna be kind of like
a rock in your garden.
The plants can't grow through that.
So I do agree, but yeah.
Yep, and now how about items like perlite in there?
Because I've seen some mixes, they say,
it's like 70, 30.
And I guess this depends on brand,
but in general is perlite
or some other source of material common
or suggested with cocoa just for that aeration factor?
Yeah, it is for larger container sizes
because it aids with that air to water ratio.
It really aids with drainage.
I think something like perlite helps the drainage,
which can, if you have too much peat,
which you may end up with,
you don't have enough root mass.
You can get hypoxic conditions
in the center of the sort of container in cocoa,
which is really the issue that you're worrying about
with overwatering.
Overwatering, I've said this a lot,
but overwatering isn't really a thing.
I mean, if overwatering was a thing,
DWC growers would all have dead plants.
I mean, they grow in water.
You've got to pull it.
The thing with overwatering is hypoxic conditions
in the root zone, not enough dissolved oxygen,
not enough oxygen in general.
So when we think of sort of we're drowning the roots,
you are, you're basically cutting them off from water.
If it's fresh water that's properly prepared,
it will have enough dissolved oxygen in it.
Plants actually get most of their dissolved oxygen
or most of their oxygen directly from the water.
But if the water doesn't sort of move
through the media fast enough,
if the water sits there for too long
and it doesn't sort of drain out, dry out,
that's how soil or peat growers deal with this issue
is they let the media dry out some
and that returns actual oxygen in the air.
So yeah, perlite basically just makes it
a little bit easier to drive cocoa.
It'll keep that from ever happening.
You know, if you grow in a small enough container,
that won't ever happen anyways.
If you pot up your plants properly
and develop a good sort of root mass
throughout the container volume,
then it won't happen with cocoa either.
But perlite gives you a sort of an extra little margin.
It makes it easier to grow in cocoa.
Is compaction ever a concern?
Because I know that is also used
to kind of sometimes break up or help relieve compaction,
or at least in soil.
Yeah, no, not really.
Cocoa kind of breaks down into dust and washes away,
but it never really compacts like a clay-based soil would.
Okay.
And kind of a difference right there is,
we think of it like sand, silt, clay,
it all has minerals in it.
So it's kind of has a little bit of a charge to it.
Cocoa is an inert media.
So quickly, maybe just explain inert.
I know you can probably do that real quick,
but also how fast or how soon do you start to feed these?
And typically, is it a half strength,
quarter strength type of dosage?
So yeah, how do you go about feeding in cocoa?
And what does inert mean anyways?
Inert, yeah, inert means it's not gonna do anything.
It's just gonna sit there.
It's not gonna have any interactions with,
and it's not fully inert either,
is sort of the caveat here.
But if it was fully inert,
it wouldn't have any interactions
with the water that it's exposed to
or the plants that it's exposed to.
It just sort of like sit there and act as like a thing
for them to grow in, like a sponge for them to grow in,
but not interacting with the environment.
That's inert.
Cocoa is almost completely inert,
but it does have cation exchange
with calcium and magnesium,
a little bit with iron and some other things in that,
in that same charge.
And that's one of the,
that is like the trick to growing in cocoa probably
is understanding and dealing with
the calcium and magnesium issues that are provoked
often by that cation exchange,
where cocoa will sort of bond with,
it'll take in the calcium and magnesium cations
and release potassium or sodium cations into solution.
And it can take so much of the calcium and magnesium
that there's none left for the plant.
So we have to sort of prepare for that
by buffering the cocoa and manage that
by essentially feeding the cocoa
its dose of calcium and magnesium
during the course of the grow.
But all of that is how cocoa sort of isn't inert.
How it is inert is it just sits there.
The rest of the nutrients that we provide to the cocoa
go, or that we provide in our water,
go directly to the plant.
And we can provide them in the ratios
that the plant needs at exactly that stage of growth.
Since the media is inert,
it's also really easy to flush out.
So if you screw something up,
if you hit them with the wrong pH
or you hit them with, you know, out cow mag
or with way too much EC
or who knows what you've done that's wrong,
you can just flush that out.
And the cocoa doesn't really sort of like latch on
and hold on to it and make you remember your mistakes
the way that cal-ion exchange
in a lot of pea-based media as well
sort of make you remember your mistakes for a while.
Right.
And you've kind of mentioned, you know, buffering.
What does it mean to buffer your cocoa?
And I mean, what is that process?
Like you get a little buffer before you put it in the pots
or I mean, honestly, a lot of people know
what to buffer their cocoa.
Yes, yes.
But what does that mean?
Yes, I love the buffer.
So buffer just means that we're trying to do most
of that cal-ion exchange with calcium and magnesium
before we introduce the plant.
So we're trying to satisfy the cal-ion exchange sites
in the cocoa with calcium and magnesium.
So when the cal-ion exchange site is exposed,
it will release its potassium,
latch onto that calcium, for example,
and then it's buffered.
It's got a calcium cation and it's not gonna release it
and it's not gonna take any more.
It's like out of the game.
So to buffer cocoa, all you have to do is soak it
in a high concentration of calcium and magnesium.
I recommend two soaks for eight hours,
which is probably much longer than you really need
to sort of satisfy those exchanges.
But we always wanna be sure.
And then you rinse the cocoa down
because the cal-ion exchange sites that are exposed
will have sort of taken in as much of the calcium
and magnesium that they can.
You rinse out the residual sort of PPM or EC
off of that cocoa and it's buffered.
It won't be as hungry now for calcium and magnesium
as it was before.
So when you're growing your little plants in it,
you'll be able to sort of give enough calcium and magnesium
that the plants will still get some.
And somebody had asked if you were still washing cocoa
in the bathtub, if that was how you were using it still.
Yes, I mean, well, no, I'm not.
I made that video.
That was one of my first videos on YouTube,
how to prepare and buffer cocoa.
And I was living in a condo
and I didn't have like an outdoor space.
I'm pretty sure I mentioned in the video
that if you have an outdoor space,
this would be far preferable to do it in an outdoor space
than in your bathtub.
But to everybody out there,
I've probably gotten hundreds of YouTube comments
about my plumbing in that bathroom.
But I just wanna say to everybody out there,
hair clogs drains.
Cocoa doesn't clog drains.
Human hair clogs drains.
I mean, that's what is the problem in like,
I don't know, 100% of bathtub drains.
But my bathtub was fine.
It never clogged up.
We also never showered in there.
So there was never any hair to interact with it.
But yeah, if you have a yard,
basically what you're doing in that rinsing step,
you're getting rid of a lot of the peat
because most of the like the brick cocoa that you'd get
have just a lot of dust and it's more than we'd want.
So we rinse it through a colander.
That removes a lot of it.
That peat, that cocoa dust is like fine for your yard.
I mean, do it in your lawn or something.
There's like absolutely no problem
in doing that someplace else.
It does not need to do it in the bathtub.
Yeah, no.
And the bathtub is classic indoor grow move too.
I've used that for flushing before.
You just bring them in, toss them under the faucet.
I've seen people with HPS lights over their shower before.
So yeah, yeah.
Classic move.
Oh yeah, I've definitely had grows sort of overlap on me
where we had to resort to growing them in the shower
for sure, the shower girls.
I was telling people on the forum,
so I'm like, I gotta go take pictures
of the girls in the shower.
And yeah, it had got their attention.
That's funny.
And you touched on it that,
cocoa is a little calcium, magnesium hungry.
Cow mag, for those of you who have never heard that term.
So that could be a place where it's important.
And it's really due to the CEC,
cation exchange capacity in the soil.
You mentioned anions, cations.
And kind of just in simple terms,
little electrical charges.
You got your like North Pole, you got your South Pole.
In comes a little swimming nutrient,
says, hey, get over here.
And it can block that up, make it not plant available
and also kind of act antagonistically.
That makes them so attracted
to those cation exchange sites.
Exactly right.
And what are some of the like antagonistic properties?
Like, do you typically see it show up
as like a calcium, magnesium deficiency?
Or do you really see something else
like phosphorus all of a sudden is just not happening?
No, we, you know, there are different things.
It depends on sort of how out of whack
you get with your grow.
But growers that don't sort of do anything
with calcium and magnesium invariably run into
usually sort of like combined calcium
and magnesium deficiencies.
But calcium deficiency is like almost ubiquitous
in seedlings grown in cocoa.
If you can get your little seedlings
through the seedling stage without any signs
of calcium or magnesium deficiency,
like you've done really well.
I mean, it is possible,
but almost all seedlings develop a few sort of symptoms
of that along the way,
as they're basically adjusting to like fighting
with the cocoa to get the calcium before the cocoa does.
So yeah, calcium deficiencies like rough spots on the leaves.
The first signs of it usually are sort of a little waver
in the leaf itself.
Oftentimes this happens to the first true leaves
on a seedling if it's grown out in cocoa.
You'll get this like sort of wavy line down it.
And that's usually an early sign of a calcium deficiency.
Is it on the margins
or is it kind of the leaf surface itself wavy?
Yeah, from like petiole to the tip of the leaf,
along the margins of the leaf,
you'll see like a sort of a waver.
If that makes sense.
I got pictures of this in my seedlings article,
I think like diagnosing early calcium,
magnesium deficiency.
The thing is, it's really easy to treat at that stage.
Calcium, magnesium can be absorbed foliar
through foliar applications,
which the cocoa doesn't fight against the plant with.
So during that seedling stage,
I usually do foliar my plants
with a little bit of CalMag solution.
But by the time they're sort of in mid-veg,
they've figured it out, they're getting enough calcium.
The fertigation frequency is high enough.
That's another thing.
Calcium will deplete through time as it sits in cocoa.
So there's a few ramifications of that.
It makes cocoa not really well suitable
to recirculating systems
because the calcium dose, the magnesium dose will deplete
and potassium dose will go up potentially,
depends on sort of what stage of growth you're in.
But it also means that it really lends cocoa
to a higher frequency for irrigation
because there's always sort of available calcium, magnesium
and everything else in fresh nutrient solution.
And so cocoa is something that you're probably gonna water
more frequently than like a typical soil.
Like you mentioned earlier,
to kind of deal with aeration in the soil,
people will let it dry back.
How about dry backs in cocoa?
Is that something that is-
No, I specifically avoid it.
Okay, what is the downside or the backside
if cocoa gets a little dry?
With the issue with the dry back in a soil
or a peat-based media is that there's insufficient oxygen
in the root zone at field capacity.
So when you saturate a soil-based container basically
for a while until it starts to dry out a little bit,
your plants are gonna be a little bit oxygen starved.
It makes oxygenating the water really important.
But while it's sort of super saturated
or dripping, you are going to be oxygen depriving the plant.
And then as you let it dry out
in order to sort of recover that oxygen,
you're eventually gonna reach a point
where it's harder for the plant to get water.
So you're almost always sort of wandering
between this zone where the plant is looking
for more oxygen than it can find
or it's looking for more water than it can find.
One of the things that really makes cocoa
into like the horticultural wonder media that it is,
is that at field capacity, if it's properly set up,
and all those things I was talking about before
with the perlite, not having too much peat
and having good root density throughout the root zone,
all of that is sort of making sure it's properly set up.
But if it is, then it has sufficient oxygen
at field capacity.
So even when the cocoa is sort of fully saturated
and even dripping,
so dripping means it's beyond field capacity.
For those of you that haven't heard that term before,
field capacity would be the exact moment
that it stops dripping.
Essentially that the media can hold all of the water
that it has and no more water, that's field capacity.
But peat would be hypoxic at field capacity and cocoa isn't.
So we essentially, cocoa, the media takes over watering
out of the equation.
It's like, it's not really possible to overwater
properly set up plants in cocoa.
It is definitely possible to underwater them.
So we can run pretty close to fully saturated soil
and be really finely controlling the nutrients
and all of that, as long as there's sort of a fresh supply
of incoming water.
Plants, a lot of people think that plants
just sort of like drink the water with a straw.
And like I'm pouring water into the plant
that has all these different things dissolved into it.
And the plant's just gonna get all of those things
like at once through a straw,
like you would get your Kool-Aid or something.
But all of the nutrients actually enter the plant,
most of them enter differently than the water.
The water goes in the plant largely through osmosis,
which if you have a reverse osmosis filter,
control or cleans the water in the process.
Then the nutrients are carried across in separate processes
and not always at the same ratios.
So water usually leaves the system faster
than the dissolved salts.
All of the nutrients are dissolved salts
and that creates a situation
where as the plant gets drier,
the electrical conductivity of the water goes up
and it makes it more difficult for the plant to drink
the decreasing supply of water.
So not watering often enough
will lead to potential problems
or just require you to do things like intermittent flushing
or running at much lower electrical conductivity.
Okay, and that's, yeah, that's kind of a 180 from soil.
So that's great to bring up.
Can't really overwater it, definitely can underwater it.
And watering is a problem for a lot of growers,
just finding that perfect balance.
So I think cocoa has a huge advantage there.
Yeah, because you just removed the overwatering part.
Yeah, I totally agree.
That's one of the hardest things about being a new grower
in a peater soil-based media is figuring out when to water.
And if you're watering enough or too much
or like all that stuff,
we can really remove most of that by just water.
It's okay, you can water again right now if you want to.
There's never sort of that issue.
And that also lends it really well
to automatic watering systems
because you always can water again.
You don't have to check the plants first.
Right, and another difference that I kind of am aware of too
is the pH of your input.
Soil typically a little bit higher than cocoa
or where do you sit on that one?
What tends to work best in cocoa as far as the input pH?
It's interesting.
It really depends on where you are in the growth.
So if you really want to get like fine-tuned,
and one of the things about doing
like a high-frequency fertigation
where we're watering all the time
but with really small quantities,
we're not actually watering more.
People often think of high-frequency fertigation
and they think like we were wasting just a ton of water.
It's like tiny amounts of water.
It's just very frequently.
But we can fine-tune things
and we can adjust for things
really tightly at the margins.
When your plant is struggling with calcium,
it's generally better to keep a slightly higher.
Now, I do agree that the basic range
for nutrient availability for both solubility and uptake
is a little lower in hydro systems
where the plants are interacting directly with the water
and there's not a lot of cation exchange with the media.
So if you're in cocoa or DWC,
you are adjusting that water basically for direct
and as immediate uptake and the nutrients within it
for direct and as immediate uptake as the plant wants.
Nothing's gonna happen to it before that
exchange with the plant or the uptake by the plant.
So different nutrients either have solubility issues
at different ranges or are best taken up
by the plant at different ranges.
And that's sort of what sets the parameters
of the range itself.
And that's why it's generally good practice
to not just sort of like peg one point in the range
or one end of the range,
but to sort of wander about through it.
That usually happens.
I mean, it depends on how you're mixing your water,
but that normally happens because of just normal pH drift
from the time you mix the water
to the time you apply it at successive events.
But yeah, so if your plant's struggling with calcium,
you keep it a little bit higher.
I think that there's some research that says
like the absolute optimal point
for like all of the different uptakes
is something like 5.86 or something
for hydroponic nutrients.
But I usually stick pretty close to six
and wander up and down from there a little bit.
Okay, and then that's good
because that's the range that, you know,
I've kind of been familiar with and have used.
And when I switched back from cocoa to soil,
I was still pH-ing everything low
and I ran into my own issues there.
So that was one of those funny face palm moments
of like, I've been doing this how long?
And I didn't remember to, you know, switch.
Rookie mistakes, I'm sorry.
I make tons of rookie mistakes.
I'm like, it's just like, I mean, yeah.
And I look at myself, I'm like,
and you're teaching other people how to do these things.
Right, hey, we're all human, we're all human.
And this is something that's just come
off the top of my head.
I don't know if it's any different,
but you know, you always hear about nutrient mobility,
whether it's in the plant or whether it's in the medium.
Again, typically soil is the context I've heard it.
Is there any difference in the relationship
between like cocoa and soil as far as like,
oh, all of a sudden calcium is totally mobile
and it washes out or if you know what I'm saying there.
Yeah, no, those issues of the mobility
and the media are an issue with amended soils.
Like you're saying, you need to make sure
you're not rinsing everything out into the drain pan.
They're also an issue with some other nutrients
that will only be available in certain zones
of the rhizosphere.
It's not really an issue with hydroponics or with cocoa
because the plant is taking the nutrients directly
from the water itself.
So to a certain extent that the nutrients do wash out,
but sort of by design in the runoff water
and we're always sort of providing a new supply of them.
It's accounted for.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, no nutrient mobility in the plant
is, you know, affects all plants the same
regardless of what media they're grown in.
Once something like, you know, calcium, magnesium,
nitrogen, whatever else gets into the plant,
some nutrients are mobile and will be able
to be repositioned from some parts of the plant
to other parts of the plant when the plant faces deficiencies
or sudden spurts of growth or shades out earlier leaves
or something like that.
So, you know, a lot of growers prune off all of their,
they lollipop their plants a lot,
which is generally a good practice for managing climate.
But if you don't need to manage it for the climate,
the plant will eventually reabsorb a lot of those nutrients
and redistribute them to other parts of the plant.
It can't redistribute the not immobile nutrients though.
And so the fact that some nutrients can move around
and others don't provide us some clues
in diagnosing nutrient mobility issues
because mobile nutrients, the deficiencies tend to appear
at the bottom of the plant because the plant
will be reallocating those nutrients up to the top
and you'll see the signs of those,
the deficiencies occur there.
And the mobile nutrients you'll tend,
or sorry, the immobile nutrients,
you'll see the deficiencies in the new growth
because there's a deficiency.
It doesn't have enough to do the new growth
and it can't get it from anywhere else.
So those provide us sort of some clues like that
into diagnosing things sometimes.
But even that generally tends to be a concern
for amended soil growers who will face like a deficiency
of one thing or another throughout the course of their run
because oftentimes they're only adding nutrients once
or they're adding different nutrients at different times
or top dressing and stuff like that.
And things can get out of balance.
It's far less common to have a specific nutrient deficiency
or toxicity occur in a hydroponic grow
that you are for, or when you're fertigating like that,
when you're providing newly mixed nutrients
that have all of the relative doses.
It's actually one of the reasons I think a lot of growers
spend far too much time trying to diagnose
like what specific nutrient might be deficient or toxic
or something when they notice plant problems.
For some things like in cocoa,
it's important to understand the signs of calcium
and magnesium deficiencies like we were talking about.
Most of the other times,
if you're facing a problem like that,
it's not because you don't have enough
or you have too much of one specific thing.
It's because like your pH is off
or the EC has gotten out of range
or you're getting some other kind of lockout issue
or problem.
It's not just because of like a lack of the nutrient,
but that can happen in an amended grow.
And I totally have a question to riff off of that.
But before I forget, I just wanted to get back real quick.
You say oxygen, oxygenated,
that's one of those fun words for me, oxygenated waters.
It is best to feed the plant.
That's where the root zone
actually will get a lot of oxygen.
And are you simply accomplishing that by air stones
or how are you accomplishing oxygenating your water?
You can, it depends on how you're watering.
If you're watering from like a plastic jug,
you can accomplish aeration
by like vigorously shaking the plastic jug.
It entirely depends on sort of your grow setup.
The other thing that's important
with dissolved oxygen though is temperature.
Dissolved oxygen is really sensitive to water temperature.
So above about 70 degrees Fahrenheit,
there's a big threshold at about 70 degrees Fahrenheit
where above there, not much oxygen can be dissolved.
Below that, it's actually much better.
So we recommend 68 degrees Fahrenheit for water
that's cold enough to maintain a good degree
of dissolved oxygen and warm enough
that it usually won't shock your roots.
You can dissolve more oxygen in colder water,
but you don't want to be introducing water
that's like 30 degrees colder
than the media was before you were watering.
So you wanna stay kind of within 10 degrees.
Most root zones in your grow tents
are gonna be in the lower 30s.
They're gonna be in the 70s.
So you wanna be kind of 68, 67, somewhere around there.
And if you can keep your nutrient solution
at that temperature, you can keep it a lot longer too.
If you keep it aerated at that temperature.
If it gets warmer, dissolved oxygen drops,
bacteria grows, stuff starts floating around.
It smells like a dirty fish tank
and you gotta do something else.
So it sounds like there's definitely a Goldilocks zone.
And that's important too for summertime
or people like I kind of like to leave my water out
for as long as I can, 24, 48 hours, whatever,
just kind of in the grow area beforehand.
And now that you mentioned,
I remember the summer looking at it a couple of times
when it was hot in there and it was like 76.
And I'm like a little warm, but I'll water it.
But no, connecting the dots.
That can create problems.
If you're really,
cause see one of the things with soil really is,
and the art of growing in soil or peat,
I think is all about how to water.
And it's really about balancing the dissolved oxygen
or the oxygen at all, whether it's dissolved or just air
that's interacting with the roots.
So balancing that is the key.
And if you introduce warmer water
that necessarily has less dissolved oxygen,
it's kind of just like stepping in a pothole,
like you're kind of just hurting your chances
of keeping the dissolved oxygen range good for your plants.
Most plants go through it.
Plants tolerate all sorts of our ridiculous things
that we do to them.
But yeah, that is one for the dissolved oxygen.
So in getting back to, before I sidetracked us there,
you were talking nutrients,
we were kind of talking watering practices,
we're talking EC, pH and runoff.
And one of the things that I really loved about cocoa,
and again, please correct me if I'm wrong here,
but the runoff is a lot more accurate portrayal
of the root zone than runoff from soil.
And in my kind of,
if I pour it in and it's coming out at 5.4,
next time I should probably feed it
a little bit of a higher pH to kind of meet in the middle
and the same would apply to PPM.
You can get in trouble chasing runoff pH in cocoa.
Okay, I've gotten in trouble in soil before
and it whipped my ass off.
I've gotten in trouble in soil before.
I've gotten in trouble in soil before.
I've gotten in trouble in soil before.
I've gotten in trouble in soil before
and it whipped my ass and I spent months trying to figure out
what's the real answer.
There's one.
Would you get in trouble with pH
or you got in trouble like trying to fix runoff pH?
Runoff pH in soil.
And it was Fox Farm,
which is a common brand that people try as Ocean Forest.
I got it straight out of the bag.
I just poured water through.
And sometimes you can definitely know too much
and be your own worst enemy.
I checked the runoff and holy crap,
it was like 4.7 and 3,500 PPM.
I'm like, I've got to flush this.
That's really what I'm about to say.
The runoff pH now, this is different than EC or PPM.
One of the reasons I love growing in cocoa
is because we can learn a whole lot
about what the plant is doing,
exactly like you're saying,
by measuring the runoff EC or PPM.
But pH is tough.
What happens with pH is,
it will often move
as plants absorb certain nutrients
and greater proportions to others, especially,
and release other charges into the water,
the pH will move.
But really the most important thing with pH
is the inflow pH.
Making sure that that fresh water has pH
that's in the correct zone,
that all the nutrients are gonna be fully soluble
and fully available to the plant
as the inflow water,
which is like the fresh food that the plant is eating.
It's not sort of the stale sort of pizza crust
that it's already eaten
that's coming out in the runoff water, you see.
What happens when growers pay too much attention
to the runoff pH is it'll start changing.
Oftentimes it'll go up.
And so growers will think,
oh, I better go down in my inflow pH.
And their runoff pH will stay high.
Because the reason the runoff pH is high
is because of sort of how the plant isn't interacting
with the nutrient solution at that stage of its growth.
And you'll go lower and lower,
and then you'll just be feeding 5.5 every day.
And it's coming out 6.5 every day.
And you're like, okay, I got it.
Like, I'm standing the range, it's gonna be okay.
But really, you're not giving your plants
very much available calcium at all, ever.
Calcium is gonna be more available
when it first hits the media, if it's above 6.2.
So if you're always watering with 5.5,
or growers will be like, I'm going lower
because I gotta get this runoff.
And they'll move right out
of sort of the tolerable range altogether.
So that's the problem with sort of chasing runoff pH.
It won't always come back for you.
Because the plant is doing sort of what the plant is doing
at that stage.
But measuring the runoff EC, I think,
is basically how we drive our gardens
when we're growing cocoa.
We know the electrical conductivity
that we give to the inflow.
And the electrical conductivity, or the PPM,
people often get confused if you're a new grower.
That is the same thing.
It's just different ways of expressing the same measurement.
They technically should be different things.
PPM should refer to like how many parts per million
there are in something.
And electrical conductivity should refer
to the charge of something.
But an EC or a PPM meter
both measure electrical conductivity of the water.
The PPM meters just do some math
to convert that electrical conductivity measurement
into a PPM measurement.
And different PPM meters do different math.
So we have different scales
because there's different assumptions that they make
about what is making the electrical charge.
Right, so for example, like the PPMs would be different
if all of the electrical charge was made by calcium
than it would be if the PPMs were all made by nitrogen
or something like that.
But so there's different assumptions
about sort of what's in the water
and how we should convert from,
or what's probably in the water
and how we should convert from electrical conductivity
to parts per million.
But those are always just conversions
of an electrical conductivity measurement.
That what we're measuring there
is the salinity of the water.
So how salty the water is.
And this is not a good way to dose pretty much anything
unless you're just dosing one nutrient.
I mean, I actually do dose my CalMag foliar spray
by electrical conductivity.
But other than that,
it's not telling you parts per million
of any specific nutrient.
And even the number that's called parts per million,
it's just like somebody's best guess
about what might be in the water.
And it's not probably reflective of the water
that you're giving your plants.
So PPM is not the right way for the vast majority of us
to be sort of measuring
or thinking about the nutrient solution.
However, all that said,
since the meter is actually measuring EC,
if you're used to PPM numbers,
that's the same damn thing in the end.
What we're measuring is the salinity of the water.
And that's important on the one hand,
because like you need to make sure there's stuff in it.
But remember, we don't know how much of what is in it
based on just the electrical charge.
The other reason it's important
and the real reason we need to measure it
is because it affects osmosis.
It affects the plant's ability to get water,
just like it would affect your ability
to get like your thirst quenched if the water was too salty.
So as we add more and more stuff to the water,
we're actually making it harder and harder
for the plant to absorb water.
We're decreasing sort of its ability to absorb water
as the electrical conductivity it's exposed to increases.
Plants have to manufacture,
they have to produce sugars in their roots
to increase the concentration of the solution
in their roots to be able to continue
to pull that water across through osmosis.
And that's actually literally work at getting that water
until it gets to a point where it's too hard,
they can't get the water,
and you'll start to see signs of dehydration,
of wilting of the plant,
because it can't get the water.
Dehydration is often not a result of a plant
not having access to water.
Dehydration that we often experience in plants
is because the water the plant has access to
is too salty for it to drink.
So that's one of the reasons
that we like high frequency fertigation again,
that you sort of keep that fresh,
because as the plant sits in the nutrient solution,
it will absorb water generally faster
than it absorbs the salts.
And the concentration of salts will increase through time
from one fertigation event to the next.
As the water sort of gets absorbed by the plant
or gets evaporated directly out of the media,
the salts stay behind in a larger proportion.
And so it's making it hard
as that raises the electrical conductivity
of the water that the plant's exposed to,
and makes it harder for the plant
to absorb water through time
until you hit them with the next watering.
And that actually brings,
so growers often think like,
watering is the time that we are adding nutrients,
and it technically is,
but it's also the time that we're lowering
the electrical conductivity of the plants
because the electrical conductivity has been increasing.
The plants make sort of like nutrient burn
during that time actually,
or show other signs of toxicity in some cases,
but then you're actually giving a nutrient solution
to restore that balance,
to sort of bring the EC back down.
So too high of an EC can kind of cut them off from drinking
as much as they should be or want to be drinking.
Yeah.
Okay, so for those people who are like,
well, it says add 10 milliliters per gallon,
but I'm gonna add 20,
because it'll go twice as fast.
You might not be doing just the same thing.
You know what's funny about this?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Plants absorb more nutrients often
at lower electrical conductivities,
because they're absorbing more water
at lower electrical conductivities,
and more stuff, more fluid is flowing through the phloem.
So they're able to transport more nutrients.
And pretty much, you know,
we push our plants kind of hard most of the time,
all cannabis growers do,
to get a good harvest of what we're sort of used to.
We're pushing that.
We're not really pushing them,
but we're hitting all of their needs.
And the pushing, I guess,
refers more to like the electrical conductivity.
When your plants start to run into issues,
cut them a break by lowering the PPM,
lower the electrical conductivity.
If the plants are going through any other kind of stress,
cut them a little break by lowering that.
It often, actually often leads to like sort of growth spurts
or other things.
I always, and I recommend this in my nutrient charts,
but lower the electrical conductivity
during the transition week following flower,
or following the flip to flower.
Give it a little bit easier on the plants,
because plants are going through like puberty.
So like cut them some slack
and make that time a little bit easier for that transition.
After transplants, you can lower it down.
If you're doing any really vigorous training on your plants
or other things like that,
that you're worried might cause stress to them,
just lower the electrical conductivity of the inflow
a little bit and cut them some slack.
Well, that's interesting.
That's less is more.
I have heard growers do that.
If they're on a regimen that says,
feed it X PPM per week,
they might do half doses or smaller doses more frequently.
And kind of to your point,
the frequent fertigation is a great way to go.
With salts as well, and cocoa too,
I'd imagine this is the same.
You said that they do kind of stay behind.
And if there is enough of a dry back,
they could almost kind of mineralize once again.
And then you come back with the water
and that's like the hot shot.
And that's where you can get a lot of burning too.
Yes, exactly.
When, you know, this is also why bottom feed systems
are really dangerous with this style of growing.
I understand how some of the bottom feed products
that are on the like whole systems that they saw out there
sort of get around some of these issues.
But I don't think they're getting around them
in a way that's fully ideal for the plant.
But everybody knows that if salty water evaporates,
it leaves behind salt residue.
If you get sweaty when you're out running or whatever,
and then your shirt ties out,
you're gonna have big sort of salt rings
where the sweat was.
If you're fertigating in fabric pots,
almost every new grower will show up to the chat room
at some point and be like, I got mold growing on my pots.
And it's always just that exact same sort of salt deposits.
If those form, and but that's on the fabric pot,
which actually does get dry
because you got like a fan blowing on it
and stuff on the outside of the room.
That gets us back to the point
we were talking about earlier,
which is why we don't really wanna let the media dry out.
The dry back can be dangerous
if any sort of salt deposits would form,
letting the top of the cocoa dry out completely.
I haven't seen this in a while,
but man, I used to see such sketchy advice
about how to grow in cocoa.
Hopefully I've helped clean some of that up.
But people used to say,
let the top of the cocoa become a lighter color brown
before watering it again.
If you're doing that-
Seen that, I've seen that.
Yeah, if you're doing that,
you're definitely gonna have the salt precipitating
out of solution and creating potential issues
that can come back and haunt you
with sort of spiking your EC
or creating lockouts or other things later on.
And you mentioned too before earlier
that PPM has different scales.
And usually it's the, from what I've seen,
it's the 500 and the 700 scale.
I have one of the little Bluelab pens.
And to me, it's just kind of shocking
because again, EC is probably the number
that we should use.
That's kind of universal.
It has one scale,
but the difference between your EC readings,
whether you're on 500 or 700,
it's a lot wider than I would have imagined.
So EC-
You're doing the PPM meetings.
Yeah, no, they're based on different,
basically what this fundamentally gets down to
is they're based on different assumptions
about how much of the dissolved solids are calcium.
Because calcium has a larger charge
than most of the other dissolved solids.
So in,
if you're thinking about water
and most of what makes up the electrical conductivity
of like your tap water or whatever is calcium.
So they assume basically in those conversion formulas
that like most of it is calcium,
but like, is it 90% or 70%?
That's basically what shifts the difference.
Well, 90% or 70%, not of the dissolved solids,
but of the charge is coming from calcium
that shifts those different scales around.
Because if you reduce the proportion of it that's calcium,
that means a much larger proportion of it
is other things that have,
or that portion of the charge is made up
by things that have a smaller charge.
So there must be many more of them.
So they would contribute larger to the PPM number,
even though they don't contribute larger to the EC number.
So as the ratio of calcium in the solution decreases,
if the electrical conductivity stays the same,
the parts per million go up
because it must be something else
that's making up that difference.
That's an awesome gold nugget.
As we like to say here on Future Cannabis Project,
that was a gold nugget right there.
I like that one.
Because again, it's almost can relate to bricks.
You talk about bricks, everybody thinks it's sugar.
It's like, well, it's sugar and other things,
but we can't tell you the ratios of anything.
So I liked how you broke that down proportionally.
The size is going to register larger,
even though it may be a smaller amount,
it's just a larger size.
I got it.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, I don't just want to put a nail in the coffin
on which we should be using in terms of PPM or EC.
It really should be EC.
The PPM was never meant to be really the measure
for sort of establishing the nutrient ratio.
And it gets, there's another reason for that.
Because if you're thinking about it in terms of PPM,
you're actually thinking like that you're,
I mean, it would matter what the parts are,
like parts of what per million.
That's not just like all one number.
I put like five different things in this water
and I'm just getting one number.
Like that's not giving me enough information
about the parts that are in that million.
I mean, so, but growers kind of think about it that way.
Like they're dosing it in some kind of way,
using those numbers.
But really, like I said,
the reason that this is an important number for us
to measure isn't because we can do any kind
of accurate dosing with it.
It's because it affects the plant's ability
to absorb water through osmosis,
which has everything to do with electrical conductivity
and nothing to do with somebody's estimates
of the parts per million.
But actually the charge of the water
is what affects the osmosis.
Okay, well, now that we've got that established,
I will amend this next question.
And I know you have a lot of these numbers
up on the cocoaforcannabis.com website.
And I know that target EC range is gonna vary
throughout seedling, vegetative, transition and flower.
But do you have off top of your head,
what are some kind of common goals to maybe hit
as far as the EC range in those various stages?
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
So EC, the one trick about EC is some people
are used to dealing with it in millisiemens,
which doesn't give enough granularity.
So if you see EC numbers as like 1.3
or something like that, electrical conductivity,
that's just not enough granularity.
I wanna be able to do like 1.307.
Fortunately, we do have microsiemens,
which is another standard way
of counting electrical conductivity.
And you just, you multiply everything by 1000.
So 1.3 becomes 1300.
The problem with this, and there's a reason for this caveat
is then people start to get confused
because the numbers are closer to the PPM numbers
and people start to get confused
that the EC numbers are the PPM numbers or whatever.
So I'm talking about EC,
but I'm talking in terms of microsiemens.
So you wanna start plants
with pretty low dose of electrical conductivity.
My first pertiguation, about 200.
So yeah, that's the point.
I'm getting my EC and PPM mixed up again.
That's in my head.
Yeah, in my head, like I could tell you
the target PPM for these ranges,
but again, I can't convert that quickly to EC in my head.
Yeah, it is 400.
I'm sorry, I started at 400 EC.
I do these whole like this little,
we were talking about breaking mistakes earlier.
So 400, and that's not really a lot.
That would be on the other scale, 0.4, a PPM of 200.
Yeah, super low.
It's super low.
And I work them up pretty quickly from there
as seedlings up to about a thousand each year.
So that would be 500 PPM.
Maybe it's easier if we just always use both,
but see that's not doing the conversion
that I wanna do to this community.
Catch 20, Indica sativa.
No, I'm sorry, go ahead.
Yeah, so that buildup,
growers often get confused about like seeds
have enough nutrients for two weeks.
This is one of my favorite myths that I hear.
Seeds have enough nutrients for two weeks.
They most do, most will survive for two weeks,
but seeds don't come with any nutrients.
Seeds don't come with any nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium,
calcium, magnesium in a form that's available
to use for photosynthesis.
They come with starches and sugars and proteins
and any other nutrients that are available
for photosynthesis.
So they have starches and sugars and proteins
and energy that they can metabolize to help early growth
or to support early growth.
The plant needs that energy to metabolize
before it starts making its own photosynthase,
before it starts making its own sort of chemical energy
from the solar radiation that it receives.
The nutrients, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium,
all these things that we provide to our plants
are like vitamins basically that support photosynthesis.
They're required by the plant in order to fully engage
in photosynthesis and make all of the compounds
that it's gotta make for itself
in order for it to survive and grow.
So, but yeah, that idea that like the plant,
a seed has enough nutrients for two weeks
is just not right at all and leads growers to,
to I don't know, weird ideas about what has to happen
with plant's nutrition.
When a plant starts, when a plant opens its leaves
and plants are, seeds are basically in a race
to get their leaves open once they germinate.
Metabolism kicks into gear.
They start burning through those carbohydrates
and proteins and fats that were gifted to them
by their mother plant and is in this race
to get leaves open to start its own photosynthesis.
Until it gets leaves open to start its own photosynthesis,
it does not need nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, calcium,
any of that stuff because that stuff is for photosynthesis.
It's not for like plant growth, it's for photosynthesis.
But once the leaves are open,
it needs to have access to them
in some microscopic dose basically
in order to really fully start engaging in photosynthesis,
to start shifting its energy demands
from its stored energy and onto photosynthesis
and photosynthate.
Most of the time, you're gonna be growing in a media
that has enough trace nutrients for the plant
to sort of deal with for the first week or two,
even if you're sort of subscribed to the two week thing.
But when the leaves are open,
the plant can start using those nutrients.
And in an inert media like cocoa,
there's really nothing for the plant
until we start providing it.
So as soon as the leaves open,
I start very lightly fertigating,
like we're talking about with really low nutrient solution.
And then as the plant grows up
and in the first week or 10 days or so after that,
where it's a seedling,
I am increasing the electrical conductivity gradually
to essentially accustom the plant
to a higher electrical charge.
That's not needed because the plant needs
a higher electrical charge for its own photosynthesis.
It's basically needed in cocoa
because I need to keep feeding
the cocoa, calcium and magnesium.
And the calcium and magnesium
have a huge electrical conductivity sort of charge on them.
So if my plants are growing in cocoa,
I gotta get them sort of used to water
that has enough calcium and magnesium
that it satiates the cocoa itself.
Fine, yeah, finding that happy balance.
Okay, what are you gonna take from me
before you get down the block?
Into the roots, that is.
Yeah, yeah.
As far as I can see.
Well, yeah, exactly.
Like you can't keep my,
if my plants were at 400 EC for too long,
the cocoa would become ravenous for calcium and magnesium
because the dose of calcium and magnesium
that I could provide at 400 EC would be microscopic.
Okay.
I gotta ramp it up basically just to,
I'm like ramping it up
so I can feed the cocoa more calcium at that stage
more than I'm ramping up the electrical conductivity
because the plants need more nitrogen, phosphorus,
potassium, calcium, all that stuff for photosynthesis.
But the plants also start growing then
and they do need more nutrients
as they sort of photosynthesize more.
So is there like a universal cheat code to CalMeg,
add it at this particular EC
across all different kinds of brands or cultivars
or growing situations,
and it's gonna satiate the need for it
or does it really vary by environment conditions, cultivars,
how much that-
Well, in that case,
in cocoa, we're really talking primarily
about the cocoa's need for calcium and magnesium
more than the plants need for calcium and magnesium.
Like I almost approach my calcium and magnesium management
like I just want there to be some leftover for the plant.
Like, you know,
it's not that the plants need more of it,
it's just that they get less of what you provide.
Okay, if that makes sense.
If that makes sense.
Yeah, and when you're growing in cocoa,
I recommend giving calcium and magnesium
in all of the water,
always, throughout the whole grow.
Very rare, basically just if you're flushing
for a true lockout,
where you have to break a true lockout,
I would flush with a flushing agent
without calcium and magnesium,
but that's really rare.
That never happens unless you've really made
horrible mistake.
But yeah, I mean, you're baiting,
and that's again, mostly for the cocoa, not for the plant.
And that's the only reason I ramp up the nutrients
sort of early in their life cycle.
That seedling blend,
I think like 90% of the electrical conductivity
is the calcium and magnesium.
That's basically there for the cocoa.
And while we're on the topic of flushing,
you know, you said it was fairly easy with cocoa.
Again, you can almost get it to a blank slate
and then go back to the correct proportions.
When it comes to end of life and harvest for cocoa growers,
is flushing a common phenomenon
to try to lower that output EC or PPM?
Yeah, it is pretty common.
Okay.
It is pretty common.
There are certainly ways to shoot yourself in the foot
doing it in cocoa.
Again, there's nothing in cocoa
that you don't put there for the plant.
So if you flush it all out,
your plant will start to go into nutrient deficiency,
like almost immediately.
So we do really quick flushes
if you do wanna flush in cocoa.
You know, the science on flushing is one of these things.
I got so like carried away with my grow light projects now
that I need to get back sometime to our flushing project
because we were really deep in the weeds
on the science of flushing.
And like everything that most growers think flushing does
it doesn't do.
But-
Like-
I really want-
Go ahead.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Like what would one of those things be?
Like one of those common misconceptions?
It reduces the concentration of nutrients in the buds.
Okay.
Yep.
Cause that's usually why people say that they flush.
Is like, I don't, you know, I want it to burn good.
Yeah.
I wanna get the chemicals out of my bud.
So I flush.
Yeah.
I hate to break it to all of you
but you are removing absolutely nothing.
Maybe this is good news.
Probably is good news, but you're removing nothing
from your flowers, from your buds by flushing.
You're gonna cut them off from continuing to grow
if you really do cut them off of the supply of phosphorus
particularly at that stage, nitrogen too.
But none of the phosphorus or nitrogen
that's been used in photosynthesis
that's already incorporated into the compounds
within those buds is going to be removed.
None of it.
And we have a lot of sort of different kinds
of evidence that shows that.
Those are only sentence for energy.
For energy plant doesn't strip stuff out of its flowers
for any reason.
They're only things that things end up in.
And in a situation, so you're not doing that.
You're not sort of removing nutrients
that are already absorbed by the plant, which is what,
yeah, I agree.
Almost everybody seems to think that they are doing.
They like feed hard and then flush
like out the excess or something,
but that's just not how it works.
When you feed hard, you're sort of limiting uptake
and limiting water uptake during the course of the plant.
You may still add toxicities,
but you're not gonna remove any of that stuff
by just cutting off the flow.
And you're not really gonna repurpose it
for other uses either.
The plant will accelerate its senescence
when you cut off the supply of nutrition.
It will relocate mobile nutrients from leaves
to places that need to grow
because they don't have access to the nutrients anymore.
But the places that need to grow according to the plant
are the flowers.
So it's not gonna take anything out of the,
it's just not set up to take anything out
of the flowers like that.
All of that said, I still think
that flushing might do something.
I think we have a lot of anecdotal evidence,
but like a lot, like enough anecdotal evidence
that we could like sample it for like a representative
sample that flushing does something.
So it's interesting to think about what it might do.
There's a couple of different things that it could do.
One is by dramatically lowering
the electrical conductivity in the water,
totally as part from sort of what the plant's gonna do
with those nutrients.
Just thinking about, again, the saltiness of the water.
Doing that dramatically will create a dramatic response
in the plant.
The plant is set up for high saline water,
which means it has a high concentration of sugars
in its roots to attract that high saline water
into the roots.
If you cut the electrical conductivity
of the water dramatically,
the plant's gotta disperse those sugars.
It will reallocate them, convert them often into starches,
other things, but it's responding
and it's gonna respond quickly.
Not to like just the nutrients per se,
but it's responding to the electrical conductivity.
I think that shocking the plant like that close to harvest
very well could produce some secondary benefit
that we all perceive as increasing quality of the harvest.
The other thing is lowering the electrical conductivity,
not like wiping it out to zero,
but lowering the electrical conductivity
as plants approach harvest probably does,
and there's a lot of reasons to believe
that that would help in ripening
and maybe some of the final bulking and flower development.
But yeah, I'm thinking along those lines
in terms of if there is a mechanism
that the flush really benefits us,
it's probably from dropping the electrical conductivity.
And I would argue if that's the case,
then the effect is probably more pronounced
when you're able to drop the electrical conductivity
very fast, like in one event,
as opposed to over a series of events
where you're flushing out a media.
And cocoa lends itself to that.
DWC lends itself to that too.
We can remove all nutrition like immediately basically,
give them a really quick flush and then harvest.
I only let them sit in low EC water like that
for like four days max at the end of the growth.
Well, that'll be interesting
to see how it all susses out in the future,
because I know science will be looking at this a lot more
and there will be the chance and opportunities
for more clinical testing,
more lab type testing to discover something.
But I joke and I say it all the time, it's true though,
but the better you are as a grower,
you learn how to stress your plant properly.
Stressing your plant tends to bring out
the expressions we love most.
And who knows, you might be onto something,
maybe it doesn't do anything other than stress.
Yeah, other than stress and it gets us a result we want.
So it'll be interesting to see how that susses out
in the future.
Yeah, no, I totally agree with that.
I totally agree with that.
Stressing your plant properly
can definitely lead to beneficial effects.
And that's given rise to a whole bunch of
post-harvest or pre-harvest rituals that,
like flushing, that I always say,
like for the definitive answers,
we don't have really any evidence
that it provokes any benefit,
but it's hard to imagine how it could hurt much too.
So it's sort of like,
turning to God when you're in a sinking ship or something.
It's like the downside is pretty limited at that point
and it can only possibly help.
So yeah, go for it.
As long as you're not doing it so far before harvest
that you really are starving your plants
sort of at the end,
because that will harm your harvest.
Yeah, you can definitely stunt your growth on things.
It is, it's all about timing.
Yeah, yeah.
But yeah, that and other fun things
that you can do at the end of the grow,
like leaving your plants in the dark for 24 hours
or whatever, or longer,
treating them with ice water.
What do we got?
Like driving a nail through the stalk of the plant.
Yeah, drought stress.
I'm gonna go for the drought stress at the end.
Yeah, there's some interesting research
about drought stressing plants a little bit earlier
in the flowering period, like around week six.
With some interesting positive results.
That's the really advanced.
If you wanna try that stuff in cocoa,
that's the really advanced class.
Because if you wanna drought stress,
you first have to preset down the electrical conductivity.
You can't just like stop watering.
You gotta leave them with less salt in the water
because the water's gonna evaporate away
and that would create too much.
So if you wanna do any kind of drought stressing,
which I don't necessarily recommend,
but I will say, drop your EC first.
So do sort of like a half strength watering
to lower the roots on EC,
not leave too much salt in there to concentrate later.
And then you can drought stress a little bit.
Yeah.
That's cool.
One kind of back to the media itself is cocoa.
You were talking about earlier
how kind of coconut fiber is what it sounds like.
It's coming off the coconut itself for a lot of places
or some places it's a waste product,
but you also said that there are now,
or there is such a demand
that people are specifically growing it
to convert it into the cocoa core.
And I don't know if you know the answer.
I'm gonna be really honest
about sort of this inability of this.
For a long time, people were just saying like,
oh, it's just a waste product
and we're just reusing a waste product.
And there's some truth to that,
but it is now also a farmed commodity.
So we can't just pretend like
we're just picking up other people's garbage.
They're actually growing plantations of this stuff
to support horticultural cocoa.
And yeah, I mean, that's just part of the honest.
That's a really good point.
And I'm glad you brought it up because I do.
I tend to, you know, I want to think
that we're closing all these loops
and we're using all these waste products
and we're repurposing things for a brighter purpose.
And a lot of times we are, and in this case we were,
but the demand is just so high now
that it's gone beyond that.
It's become its own thing.
Where is the line?
That's still a renewable resource though.
Even though they're growing it on plantations,
it's not like peat.
And it's not like perlite to be perfectly honest with you,
which are both mined resources
that have a certain amount in the ground
that we're rapidly burning our way through.
Cocoa at least, you know, coconuts grow on trees.
Quite literally they grow on trees.
So we can keep growing more of them.
We can't grow more peat.
And maybe we could do, I mean, there's perlite substitutes.
We could do other things with perlite,
but right now it's also, I mean,
it's a mined resource that we're deplenishing
the amount of it that there's left to mine in the future.
So that is still, even if they have to grow
the coconut trees just for the cocoa core,
it's still a renewable resource,
but it needs to be part of the equation.
So, okay, that does kind of answer,
answers the question of where I was kind of going
is basically where does it sit
on like the environmentally friendly scale of things?
And it sounds like it's kind of in the middle,
maybe lower middle as far as being helpful.
Peat is, I would say would be high on the list
because peat, yeah, it takes what, a million years
for that stuff to form.
And that's not an unlimited source.
So, okay.
And these are important to think about.
I mean, I think that one of the issues
that I have oftentimes with growers
that really wanna sort of have a low environmental impact
or really it's growers that give me a hard time
for not caring about the environment or something.
It's like, you're thinking about such a narrow spectrum
of your environmental impact.
You're thinking about like just the nutrients that you use,
or maybe you're just thinking about the runoff water
from the nutrients that I use.
But thinking about sourcing,
thinking about where these products come from,
whether they're sustainable or renewable resources,
how much energy goes into their manufacture,
how much energy goes into their transportation.
All that supply side stuff
is often not very well examined by growers
and sort of thinking about the environmental impacts
that they make.
And the other big thing, of course,
is the equipment that we're running,
which the biggest impact most of us make with our grows
is for the power that we use to run our lives.
Yeah, a hundred percent.
So I guess kind of on that note,
can cocoa be reused from one grow to another grow?
And if so, how would you process that or get it ready?
Yes, yes, this was actually my first video.
For some reason, my very first video ever on YouTube
was how to reuse and recycle cocoa.
And then I followed that up with like how to prepare
and buffer cocoa for the first place video.
So if you wanna dip deep into the Dr. MJ Cocoa archives,
you can watch my reuse and recycle video.
But yeah, cocoa can be reused literally
until the time that it disappears.
If you talk to most of the cocoa manufacturers,
they will tell you otherwise
because they wanna sell you more cocoa.
But if you rinse it, so you put it back through a colander,
what happens is during the course of the grow,
the cocoa will break down.
So your chips, if you had any chips,
will start breaking down into fiber and pee.
The larger particles of the pee
will break down into smaller particles of the pee.
And yeah, it's not totally ideal.
So each grow, you wanna wash it out again
and get rid of again, sort of the smallest particles of pee.
And eventually you would wanna maybe add some more cocoa
because you're gonna be running out of cocoa
because as you rinse it out,
like you lose cocoa in that process.
But you're holding onto the larger particles,
you're holding onto the fiber
or any of the chips that are still in there.
And you're holding onto all the perlite at that point
because the perlite's a large enough particle size
that won't go through the colander.
If you do that and then you rebuffer it,
you'll have a little bit less cocoa
than you had moments ago.
But the cocoa will be just as good as it was
when you first started essentially.
And you can keep doing that.
Like you will have to add cocoa into this system on one end
because you're losing cocoa dust out the other end.
But yeah, you get quite a few grows out of cocoa that way.
I'm muted, but I caught myself that time.
So that's only half, half this episode guys, not a full one.
That's awesome though.
That is good that it can be reused.
I know commercially we were reusing it.
They were just cheap.
So I don't know if it was good or not,
they were gonna reuse it anyways.
But-
Being cheap is cutting down on the amount of,
not just money that you have to use,
but like all these trees that we were talking about
that might have to be planting
or whatever else you're gonna do with it.
Now, if you do end up with cocoa
that you want to sort of repurpose,
it's a wonderful amendment to garden beds.
It's funny because we talk about,
when they're exposed to it from cannabis growing
and from like me,
and I talk about high frequency fertigation
and how cocoa holds onto the air
and all the rest of this stuff.
When it's used in other blends,
other soil blends or peat blends,
it's usually incorporated
because cocoa holds onto so much water.
It's a water retention agent often in other soil mixes
and stuff like that.
So it's wonderful in your vegetable gardens
or your flower gardens in front of your house
or in your garden for your plants
or in your garden for your plants or your furniture.
All those kinds of places,
it'll help retain more moisture,
especially if you live in a drier climate
in the ground for your plants.
Yeah, we never water cocoa basically
because there's not enough water in the cocoa.
We always water cocoa
because we're fine tuning everything else basically.
It can take forever.
It takes forever for the cocoa
to fully dry back out to its dehydrated form.
That's been one thing that has shocked me sometimes
because I have to look at my root balls.
I have to look at the roots.
I'm in little pots.
I'm not in a big bed.
So I always, eventually after I harvest,
I'll get around to tipping my pots out
and checking the root balls.
And I do repurpose my soil outdoors.
But I-
Let's address another question.
I've been paying attention to chat now,
but I just started paying attention to chat
and I see some questions that I wanna get into.
So when you get a second, sorry about that.
Cool, yeah, no, no.
Let's kind of get into that
because I have just a couple of more.
I know we're gonna have to kind of cut it short
because I have so many things that I wanna ask you.
We won't get into any of the lighting questions.
Maybe we'll turn that into a part two,
but I absolutely want to make sure
that you mentioned the lighting calculator quickly
when we go over all this stuff.
But yeah, what did you see in chat?
What was it?
Oh, Matthew Sokal,
hopefully wanted to be called out on the show,
talks about cleaning nutrients from the sewage systems.
If you have to, you can put nutrients down,
like municipal water systems.
It's not the best thing in the world to do,
but municipal water systems are generally prepared
to clean that water.
It's not gonna like release into the environment.
But I don't put any of my water down the drain, Matthew.
I actually do now live on a septic tank.
And if you're on a septic tank,
you really can't flush the nutrient solution down the drain.
There's very little runoff water.
This is what I was getting back to you before.
There's very little water to begin with
because we're very little sort of runoff water
because our amounts are so small on the inflow.
So I don't produce very much runoff water.
I've got my wife addicted to it
because she feeds it to all of our houseplants
and our houseplants love it.
So potted plants is absolutely the best way
to process your wastewater from any hydroponic system.
A plant in a container that will process those nutrients.
And a lot of plants really like the runoff water a lot
and will thrive on it.
And you can just grow a bunch of philodendrons.
Philodendrons are my favorite plant
to grow with runoff water.
We now, I took a break from growing
and now I just have a small grow going.
I'm not, I'm literally not producing.
My wife is like coming looking for the runoff water.
In our house, runoff water is a resource.
It's not sort of a waste product
that needs to be flushed down the drain
or dumped into the environment.
And I think that that's part of closing the loops
that you're talking about too.
That is one of the important sides of being a grower
that does drain to waste is thinking about the waste.
First of all, managing your grow in such a way
that there isn't a lot of waste
and then finding a good purpose for it if possible.
Nutrient solution, unless you're growing at a huge scale,
it's really not that hard to sort of have enough other plants
and that just encourages sort of gardening in general.
So I wanted to make sure that I made that point.
And I wanted, yeah, I'm glad that you did
because I wanted to bring that up
through some point of the conversation
because I know a lot of people do water to runoff
in these types of systems.
And maybe it's the beard, maybe it's the long hair.
I'm a hippie, absolutely don't put that stuff
down your kitchen sink or your bathroom sink, please.
Just again, the environmental impact is what I'm thinking.
As devils advocate for a second,
it's more dangerous to do other things with it.
So dumping it down the sink,
if you call your local wastewater facility,
most of them will tell you to dump it down the drain
as the safe and responsible way to dispose of it.
What is illegal is dumping your nutrient solution
in an outdoor setting onto the ground.
It's actually a violation of the Clean Water Act
in the United States to dispose of hydroponic effluent water
into the soil or into the ground.
So if you're looking for the proper way to dispose of it,
do not let it drain into your gutter
or get out into your driveway
or put it even into your garden
that is sort of like a garden in the ground.
Most municipal water facilities
will ask you how much you have.
And if it's below a certain amount,
they'll tell you, they'll instruct you
to flush it down the drain
because municipal water facility
is 100% prepared to deal with that stuff.
You know what's worse?
They're like the products that we use
to clean our toilets with and stuff like that
that also goes down the drain
and needs to be cleaned out
before that water is released into the environment.
If you're worried about it, call first and ask though.
But the best thing to do, like I said,
is feed it to other potted plants
so it doesn't escape into the environment.
The nitrates and phosphates that we use
have to be converted by plants.
So it's either gonna be like algae beds
at a treatment facility
or my philodendron or something else.
Wow, okay, well, you gave me a lot to think about there.
I'm definitely gonna have to go back
and reconsider some of my preconceived notions on that.
And I wanna throw this up here, Matthew Sokal,
huge energy use to clean these ionics from the water.
He actually does work for a water treatment facility.
So he is a fun person to talk to
about some of these issues.
And-
I agree, it's a cost.
Yeah, no, what you're saying absolutely makes sense to me.
And it's a perspective that I haven't thought of.
So I am gonna have to rethink some of this after the show.
And Matthew, you're definitely gonna hear from me
because I'm probably gonna be talking to you
on some of those ideas, but yeah, that's awesome.
Okay, sorry, mind blown.
I gotta recoup myself here, but-
With that basic message, I wanna just say that I agree.
I prefer really not to have that impact on the environment.
And it definitely imposes a cost
on whoever is cleaning up that water on the other end.
And that's one of the things that we really, I think,
need to better reconcile with as growers
is these impacts that we make and who ends up paying them
and how we can mitigate them.
Well, well said there, well said, wrapped up there.
Along that same note, is there really such a thing
as like a living cocoa system?
We all have kind of heard of,
think of like the living soil food web.
Is that something you could kind of replicate,
duplicate in cocoa?
Is it worth it?
And are these people, there's a few people
that are preaching it.
It's a pretty amenable substrate.
Microbes are certainly able to set up shop and live there
if you have other things for them to enjoy
in the substrate with it.
It begs a question on one hand of sort of why.
I always think about cocoa,
the big benefit of cocoa is the air to water ratio,
its ability to maintain oxygen
even when it's super saturated
or even when it's fully saturated,
which really lends it to a higher frequency,
fertigation and a faster growth.
So like the speed associated with growing in cocoa
is because of that sort of fertigation management,
air water ratio management and all of that.
You can establish a living cocoa based media.
You would put other things in it though,
wouldn't just be cocoa,
but cocoa could be a pretty big portion of the base.
And yeah, it would be a very different style of growing,
but it's a pretty versatile horticultural media.
It can be used as a minor amendment
for water retention capacities.
It can be used as a base of different types of blends
or it can be used on its own
as a standalone grow substrate.
And then sometimes too,
it's again, I don't really have
that experience frame of reference.
That's why I wanted to bring it to you,
but I do have a lot of music background
and DJing in particular.
And sometimes just because two songs can go together
doesn't mean they should.
So I don't know if that's kind of, to paraphrase,
it's like, yeah, you could pull off a living cocoa,
but it's not necessarily advantageous
or conducive to that environment.
Yeah, exactly.
I don't see sort of the big benefit to doing it.
Other than that, I mean,
it may be a more environmentally friendly media
than doing it with a peat based media
or something like that.
I mean, it may be more sustainable.
We could think about those angles on it,
but from strictly a horticultural perspective,
I think cocoa is famous in horticulture
because it can, well,
because it retains a lot of water.
So using it as a minor amendment
for water retention is great,
but really it's famous because it's neutral,
you know, inert, like we're talking about.
And it really helps by the structure
of the cocoa fibers itself
helps create the ideal air to water ratio.
Thank you.
And then let's see, I've got just two more questions for you
and then chat.
Ooh, excuse me, chat.
If you have anything you'd love to get in,
go ahead and slide that in.
I'll start getting there.
But one of the last two methods
or questions that I had for you for this evening,
cause boy, do I have a whole bunch of questions for you.
And again, thank you so much for taking, you know,
a couple hours of your time tonight.
So say bye.
I mean, I thought we were still like in hour one.
So yeah, I was having fun.
Awesome, good.
Yay, yay for me.
Yay for everybody else too.
Hopefully, Matthew Sokal actually seems like
a really interesting person to talk to.
He would be welcome to hit me up separately.
So yeah, I didn't have any kind of animosity there.
I haven't been, I wish I had kept up with the chat better,
but it's harder, I realized.
I'm usually on the live panel show
with like six other people
and I can follow along with the chat
because I'm not always talking.
So I think I might have been always talking on this show.
I feel you.
I am just now after 30, 40 something shows
being able to keep up with chat myself
and not necessarily interact before.
It was just like, okay, I got to focus.
But anyway, I digress.
But what were some of the advanced methods
that you've used or seen used
to kind of maximize your yields in cocoa?
Maybe something that new growers might not be aware of.
I know you mentioned frequency of fertigation.
That sounds like it could be one thing.
Yeah, that's it.
What else might a new grower?
Okay, that's really the key.
That's like the key of sort of why I think people
are impressed with growing in cocoa.
When you get them on a high enough frequency of fertigation,
the plants just explode.
And they just, they grow faster.
You know, the only thing I've ever seen
that's anywhere comparable to this is sugarcane.
And sugarcane is like the fastest growing plant
in the world.
You get a cannabis plant in the bolt,
which growers formerly called the stretch,
the flowering stretch, but that's the bolt,
the flowering bolt.
That's on high frequency for irrigation in cocoa.
It's just wild to watch them grow so fast.
Big, beautiful plants, really easy to keep them really happy
and healthy on a high frequency of fertigation.
And I've done pretty high frequency of fertigation.
Recently, when we were doing one of the party cup challenges
that we do, I had them on, I think 12 times a day,
being fertigated 12 times a day.
So yeah, yeah.
That's automated.
That's gotta be automated.
Like you're not in there.
No, it was eight times a day.
That was eight times a day.
I'm trying to remember, it was actually like as many cycles
as I could program into that timer.
But yes, it is automated.
Once you go over a certain level of frequency,
well, you can only go over a certain level of frequency
if you automate, because you have to start watering
during the dark cycle and you wouldn't be able to go in
and disturb your flowering plants.
So yeah, plants use water about twice as fast
when the lights are on as when the lights are off.
I do have a whole time chart to help you figure out
sort of the ideal times to set
when you're doing multiple events per day,
what the distance is between the gaps
between events should be,
because you have longer gaps during the lights out,
twice as long gaps.
But then there's always sort of these events
that straddle lights on, lights out time and all that.
Yeah, that produces phenomenal results.
Everybody that sets up and does that just like
keeps growing like that forever,
because it's easy, really fast,
really beautiful plants, great harvest.
Managing your electrical conductivity.
So paying attention to the outflow,
we talked a lot about sort of the inflow.
Actually, I don't know if we even finished
answering the question now that I think about it,
but in terms of the different electrical conductivity
inflow ranges, but the other thing that's important there
is to make sure the outflow
doesn't get too much above the inflow.
Normal healthy plants will run
right at about the same inflow outflow.
Usually the outflow is a little bit higher.
When the outflow starts to creep too much higher,
you take sort of action to bring it back down,
either increasing the quantity or increasing the frequency
or lowering the inflow electrical conductivity.
And so learning sort of some of those tricks
to sort of keep the car on the road,
keep the grow together.
We can witness things.
If you're watching the electrical conductivity,
the runoff, you can notice problems
before you've ever noticed the plant symptoms
sort of start to develop.
Of like the common set of things
that growers often call new burn,
which is really sort of electrical conductivity burn
when the EC gets too high overall.
You can see that coming from a mile away,
way before you ever start to see the plant
actually get affected by it.
And you can keep the plant from getting affected by it.
By the time you're seeing the symptoms of almost anything,
the plant's been suffering for a while.
Right, yeah, yeah.
Couple, two, three weeks too late.
That's a good point there.
Yeah, yeah.
So I mean, I don't know, there's training techniques.
There's things about sort of how to maximize yield in space,
how to maximize returns to your light.
We need to talk a little bit about light
before you get out of here.
But yeah, all of those things I think
are the more advanced stuff.
Growing in cocoa itself is pretty simple.
I mean, it's fairly formulaic.
That's why we're able to set it up with an automatic system.
That's why it's great for new growers.
There's not a whole lot of sort of like user decisions
about the growing in cocoa part.
It's following recipes and following schedules
and stuff like that.
And for a lot of people,
whether it just be mindset approach or available time,
that's an attractive option for a lot of people.
Yeah, it takes a lot of guesswork out of it.
I mean, and for that reason,
I think it's a good entry to home grow for people
because usually when people start growing their own,
they're really interested to learn a lot
and they're really willing to learn a lot.
I mean, I'm a college professor.
I never have students that are as excited about learning
as I do when I start teaching them how to grow cannabis.
I'll tell you, it was like a revelation for me.
Oh my God.
We're so used to dealing with students that just want grades.
I mean, to be honest with you,
like good students want grades,
like bad students don't even care about the grades.
None of them want an education.
None of them actually wanna learn what you're teaching them.
Students generally think of like the material
that you're trying to teach them as the obstacle
they have to get through in order to get the grade
at the end of this class.
It's not like the essence of their educational experience.
Like teaching people cannabis, man,
they're like, they're so good.
It's awesome.
So in that stage, you can learn sort of the procedures
for growing well in coke, you get that down.
Growing in soil is more of an art.
There's more, I really think it benefits more
from experience, from knowledge of plants,
from having a lot of experience with plants
and sort of being able to talk to them and read them.
And if you have a lot of experience with plants,
you know what I mean.
As a new grower that doesn't have that yet,
I really do think cocoa is easier
to get that experience with plants
and you can follow the formulas and water on a schedule.
Yeah, yeah, definitely agree.
And it's kind of funny too, you mentioned that
in junior high, high school,
I got kicked out of numerous high schools.
I wasn't the best student per se,
but many years later in life, not too long ago,
when I went back for sustainable agriculture,
bro, I was on the honor roll, the Dean's list every time.
I was top of the class guy, I was.
I was like, so what's next, teach.
I actually taught sustainable agriculture as a class
and I didn't find the students were quite as,
I mean, you get students like you in those classes for sure,
but still the bulk of them are there to get the grades.
You know what I mean?
I'm in a chat room with Cocoa for Cannabis,
like everybody is there.
It feels to me like they have their pens and paper.
Now, you know, like they just want to learn anything
that I can tell them or whatever.
It's like, oh God, you do come across
to the university, but they are the fleeting gems.
Yeah, that's awesome.
It just, I mean, side note to go off tangent,
it did amaze me how many people were paying good money
to sit somewhere and be unhappy.
I'm like, that makes no sense to me guys, but whatever.
But that's their problem to figure out later.
I'll be busy learning.
They're to get a piece of paper
that says that they were there.
I mean, in the end they're diploma.
It's like, that's what a lot of people treat
their college experience as I think,
it's like, I'm here, I gotta do these things
in order to get this piece of paper.
So then later I can show other people
that I got this piece of paper.
Like you're missing the point.
Yes, you're missing the point.
One question we did have from chat here, you can grow.
And this is something I've never thought of,
something I've never actually seen.
Have you played around with using cover crops
or any mediums like hay or clay pellets?
And that would just basically help retain your moisture,
I'm assuming, is that something you really need?
Oh, there's different reasons to use cover crops
in different systems.
Yeah, I wouldn't in cocoa though,
not in a cocoa in an indoor grow setting.
The things that I would think about using cover crops
were preventing erosion, maintaining moisture
or fixing certain nitrates like nitrogen into the soil.
You could also plow them in and do other things like that
in like a field setting.
Maybe as a host for plant for like beneficial insects
or something like that if we're really stretching.
But no, with cocoa in indoor grow
under high frequency fertigation, we're really,
I'm tuning this whole project to produce cannabis,
high quality cannabis quickly.
With as low of net energy input
sort of across all these different things
and getting as high of a quality cannabis as you can.
I don't see much of a role for cover crops in that.
Well, there might be.
That's fair, that's fair enough.
Again, not everything applies to every system,
kind of like we've both said,
but it is good to be aware of.
And I'm glad it came up because I think
and I'm glad it came up because now I know I asked.
So that's part of the fun thing.
Sometimes we all learn together,
sometimes I'm just doing it in public with you guys.
All of that stuff is like part of ecology.
And it's one of the things that I love the most
probably about this style of growing
is it's not very ecological in that sense.
It's not very ecological in that it doesn't work
with like webs of different organisms to the same extent
that lots of different grow systems do.
Where different plants sort of serve different functions
maybe at different times of the year
or as hosts to different kinds of fauna
that may be beneficial or parasitic or who knows,
the whole ecology that develops.
And sometimes we get ecological
with the way that we battle pests.
If you get the beneficial insects to hunt your pest insects,
that's an ecological approach to this problem
and not a chemical approach
with spraying them with something or whatever.
But yeah, that is the part that I do miss
from this style of growing is it's fairly sterile.
We're growing one plant in an inert media
with chemical fertilizers.
There are still some microbes,
certainly that interact with the plant.
There's some microbes in the rhizosphere
that can help with the uptake of some of the nutrients,
but most of it's kind of sterile.
And that is part of the fun of otherwise being a farmer.
The farmers that I work with in my field work
grow primarily the Mesoamerican trilogy
of corn, beans and squash intercropped in systems.
And it's cool to sort of understand
how all of the different, not just those three,
but all of the rest of that ecosystem
sort of is integrated into that system like that.
All right, I got one last question.
You almost went there with that explanation.
I'm like, don't take my last question.
But you're obviously a well-educated
and experienced person with all of that.
Gosh, I ran out of words right there.
I'm talking about entails and growing.
My last question for you is, you've been,
for lack of better words, you've been to the buffet table.
Why has Cocoa been your preferred media for you?
And you're different than everybody else.
Yeah, it is the easiest system to run with the best results
and the lowest input,
then sort of like the most efficient,
the lowest input for the amount of output that you get.
And it's easy.
I mean, I set up my grow.
When I have all my sort of automation working,
then I just have to mix my nutrients
and like check out my plants.
Spend time with them, train them, stuff like that.
But they grow themselves to a large extent,
which I can get really busy with other things.
So I like to have a style of grow
that doesn't require like constant user input,
but allows me to have time with my plants when I want to.
Yeah, so.
Okay, I think that's a great question.
Yeah, so.
I think that's what a lot of people are after, honestly.
Yeah, it works.
And I love organic systems,
but I find them to be difficult to accomplish
in a meaningful way in an indoor space.
And when you do, most of them end up taking longer.
And I feel like we're sort of trading
one set of inputs and outputs for another
and slowing everything down.
So, yeah.
Yeah, I've not gone that route myself either,
just because again, indoors, small pots,
doesn't necessarily make sense for me.
So again, and that's what I preach on the home grow shows
is there's a time and a place for everything,
but not all the time.
And outdoors, I'm doing it organically in beds.
Inside, I'm doing something different
because that's kind of what the environment dictates
and the growing stuff is not.
The growing style that I want to accomplish as well.
I get busy as well, man.
I don't have time to do a whole bunch of stuff every day.
Although I spend way too much time
just endless like blankly staring at my plants.
That's replaced TV for me.
I used to waste time with TV.
Now I waste time staring at plants and smoking.
Oh, well, so be it.
Yeah.
It's better ways to waste time, I suppose.
There are better and worse ways.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, Dr. MJ Coco, I wanna say thank you very much.
And I hope we get to do this again
because there are some topics like lighting
we didn't even touch.
We can continue to expand on Coco,
but please real quick before you go.
I enjoy doing the deep dive on Coco.
I do get my head sort of caught up in the lights.
Too much.
My head's pretty deeply caught up in the lights right now.
I've got a new quantum sensor.
Apogee just developed a new quantum sensor this year
to include the far-red wavelengths
along with the standard PAR range.
And I'm getting into that.
I'm gonna do my next video with it
and get into all this new science
about ePAR and far-red light
and whether it should count as photosynthetic light
and how much of it we can use and all that stuff.
So every once in a while,
it's fun to get out of those topics and back into Coco.
But yeah, lighting is a lot of fun.
We should come back on maybe.
I'll be back on.
I'll get deeper into lights.
Oh, that would be awesome.
That's something that isn't the easiest
to wrap our heads around.
So that would be, yeah, that would be awesome
to have you come on and do something like that.
Yeah, I would definitely enjoy that.
I had mentioned real quick, we have the website.
We've got the cocoforcannabis.com
and that's where you can come
and you can find the light calculator.
What else are we able to find on there
that we've maybe mentioned?
I have all sorts of things.
We've got a big table of contents
with a bunch of articles about how to grow,
not just how to grow in Coco,
but how to germinate seeds or train plants
or do all sorts of different other things
that affects sort of all growers.
We certainly have articles about how to grow in Coco too.
We have the whole grow light guide,
dozens of grow light fixture test reports that I've done,
a bunch of articles on how to evaluate light
and things like PAR and PPFD and micromoles
and what all of those things mean
and how to use them.
We have the equipment and product guide,
which is all sorts of different things
you might need as a grower.
And then we have the whole community.
So we have thousands of growers in our community.
Hundreds of them keep journals in our forum.
We have a live chat room that's open 24 hours a day.
There's always growers in there chatting about their plants
and offering advice and insight to other people.
So there's all sorts of stuff.
And our new challenge is coming up.
We have, well, coming up, it's still a couple months away.
So you got plenty of time,
but it's the New Year's Grow Challenge.
It starts on January 1st.
We will have several hundred growers
all starting seeds together on the same day.
Big giveaways and prizes and stuff
all throughout the challenge.
February is flip day.
It's sort of a loose flip day.
We let people flip earlier or later if they need to,
but we have a big giveaway on flip day.
And then prizes at the end of the challenge
for the best journal and the best Gromee
and the best recovery and stuff like that.
So we're trying to keep it friendly to new growers,
keep everybody involved in these things,
and just have it be about participation
and sharing and growing together.
So you can sign up for our challenges.
And yeah, I'd like to invite everybody else
to check out my YouTube channel, DrMJCocoa on YouTube.
Got some videos we talked about
with buffering and reusing cocoa
and a bunch of light videos and videos on grow light physics.
And I'm gonna be premiering this video
with the Apple GSQ-10, the 610 ePAR sensor
and the Photon Tech SQ-300W Pro, I think Sunday.
If I get it done, it'll be on Sunday.
I hope I get it done by Sunday.
Say Tuesday, say Tuesday.
Yeah, say Tuesday, right?
And I always do grow light giveaways
during those PAR test premieres on my YouTube video.
So if you subscribe to my channel
and you get an announcement about a premiere,
tune in because I'm giving that right away
during that premiere.
Wow, that is awesome.
Giving back to the community,
not only with the resources,
but with the equipment to make things happen.
That's awesome.
Let me tell your audience about,
we do a weekly giveaway.
Every week we give away a grow light.
It's usually a pretty small light,
but every week there's a grow light.
And our grower love giveaway,
that's on our deals and discounts page.
And you just sign up for it.
You just like go and sign up for it.
And if you like follow our Instagram account,
you get like more chances, but there's no catch.
You don't get added to mail list or anything.
You just sign up.
It's just to sort of give back to the community
and spread the grower love.
So check that out on our deals and discounts page.
We've got a bunch of our Black Friday deals
going up there too and stuff like that for people.
Awesome, awesome, man.
And in chat, they're appreciating the conversation tonight.
So I'll pass that on to you directly.
I know you can't keep your eyes on it entire time,
but people enjoyed the chat, people enjoyed your time.
And I definitely did myself.
So thank you very much, Dr. MJ Coco.
Absolutely, I actually finally,
I started this whole thing in a private window
for some reason.
So I was not able to chat, but I finally opened this up.
So I just sent my grower love to the chat
and I do appreciate everybody showing up.
I see a bunch of familiar faces from Coco Picano.
It's a bunch of new people that I really hope
enjoyed the show, part of your audience, I'm sure.
So grower love to everybody.
Thanks for having me on.
It was really a pleasure.
I had a lot of fun.
Awesome, thank you.
My pleasure.
And I, for everybody who don't know,
Chad.Westport on Instagram.
You can also find me, ChadWestport.com.
And if you like AC Infinity gear and you wanna save 15%,
just type Westport in as your coupon code.
I'll toss that out there.
For now, I don't have a big list of shows
that we have going on.
I know there's constantly content coming up here
on FCP02 and the regular Future Canvas Project.
Tomorrow, Hota Erb, 6 p.m., FCP02.
That is Grow & Tell.
That's a fun new program.
Eh, it's a couple months into it now that I've been enjoying.
And then Friday, I'm coming back for a part two
with Trevor, Sun Grown Mids.
We were talking genomics and the basics
of cannabis breeding.
So that'll be 7 p.m. West Coast Friday night.
Me and Trevor right here, part two.
So if everybody can tune in, that'll be awesome.
Thank you guys for tuning in tonight.
And we appreciate the love.
Catch you next time, guys.
Your love, everyone.
