If you want to give a few words on enzymes before we jump ahead.
Yeah, you know enzymes as I'm sure you guys went into like tools that plants used to help achieve or perform certain types of work.
And typically enzymes can lower the amount of energy necessary, thereby overcoming some of the limitations that might be present physically or chemically.
Some of the enzymes in particular like the terpene synthase enzymes, and the ones that do the decoration phase in particular, when you're looking at some of the modification that they make can actually get pretty complicated and pretty complex and I will say from like,
from a biochemistry perspective, I think that the more people look at how enzymes function, and how they perform their work.
And it kind of both inspires and paves the road for understanding organic chemistry a little bit better and what exactly is happening in some of these plants.
At the same time, it does actually kind of guide our understandings of the sort of known laws of chemistry, you know, a lot of times we'll just kind of peg something that a plant is doing and kind of try to understand it better and better and then when we
finally come to understand how the plant is doing it or what exactly it's doing.
We've learned something else about the laws of chemistry or the laws of physics or something like that. So, yeah.
All right, so, you know,
it was a great conversation. I am also watching the YouTube dialogue going by I think I see Peter, helping adjust the volume, making sure that we're talking good and clear and loud for the simulcast so good thing to try to keep track of make sure that everybody can hear what we're talking about and we try to speak loudly.
Oh yeah, perfect now. Great, good stuff. Thank you, Cheese and Carlos and everybody else on YouTube helping us out here tonight.
So let's go ahead and jump into it. It is a Grow and Tell. And so, for those who've never joined us before, Hota Herbs Grow and Tells are an event.
It was a monthly gathering of cannabis growers that I started a couple years ago and we were all getting together before COVID and sniffing each other's jars and smoking each other's weed and talking about how we grew it and the different breeders and the different strains and cultivars we were growing and different techniques and had different speakers coming in.
And, you know, unfortunately we had to end that series due to COVID and some of the other stuff going on. But great, really, really excited to have this series going on again. This is our third episode of Hota Herbs Grow and Tell on Clubhouse and the Future Cannabis Project.
So I really, before we get going, I want to thank Peter for helping encourage me to get the Grow and Tells going again. And I want a quick shout out to all my Grow and Tell family out there in the Worcester area, Summit Lounge and Skunkbeard and some of the other great folks that used to come by all the time to those events.
So let's go ahead and talk about carbon, the forgotten macronutrient. And this is a great topic.
Every time we, anybody talks about macro nutrients and micronutrients and they start the conversation around NPK and everybody's favorite whipping boy, CalMag, and all these primary 13 or so micro and macro nutrients that everybody focuses on.
And there's so much more going on. It always makes me think about Dr. Elaine Ingham and her, you know, how she basically lectures on the fact that it's not just those 13 cannabis, not just cannabis plants, but plants in general are probably using almost everything that's on the periodic table in some way, shape or form.
And one of the things that always gets, that nobody ever really talks about, unless we're talking about, you know, the impact of growing hemp on the planet and the environment is carbon.
Not necessarily, you know, we usually talk about carbon sequestration and the ability of plants to hold carbon. But I think there's a lot more to talk about when we start talking about carbon metabolism and how, you know, compared to other macro nutrients, you could take, and we were talking about this earlier today, how you could take the NPK,
all the other nutrients and multiply that by five and there's still more carbon. So carbon is such a big part of the picture. And so I think it's an awesome topic to get going on tonight. And so that's where we'll go ahead and kick it off. So Nick, let's talk about carbon, carbon metabolism, and the fact that, you know, carbon is really the number one macro nutrient.
Yeah. Yeah. And like you said, Jason, you could take all of the nutrients, including sodium, dry matter, inside of the plant. So part of this to kind of take one step back and to look at macro nutrients in general, like what is a macro nutrient and why is it defined to be a macro nutrient?
You know, if your plants take up calcium, for example, and you can detect that calcium in the cell walls or in the actual structure of the plant, maybe in the stalks and the stems, there's pieces of calcium that get deposited. So of course, it's easy to think about calcium as a nutrient because it actually becomes a constituent of the plant matter itself.
The same thing is true with nitrogen and some of the other elements, maybe potassium and sulfur are more useful for like their electrochemical properties rather than their structural properties. But even silica, you know, it's useful because it's a structural aid and it can save the plant, you know, a lot of carbon basically, which represents potential energy. So that's one way of looking at it.
The other more introductory way of looking at it is, you know, even if you don't have a highly advanced degree in botany or something like that, you can still kind of like generally speaking, understand what photosynthesis is all about, right? The plants take energy from the light, they split a molecule of water and they suck CO2 out of there. That's the kind of like general premise.
But if we kind of look under the hood and we look more specifically, what we're going to find is that these macronutrients like nitrogen and magnesium and phosphorus, well, those are really just tools that plants use to capture carbon or to store that carbon or to move that carbon around or to somehow do something with carbon. And so when we're talking about macronutrients, really it's carbon first and then everything else revolves around carbon.
And I'll give you guys a kind of an easy bite size piece of information to understand about that. If you're in your garden and you notice that your leaves are yellowing, you may look at the leaf in the plant and say it's got a nitrogen deficiency. And let's just say hypothetically, it does have a nitrogen deficiency. So when you add more nitrogen, the leaf color comes back. It goes from pale and yellow. It comes back being darker green. Well, why is that? What's going on in the plant?
Chlorophyll obviously is being produced. And chlorophyll, the whole function and purpose of chlorophyll is to capture energy from the sun. That's the pigment that responds to the sunlight. So the subtle part there is to look at nitrogen. When you add nitrogen to the plants, they say, great, thanks. You've given me nitrogen. Now I'm going to use this to capture more energy from the sun.
And it's a night and day difference between a deficiency and a proficiency. Your plants will be pale and light yellow and they're not going to grow very well versus they're going to be nice and green and flushed. And they're going to be able to take up a lot of other nutrients as well.
So there's the kind of push-pull cycle as you push more nitrogen onto the plants. It kind of pulls the plant in a state of higher productivity. But what is all of that productivity revolving around if not for capturing carbon out of the air?
That's why chlorophyll pigment will absorb energy from the sun. It wants to convert that light energy into chemical energy because that conversion allows growth to happen. Otherwise, the plant would not be able to convert the light energy and photons coming in from the sun into something that's like biomass, terpenes and cannabinoids, things like that.
So this process of conversion has to occur. And what happens is the CO2 comes in from the leaves, just like the light. The water comes up from the roots. And as the plants drink the water, they split that water molecule in half. Basically, they keep the hydrogen and they let go of the oxygen.
And this is how, as everyone learned in kindergarten and probably elementary school, quote unquote, plants breathe oxygen. And this is the sort of mechanism by which they do it. They take up water, they split that water, they keep the hydrogen because it's a proton pump. That hydrogen is like an acid. That's the interface of the electrochemical potential of a plant.
So when they split that hydrogen and they generate the reduction power needed to scrub CO2 out of there, that's when they can start to harvest some of that energy there.
And nitrogen, for example, in the form of chlorophyll, also magnesium, which happens to sit at the dead center of chlorophyll. That's actually the element that accepts energy from the light.
And so here you go. Here's another example. If you give your plants more magnesium, suppose they're deficient in magnesium, the first thing they're going to do is take that magnesium and put it into proteins and enzymes, whose job it is to capture energy so that they can get more carbon.
Because that's all what plants do. It revolves entirely around carbon metabolism. Even something like phosphorus. Phosphorus as the energy currency, quote unquote, of a plant.
It's used to drive certain types of reactions. And if you look specifically at how phosphorus interacts with CO2 in the air, as a particle of CO2 in the air floats around, the active site of plants have this enzyme that converts CO2 from the air into a sugar, basically.
It's a sort of a complex process, but that enzyme, rubisco, is the most abundant enzyme, arguably, on the planet. So it's something plants produce in massive quantities. It's a very, very abundant protein.
But again, you have magnesium sitting at the active site of that enzyme, and its job is to help convert CO2 from the air into a carbohydrate. And that carbohydrate conversion process opens up a whole world of opportunities for plants.
Because sugar, for example, like sucrose, simple sugars, those are very soluble in water. And so when the plant has to move stuff around, and it has access to water coming in through the roots, it can start to hydrate some of that carbon, create carbohydrates, and then move those carbohydrates around their sugars to then become fuel sources and food sources for microbes and for fungi and for things like that.
Yeah, I really like, you know, I think that brings up something that I really, I really, I think is super important and like to pay attention to. And I think it's something that we, we as a society tend not to do necessarily is we tend to look at a problem, or we try to isolate a portion of a system that may seem to be a problem.
And it may seem like it's not functioning. Like you were saying, you know, you have some yellowing leaves. And so we like, oh, it's nitrogen.
But the reality is, in many cases, there is not just one thing that's causing the problem. There's this connectivity between things between systems. One thing doesn't function without the other.
You know, having the nitrogen alone does nothing. As you were, you know, as we were talking about earlier, that does absolutely nothing unless you have the carbon there to convert it over to an amino acid into a protein. So you need that. There's a connectivity. There's a, you can't just address one part of a system and expect everything to improve.
You have to look at the whole system and understand how these pieces are connected and where those issues might be coming from. You know, environmental issues can make your plants look like you're having a deficiency and it has nothing to do with the amount of nitrogen you might have available to that plant.
It's just that the temperatures aren't cooperating. And so the plant is appearing as though it's having a deficiency when it's having a reaction to the environment stimulus as opposed to the actual presence of nutrients.
So, yeah, having that understanding of that connectivity of those channels of how, you know, these elements are basically useless without carbon to help them be converted or transformed or allowed to, you know, accelerate that nutrients uptake.
Yeah, yeah. And that carbon is really fascinating because, you know, when plants need water, what they're trying to do is split that water and generate a reduction power basically from the hydrogen that comes out of the water. So that reduction power, think about it like dollars in your wallet. You know, you only have so many dollars to spend. And just like the plants, they only have so much chemical energy that they can put into certain processes.
Now, if you look at nitrogen, one of the forms of nitrogen that plants take up is nitrate. The other is ammoniacal, which forms that amine group, which becomes a constituent or the head group of an amino acid, which we'll kind of get into here in a second.
But the thing about nitrates is their chemical formula is NO3. So they have no hydrogen and they only have oxygen. So those represent two sort of opposite ends of a spectrum. One is fully reduced, the hydrogen. The second is fully oxidized, meaning that there's a lot of oxygen present.
So when we're talking about nitrates, that's NO3, fully oxidized. When we're talking about sulfates like magnesium sulfate, epsom salt, potassium sulfate, that's SO4. And even when we're talking about CO2, well, again, we have oxygen, but no hydrogen.
So this is a problem for plants. They're looking at these nutrients that are fully oxidized. They're not useful quite yet. They need to be converted because upon reduction, chemical reduction, these things become useful.
The easiest way to look at it is with the conversion of nitrogen into amino acids, which then give rise to proteins and chlorophyll and green pigments and all kinds of good stuff.
But what happens is the plants start off with NO3 and they have to figure out what's the pathway to get some hydrogen attached to that nitrate. Because the amine group, which makes up amino acids, doesn't have any oxygen. It's NH4 as opposed to NO3.
So you've got to replace three oxygens with four hydrogens somehow, and that comes from splitting water. If you split two molecules of water, you've got your four hydrogens. So let's just say hypothetically, just for the purpose of this thought experiment here, you give the plant two molecules of water.
It splits those two molecules of water, four hydrogen dollars, so to speak, to spend. Now you've given the plant a choice. Do you want CO2 out of the air? Do you want sulfate in the form of SO4? Or do you want nitrate in the form of NO3?
If the plant takes the nitrate for whatever reason, it starts to cleave off that oxygen and replace it with hydrogen. And this is a chemical conversion that requires a lot of energy for the plant.
Upon conversion, you have the amine group, and then that is plugged in physically to what's called an organic acid skeleton. These organic acid skeletons are typically generated when carbohydrates produced by the plant through photosynthesis, when those are broken down and actually used as a fuel source.
They give rise to these organic acid skeletons, organic acid residues. Those are physically plugged in to the amine group. That's hence the name amine O acid. The O acid is for organic acid.
Here's a process by which the plant has successfully split some water, generated some electrochemical currency, and then managed to convert a macronutrient that it needed.
But let's just say hypothetically the plant didn't convert nitrate and it wanted to convert carbon from CO2 into let's say a monoturpene. Because if you look at the chemical formula for monoturpene, there's 10 atoms of carbon, so it's C10.
And then there's 16 atoms of hydrogen, so it's C10H16. You won't find any oxygen whatsoever inside of a monoturpene. So again, here's the problem is how does the plant go from CO2, which is a single monomer of carbon, it's just got one of those carbons, and two oxygens.
And it somehow has to get enough carbon to then make something that's 10 carbons and 16 hydrogens. So it's got to do a lot of work. And along the way, as these terpenes are being produced, think about where they're being produced.
They're being produced in the outermost layer of the plant's cells, the trichomes, the glandular trichomes. Those physically stick out of the leaf surface, and those are exposed to the environment.
Well, we live on planet Earth, and there's a lot of oxygen in the air. And so this compound that the plants are trying to make, these monoturpenes, they're fully reduced. They're actually pretty sensitive to oxidation, the off-gassing of the terps, the volatility.
The volatile nature comes from the interaction of these fully reduced carbon units and oxygen. The oxygen is the thing that drives the changes through oxidation. And so plants have to figure out a way, how do I stop or prevent this oxidation from occurring because I've got this fully reduced carbon compound, and I don't want it to be oxidized.
So plants have figured out ways to make antioxidants, for example, that help them go through the process of keeping their carbon in a reduced form. They worked hard to get that electrochemical energy. They reduced the carbon. The last thing they want to have happen is for all of the oxygen that's present in this atmosphere to overwhelm and to completely oxidize all of the carbon that they worked so hard to reduce and to store and to capture.
So I hope that makes sense, at least with the carbon and the nitrogen piece. We didn't get into the sulfate, the conversion of sulfates, but I suppose just real quick to cap it off.
Sulfates are converted. Ironically enough, the sulfates are used by plants for their ability to prevent oxidative reactions. So they become the sort of the core constituent of antioxidant enzymes sulfates do upon their reduction, which also requires chemical energy.
So again, if you've only got a limited amount of chemical currency and you have a choice between carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, and perhaps some other fully oxidized elements, the plant has to do what it's capable of doing.
Yeah. No, that's awesome. Something that you mentioned a couple times that I think we want to make sure that we cover is the fact that pretty much everything that the plant makes, anything that is something that the plant makes, whether it's leaves, stems, pigments, aromas, terpenes, physical structures,
of any kind, all require carbon to make that happen. That without carbon, there are no leaves. That's why there's so much carbon in the leaves and the stems and everything. It's all part of the creation of those structures.
Yeah. And like we were kind of getting at, there's all these subtle things that are easy to understand, but they require a lifetime of pursuit to actually have that little aha moment where, how could I have missed it? It was so obvious.
Rubisco and chlorophyll are two good examples again, because they're some of the most abundant proteins and enzymes on the planet. Obviously the color green defines plant life. Without it, the world would be much different.
The one job that chlorophyll has is to capture energy from the sun. What for? And again, it's this reduction power to scrub CO2 out of the air. It seems like everything plants do revolves around carbon acquisition.
Like you mentioned, the colors that plants produce, these pigments, for example, the aromas, the flavors, everything that a plant can do is going to require carbon. It's just not possible to talk about plants producing something that has no carbon.
At least not that I'm familiar with. I haven't seen any inorganic substance produced by plants. And terpenes are actually a really good example. We probably could have started off this conversation with the following statement.
All your monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes, every single one that you could ever get analyzed at a lab, those are all 90% carbon. And all cannabinoids are roughly 80% carbon.
Here we've got two classes of compounds that pretty much define commercial and medical cannabis cultivation. These are the therapeutic compounds. These are the medicinal compounds. These are the compounds that consumers go to the stores, they look at the test results, and they say, I want that one versus the other one.
Why? Well, because one had more carbon than the other. If you have test results that indicate, let's just say hypothetically, somewhere around 8% terpenes on dry flower and 35% total cannabinoids on that dry flower, that's a lot of carbon.
You can do the math and try to figure out how much carbon was sunk. The flower is 35%. Cannabinoids and cannabinoids are 80% carbon. So that's a lot of carbon right there, just right off the rip. And then monoterpenes are about 90%.
And we've got terpenes on that flower that's about 8%. So we're looking at a substantial amount of carbon. And if you just kind of do the rough math, it ends up being about a third of the overall biomass is just a single element. And this is kind of what I was getting at earlier.
Jason also mentioned is that you can take all your NPKs, you can take all the CalMAGs, none of that stuff goes into a single atom or single molecule of THC or a single terpene. There is no NPK inside of any of that. So it's kind of misleading to think, I got to get more terpenes out of my plants and more cannabinoids. How do I do that?
Well, let me add some CalMAG. It's a little bit of a running joke, but there's no actual benefit there. They are 90%, 80 to 90% carbon by weight. So really it's a function of how much carbon did you get in your plant.
Right. How do I load carbon? How do I get as much carbon as possible into the plant? That's what we need to be thinking. We need to change our thought process there is how do we increase carbon intake and uptake? How do we get as much carbon as possible?
Yeah. And along those lines, you mentioned it earlier, it's all about this connective tissue. Carbon is the balancing or the buffering element that plants rely on for everything that they do. So if you're a commercial grower and you're growing indoors, let's say you have an understanding of how intense your lights are. Let's say you're around 1000 to 1200 micromoles of light intensity. You know the EC of your fertilizer going in and you know the PPMs of CO2 in your room.
For most advanced cultivators, this is kind of the bread and butter. They're looking at input EC, runoff EC, same thing with pH. They've got a handful, maybe a dozen or so variables that they're actively monitoring. So the most important ones will be how much light are you giving your plants? How much water are you giving your plants? And how much food are you giving your plants?
Obviously, when I say water, I mean feed water and then food. I mean carbon in the form of CO2 because that's the actual, that's the bulk of what plants ultimately are. So let's just say hypothetically, you're a grower and you're first getting used to the sealed flowering room and you crank up the light intensity and someone comes along and says, hey, your plants look a little deficient. The lights are really strong. I bet you could crank up your food and they would respond. So you crank up the food. Sure enough, the plants respond.
Because if you give them more intense lights, they can handle a higher feed. Alternatively, if your plants looked a little bit stressed and you didn't want to feed them heavier, you could pull them away from the lights. That way they get less intense light shining on them. And that will also do the same thing because you lowered the light intensity. The plants had a chance to kind of correct their growth and balance things out.
Yeah, it goes back to those limiting factors, right? You have to increase all aspects if you're trying to get yield. You can't just necessarily increase one aspect of your overall environment, light, water, nutrients, the five factors, CO2. I always forget the fifth one. But yeah, you have to do it in balance.
And just by increasing one, what that does is it puts stress on the others and for you to actually gain the value of increasing your light or increasing the amount of nutrients you're pumping in. You actually have to increase some of those other factors equally or enough to compensate.
Yeah. And one of the tricks, I guess, that a lot of growers don't realize is possible is, I mean, think about your plant much like a car motor. You've got spark, you've got an air fuel ratio, and then you've got to haul the exhaust out. So in a sealed flowering room, it's just like that.
And a lot of guys have run into a situation where they have their metrics dialed in a sealed flowering room. They know they can only push the plant so hard. But there's always that one event that pops up. Someone overfed the plants. They fed them too heavy. Maybe it was 25% heavier of a feed mix than what was initially called for.
So at this point, a lot of people would freak out. They'd say, oh, crap, I fed my plants way too hot. They're going to burn. They're going to get crispy. If you understand carbon and carbon chemistry in the plants, that doesn't have to happen. You can crank up the CO2 and the plants will buffer out all of that.
Again, going back to our topic about nitrates being converted into amino acids, it requires water. So presumably, if you fed them really heavy, you also watered them. So there's that. The inorganic mineral-based fertilizer, if you're using a salt-based fertilizer that has nitrates inside of it, that's going to work its way up the xylem tissue.
And if you've cranked up the CO2 gas, that nitrate meets the CO2 in the middle and the plant will be able to make an amino acid. Whereas if you don't, if you simply overfeed the plants and you do not crank up the CO2, you will burn your plants. You will get the toxicity. You will get that happening because the plants don't have a buffer. They don't have anything that will chemically balance out that excess mineral load.
Another way of visualizing what I'm talking about too is let's say you go the opposite direction. Let's say instead of overfeeding, let's say you underfeed your plants in a high CO2 environment with high light intensity. Your plants will immediately become deficient. They immediately crave more macronutrients. Well, why is that? Because they have access to a lot of carbon and they need more tools to process that carbon.
They need more nitrogen to make the chlorophyll. They need the magnesium for those enzymes. They need the phosphorus for the phosphate sugars. They need the potassium for the electrolyte. They need all of these things to kind of come together and be kind of connected on the back end so that this grand task of sucking carbon out of the air and making things like monoturpines, which are 90% carbon. The rest of the other 10%, by the way, is hydrogen and it comes from the plant splitting water.
So that's what the plant is trying to achieve overall. And if you understand carbon and how it connects all of the macro and micronutrients on the back end, you're going to benefit quite a bit as a commercial grower, especially because if you solve this issue of how do I get more carbon into my plants, you're going to end up with higher concentrations of terpenes and cannabinoids, which is ultimately what people are looking to achieve in either the medical or the recreational world.
But it's not just that. It's not just the secondary metabolite thing. The carbon is also a primary thing. If you look at cellulose, cellulose is that cell wall of a plant. It happens to be the most abundant natural polymer on the planet.
There's more cellulose than there is any other polymer and cellulose is right around 50% carbon, maybe 60% carbon.
I want to say it's actually pretty close to 50% carbon. So again, here's a structure that is produced by a plant that is mostly carbon or predominantly carbon. It's very heavy in carbon overall.
In addition to that, we've got these proteins whose job it is just to suck carbon out of the air or to get electrical energy from the sun so that they can suck carbon out of the air.
This is why I think it's important to, when you're talking about increasing yield and improving your quality as a grower, really the thing you should be obsessed with is carbon and how do I get more carbon inside of my grow?
How do I get the carbon inside of my plants? The easiest way is to just put up some walls, seal a flowering room, dump a bunch of CO2 gas in and let the plants deal with it. But that's not the most effective way of doing it at all.
So one of the things that we were chatting about earlier today was cow mag, for instance.
The functions of cow mag is about half a dozen different things that cow mag is good for and the different processes and things that it helps.
Sulfur is another one. All of these nutrients have half a dozen or so items that they're really important for in the overall production of plants.
But carbon is like a skeleton's key. It's like Pandora's box compared to those in all of the different functions and things that it can do.
Yeah, definitely. Like you said, pick any element like nitrogen, for example. Most growers know, hey, nitrogen gives my leaves their green color.
Most people may know phosphorus is like the energy reserve of the plant. So there's about, let's say, a half dozen to a dozen total features and benefits of each macronutrient.
But it's all kind of disjointed. It all doesn't really make sense until you start to include carbon in the mix.
And carbon, like you said, it really is Pandora's box because there's just no simple way of talking about carbon. That's why it has its own entire branch of chemistry.
Organic chemistry deals with carbon and inorganic chemistry just roughly speaking deals with all of the rest of the stuff.
The way that nitrogen moves around and the bonds that it makes and the kind of reactions that it can have. This stuff is a little bit more simple. It's a little bit more predictable.
It's a little bit more straightforward. When you add carbon into the mix, it just completely loses all sense of meaning and it kind of follows its own rules that are very dependent on what it is you're talking about.
Like for instance, we were just talking about this process by which plants take CO2 out of the air and they convert it into monotropians, which are fully reduced and they have multiple atoms of carbon.
So it represents a lot of work for the plant. That's not the only thing the plants are doing with it.
They're combining, let's say, there's organic acid residues that make amino acids.
Well, there's also organic acid residues that combine with calcium to make cell wall constituents like calcium pectate.
And pectin is, as many of you know, if you've had jam that's really jammy and it's got that gelatinous kind of look and feel to it.
It's got some pectin in there and pectin is this naturally occurring substance. It's like a bunch of cross-linked sugar polymers on a microscopic level that are sort of complexed with calcium.
And that calcium provides some rigidity and some actual physical structure, just like the calcium in your teeth provides some rigidity and physical structures.
It's exactly the same with plants. And so here's a flavor of carbon, let's call it this pectic acid residue or some of these other sugar derivatives that plants are capable of complexing with calcium to achieve a very distinct and particular function.
The cell wall and the integrity of the cell wall is pinnacle for a plant. If it doesn't have a good strong cell wall, it's not going to do a very good job of even its basic primary metabolism.
You're going to get all kinds of leakage. You're going to get distortions in the vacuole. You're going to get all kinds of crazy stuff happening with plants.
But with a good, thick, strong cell wall, the plants regulate their own internal versus external pressures very well.
And they're also capable of warding off disease pressures and things that want to kind of attack.
So the carbon comes in on the back end as being very critical for how macronutrients are ultimately metabolized and what their sort of end result is.
And it's kind of an easy, cheap answer to say, well, how does nitrogen work in the plant? And you say, well, that's easy. It has to do with carbon.
Well, what about phosphorus? Oh, that's easy. It has to do with carbon.
So all of these elements that become relevant for plants when we're talking about carbon, but unlike the nitrogen and the magnesium and the phosphorus, those are really straightforward.
And carbon chemistry is a lot more complex than just that.
It's funny when you said that earlier, where you mentioned that organic chemistry is really just for carbon.
And then the rest of chemistry is kind of like everything else.
It reminds me of this anecdote. My wife used to work at Barnes & Noble.
Somebody came in to the store and asked where the nonfiction section was.
And so the person working was like, okay, well, so right over here is the fiction section.
Everywhere else in the store is the nonfiction section.
And I think it's the same thing with, you know, kind of the same thing where it's, you know, there's the carbon is the nonfiction section in that kind of anecdote where there's only, there's most of the stuff that's going on has to do with carbon.
And there's kind of just this little fiction section that's going on that really isn't carbon related.
Yeah, actually, you know, along the lines, it's interesting if, you know, going back to our hypothetical sealed flowering room, if we were here, instead of cranking up the CO2, well, let's just say you crank up the CO2, you can expect an increase in yield and quality.
Let's say we have sealed flowering rooms, because the point is to a, add CO2 and b, control the environment.
But let's just say hypothetically we have our sealed flowering room and rather than increasing the CO2, what if we decreased it? What if we went down to like 2 EPMs of CO2?
What we would find very quickly is that the plants do not grow at all.
You can throw as much nitrogen, doesn't have, it's deficient. You can eat something else and correct the thing which the plants need.
This is called the law of the minimum. It kind of defines growth in a biological system is, you know, it's the element that's least available rather than the element that's most abundant.
That's always your limiting factor for continued growth. And for carbon in the form of, and you don't have any coming in through the roots, then the plants will very quickly die.
I think if you drop below 100 PPMs or even 150 PPMs of CO2 in the atmosphere, the plants cannot grow.
And like I said, you can add all of the bottled salt-based fertilizer you want. It's not going to help the plants grow.
Now on the flip side, carbon chemistry coming in here and saying, well, I'm a lot more complex.
On the flip side, you can add certain flavors of carbon that help plants deal with deficiencies in macronutrients like nitrogen, for example, or phosphorus.
You know, I think everyone is familiar with this vague idea, this concept that when the plants are deficient in phosphorus, you may experience some purpling or some pigmentation occurring.
And there is, you know, there is some evidence to specify exactly why species of plants, certain species of plants do that.
But the plants will utilize carbon to help them deal with other macronutrient deficiencies.
The reverse of that is not as true. You know, nitrogen will never replace carbon in terms of its ability to function.
Nitrogen will never make a monoturbulin. That's a thing. That's a function of carbon. That's why they're called hydrocarbons.
So, yeah.
Awesome. Awesome stuff.
So you said something and I love the term and I mentioned I love this earlier, but I do love this.
It's the flavors of carbon, right?
Different pathways based on different flavors of carbon.
So I know you mentioned pectic acid, you know, which is a plant based from oranges.
You get pectic acid and other citruses, you have calcium pectate for strong cellular walls.
But the carbon in many ways is modifying the way that these naturally occurring acids actually behave.
And, you know, it's these different flavors of carbon produce different types of effects.
Yeah. Yeah. Like, you know, there are certain types of acids that the plants produce that are like dedicated to a particular pathway.
That makes sense. So there's one called cinnamic acid and it does. It is reminiscent of cinnamon.
I think it was named after cinnamon. I recall correctly. Same thing with jasminates, by the way, and jasmonic acid, which is a hormone and a quote unquote PGR that a lot of you may be familiar with.
That too was derived from the jasmine plant because that's where that compound was initially discovered.
It's that magnificent floral fragrance that jasmine produces. That's methyl jasminate.
So you do have these groups of or these flavors of carbon that are produced by plants that help the plants get guided down a particular pathway, a biochemical pathway.
So if we're looking at the pathways that give rise to those pigments, you know, that I was just talking about the pigmentation, that purple pigment that comes out.
Well, that pathway is the phenylpropanoid pathway. And so cinnamic acid, which is a flavor of carbon, happens to be a particular building block in that pathway.
And it's sort of like the basic Lego block, let's just call it. It's the starting point where it's that basic substrate for a lot of these more complex anthocyanins, for example, flavonoids.
There's coumarins, still beans, catechins. For those of you who like drinking tea, catechins are really one of my favorite flavors of carbon.
You get back to tea eventually.
Yeah, it's very interesting for me because they're also tea plants are also just like cannabis plants. They're masters of carbon chemistry.
I think, you know, cannabis plants are masters of obviously cannabinoid and terpene chemistry.
And I think tea plants are masters of flavonoid chemistry, which is very similar to cannabinoid and terpene chemistry in a kind of unique way.
But, you know, these are all groups of compounds called secondary metabolites. And so they all have like some similarities with them.
And the further back you go in that sort of molecular evolution, the more likely you are to hit, you know, one or two, maybe even half a dozen or so sort of basic building blocks.
You know, just to put it into context, there's over 70,000 known terpenes.
It's a very, very large number of compounds that have been discovered and characterized.
However, all of those 70,000 start off and they originate as just a single molecule of isoprene.
It's a five carbon building block. Every single terpene, all of that 70,000 comes from one.
They have a common molecular ancestor.
And so when we're looking at things like, let's say potassium, for example, we're talking about calcium and pectic acid.
Well, let's talk about potassium as a signaling compound and some of these organic acids that plants produce.
It just so happens that potassium is an element taken up in greater quantities than pretty much any other element in cannabis, even greater than nitrogen, but still not greater than carbon, I should say too.
And it does not become a constituent of the dry mass.
And so if you dehydrate the plants properly and you cure your buds, you're not going to have a lot of potassium left overall because it's always remaining soluble.
It's never a constituent of a cell wall or a piece of chlorophyll or something like that.
It's never going to be found inside of that.
So that's also why a lot of finishing formulas have potassium.
Sometimes it's potassium sulfate.
Sometimes it's an organic acid fraction of potassium.
But the potassium is safe for flushing with plants.
It's like an electrolyte that the plants have to have in high quantities that acts like an internal spark to allow them to keep processing carbon.
Because we were talking earlier about this process of taking CO2, which is oxidized, and then making monotropines, which are reduced.
Well, this process of reduction and oxidation requires a spark, chemical energy that gives the plants the ability to actually hold a charge.
And that's where electrolytes come in.
And you can think if you're a marathon runner and you're 24 miles into your marathon, the last thing you want to do is just for the last two miles, cut everything out.
It would be a lot better if you kept your electrolyte levels up, if you kind of finished strong with a couple of things that allowed your body to take in water and to metabolize properly.
When you start becoming deficient in electrolytes and minerals, if you're a marathon runner, you're very quickly going to get dehydrated, even though you're drinking water.
Your body's not going to be able to absorb the water because there's not enough of that electrolyte charge present.
So the exact same thing is true for plants.
With some of these flavors of carbon, they bind with electrolytes like potassium, and they help the plants sort of, let's say, finish strong or stay hydrated when the environment is otherwise very intense and would sort of downregulate their growth or present some kind of stress to them.
One of the ones that you mentioned, yeah, actually, there were two of them that you mentioned that you're doing some work with a lot.
Artichoke sugar and stevia leaves.
You want to talk about those a little bit and their effects on the biology?
Yeah, yeah.
Again, with the flavors of carbon, it's very complex.
It's not linear.
So the artichoke produces a type of sugar.
It's also prebiotic fiber.
Inulin, I think, is what it's commonly prescribed as, or maybe that's derived from chicory root.
But at any rate, there's a class of sugars called fructo-oligosaccharides.
And there's just like a complex sugar source.
But what we're finding is that this complex sugar source behaves much differently than something like a simple sugar source that you might get from sucrose or molasses or cane sugar or something like that.
Those are very simple monomers of sugar.
They're not very complex.
They're monosaccharides and in some cases disaccharides.
So you have two sugar units.
Polysaccharides, like what we're working with, are multiple sugar units, kind of all linked and stitched together.
So we've got this big, big, big sugar versus the refined sugars that are very small in molecular weight.
And what's kind of interesting about this flavor of carbon is that at a certain point, it's not just a food source for microbes.
It's also functioning like a biostimulant for microbes.
So there's this kind of X factor and it has to do with the fact that carbon chemistry is very complex.
It is possible for us to say, well, yeah, we're just working with artichoke and we're pulling this fructo-oligosaccharide out of the flowering heads.
But there's something about that that's beyond just a carbon source for the plants and for the microbes.
It's stimulating certain types of things that we want to see, like phosphorylation activity in the plants.
It's stimulating water uptake, transpiration efficiency.
It's got all this host of secondary benefits.
And I think what it comes down to is that when you're working with certain types or flavors of carbon that plants produce,
really what their function is, is not one dimensional.
It's very complex, very multidimensional.
You know, what a flavonoid is to a microbe or a fungi in the soil is totally different than what is to the worms crawling around.
And even that is totally different than what it is to the humans that want to consume that flavonoid.
Flavonoids have functions and benefits for all orders and kingdoms of life, but it's all different.
That's the most mind-blowing part about it is these compounds that are secondary metabolites.
They're produced and they arguably drive and they're responsible for driving entire interactions across kingdoms of species.
We're talking about a plant producing something to attract a bird.
This is a very, very complex thing that we're dealing with here.
The plant has this ability to produce a molecule, having none of the sensitive organs that the bird does.
And they've been on separate evolutionary histories for so long that it almost makes you think about how sensitive plants are to their signals and what's coming in
and how they use the carbon stores that they've built.
What are some of the flavors of carbon that they can use to sort of modulate their experience?
Obviously, pollination and attraction is one of the best examples because plants don't have feet.
They don't have a way to move around, but they've done a really good job of populating themselves around the entire planet.
How is that? Well, they produce these flavors of carbon that happen to attract things that do move around quite a bit.
It's things like that where we have to look a little bit more at the subtle, nuanced details and say, well, what's really happening here?
Is it a mechanical thing? Is it just the fact that there's carbon present?
Or is there something else like with the artichoke triggers?
Is there some deeper level of something happening with the carbon?
That connected tissue, right? That connectivity between things that we talk about in the system.
Again, we always make a mistake when we try to isolate any one of these individual components and try to elevate them above the other.
Or to just focus on them in isolation without the larger picture.
You have to have that connective tissue between these different functions and elements and nutrients to make the system function.
Just the presence of them alone, again, doesn't necessarily mean that you'll be successful if you don't have the capability to have the interactions occur.
Yeah, and carbon is the glue that ties all this stuff together.
Let's just say, hypothetically, you're growing a plant and you harvest that plant.
The moment that you make that cut and harvest the flowering branch, what you've done is take a snapshot or a picture of that current enzymatic state.
If you could analyze everything that was happening in that plant, what you would see is the plant was, in some portions of its tissue, in the process of capturing CO2 out of the air.
In other portions of its tissue, it was in the process of moving that carbon as a carbohydrate around.
In other parts, let's say in the trichomes, in the actual trichome heads, you would find a lot of these enzymes, just like workers, they're acting on a substrate.
They've got some sugars, they've got organic acids, and they're actively working.
They're actively building these chemical scaffolds, these compounds like terpenes and cannabinoids.
And really what we're interested in as humans is that fraction of terpenes and cannabinoids.
But what we're not seeing on the back end is what else is happening inside of the plant, how many hundreds, if not thousands or even tens of thousands of different steps are being taken to actually make that one terpene and that one cannabinoid.
So really the name of the game is to try to find a way to increase the efficiency of carbon metabolism in plants.
One of the ways that you guys had talked about in this previous episode was enzymes.
Well, enzymes do work for the plants.
In a lot of ways, you can look at macronutrients like nitrogen in a similar type of role.
I mean, they're tools just like enzymes are tools.
But instead of doing work, the work is more specific.
The nitrogen helps the plants capture more carbon.
The magnesium grabs the energy from the sun.
The phosphorus accepts the carbon from the air.
These are all tools that the plants ultimately use to capture that carbon.
And like I mentioned earlier, when these compounds that we're talking about are 80 to 90 percent carbon by weight, make no mistake, that's not exclusive to cannabis.
We could talk about taxol produced by Pacific yew trees.
We could talk about digitalis produced by foxglove.
We could talk about jasmine ates produced by jasmine.
I mean, all kinds of different compounds produced by all kinds of different plants.
Rosmarinic acid produced by rosemary.
All of these compounds are going to be predominantly flavors of carbon.
That's kind of like their function or their role.
And even at large, these flavors of carbon that we're talking about, they're not like fixed things that just stay in a constant state.
They're always being converted by the plants.
And again, with the snapshot thing, really what we're doing is watching a movie that is the plant's life.
And then we've decided to harvest it, snip it and cut it.
And we capture a snapshot.
And that's all that we get, this like frozen moment in time of what the plant's enzymatic natural state was.
So if we can cultivate these plants so that when we do take that snapshot, when we do harvest, what we're getting is a reflection of the plant and at its peak productivity, at its best possible function.
Very low stress, very high throughput, a lot of terpenes, a lot of cannabinoids, very low on the residual compounds that may be considered, let's say, contaminants or undesirable.
Or things that don't contribute to the flavor of the quality of the flower.
Awesome.
So we are at the hour mark.
So I want to go ahead and relight the room before we get into a couple of the final topics and a couple of final points.
And then do a wrap up and then invite some folks up to open up the conversation, answer some of the questions on YouTube.
We've had a couple comments that I want to dig into around biochar and diving in a little bit more into the functions of sulfur.
A couple of the items that have come up on YouTube, so I want to get into those.
But let's go ahead and relight the room.
So welcome to Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
We're here every Thursday night at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific Time.
We are hosting this room live on Clubhouse so that we can get this fantastic interactive chat going.
It's a wonderful platform to have these types of conversations and to be able to dig in deeper.
And then to provide a space for folks to come up and to add to that conversation and to ask questions and contribute.
So that's one of the reasons why I love Clubhouse and having that conversation on here.
And our friends at the Future Cannabis Project are of course simulcasting this Clubhouse room on YouTube right now on the FCPO2 channel.
So the Future Cannabis Project O2 channel.
So if you pop over to the YouTube channel, you can always check out a replay if you missed any of the conversation tonight.
Or if you want to replay any of the fat stack of knowledge that Nick's been dropping on us tonight, you can jump into that YouTube video and get caught up on anything you might have missed.
I want to thank Peter.
And of course I want to thank my friend Nick from The Rooted Leaf for joining me today for the Grow and Tell and providing again another fantastic conversation and topic for us to dive deep into.
I always enjoy being forced down the rabbit hole when you come by to visit.
So I appreciate you, Nick.
And thank you again for coming up with this topic tonight.
So I know that one of the things you definitely want to dip into, and we've kind of touched on it a little bit with 90% of the carbon terpenes are actually made up of carbon.
Let's dig a little bit into kind of some of the math and metrics and some of the test results.
Some of the things that you've been digging into and finding as far as carbon.
Yeah. So, you know, the carbon thing is interesting because as I mentioned earlier, for cannabis producers, it's just like all of these variables have kind of lined up and it makes discussing what is otherwise a very complex topic, discussing that very easy.
Because all cannabis growers, whether they know it or not, ultimately they're carbon farmers.
They grow the cannabis. Well, why four produces terpenes and cannabinoids? Okay, so they're farming terpenes and cannabinoids.
But those terpenes and cannabinoids were 80 to 90% carbon.
So in reality, at the end of the day, they're just farming carbon.
And the quality and therefore the price point of cannabis flowers can be defined by the concentration of some of these substances.
You know, in certain cases, they are very highly biologically active. They are therapeutic.
Put it this way. If you took your body weight in pounds or kilograms, depending on who we have listening here, and you converted that into milligrams, you can go on Google and type in milligrams to pounds converter.
Just try to figure out how much your body weighs in milligrams.
And then ask yourself how many milligrams of cannabinoids would get you to whatever you want to achieve.
If you want to get sky high and just blast off, you take a giant dab. Is that 100 milligrams of cannabinoids? Or are you doing 1000 milligrams of cannabinoids?
There's probably very few people that are taking full gram dabs.
But especially to achieve an active therapeutic dose, I feel like for most people, it's going to be 50 to 100 milligrams is going to do the trick.
So that being said, if you weigh like 200 pounds, you know, that's somewhere around 100 billion milligrams.
So here's a substance that when you take 50 and you divide it into 100 billion, it has the ability to move that 100 billion in a completely bizarre way.
You know, your eyes may change color, your breath may change, your salivation level may change, you may get really hungry, your memory may change.
There's all of these profound impacts that are very, very small. 50 milligrams has on the very much larger 100 billion milligram individual experiencing it.
So, you know, these compounds, they're active at very, very low doses in some cases.
And so, you know, with the carbon as the macronutrient being sort of the guiding principle is when plants are taking in that carbon in the form of CO2,
really what they're trying to do is find ways to convert that into therapeutically active substances or compounds that can be useful to deter pests or pathogens or disease pressures and kind of, you know, things like that.
I hope that answered the question. I wasn't too far on the topic there.
Yeah, no, no, no, that's great.
I did also want to mention that if you are enjoying the conversation today, please make sure that you click on that little greenhouse at the top and join the Future Cannabis Project so you can get alerted of any upcoming conversations and make sure you follow myself and Nick, as well as Peter and the Future Cannabis Project that you have down below.
It's always good to make sure that you join the club so that you don't miss out on any more of these future conversations.
Yeah, I think, you know, math and metrics and some of the calculation we often talk about.
We had a conversation a couple of weeks ago where we were talking about flavonoids, right?
Flavonoids being that, you know, the trinity, the third leg of the stool, so to speak, of the tripod.
When you talk about cannabinoids and terpenes and flavonoids, and, you know, we talked a little bit about math and metrics around, you know, starting to see maybe not necessarily just terpenes on there and just cannabinoids on there, but doing some other type of a test that had to do with flavonoids and understanding the flavonoid components.
So that was one of the conversations, and I think taking, again, another look at carbon and the percentages and numbers that are involved with carbon, you know, mentioning that, you know, at the very beginning, the NPK and all the rest of the other micro, macro nutrients, if you multiply that by five, it still doesn't even equal the amount of carbon that's there, and carbon is such a big part of the equation.
And, you know, when you are looking at a report that's talking about terpenes and cannabinoids, you are actually looking at a carbon report.
Yeah, yeah, and really it's kind of hard, but if you've got flour that, let's just say it tested above 30% cannabinoids, maybe closer to 35%, and the terpenes on it are somewhere between 5% and 7%, that's pretty good flour, you know, that would sell for top dollar anywhere in the US, but if you had one of these, like if you had a pound of this stuff, you were looking at it, it'd be really hard and be really deceiving to try to understand how much carbon is in there.
I mean, you're looking at about a third to half of the overall biomass is a single element.
And it's hard to look at that and say, well, how is this green pigment the same thing as this beautiful aroma that I'm getting?
And the subtle trick on the back end is those are all flavors of carbon that the plant is producing.
The terpenes, which have some aroma and some fragrance, the esters, there's flavonoids like you mentioned, pigments like anthocyanins, even chlorophyll.
Whatever you're looking at is a type of carbon that is produced by the plant.
Whatever you're handling, if it has some physical texture to it, if it's got some rigidity like a stem, that's cellulose, that's pretty much mostly carbon by weight.
So, you know, it's hard because carbon, you can't really look at it and think like, oh, my plants are deficient in carbon.
If your plants were deficient in nitrogen, you'd be very easy to tell, right?
Leaves are yellow, you put more nitrogen on and the deficiency kind of corrects itself.
Plants are always limited in their growth by what element is least available, not that which is most abundant.
And it's really, really difficult, even for very experienced growers and cultivators, to try to understand how a plant can be deficient in carbon.
I would say if you get test results back and that flower is 3% terpenes or 2% terpenes, I would say that plant is deficient in carbon.
Because if you gave it more carbon and access to more carbon that was balanced with everything else, it would absolutely give back more terpenes and more cannabinoids.
I mean, again, these things are mostly, they're 80 to 90% carbon by weight anyways.
So it's very mechanical to assume, well, if I put more carbon, the plants will give me back more stuff.
That's mostly carbon by weight.
It's just a function of their metabolism and it's what they strive to achieve.
That's an awesome comment by Chris Carrero on the chat.
When I'm deficient in carbon, I smoke cannabis to refill.
I'm not smoking cannabis to get high.
I'm smoking cannabis to resolve a carbon deficiency.
Awesome. Thank you so much, Chris, for that.
That's fantastic.
It's funny because I actually have carbon deficiency written down in my notes from our conversation earlier.
The only thing that I'm not going to do is I'm not going to do anything about it.
I'm going to do something about it.
The only other thing that I have written down that we really didn't get into, we mentioned a little bit about mushrooms.
Since mushrooms were a big part of the conversation last week as well, what's up with mushrooms and carbon?
Because mushrooms aren't plants. Mushrooms aren't fungi. They're their own species.
Mushrooms are interesting. Typically, the network that grows underground, that mycelial network, is pretty thin overall.
In some cases, it's just a single cell wide. It's like this network, just one cell wide that goes through the soil.
There's some crazy math that people have done.
They've worked out in a single square inch of the soil, there's about a quarter of a million mushrooms in the soil.
There's some crazy math that people have done. They've worked out in a single square inch of soil, you may have several miles of actual mycorrhizal fungi that are there.
It's a very intricate, very complex microscopic structure.
Because of this particular shape that it has, again, it's very small, sometimes just one cell wide.
It doesn't require a lot of macronutrients.
With the cannabis plants, we see them grow. We want the leaves to be big. We want the stems to be nice and thick.
We want a lot of biomass for the vegetative side of things.
The fungi, they're a little different. They intake a lot of carbon, and they intake a lot of calcium.
The calcium is used to build that cell wall and to help provide some structure, just like for humans.
Really beyond that, there's not a whole lot that the fungi need because they secrete enzymes into their surrounding environment.
Think about it this way. We've got stomachs on the inside of our bodies.
We eat something that goes into our stomach and it digests.
The stomach of a fungi is everything outside of it.
It doesn't have an internal cavity. It has an external cavity that's literally the entire planet.
It pushes out digestive enzymes and tools that will help break down some of the organic mass that's left in the soil.
It converts that and resolubilizes it and pulls it back in and uses that to expand and keep growing.
There is this huge boost that fungi get when exposed to carbon.
The most natural and obvious example is during the fall time when the leaves senesce and the foliage starts to hit the ground.
What happens directly after that? It's mushroom hunting season.
The mushrooms, the fungi, they're aware that the leaf litter has hit the ground.
That decaying leaf litter is a fantastic source of carbon.
It's mostly carbon by weight.
Going back to it, there's a lot of cellulose that gets decomposed.
It gets composted through the process.
There's decomposition.
These fungi are secreting enzymes that start to break down the external world around it and then pull it back in and keep the carbon.
The other macronutrients, the other minerals, those are required in relatively small quantities.
I would say calcium is probably the most abundant.
I'm not an expert in mycology, but we have done a little bit of work.
The results seem to suggest that calcium and carbon are the two best friends of a mushroom farmer.
That's awesome.
That actually answered one of the questions that came through in the chat earlier, which is, leaf mold is a good source of carbon.
Yes, it is.
A lot of it is just the process of converting insoluble flavors of carbon like cellulose.
You can water your plants all day long, but that cellulose is not soluble.
You're not going to literally wash your plants away.
Whereas the types of sugars they produce, if you chop off a leaf and then you squeeze that leaf and get the resultant liquid out of it, that liquid is soluble in water.
It has flavors of carbon that are soluble in water as well.
Think about how you would juice the cannabis leaf and then drink the subsequent juice.
There are active compounds in that juice that are healthy and beneficial.
These are the flavors of carbon.
You can increase the ability of a plant's natural tendency to make certain flavors of carbon.
I think biochar, which was one of the questions, is a good way of doing that.
The problem with carbon is that plants struggle to keep carbon reduced because they want it reduced.
They don't want it fully oxidized.
Otherwise, it's just CO2 in the air, and that represents the greatest amount of energy that the plant has to spend in order to actually access that carbon.
Where possible, they would prefer some already hydrated carbon, like a carbohydrate sugar source or something like that.
Biochar is unique because in order to produce it, it is burned.
It's like wood, litter, and debris that has been burned inside of a chamber that has no oxygen.
This is very important because no oxygen equals no oxidation, so you don't have oxidized carbon.
What ends up happening is that you end up with reduced carbon.
It looks like ash, almost.
It's very dark, very charcoal-like.
But the molecular properties are interesting because that lack of oxygen in the atmosphere allowed that carbon to remain in a more or less reduced form.
Because it's been burned, it doesn't automatically make it soluble.
Just like a piece of charcoal, you can water a piece of charcoal, you're going to get some jet black effluent stream coming off of it because part of that carbon gets pulled, and it gets suspended, and it gets solubilized.
But in reality, the whole brick itself is not soluble.
So biochar, think about it like a slow-release form of carbon, something that takes a little bit of time to break down.
As it breaks down, it affords certain structural qualities to the soil.
There's also some mechanical properties that it helps assist with, like the porosity of the soil or the overall density of the soil, the ability of the soil to hold moisture, the water retention capacity,
the cation exchange capacity or CEC.
It provides little environments for microbes and biology to live and conduct their business as well.
Yeah, biochar is really great stuff.
Yeah, so I hope I answered that question about biochar too.
Yeah, I think that's good stuff.
Any further comments about sulfur in carbon or sulfur in plants?
Sure, yeah. Sulfur is also one of those interesting ones because a lot of growers add some sulfur at the end of the flowering cycle, thinking that it's going to contribute to the formation of smells and things like that.
And it's not 100% true like that.
So put it this way, if you're inside of a trichome head, let's just say you're small enough, your actual physical body fits inside of a trichome head, and you're inside of this trichome head, you're kind of looking around.
You're looking at all these enzymes doing work.
Some of these enzymes, the work that they're doing is, hey, I'm the enzyme that makes monoterpenes.
I'm the enzyme that makes cannabinoids and THC.
And you've got hundreds, potentially, of these different enzymes that are all working using substrates.
And as this is happening, it becomes sort of a high intensity work environment.
Now, in the trichome head, it's right by the outermost layer.
It is the outermost layer, technically, of the plant.
And so just on the opposite side of this, trichome head is an environment that's full of oxygen.
That oxygen wants to get in.
It wants to oxidize all of that fully reduced carbon.
So what do the plants do?
Well, they say, God, I need some kind of antioxidants, some kind of thing that will prevent this oxidative degradation.
And so in the actual trichome heads, in addition to all the workers that are producing terpenes and cannabinoids,
there are powerful antioxidant enzymes.
And this is where sulfur fits into the equation.
Sulfur itself is not a constituent of any kind of aroma that cannabis plants produce.
I think if we were talking about brassicas and we wanted like glucoraphanin, sulforaphane,
glucosinolates, those types of compounds, those are the ones that contain sulfur that have a smell.
Like onions, for example, and garlic, things like that.
Those do, but cannabis does not.
What happens is that sulfur typically gets put on in the form of sulfate, as we talked about earlier, epsom salt, magnesium sulfate.
That sulfate has to go through a process of reduction.
And that process of reduction requires chemical energy.
Upon that chemical energy being exerted and the sulfur being fully reduced, it becomes integrated into a single amino acid.
And this is kind of the, this is the easy part to remember with sulfate is that all sulfate reduction in plants terminates with the biosynthesis of one amino acid, cysteine.
And cysteine is the one that from cysteine, plants will use that cysteine to make pretty much everything else, including glutathione.
And glutathione is that antioxidant that I was talking about, that compound that acts like a sponge and it soaks up all of this oxidative stress that's otherwise present in the atmosphere of the plant as it's doing some hard work.
And converting organic acids into isoprene and then stacking that isoprene and making monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes, diterpenes, cannabinoids, things like that.
All this complex stuff is happening at the same time that there's antioxidant enzymes kind of patrolling and cruising around.
And they are just like sponges, they soak up all of this oxidative stress. And the mechanics behind that specifically is that the sulfate, that thiol group that's created within cysteine and transferred into methionine and glutathione,
it's that sulfur containing portion of it that soaks up all of that oxidative stress. And there's this redox thing that happens as a conversion between thiol groups and disulfide groups as well.
So it happens to be the way that, it's a pretty powerful redox mechanism and a tool that allows the plants to really just control and mitigate the oxidative stress that arises from producing, just naturally as a result of producing these terpenes and cannabinoids, there's going to be some type of stress that's placed on the plant.
So again, with the sulfur, it's the antioxidant defense enzymes, particularly like glutathione and superoxide dismutase, which rely on sulfur for their actual functionality. I hope that answered the question.
Yeah, so that was hopefully Smiley Garden got what he was looking for in his answer. He definitely asked us to dig a little more into sulfur. So I hope that was kind of the direction that he's hoping to go.
So let's go ahead. We're close to an hour and 20 minutes. We're coming to that hour and a half mark. Let's go ahead. It might be a good idea to do a little wrap up and then start inviting some folks up to ask some questions and comment on the conversation tonight.
So why don't you go ahead and give us a good summary or wrap up on what you want us to take away from this all today, Nick?
Yeah, so I mean, just, you know, if there's one thing to remember, it's that carbon is the most important macronutrient by far. You know, if you as a grower are obsessed with finding ways to sink more carbon into your plants, everything else will fall into place after that.
I mean, plants even take up water with the purpose of carbon metabolism sort of in heart and mind. It's sort of one of the beautiful aspects of what plants do. So it's very easy, I think, to get lost and to try to figure out like what's the thing that's going on?
You know, like, what is the individual element that my plants are deficient in? And it's got to be something that's different than the other thing. It's very easy to get fragmented and become lost in that kind of state of not being sure.
It's very difficult to understand that there's connective tissue that holds all this stuff together. And that's what carbon is. It's that thing that you can always kind of lean on, and it's going to help you. And if you didn't think that the thing that you thought was wrong was really the thing that was wrong, it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter because the moment the plants get access to carbon, they have this opportunity and ability to open up an entire Pandora's box of possible solutions, all of which are creative. You know, if the plants are struggling with a phosphorus deficiency, add the phosphorus and it'll correct it. You cannot add nitrogen to correct phosphorus deficiency. You cannot add potassium.
You can do something with carbon. The plants do find ways to use carbon as tools to mitigate against all possible stressors. So if ever you're in doubt, add more carbon. That's what I think is the meaning and the potatoes of it all.
Find the flavor of carbon to help you solve the problem that you're having. I think that's absolutely something that I definitely took away. I love that flavor of carbon. I love that continued discussion of the continuity and the connectivity of all of these great aspects.
I did want to mention we just passed 420 in Hawaii, the last 420 for the US. Thank you, Ollie Muffins, for making sure I mentioned that it is 420 in Hawaii right now. So hopefully folks in Hawaii and anybody who wants to join in and celebrate 420 in Hawaii, the last 420 for the day in the North American time zone.
So let me go ahead and open up the room for people to join and come on up to the stage and ask some questions. I want to again thank Peter with Future Cannabis Project for simulcasting us onto YouTube so that this can be recorded and saved and checked out by more people.
I don't know if there are people who aren't necessarily on Clubhouse yet, but hopefully will join us soon so they can come and join in on the conversation.
And Nick, thank you so much for this extremely dense conversation as always, for taking us down a rabbit hole on carbon tonight for the third episode of Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
And again, please, if you enjoyed the conversation tonight, click on the little green house and join the Future Cannabis Project here. Make sure you subscribe to the Future Cannabis Project and Future Cannabis Project 02 channel on YouTube.
And give all of us a follow, Nick as TheRootedLeaf on Instagram or myself as Hota Herb on Instagram. And Peter is also Future Cannabis Project is Budgasm, B-U-D-G-A-S-M, or look up Future Cannabis Project and you will find it on YouTube.
All right, so we got Ali Muffin up here and I'm going to get infused for sure up here. Heard her speaking earlier, so great. I'm glad to have you join us, Infused. Ali, what's going on tonight? Happy Thursday. Happy Grow and Tell Thursday.
Happy Grow and Tell, guys. It's the National Day of Truth and Remembrance and Reconciliation in Canada. So I just want to start by recognizing that day for us. But what a great talk you guys have had. And I had a couple of questions. I have 80 actually.
But I wanted to ask you and Nick and Nick, welcome back, bro. Great to see you on the platform. I wanted to ask you guys, what role does the, and I don't know if you may have addressed it at some point, but what role does the growing media play in the plants ability to absorb carbon? And what do we learn from that exchange?
And my second kind of question for that is, is there any transfer of carbon like fungi due to the ground or is all of the carbon stored in the plant? It's fascinating for me from the environmental perspective when we look at how plants can help us with carbon sequestration. So I don't know if it was too complicated, but my question is, how does the medium affect carbon and where is it stored?
Yeah, that's great stuff. I think, you know, when we talk about those mycorrhizal fungi, like Nick was mentioning earlier, and how they are a large portion of, they make up miles and miles and miles of these fungi, connected fungi, and they're very much a carbon based form.
They're also responsible for a large portion of the water exchange. So, you know, fungi, you don't get water exchange to the plant. And definitely a large portion of this conversation from my standpoint.
Yeah, the exchange of carbon, I mean, think about it this way, like the leaves of a plant are exposed to a gaseous environment and think about that like an ocean, but instead of an ocean of liquid, we've got an ocean of gas and that gas is really what the leaf surface is interacting with and its job.
The plant's job is to take that CO2 out of the air and then convert it into something where it's really soluble as an actual liquid. You know, again, this is the benefit of having carbohydrates. If the plant makes sucrose out of CO2, you know, CO2 is not very soluble in water.
And if you've ever had a can of soda on a hot summer day, you know exactly what I'm talking about. You open it up and immediately all of the CO2 says, no, let me go. I want to get out of here. So it's not that soluble in water. And certainly if you open up some soda and you let it sit at room temperature for even a couple of hours, what happens to all of the CO2 it leaves just fully, it doesn't want to stay in the water, it leaves.
So the plant's task is to find a way to convert that CO2 into something that is soluble, like sucrose and sugars that have such a high degree of solubility that they are in fact more soluble. I think you can fit like two grams of sugar in one gram of water or something like that. I mean, it's a profound amount of sugar that can be stuffed inside of a little bit of water.
So this is very advantageous to the plant because now all of a sudden it has two benefits. One is it's incredibly soluble. So it's easy to move around for the plant using water that's passively available from the roots. And then the second thing is that it represents the ability for the plant to, you know, take that carbon, move it out from the aerial parts and move it into the soil where it can start to feed some microbes and can contribute to carbon sequestration and sinking carbon.
So if you have a plant that has a flavor of carbon that's produced, let's say it's a flavonoid or something like that, the plant will oftentimes produce that to feed the microbes that exchange minerals that are available to the plants for those food sources. So that way the microbe is feeding the plant and the plant is feeding the microbe because microbes love, you know, sugar sources, they love carbon sources, but they're not very good at photosynthesis.
In fact, if you leave most microbial cultures out in very intense light, they will, you know, they'll die. They'll get fried. They're sort of meant to grow a little bit more away from the light, not necessarily indirect light.
But the plants on the flip side, they're really good at growing in direct light and they're really good at scrubbing CO2 out of the air. So yes, it does get sunk from the plants. I would say in some cases, 25 up to 50% of the CO2 that's fixed by the plants can actually be traced back down into the soil where some, you know, carbohydrates are produced and exchanged with fungi or with microbes.
Wow. That's actually so much more than I would have expected. That's fascinating. Thank you so much, guys.
I think another aspect that's important to mention as well when you talk about that is that, you know, the soil itself is a large portion carbon. So what is soil? Soil is sand, silt and clay, humic bodies and biology. That's what makes up soil.
So if you don't have the humic portions and you don't have the biology, then you don't have soil. So you can't actually have soil without carbon. A large portion of what's in carbon is those humates and the humates are made from plant material, which is mostly carbon.
Yeah. And a lot of people don't know this or maybe don't appreciate it fully, but globally across the entire planet, the number one cause of soil formation is organic acid production by plants. In other words, they are taking CO2 out of the air and they're finding a way to deposit it inside their rhizosphere, the below ground parts.
And over the course of hundreds of millions of years, the organic acids that are produced start to weather some of the silicate, start to weather some of the minerals. And when they introduce carbon into the mix, they're going to get increased. Like Jason mentioned, you're getting humic substances, which are basically just compost and compost that's been in the process of degrading for, you know, potentially hundreds of millions of years.
But like I said, the number one cause of soil formation globally around the planet is plants taking CO2 out of the air and finding a way to just shove it in the ground because it's a lot more useful for them, a lot more accessible. And it really does a lot more when it's fully reduced as opposed to fully oxidized.
The weathering phenomena is also pretty interesting too, because a couple hundred million years ago, there was a lot more silicates that were around. And as plants started to conquer the land, all of these organic acids they produce, they're meant to weather away and to kind of chip away and mine away at the minerals and then create soil out of it.
And this is how soil fertility progressively gets built is by the introduction of carbon that's sunk by plants that grow. You know, they strip it out of the air and they sink it in the ground. And then that ground starts to progressively change over the course of a very long period of time. The chemical properties, the physical properties, the sponge-like nature of it, holding water increases the ability of those minerals to get held. All this stuff goes up.
Well, and I don't want to distract us too much. But on this point that you just brought up, the PPMs of our air now in terms of carbon, if I'm not mistaken, are about 150 PPM higher than naturally would have been, I think, a standard recording would have been 300 to 330 PPM of carbon.
We're sitting at around 440 right now. And it's fascinating to, we should be, I hope, measuring the size of leaves as a result because the temperatures on the earth affect things that are very simple, like the size of reptiles because of the amount of sun it gets.
And I could see the correlation between the size of plants and the PPM available on earth. It may be bad for the entire earth in terms of greenhouse effect, but seems like particular plants would do well at this time. And we should be planting more and more trees, as we all know.
Yeah. And it's not so much that the high PPM of CO2 in the air isn't without getting too far into it and too far off topic. I don't want to dive into the politics of global warming and all that. But carbon is not the enemy. CO2 in the air, I think, is a reflection of something that's happening on land.
And I personally think that higher CO2 can result in improved performance, but that's not the best flavor of carbon for the plants because it's fully oxidized. If we were to look at reforestation rather than deforestation, that may be a way to help us fix and sink a lot more carbon than may be immediately perceivable for us.
There's actually a good story from 1995 of an orange juice producer in Costa Rica. And they had struck a deal with the government to give away, I think it was like 7.7 acres of their land. And it was just degraded cattle pasture land sitting kind of sandwiched between two plots of what was otherwise a Costa Rican rainforest.
So you can think rainforest, right? It has a lot of biodiversity. There's a lot of productivity, except for in this one 7.7 or like seven to eight acre piece of land, totally degraded. So the deal that was struck basically between the orange juice producer and the government was, hey, we've got all this extra pith and orange juice or orange peels and sort of the leftover of the juice making process.
Can we throw that on the seven and a half acres and see what happens as far as reforestation goes? And so they ended up actually doing that. They dumped 12,000 tons of orange peel. This is a true story. You guys can look it up. There was a student that actually the pilot, the professor that started this, he was a professor at Princeton University.
And he had a student come back to him, you know, maybe 15 or 20 years after they dumped the orange peel. And that became the topic for his thesis. But what ended up happening basically was the, after the 12,000 tons of orange peels were dumped, one of the competitors found out they sued the, you know, the company that dumped the orange peels, that company lost. And so the site was abandoned until the student from Princeton came back like 15 to 20 years later.
The only problem was that he couldn't find this barren piece of land. It took him about a week. He was hacking through an overgrown forest that was just full of lush foliage, green vines. He had a machete and he just could not get through it. And he took him a full week, I promise you. This is a true story. It took him about a week before he finally realized that it wasn't a barren piece of land anymore, that the orange peels had transformed into the actual rainforest that he was hacking his way through, trying to find where the orange peels were.
He finally realized where the barren piece of land was. And he finally, his exact words were, when I, you know, something to the effect of when I was able to pull my jaw from off of the ground, I began to realize just how magnificent and marvelous this was.
And so he spent three years researching this one piece of land that had been treated with orange peels. And he found some crazy stuff like there was six times greater species diversity and also three times greater population density for that same sort of, you know, same square footage of, you know, plants.
You've got more plant species overall. So the diversity went up and the overall density went up quite a bit as well. It ended up being one of the most productive areas of that rainforest. That seven acres sank more carbon than I think an old growth forest does in the course of, you know, 10 or 15 years. There was some crazy metric about that.
It was just a really interesting example of how when you look at carbon as a macronutrient, you know, again, when we're talking about nitrogen, you put nitrogen on a plant and you can correct a deficiency. When you put carbon on the ground, you can literally grow a rainforest out of a barren piece of land.
And that rainforest is going to have dozens and dozens of species, very complex, very complex and intricate sort of web of life, you know, things like that. So carbon is very important.
Thanks for letting me go down that deep rabbit hole with you guys. I yield to the ladies. And again, just want to recognize the National Day of Truth and Reconciliation for Canada. Welcome, Autumn and Jenna. I yield to you guys. Thanks for having me up, guys.
Thanks for joining us tonight, Ali. So Infused, how are you doing tonight?
Hi, Jason.
Thanks for joining us.
You're so welcome. And thank you so much for this space and sharing the knowledge that you are sharing. It's really interesting because I'm dealing with a carbon issue right now. And I just, oh, hi, everyone else in the room.
And I'm happy to be here with you guys. I just had a really quick, quick question. I am trying to use as least chemicals as possible. I'm trying to get as close to organically growing as I can.
And I was just wondering if you knew of any natural and chemical free ways to increase carbon. I was looking at a little machine and it's a CO2 emitting machine. But this grow that I have, it's like in my basement.
And I think what I read online is that it's not safe to breathe in what the machine is emitting. So I was just wondering if you knew of any organic ways to increase the carbon in the air that is not harmful to breathe because it may, you know, permeate throughout the home. Thank you so much.
Yeah. So it's interesting, right? Because, you know, we all as growers, everybody, we hear about CO2 as being this fantastic thing that you need to add. And, you know, it's as a home grower, CO2 is a difficult thing to add unless you're dealing with a closed space.
So one of the problems with using CO2 in a home environment is a lot of people use grow tents and grow tents are not airtight. And so that CO2 doesn't necessarily stay in the tent as you want it to. So that's first.
Another issue is that, you know, you have a very small space and depending on how you have your exhaust and fans set up, many times all of the air. So I have, for instance, a five by five tent that I grow in. All the air in that five by five tent is going to be sucked out and replaced in about, you know, in about a minute and a half.
On average, based on the CFM, the type of fan I'm using and things like that. So if I pump CO2 into the tent, it's just going to get sucked right back out by that exhaust fan. So I would have to shut off my exhaust fans, run the CO2, leave that space for a little while going and then turn my fans back on.
Many people will do this on a timer. So you'll have to have timers that shut off your exhaust and turn on the CO2 and then shut off the CO2 and turn the fan back on. So, you know, again, using CO2 in small spaces, especially in tent spaces, is probably not the most efficient thing to do. You're probably not getting a ton of benefit out of that CO2 as much as you would if you have a sealed room.
Some ways to introduce additional CO2 that aren't running a machine are mushrooms. So there are growing fungi or other plant in the room or in the area near where your plants are will release more CO2 into the space where fungi are definitely going to be there.
Another way to naturally make CO2 is by combining vinegar and baking soda. It releases CO2, although that is a quick reaction. It's a very short reaction. It's not something that's sustainable.
And, you know, again, if you're using a CO2 tank and you're not in a sealed airtight space, there's probably not a lot of concern from a health standpoint, from, you know, concern about you being able to breathe in that space.
If you are in a sealed controlled space and you are pumping those CO2 levels up very high, then you might need to be a little bit cautious about what those CO2 levels are versus your oxygen levels in that space. So I hope that helps. Nick, anything to add on that?
Yeah, kind of like you were saying, you know, it's to a certain extent, if you're looking to find ways to put CO2 in the air, I don't know if there's any other way.
You know, like Jason was saying, even if you have like vinegar and baking soda, what happens is the carbon in there eventually will oxidize because there's a lot of oxygen in the atmosphere. You know, every breath you take has got a lot of oxygen. So it tends to oxidize the carbon into CO2.
The way around that is if you're feeding the soil, it may be possible, for instance, to add like, let's say, some sugars like molasses, for example, or a kelp type of fertilizer, a kelp-based product.
One of my favorite flavors of carbon is the kelp extracts. You'll find ways to kind of feed the soil and then the soil itself will hold all of the carbon for the plant. And then you'll see that the plant's productivity goes up as a result of the soil overall being healthier.
So hopefully that helped infuse and answered your question. Feel free to come back up and raise your hand again if you had some add-on or there were some additional points that you wanted to make. Happy to have you in the space and thank you for the question.
HerBuds, one of my favorite Instagram and Clubhouse folks, how are you doing this wonderful Thursday evening?
Jason, I'm well. Thank you for bringing me up to the stage. I appreciate it.
Did you have any questions or comments on carbon this evening?
Oh, do I have a question or comments? I just want to say hello to the people in the audience. Connor, Jody, Peter, Ali, what's good? Okay. So CO2. When I first came on Instagram, I discovered this company. It was called T&B Naturals. Jason, have you heard of them?
I am aware of them. Yep.
What are your thoughts? A lot of these companies, they create these products and they think-
They have this initial burst of CO2 when you first add the product and first do your first shake or two of that canister that the thing is hanging. But he said that the longevity of it wasn't great. It didn't seem to last a really long time.
So I kind of migrated towards those exhale bags, which are really, again, a fungi hanging
in a bag, which releases CO2 as opposed to the TNB Naturals approach.
I think the TNB Naturals approach is probably not too much different than the baking soda
and vinegar approach, to be honest with you.
I personally have not used the product, and I'm going again off of the secondhand information
from my buddy Nick at the store.
A different Nick, not this Nick, just coincidentally.
But yeah, Nick, my friend, had done some initial testing with that product when it first came
out in a couple of different tents, and he did not see a real benefit from that product
after the initial, again, the initial pouring of that product into the canister.
It didn't seem to necessarily last, and that daily shaking activity didn't have a large
amount of efficacy after the initial blast.
Absolutely.
I love when people test out products and just can share the knowledge about them.
I just quickly want to introduce myself to the audience.
Hello, everybody.
I'm Hurt Buds.
I'm a cannabis cultivation educator.
I teach people how to grow weed.
I like a lot of DIY stuff, so going off what Jason said, there's a lot of companies that
will come out here and try to take the DIY approach, essentially, and sell it as a product.
I have a recipe for CO2.
All you need is a bit of sugar, a little bit of yeast, and a little bit of fermentation,
and you keep that in a warm place at, what, 26 to 34 degrees Celsius, and just shake that
jug and do it for yourself.
What we're trying to do in a tent is we are trying to replicate Mother Nature.
No light will ever do that.
No CO2 canister will ever do that, but there are ways around it that you could try to replicate.
I'm an outdoor grower.
I love a good outdoor grow, and CO2, carbon.
Yeah, and I would definitely, if you all are not already following Hurt Buds, definitely
check her out on Instagram.
She's had some tremendous giveaways recently, too, so real big props to you and all the
sponsorships and all those great products that you've actually been sharing with the
community as well.
Thank you for all you're doing.
Nick, did you have some comments to add on there?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, you know, the way that microbes do it in the soil and it exchange with plants
is oftentimes one of the best ways to supplement carbon, like with what we're doing, for instance.
We can tie the fertilizers that we're making, we're tying the carbon to the macronutrient
load, and so we're capable of delivering the equivalent of about 3,000 to 4,000 ppms of
CO2, but it's not coming in the air, and so it's not being loaded on the plants externally
and forcing the plants to internalize that chemistry.
What we're doing is we're putting that carbon in a reduced form that provides free energy
for the plants in the transpiration stream.
So we're putting about 3,000 to 4,000 ppms of CO2 equivalent carbon inside of the water.
That way, when the plants take it up, they have access to all of that carbon, and it's
already fully reduced, meaning that it's not oxidized like CO2 in the air is.
The oxidized state is the least efficient for the plants and requires the greatest energy
expenditure.
So a lot of times when, like the TNB Naturals, those bottled CO2 supplements, yeah, they
can provide some CO2 for the plants, but it puts a greater stress on the plant to then
process that because it needs a higher reduction capacity in order to take something that's
oxidized and to convert it to something that's useful.
So if you find a way to provide your plants with fully reduced carbon, it's actually free
energy for them.
It's free because they would have otherwise had to exert energy and time and do work in
order to capture that form of carbons.
This process of reduction is very important, and tailoring it to what exactly you're looking
to achieve is also pretty important.
Like we were talking earlier about this flavor of carbon deriving from orange peels, we're
converting this orange peel into like organic acid residues like pectic acid, and then complexing
them back with calcium so that when your plants get it, they're getting about 100 ppm of carbon
for every one milliliter that is being added into the feed mix.
They're also getting a specific form of calcium that is sort of very conducive to forming
cell walls.
It's not like a nitrate.
It's not like a sulfate or anything like that.
It's a very special flavor of carbon that allows the plants to recognize that piece
of calcium as a constituent of the cell wall.
So now when we're factoring carbon into the equation, really what we're doing is sort
of turning up the appetite, increasing the appetite for the macronutrients of the plants.
In other words, if you give your plants more carbon, like more CO2, they're probably going
to want more nitrogen.
They're going to want more phosphorus.
They're going to want more of these macro elements in general.
So tying all of that together, I think, is or can be tricky for some people.
Okay.
Sorry, I have a question because I don't know everything about this.
So outdoors, our plants emit a lot of carbon and so do we as humans.
Now when we're trying to replicate that within a tent, a grow tent, you're saying that we
can supplement carbon, I guess, foliarly and supplement carbon through water?
I'm sorry, I'm just trying to understand and break it down for my damn self.
Yeah, yeah.
So the carbon that's in the air is CO2.
That's gaseous form of carbon.
And then when the plants, because the gases aren't very soluble in water, right?
Think about hot day and having a soda out on the counter, the CO2 quickly leaves and
it doesn't come back to the water.
So this is the same for plants as if they have carbon in the air in the form of CO2,
it's a gas, but they need to convert it into a form that's soluble, that they can put inside
some water and then take that water from the leaves through the phloem tissue down into
the roots.
And then that's where it gets exchanged with beneficial microbes and beneficial fungi.
But it's really just the process of conversion to make something that's a lot more soluble
and allows the plants to move through a lot more carbon if it's in the...
Carbon in the form of sugar will never leave.
You can have sugar water, a solution of sugar water out on the counter for weeks.
The sugar is never going to leave.
But CO2 in water, it's going to leave within a couple of hours.
And so the form factor that the carbon comes in is very important.
So if you're just supplementing CO2, again, it's that effervescent, that fizziness that's
trying to always leave the plant.
That's what is going on.
Whereas on the flip side, if you're, quote unquote, feeding soil and you're taking care
of the soil microbes, what happens is you get these soluble flavors of carbon like the
sugars, various other carbohydrates.
This stuff is a lot more transferable and a lot more actionable for both plants and
for beneficial microorganisms.
Oh my gosh, Jason, where did you find Nick?
Nick actually kind of found us.
Okay.
Funny enough.
I'm following you.
Flav and Ali Muffins and I were running a room and Nick kind of came in there and just
blew us all away.
And ever since then, we've kind of latched onto him as one of the tremendous leaders
in this space.
I think a key rule of thumb might be, to remember, would be if you can increase the
biological activity of what's going on in the soil, you are in effect increasing the
carbon.
You're increasing the amount of carbon that's in the soil.
You're increasing because the biology itself is carbon.
You're increasing the interactions of the biology with the environment around it.
You're increasing the ability to uptake these nutrients and carbon and create more structures
of more plant and more roots.
And so the way to increase the amount of carbon is to increase the microbiotic activity in
my mind.
Not necessarily pumping up more CO2 into the plant, but pumping up more biology into the
plant if you're trying to get more carbon in.
So I jumped back up too, because my train of thought went right where yours went, Jenna.
Because clearly, Nick, thanks for explaining that what you were suggesting is an environment
within the fertilizer that you're providing that lends itself to a high availability of
carbon for the plant.
Where my mind went was for folks who don't have all the access to those nutrients and
can't supplement carbon.
Clearly we wouldn't want to do a foliar spray.
I've never had success under lights or direct sunlight, because that would be the most productive
time for the plant to absorb carbon, it seems.
Are there any applications for foliar feed that folks can use as a shortcut?
Maybe a feed just prior to sunrise so that it's a little bit of a slow absorption and
the plant has kind of dried?
Are there any surface level shortcuts for carbon absorption?
I can't wait to hear your answer, Nick.
I literally can't wait to hear your answer.
Yeah, I mean, there's something we were talking about earlier, like the artichoke that we're
working with.
It has this unique fraction of sugars that when you spray it on the plants, it sort of
stimulates this phosphorus metabolism.
So the more you can include, like molasses, for example, is a good one, or even kelp extracts.
If that's not the case, then I would say compost teas are really good too.
If you can find something even in your local immediate environment, try to brew that up
into a compost tea.
That can be very cost effective as well.
There are bulk sugar options like organic cane sugar from Costco is like 70 to 80 cents
a pound.
And I've seen some pretty expensive brands out there just selling the exact same thing
and it ends up being a lot more, let's just say a lot more than that.
All my little side sugar business is doing pretty well.
I'm glad you brought it up.
Yeah, I think we were also talking about, this is a topic that came up the other day,
which was molasses, using molasses because molasses is not only just a sugar, but it
also has, I think, amino acids and some other great calcium and some other great nutritive
values.
So I'm sure there's a lot of carbon in there, or at least carbon reaction caused by the
use of molasses as well.
Yeah, yeah.
And molasses, if you look at it, you can measure the potassium in molasses by the milligram.
Maybe it has like a hundred milligrams, 200 milligrams of potassium, which is considered
high, but it's still very, very trace amount compared to how much carbon.
It's predominantly carbohydrates, molasses, and it's got some of that mineral content
left over from the plants.
So that's a really good form factor.
I think anytime that you can talk about either feeding the soil or improving soil chemistry,
it's going to revolve around carbon and getting, certainly getting plant extracts involved
is a good idea.
We've got kelp extracts that are very familiar to everyone here.
Certainly doesn't necessarily matter the species of kelp, although some of them do have different
effects depending on what you're trying to achieve.
But to kind of bring up an earlier topic we were talking about earlier, with carbon, it's
not very easy and straightforward like it is with nitrogen.
Plants are deficient.
You can see that in the color.
So you add the nitrogen and the color is corrected.
The carbon deficiency is more like turning a barren piece of land into a lush rainforest
within 15 years that's got greater biodiversity than any of the rainforest surrounding it.
So it's really complex to try to figure out like what is the specific flavor of carbon.
And a lot of it comes down to just allowing nature to guide those pathways and to dictate
it depending on what's happening.
So if you can find ways to do simple things, it typically helps diversify the compost teas
that you make instead of just using like a green herby, herbaceous type of vegetables.
Get some fruit peels in there, get some bark in there, get some licorice fruit in there,
get some kelp fronds in there, get flowers and get pistils, get fruits, get berries.
Try to just diversify a little bit because as you start to open up what you're putting
into the compost tea recipes, you're going to find that you're opening up the sort of
the pool of carbon that you're giving the plants and giving them the availability of
carbon oftentimes allows them to produce.
Like the case with terpenes, there's 70,000 different terpenes, but they all start from
isoprene.
So if you can get the plant to isoprene, it will produce one of 70,000 different compounds.
And I think it's less important to try to figure out what it's going to produce or how
it's going to produce it and just get to the spot of being able to produce it.
So there's a lot of back and forth on the YouTube and I think just to kind of simplify
and clarify.
So one of the quick questions that came from Ian is, so is he saying that adding sugar
is more effective than adding CO2 to the air?
And I think that from what we've been discussing, I would say yes, but the reality is you do
need CO2.
As we discussed earlier, you can't, you know, you have to have CO2 as part of the functioning
in that CO2 and these carbons and sugars and things in the soil are just different flavors
of carbons.
Not necessarily one is better than the other.
It's more about using the abundance of different types of or flavors of carbon to meet the
results needed for that plant.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's kind of like the structure and function thing.
You know, plants are structured in a certain way.
They have this particular function, which is to take CO2 out of the air.
You know, they take the energy from the sun, they split a molecule of water, and then they've
got this chemical energy that they can use to fix carbon, to reduce carbon.
So it's never, you're never really going to be able to replace that because it kind of
defines what the organism is and has been for billions of years.
But what you can do is increase the plant's ability to grow in a 24 hour period of time.
If you can give it more carbon, you're going to get more biomass because you're going to
get more cellulose.
You're going to get more pectic acid residues.
You're going to get more terpenes and more cannabinoids and things that are mostly carbon
by weight if you figure out how to give them more carbon.
The tricky part there is that giving them more carbon, quote unquote, doesn't mean let's
crank up the CO2.
Let's just leave a bunch of CO2 gas in the air and have plants figure it out again.
It's that soda that's been opened up on a hot day just inside of the plant.
And so if you can-
Sing to your plants.
Sing to them.
We emit carbon.
You've got to sing to the plants and give them that energy.
Talk to them, sing to them, even if you're shouting.
You're releasing CO2 when you do that.
So absolutely.
Spend time with your plants.
I think that's also, I think getting back to what we were talking about earlier, small
tent growers.
The space, the room, the size of the room that that tent is in is also going to have
an effect.
So I, for instance, I'm in my basement.
So I have two five by five tents in my basement and I can tell you, and I've put a monitor
in my tent to monitor this, it is impossible for the six to 12 plants I have growing to
suck all the CO2 out of my entire basement.
Because I am running fans that are pulling air out and pushing fresh air in all the time,
there's a fresh abundance amount of CO2 in the air.
Could I increase that amount and could it have a positive effect?
Yes.
Do I need to?
No, I don't.
It's not something that I need to do.
I think another thing to mention just real briefly is that CO2 also helps in some cases
with temperatures.
And when we talk about those limiting factors, if your temperatures are running higher and
you have more light, by adding more CO2, you're helping keep that balance in place.
So I know a lot of people use CO2 in large grows as well, not just for the effect of
CO2, but also to help with adjusting the environmental factors like heat.
It's basically, you guys had a great conversation about enzymes a week ago and how they were
the engine of life.
I think the gentleman that was here described it as.
And one of the ways I think we can describe carbon is that's the gas or the fuel.
Because the transfer of it is very important.
And I've always found it to be a balancing act.
You can run hotter with CO2 present.
You can feed more.
If you're in a situation where you're not feeding that much, you're not going to need
or want as much carbon dioxide and vice versa.
What have you seen as a balance or a formula, Nick, that you could maybe share with us?
Are there rules of thumb that we can keep in mind in terms of fertilizing and that balance
with carbon in the air?
Well, I mean, rules of thumb, there's like general parameters, I guess you could say.
I think the easiest way to think about it is that plants have what's called a carbon
to macronutrient ratio that they're trying to balance out.
And even within that, there's the carbon to nitrogen ratio.
This is actually the carbon to nitrogen ratio is actually pretty well studied.
It's this idea of, hey, as the plants are taking in nitrogen, they want to take in as
much CO2 kind of proportionate to that carbon coming in proportionate to that.
Because what the plants are trying to do is combine that nitrogen with just enough carbon
to make an amino acid.
And so there's this kind of magic ratio, I think you can say, with a couple of the elements.
And certainly the same is true of soil chemistry, too.
For compost and for healthy compost, there's like a carbon to nitrogen ratio that you want
to kind of stay within.
Otherwise, the decomposition activity tends to be a little bit hotter than what is typically
recommended.
And you might start to see some adverse effects with the plants maybe getting burned with
the compost, like physically being too hot.
So that being said, this idea of macronutrient ratios is pretty important.
So what I would say is as you feed a higher mineral load to your plants, if you want to
give them more nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, always do so with more CO2 in the air.
Or if you have, if you're using like sugars, for example, let's just say it's a simple
sugar, you're adding like a teaspoon per five gallons.
I'd say crank that up to add a teaspoon and a half or add two teaspoons for five gallons
when you start to feed the plants a lot heavier because giving them that carbon is going to
open up their ability to buffer out their growth.
And so if you fed them a little bit too heavy, if you gave them extra carbon, they're not
going to burn.
But if you didn't give them enough carbon and you gave them too many nitrates, too many
salts, they are definitely going to burn.
It's the carbon that makes that difference overall.
All right.
So we crossed over the fantastic two hour mark.
We've definitely gone really far down.
Does anybody else down in the audience want to come on up and add to the conversation?
If not, we'll probably keep it going for a few more minutes here and then probably wrap
it up.
So Alex, let's see if we can get you on up here.
Alex, how are you doing tonight?
And Michael as well.
Doing well, thank you.
Great conversation.
Quick question.
I'm curious, you know, I barely made it past high school.
I'm just trying to wrap my head around this.
So I have practiced, you know, JADAM, Korean natural farming for the past few years.
And I'm just curious, is that carbon based nutrient?
Is that like, you know, the fermented fish amino acid and, you know...
Uh oh, Jason.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Right.
I mean, we're...
Are these carbon based?
Well, everything we're doing is carbon based, right?
I mean, it's impossible to not...
There's carbon in all of that stuff.
But yeah, I mean, we're taking...
I think there's combinations, right?
There are definitely enzymes that work in what we're doing in Korean natural farming.
Those vinegars are breaking down structures.
So you have amino acids that are also floating around in some of those K and F approaches.
But yes, you are focusing on feeding the soil, feeding the plant biosphere, increasing the
bio activity.
You're increasing the amount and diversity of indigenous microorganisms of your fungi.
We're very, very focused on increasing the amount of fungi, especially when you're brewing
that liquid IMO.
You're making that...
When you start getting into the JADAM side, you start talking about introducing some of
the anaerobic functions, anaerobic biology and bacteria.
Like I love Bokashi as well, using Bokashi ferment as part of that.
But again, you're introducing humates, you're introducing humic and fulvic acids, you're
introducing aminos, you're introducing enzymes, you're introducing lots of sugars, and you're
introducing biology.
So absolutely, it is a very much a carbon-focused approach to growing plants.
All the inputs are based on breaking down these basically plant materials in many cases.
You're breaking down cellulose, like we discussed earlier.
You're breaking down the fructic acid when you make an FPJ.
So absolutely, Korean natural farming and JADAM are definitely carbon approaches to
farming.
That's awesome.
That's an awesome crossover there.
Alex, thank you for that.
Thank you.
I appreciate the download.
Any additional comment on that, Nick?
Can I make one?
Sure.
For those in the audience who don't know what Korean natural farming is, it's essentially
you can use plants to feed plants.
It's regenerative farming.
All you have to do is go in the forest, pick up some leaves, add some brown sugar to it,
ferment it, and you dilute whatever juices come out of that and make your own nutrients.
When he's talking about something called bokashi, all you got to do is get freaking newspaper
or what's it called?
Wood chips, Jason?
Jason, is it wood chips?
So bokashi, usually made with grains.
Grains.
Grains normally, but you can make it with newspaper.
I've seen some of that stuff.
It's a fermentation process.
It's taking, it's using-
Rice.
You use the rice.
All you got to do, people, is wash some rice and use that dirty rice water, ferment it,
leave it in a dark place for a little bit of a while.
I don't remember exactly how much.
And add some milk, and then you create something called lactobacillus.
And then you just drench your newspaper or rice grains or whatever.
This is my understanding of it because I'm still learning it and I've been-
Yeah, that's definitely a simplified form of making bokashi using lactic acid bacteria
or lab, which is great.
Lactic acid bacteria as well is part of Korean natural farming and what you're describing,
taking rice, rinse, water.
You're basically capturing the starches that are present in rice, those naturally occurring
starches as well as naturally occurring yeasts that are in the air that get captured in that
process, that water, that rice rinse water.
And then you're mixing that with milk, which forms a separation.
And you take the, anybody who's left milk out for too many days, sitting in a room,
you see it separates and it separates into the curds.
It separates into this yellowish serum.
Well, if you force that process to happen, and I don't want to get too far off topic
of carbon tonight and get too far into Korean natural farming because I'll go on for hours.
Yes.
We'll do Korean natural farming another night.
We'll do a grow and tell in Korean natural farming, absolutely, but that's not tonight.
But yeah, no, it's, lactic acid bacteria are fantastic.
Lactic acid bacteria are great.
Bokashi can be made from just lactic acid bacteria, but it, a little bit more traditionally
is made with a consortium of different biology and bacteria, including purple non-photosynthetic
bacteria and different types of bacilluses, not just lactic acid bacteria, or lactobacillus,
but there's a few other bacilluses and other things that work together in this fantastic
consortium and you sporulate them out on grains.
And basically what you do is you make this grain, flaky grain like product that can be
used to ferment food waste and turn it into a compostable material.
Instead of using traditional composting, bokashi composting is a really great thing you can
do for if you have an apartment or if you live in a small house and you don't have a
big yard, you can actually do bokashi composting indoors in a five gallon bucket.
It doesn't smell, there's no putrefaction that happens.
It's a pretty awesome natural process.
So yeah, I don't want to go too far down that route because carbon, the forgotten macronutrient,
is definitely our conversation for tonight.
But yeah, no, thank you for that addition, Herb Buds.
We will definitely do a K&F room maybe next week because I don't have a specific topic
to go over, but Korean natural farming is about finding, utilizing indigenous microorganisms.
So bringing those natural occurring microorganisms from your environment into and utilizing them
for growing, whether that's indoors or outdoors, it doesn't really matter.
Most Korean natural farming actually happens outdoors, not necessarily indoors.
And part of that is also collecting plants and other things that are part of your local
environment to make inputs for your, to feed your plants.
So you can take comfrey, for instance, and make a FPJ, a fermented plant juice, using
sugars to, and basically after seven to 10 days that fermented plant juice can be applied.
It becomes that veg plant food and all of that carbon and all of those nutrients and
minerals that that comfrey plant had uptaken during its life are now transferred into this
liquid, which you are now feeding in a near water soluble format to your other plants
to grow from.
So it's taking that plant energy and translating it into your input, which you're then applying
to your plant.
And so what I love about Korean natural farming, and I'm going to cut off the KNF talk right
here is that Korean natural farming is extremely inexpensive.
You can do it all yourself.
You can make it at home.
You can feed all your plants and they're perfectly happy.
But what's really cool is most of the inputs you can actually eat yourself.
There are things that you can, you know, you can taste and you should taste them and smell
them as part of the, it's part of the process.
Things that you can ingest yourself that are also good for the plants.
So there's nothing that you're adding that can be harmful or toxic that you're putting
into your plants, which you also are ingesting in turn ingesting, you know, there's a full
cycle.
So whatever you put into your plant is going to then be transferred into you regardless
of how you consume it.
So we have to be conscious of that.
I'm eager to pass it to Michael, but if you don't make KNF the next topic, we will revolt
against you.
You heard it, Peter.
We'll have to do a Korean natural farming room next week.
So we'll do a basic conversation around Korean natural farming and I'll try to reach out
to a few folks and see if we can get a couple of my fellow KNFers to join us.
Maybe we can get Kobe or Joe McGinn or some of the other Korean natural farmers who are
on here.
Some folks who've been in my classes with me like Russ, who's a fellow classmate and
some of the others, actually our Craig, Craig Truster, who we had the conversation with
on enzymes, which Nick wasn't there for, was also a fellow Korean natural farming student
in the same class of Chris Trump.
All those folks are actually at a hands-on class right now in California learning Korean
natural farming hands-on.
So they were all making their IMO piles yesterday, their IMO 3 piles, and they pulled in the
collections that the teams did so they could look at the IMO 1s and IMO 2s.
But yes, we will do IMO and Korean natural farming discussion next week.
Michael, how are you doing tonight?
What do you have for us?
Any comments or questions about the wonderful world of carbon, the forgotten macro nutrient?
Hello, sir.
I'm doing well.
How are you?
Wonderful.
Thank you.
Okay.
I hate to do this, but it's a bar.
It wraps in, but it's a little different, I guess.
My question is about leaf coloring.
Earlier we were having a discussion about it, and I was wondering how much different
things, if Nick or you or Herbus could answer, what things you think affect that?
Clay was talking about a plant that expressed a blue coloring in a different, I know, in
a different, like in Hawaii versus its expression here.
I was thinking and I was explaining like anthocanin is an antioxidant activity, and I was wondering,
is it things that we can do to kind of, well, I know it is, but what's some examples of
ways to kind of guide that experience or that expression or rather into the plant?
Well, for the pigments in particular, like the purple pigments and the blue pigments
that come out, those can be produced in response to the light.
So one of the tricks for indoor cannabis cultivation is conventional lighting, like high pressure
sodium doesn't put off UV light, whereas the UV is necessary to drive the formation of
some of those pigments.
So that's part of it.
I guess the other part too is genetics.
Genetics factor in pretty heavily because not all plants, like not all purple cush plants
are going to produce purple phenotypes.
Some of them are going to be lime green.
They may have similar like turf profiles and similar cannabinoid profiles.
But as far as the actual pigments go, you know, part of it is nature.
The other part is nurture.
You know, you have to have the right signals coming into the plant, but then the plant
also has to have the right sort of instructions to work from.
So the environment has to be able to put together some pigments that can be used to respond
against that kind of stress.
Otherwise the plants, they typically don't do well in environment.
So let's say you have a plant that does purple out and you put UV light on that plant and
it's going to do its thing.
It's going to purple out.
And then that purple pigment is like a sunscreen.
It helps soak up some of that light energy that would otherwise cause damage for the
plant.
But if you have a strain that does not turn purple like that, then what's going to happen
is that strain is going to be subject to that light intensity and that stress.
So it's going to want to tap out a lot sooner than a plant that has that kind of, you know,
built into its DNA.
It has the ability to produce those pigments, but it's only in response to the sunlight.
That makes sense.
Yes, it did.
Thank you.
I was just taking notes on what you were saying.
And those colors are a function of carbon.
Everything the plant makes is a function of carbon.
We got to wrap it back to that, Michael.
Absolutely.
And it's close enough.
We appreciate you joining us tonight.
Thanks for coming on up.
Matt, how are you doing tonight?
Good to see you, my friend.
Good to see everyone.
Jason, Nick, her, Allie, Alex, Michael, everyone in the audience.
Fantastic.
Great conversation, Nick.
There was an incredible amount of information in there for everyone.
I loved the biochar stuff.
One thing I wanted to add in is people shouldn't misjudge the ability of biochar.
There's a lot of people that have tested it.
Even picture-wise, one of my favorite ones is Kiss Organics has a picture from their
tests from a year and a half ago on their Instagram.
They ran the same cultivar in the same room.
The picture essentially looks like two different plants.
I think it's the right side.
I could be wrong.
One side isor one bed is filled with biochar and another side isn't.
It's almost night and day.
The biochar itself does matter and the quality of it.
The low temperature forms, like Nick was saying, with no oxygen is super, super important.
There's been a lot of really good research too on how the waste alone from the corn and
dairy industry could form some of the largest carbon sinks via biochar in the world.
It's something that people can be thinking of as they have all their waste.
You can be converting this and start turning your garden into essentially a carbon sink
by turning a lot of your waste into biochar.
Even if anyone needs it, there's plenty of research and PDFs online on the production
of biochar the best way.
Like I said, the process really, really matters.
I think that's one of the biggest things on this conversation that wasn't hit enough.
The ability of the plant to use carbon through the soil instead of using gas, because there
is a lot of people that could easily just put some biochar in their soil and the results
that they would see, I think, would be night and day.
Hey, Matt.
Sorry, I just want to touch on this.
I have really big opinions on companies that are biochar companies, because literally all
you got to do is go to the forest and pick up some of the branches that fall off a tree
and burn them and blow them out before they turn white.
Because biochar is...
Right, Nick?
I need some support.
Well, not necessarily.
I mean, there is a couple different...
There's a difference between charcoal and biochar, if that makes sense.
Some of it is keeping...
You don't want oxidation in any way, but then also, at the same time, you want to keep in
some of the biogases as well, which is where you don't want high temperatures.
You don't want over...
I mean, like corn, I think, or the cobs, I think the peak performance temperature is
like 500 degrees.
If you go more than that, you start burning it off.
You're trying to capture not just the charred material, but the processes that are happening
and the changes to some of the chemical makeup as well.
In the case...
And not all biochar is the same either.
Yes, thank you for saying that.
So one of the...
Got me talking about it again.
One of the approaches in Korean natural farming is to use biochar based on sunflowers or asparagus
because they're very high in potassium.
And so what you're trying to do is you're preparing...
You're taking sunflower heads or asparagus and you're putting it into a cast iron skillet
and you're covering that cast iron skillet.
So you're not cooking it open, you're cooking it closed.
And you're trying to burn it, but you're trying to, as much as possible, keep those
heads almost intact and trying to capture as much of that potassium and stuff as good.
You don't want it to go to ash or go to the wind.
You're trying to keep as much in there as possible.
There's a story...
Yeah, just to finish up.
There's a story about measuring the weight of smoke.
So there was a thing many years ago where there was a bet and they were saying that
you couldn't weigh smoke.
And what they did was basically the guy who argued with them basically smoked a cigarette
and carefully collected all of the ashes during smoking that cigarette.
And when he was done, he weighed it and said whatever was lost is actually the weight of
smoke.
So there was a lot of loss of mineral nutrients and stuff that gets lost and taken away on
the wind as part of that heat and that ash and that exchange that you're trying to avoid
in a biochar process.
So that's all I had to say.
I'm done on that.
So if you want to jump back in, Herbots, please go ahead.
Yeah, no, I'm all about DIY things.
We could do it ourselves.
I live by a lake and we collect driftwood and we do smudge.
We do all that kind of stuff.
And I personally think that I can make my own biochar and potentially break up wood
and sell it to people.
And I'm just against certain things.
I know that you're into K&F.
We make our own inputs and stuff like that.
And that is just my personal opinion.
And Matt, thank you for bringing that up.
I appreciate it.
No, so that's why I tell everybody, look at the research, look at the PDFs, because like
Jason was saying, not all biochar is created equal.
And I kind of hinted at the temperature, the oxidation.
It all matters.
And it all matters even on what you're burning.
And there are a lot of good, like I sent Jason this link, I can send it to you.
There's a few organic libraries even that have some of these biochar PDFs essentially
from the University of Hawaii and a couple other places that have made Tumblr-like systems
that are essentially just like a barrel.
It's a homemade design, like you're kind of saying, that anybody can create that creates
the perfect environment for biochar.
So there's proper ways that people could do this at home.
And most of the schools and stuff that are researching this, or most of the guys, I think
it's like Professor Cao, the guy from China that was really studying cobs, husks, and
peanuts, and rice and stuff, he was doing it with one grad student.
And they were going from field to field in multiple different countries, testing this
from a kit that they made out of essentially the back of their truck, which I mean, it
still worked.
It was still stable science, but it just shows it's not really, you don't need some crazy
lab to create this stuff.
But the process does matter kind of in some sense.
Yeah, so you definitely could do it.
You definitely could take that wood and do that yourself, Herb Buds, absolutely.
And I think just making sure that, as Matt was pointing to, there's certain temperatures
for certain types of ingredients to ensure that you're trying to capture as much of that
biomass and that carbon as possible to make those things readily available.
And I also would be very, you have to be, I'm always cautious of wood that I don't necessarily
know where it came from.
So if it's driftwood or something you're pulling out of a lake or a local, then yeah, you're
probably good, but you don't necessarily want to go grab some pallets, for instance, and
burn those pallets and then take the charred wood from those pallets and put it into your
garden if you don't get the right type of pallet.
No two by fours.
Right.
Definitely not pressure treated lumber of any kind, because that usually contains arsenic
or other types of chemicals.
So you have to definitely be careful on the ingredients that you're sourcing.
And I'm always a big proponent of that, understanding where your inputs come from.
So anything you put in your plant, in your plant, on your plant, in the soil, all that
stuff, the plant is going to absorb it.
Cannabis plants are tremendous accumulators and they will pull it in and it will become
part of their bodies.
And when you consume that plant, you will absorb that thing in return.
So you need to be careful about what you put on your plant.
Jason, I love the point that you brought about the sunflower heads.
I'm sure a lot of the KNF people know about that one.
But biomass in general is the big point.
Woods seem to be the best, even in a lot of the data that comes out.
I think in some of the stuff I was seeing, it was a marginal quarter to half as much
carbon in wood than you'd see in peanuts or some other things.
But definitely these sunflower heads, the stalks, biomass in general, anything that
is carbon, anything that can be carbon, use it.
And one thing about biochar that I want to say too, like you guys were kind of hinting
at, the quality of biochar is more or less defined by the absence of oxygen.
Because if you run a chemical reaction in the absence of oxygen, what happens is that
carbon does not oxidize.
Whereas if you burn wood just outside regularly, what's happening is that carbon is changing
which flavor it is.
More accurately referred to as speciation of carbon.
But when exposed to fire, that carbon will progressively change.
If you've got a log that's been freshly harvested, or even if it's been, let's say it's been
sitting for a couple of years and it's pine wood, it's going to have a distinct color.
It's going to have a distinct smell.
The longer you burn it, the more plain it gets and the more sort of predictable and
uniform its color and its aroma become.
Because the speciation occurs of carbon when introduced to heat in the presence of oxygen.
In the absence of oxygen, you get a different set of chemical reactions that unfold because
it's high heat.
Let's say it's 300 to 400 degrees.
That's plenty of heat and enough energy in the equation to start breaking stuff down.
The plants are never in their natural state going to experience temperatures that hot.
The molecules that they make oftentimes break down within normal biological limits and constraints.
If you can have an oxygen-free environment and then you can break down wood in the manner
of using a 200 to 300 degree oven or something like that, you're going to get a high quality
product because none of the carbon oxidized.
None of it was removed from the equation.
There's a similar analogy to humic acids in that the best humic acids are the ones that
are least oxidized from their parent material.
If you have something like Landerdite, it's been fully oxidized and weathered.
Yeah, I mean, you're going to get some level of humic out of it, but it's going to be oxidized
and it's not going to have the energy potential as something that is not oxidized.
The exact same thing is true with the biochar.
You want it to be formed in an environment that is free of oxygen.
Having said that, too, you can actually make good forms of quote-unquote biochar that can
be made with some degree of oxygen because oxygen is technically a fuel source.
It does participate in combustion, too.
It can have some benefits.
It just has to be very closely regulated.
Oxygen is extremely violent and reactive, so you have to control it on both ends of
the equation in order to manifest what you're trying to achieve.
Hey, Nick, I was curious.
It's such good information right there.
I was curious if you wanted to play around with silicon and carbonic acids and organic
acids and cyclic acids.
You mentioned at one point that carbon is the most important thing.
It's arguable that silicon is the second most important thing because without silicon, there
is no life, essentially.
Right.
Well, yeah.
I think one of the things I'll try to do because we're running a little bit short on time tonight
is let me give that some thought because I think I can wrap that into a conversation
around K&F.
The products that I'm making are based in natural farming techniques.
We've got about four dozen species of plants in the mix.
One of them is horsetail.
Horsetail produces compounds like nanosilicates, compounds that contain carbon and silica that's
been polymerized.
So, really, with silica and discussing either silicon carbon chemistry or silicon living
soils, it requires a different conversation altogether.
Maybe I can talk to Jason about having a slice of the K&F conversation around silica and
why it's so important.
If you want any assistance, I would love to go back and forth.
I love silicon and silica.
I believe it's one of the most overlooked things and has been for a long time.
Yeah.
It's a possible.
What we can probably just do is say, let's go ahead and have a conversation around that
in two weeks so that the two of you have time to put something together and prepare
and we'll have that conversation so that we can just isolate that.
To be honest with you, if I get talking about K&F, there's not really a lot of room for
others.
There won't be much room for that type of in-depth conversation around silica.
Lots of side roads.
Getting into a Korean natural farming discussion, that's definitely something that's actually
more than a couple of hours if we really get into too deep.
I think let's plan on trying to set that up for two weeks out and put that on our calendars
and plan on that one, having that conversation in a couple of weeks.
I think that puts us, looking at my calendar right now, I'd say that, what does that put
us at?
The 14th.
So it would be October 14th.
We would focus on that sounds minimal to you gentlemen.
Yeah, that'll work.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Awesome.
You up for that, Matt?
Totally.
Works for me.
I'll be around.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
Okay.
So final thoughts, Nick, before we go ahead and wrap this puppy up and bring it in because
we are definitely approaching that three-hour mark.
Yeah, it is getting kind of late here, but I definitely appreciate everyone taking the
time to come and listen and to learn a little bit more about carbons and macronutrients.
Just keep in mind that you could take all of the other elements, combine them together,
multiply them by five, and high-quality cannabis will still have more carbon than everything
else combined.
So it's very, very important.
And if you have not thought about carbon as a macronutrient yet, then I hope that...
Yeah, so awesome stuff tonight, Nick.
Thank you again so much for this really fascinating topic.
And again, bringing up another area that we don't usually focus on in a lot of these
cultivation rooms and spaces.
So I greatly appreciate you joining us and helping orchestrate this event this evening.
Thank you to Herb Buds, Olly Muffins, Alex, Michael, Matt for joining us up on stage,
and Fused for coming up and asking a question.
Thanks to Trucker Two Times, DB, Drew, Jody, Rye, Camilla, Gro, Kelly, London, Stacey,
Lamar, Alfred, and all of the crew on the YouTube side.
Really awesome conversation going back and forth there tonight.
And a huge thank you, as always, to Peter and the Future Cannabis Project for helping
make all of this simulcast and keeping me organized, et cetera, and making all this
happen.
So appreciate the production, Peter, and taking care of all that backend technical stuff so
that we can have this fantastic, important conversation today.
Again, if you haven't already, please join Future Cannabis Project by clicking on the
little green house.
Follow your speakers.
Follow the people up on stage.
Follow the other people in the room, because they're obviously interested in the same stuff
you're interested in.
If you sat here and listened to us ramble on about carbon for three hours, these are
definitely your people.
So definitely give everybody else in the room a follow as well.
And with that, I am going to close down the room for the evening.
So thank you again, everybody, and have a fantastic evening.
All right.
This is upside down.
And with that, I'm going to put my kids to bed, who do not want to go to bed right now.
Thank you, everyone.
And Hugh, what I loved was that I think your common ground with Greg McAllister is love
of veterans.
So I was hoping you guys could have a kumbaya.
On the political spectrum, you're opposites.
But I was hoping you guys could have a kumbaya moment around that and be like, oh, my God,
we do have something in common.
All right.
Can anyone hear me, by the way?
Yes.
Yes.
Hugh, I appreciate your reasonable nature on that front of making amends and bridging
gaps and all that stuff.
OK, cool.
All right.
So, yeah, I got a Gemma was supposed to be in bed a while ago.
She has to wake up at about six forty five in the morning.
Not happy about that.
I don't know what we got going on tomorrow, but I do know Chad Westport, Saturday, 2 p.m.
Pacific time.
Hope everybody that that by the way, I was loving that conversation.
That's like I get I get aroused over when someone goes deep in a topic.
So anyway, Smiley hugs back to you and everybody else in the chat.
And with that, everybody have a good night, whether you're putting small humans to bed
or staying up late because you have no small humans.
Appreciate that because.
It's a.
It's a chore.
So anyway, everyone have a good night.
And with that, we will kill the live stream.
