We're at I'm Chef 17, we're gonna be reviewing today our Instagram.
I guess that's me with my family of skunks.
That's me, how y'all doing?
I'm just gonna grab my coffee real quick.
Wow, behind the schedule.
Yes, I've been up for hours and I managed to not feed the cat.
I can't stop the stream, so here we are.
Something's wrong with my studio. It's not starting.
Anyhow, I don't want anyone watching. It don't matter.
Let's see, I'm pouring coffee, hot water.
So today, yeah, we're gonna go through...
I don't know what's going on there.
I guess that's not happening, sorry.
Turn on some... Do I need any more light? I don't think I need any more light.
This is nice like this.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
It's about the way it is here, right? I got no one watching, so it don't matter.
Y'all are gonna turn this on and go, what the heck is he doing?
In the first few minutes, absolutely nothingness.
Let's see. Well, the whole idea today is...
Reviewing the Instagram from the beginning.
I wonder though, I got no one online.
I'm gonna check to see if this thing is even working, because I had errors setting up.
And we just might not even have a single freaking...
One of these playing at this point. Let's see.
I don't see chat working. I don't see...
Am I live on here at all? Subscriptions?
It says there's 10 people watching. I see Brian coming in on chat. Cool.
Alright, so this thing is working. I had a couple of errors setting up this morning.
And let's go ahead and open up some pictures here.
I can't do that, can I? I gotta go here.
I guess I lose some resolution on this.
Let's see. So we're gonna just go...
Here's the hardcore. And again, this one here was the hardcore as well.
This is up in the canyon at fall.
These plants haven't had any direct sunlight in several months at this point,
and they've probably been frozen several times as well.
You can see the fall colors in the background there.
It's on a north-facing slope where I broadcast the seed.
And so after about the first or second week of September,
there's not much sun on them under these cliffs, right?
But it's a dedication to my best friend whose bones rest on the mountain where he disappeared to.
Years of high elevation testing found the right mom to take pollen from New Mexico land grant.
The wild stock collected in the southern Rockies.
Cookie rack mom grew well at 9,000 feet, but was all a moose at.
Those plants naturally selected to rain, sun, mountain soil only.
Do you have a place to grow a sacred feral garden?
Let's see.
Here we have compote hemp seed, one of my first hemp runs with the compote.
And such is the normal with my projects. I still have all that seed.
I don't have any way to test stuff.
People want way more information than I can provide from my time space and stuff.
This was running some tests.
I wanted to provide some seed for folks that were more available,
and you could spend less money and maybe do a little bit of pheno hunting.
I know a lot of people prefer the pheno hunting and whatnot.
So I created these economy lines.
Tried to do a St. Bernard, again, a hybrid of my own making.
Some of these are hybridized here, I guess, in this picture.
This is the Breath of Green Dragon hybridized.
This would be the Girls Gone Wild.
I have tons of this stuff. I don't grow it anymore to re-show it.
I have thousands of these seeds that no one buys at an extremely low price.
These are 22 days.
I don't really have a way to advertise all this stuff and bring out all the information,
build pages for all this stuff.
I've used my Instagram to teach about these things.
Going back and reviewing all this is really tough for folks.
This is my mentor when he was a lot younger.
He's passed away now, but at 77 I was 6 years old.
He was in Central Mexico that year.
Once upon a time ago, when life was real.
Here we have some Malawi Gold, IBL.
You can see people find some whiter leaf in some of my Malawi and complain about it.
It's generally the bottom fan leaves, and then as it flowers out it tends to narrow a bit.
There is great diversity in the natural Malawi Gold populations.
I checked with a fellow from Malawi when I was questioning.
I had some psycho nut THCV hunter who tagged me 200 times in one day.
A group I wasn't even in on Facebook, trying to claim that these aren't what they are.
Without a natural genetic testing, we can't really say.
I got them labeled as they are, but they run 120 days.
They have the THCV smell and taste and activity to them when you smoke them.
They are extremely dope.
Comparing the widest of the wide leaf on the Malawi, or even someone was asking about a Nigerian,
to the narrowest leaves on my Indica lines, there is no comparison.
The narrow leaves are way narrower and the wide leaves are way wider.
Let's see, did I flip through that?
There is some of the flowerless distortion.
Here is a better view of the flower.
It is quite crystally.
At that age, it tends to run through and it will bronze a little bit before it comes off.
That is why it gets this golden color.
Definitely loses some focus when these old camera photos get enlarged.
36 days in on a trident to St. Bernard.
This is one of those economy lines.
What do we have here? Tangy by Trident of St. Bernard.
This is the electric orange.
These are poly-hybrid.
They definitely have some range to them and what they are producing.
I would say maybe 1 in 10 has the extreme orange or tangerine or citrus to it.
The range is a funk.
I pulled one out I called glass dog shit.
It has a citrus head to it but it is extremely strong.
The Zion citric acid short cycle big flower going to crush the medicinal citrine scene.
What do I have right here?
45 days in on this one.
You have Evan Flo, Tap, blah, blah, blah.
Grocashy, Modern Microbes.
Although the amount is almost negligible there is a pinch of NFTG fed.
I got it potted up for 6 inch.
Part of my 4 inch breeding tech is potting up 4 and 6 inches into larger pots.
This is potted from a 6 inch into a 5 gallon we call them.
They are actually like 3 gallons.
You can see there is some...
I don't know if I can zoom that.
Oh, I can.
That's cool.
Again, these are my economy lines.
These are like hybrid F1 chucks that I made to make seed available for folks.
I am not charging $200 a pack for my high end stuff.
Here is the Vadermeister machine gun.
This is a random release I did that produced a wonderful THC V and Indica hybrid type of thing.
Vadermeister machine gun is the Jaeger by AK-47 Death Star.
I think most people just refer to it as the Vadermeister.
I sent out a bunch of testers on them.
I never really heard back on much of one or two of them.
Again, I was shooting for the Indica Afghanistan traits.
I found the hybrid, the Sativa Pheno showed in the girls.
The one tester reported THC V content sufficient to adjust insulin and make brownies for the first time in years.
I was kind of tripping out when she did that.
She was super sure there was enough THC V for her.
She had not been able to eat sweets and such and did this brownie thing.
It changed my whole perspective of reality and understanding how THC V helps with diabetics.
Let's see some of these other pictures.
That is beautiful, right?
This is just random chucks I do.
I have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds that I produce.
You know what?
I am going to take a look.
I have not been looking at my projection.
I am in there.
Cool.
You can see me in the corner.
Let's see.
I have not been able to check the chat.
Let me see what all we have going on in chat here.
Yeah, the multiple notifications.
I had errors in starting.
I had three notifications.
Sorry about that, folks.
Everyone helps to test for free.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, I do not do testers because everyone wants free seed.
No one does any work for them.
Like I said, there are just 30 people.
I send out 30 test packs and I get responses from one person.
It is like a lot of freaking work for me and a lot of free for them.
I am just not into that.
I know other people.
They do hybrids with other people's exclusive clones and things like that.
They do not really do any actual work.
I mean, they do.
You have to grow the plant and you have to spray some silver on it.
Then you have seeds or you grow two plants.
You select a male.
We have got 30 years in some of these.
I am not sending out free testers to random people.
Let's see.
What else have we got in chat here?
It is freaking cold.
We have had some cold here.
I think it is below 20 right now.
JCV smell is kind of a sweet thing.
Somebody else turned that on to me from someone who had dispensary tested THCV
flower and identified that for me.
No, I am not talking about Cloudy Milk Trichomes today.
That is not my talk today.
Thank you for asking though.
I am talking about my Instagram pages.
San Diego area, anything I have will work wonderfully.
I have a lot of people who are going to be using the long-running Sativas down
there.
It will be freaking all year round or whatever.
That is something that without having to do,
what is it,
manipulations.
You do not have to pull tarp and stuff to get in San Diego these 120-day
strains to fly.
What do you want?
I have a hard time recommending for people anywhere unless you have
specifics that you need for your medicine,
specifics you need for microclimates and things like that.
Even then,
off the top of my head,
it is a little bit tough to just go through.
I have hundreds of strains and say which one.
What do you like?
What do you need?
What are your parameters?
I can go through my list.
I am not doing that in live time either.
Thanks for asking that kind of stuff.
I am going to lose my chat here as I go.
I wonder if I can do like that.
Anyhow,
I need to learn other stuff better.
I had to take a job to earn an income and provide for my kids.
I forgot how to do this over the week.
Let's try this.
Here we go.
Beautiful.
Triton to St. Bernard.
Again,
this is my economy gear.
This is my lowest end stuff that I offer.
We have this one.
Again,
this is I believe the Tangy by Trident is the electric orange.
We have shown in the front one here some up close visions of this stuff.
Here we have the really neat flowers coming off of the petiole and leaflets.
That is always an interesting one of my personal favorite.
I really like it when they are coming off a little further on the petiole.
Definitely a favorite mutation.
Again,
these are representing the Tridents and the various hybrids from my St. Bernard.
All right, next.
Here is again more of the Tangy by Trident to St. Bernard.
Test run at 12.
Yielded six females,
five shown here,
small half to one.
One gallon living soil with probiotics and prebiotics.
All flipped indoor and finished out.
No depth,
spring ascending light.
Right now I have got stuff.
I just turned on my indoor lights and I am flipping things that I have had in veg all winter that I did not get to in the fall.
As of February 10th approximately,
we have 10 hours of light here.
I will move those.
They were hard flipped indoor under HID and I will move them out into the sunshine.
If you just put them out from veg into that sunshine now,
though sunshine is too weak to really trigger a strong flowering response.
I have learned how to do these different energy saving techniques where I can optimize utilization of HID and sunshine
without undue use of energy expenditures.
Sustainability at its best.
That is what it is saying.
Test run at 12.
Yielded six females shown here.
Great.
Grown in small half to one gallon living soil with probiotics and prebiotics.
All flipped indoor and finished out.
No depth,
spring ascending light.
Images at 62 days.
Some are at 2% amber,
three of six with strong citrus turps.
Only subjected minor stress test and it isn't a breeding run.
No instabilities from root binds,
starvation,
overfeed,
pH swings,
minor light leak,
and adjustments in a bug infestations with no negative response.
The one I cut early had started to re-veg.
I was offering 13, 20, and 200 packs when I first offered these up.
You can get them in 13 packs as it is right now.
Some beautiful flowers.
Boy,
I,
having a crappy cell phone really didn't help present this stuff.
But you can see what's going on here just fine.
Again,
these are my bottom line economy,
better than most people provide period.
Here's Z-Track.
And so if you don't know my track series are,
this is when I take a primary F1 hybrid to double-track.
I take a primary F1 hybrid to Dr. Dream All Cure.
And Dr. Dream All Cure is my in-house over 20,
23 years,
60,
over 60 years between my brother,
myself,
and my mentor,
three scientists of which I'm the least.
That's the Dr. Dream All Cure.
And,
2022 land race mashed up and crossed with,
with,
the San Fernando Valley OG Kush direct from the San Fernando Valley.
Dispensary in 2008.
And it all has a major Hindu Kush backline on it.
So I took that and one of the very first crosses I did with that was I got some pollen from Bog,
not directly from him,
but from,
from two of his particulars.
And I named the crosses Ziggy Stardust and Spiders from Mars.
And the pollen was in the mail.
David Bowie,
it was in the mail the day David Bowie died.
And like his birthday was like the day it showed up in my post box.
So it was kind of like no brainer,
right?
I'm dedicating some shit to David Bowie,
Ziggy Stardust and Spiders from Mars.
And so Ziggy Stardust came out and I back crossed the prime mail into Dr. Dream All Cure.
And that's the Z track.
So this track is,
it's generally a land race crossed the Dr. Dream All Cure and then back crossed into itself.
And I'm using the first letter of the name on the track to give it its name.
These things are fucking amazing,
dank,
my screen,
heavy,
earthy.
There are some of them are skunky.
There's definitely some diversity in them.
Some of them some citrus.
But the Z track,
if you get a hold of those,
you're going to have just some amazing results.
All right.
Let me go back to my OBS and check chat again real quick.
Let's see.
Someone's asking about Beldia and Beldia should finish in June,
July,
August at the latest.
You should plant it in March.
And Beldia is totally a high elevation auto flower.
I don't know,
a semi auto flower.
I don't know how else to describe it.
And I really,
I ran that stuff once and identified it.
I had it.
It was labeled came from to me from Haifa,
Israel labeled as Moroccan Atlas mountains.
And after growing it and it auto flowered,
I have very little reason to believe it's anything other than the Beldia.
And so I'm going to actually going to be running a bunch of that in my field
here.
I'm going to start seeding out and probably at the end of February to see
what happens.
We have, we have some frozen.
We have freezes until early April,
but plants here tend to start popping here in about two weeks through the
frozen soil.
So I will check the Beldia out and get a better,
better information.
What am I looking for selecting males?
I'm going to get to that here through some of these.
I show a bunch of males in this whole deal.
I have a whole protocol set that I do when I'm looking for my males.
Oh, look at this.
Something came in from the wilds of Cameroon.
This is one of the awesomest things about,
I need to open these features up.
I haven't, I got a couple more years while they stay good, but this came,
this was some, you can see them there,
some bag seed that fell.
I got while he was traveling.
And for the longest time I was taking these in collection because I have a
passion about reproducing this stuff and protecting it and saving it and
seeing what's in it and utilizing it.
But boy, I hardly make enough money to pay the lights on what I'm doing.
So it's tough to continue doing all this.
And what do we have here?
Some stanky pine tar skunk from Lucky Beans.
I did a test run with this stuff and there was some hermey issues,
but I found it was like, there was other traits that were so worth,
it is literally some of the stinkiest shit that I have ever grown.
It is so intense.
The pine tar ones are literally so,
I want to say it's like a dessert where, I mean,
the shit's don't eat it all, get out, but it's like intense.
And like the flavors are almost so intense.
It's like chewing on a piece of burnt pine tar.
And so like, I, it's super strong.
It's got the potency, but like,
I really liked it for just like a dessert for flavor for novelty for,
but like, like if you tried to dig, spend the day to smoke and that stuff,
that, that pine tar was overwhelming.
I find it it's coming out nicely. And some of my, what do we have now?
The baby diaper shit is highly over,
over burdened with the lemonene from the green dragon father,
but the ones that come out, there's some, some of the,
some of the earthy pine skunk, some of the best earthy pine skunk phenos.
I've gotten the F2 right now that I'm keeping and trying to roll out.
And I've made seed from that's by far, like I've been looking for that one for fucking ever.
And I hope I might just,
one thing I've been thinking about is cause like I'm not making enough from seed is like just doing the pheno hunts and
starting to pass off just cuts at a higher dollar and to a smaller group.
I don't know, but we'll see.
I might just be doing artwork from here on out and smaller breeding projects.
You know, everyone likes to show off the biggest cola at ripeness peaks.
Well, cause because it's so sexy. Yeah, me too.
But I prefer to show off my bottom nugs before I trim them.
Some economy gear trident stud lines.
So these are bottom buds out of focus and see if we get some better.
There you go. Pound. I smoke bottoms, right?
Everyone talks about, Oh, I smoke meds or you smoke meds.
Or they joke about whether it's an insult or if it's a like, like I'm being cute.
Right. Well, here's my bottoms.
Right. This is like, this is what kind of stuff that blows me away is like,
you don't see people posting their bottoms, do you?
Because most people like only have a top that works with.
But I'm serious about like, yeah, I smoke my bottoms and I sell my tops if I'm selling them or they go into.
They go into making cancer treatments.
That's beautiful.
Yeah. So you want to make hash plants is flipping cheap and you're going to get results.
What's next? Tails in less than 12 hours.
Didn't even all sink. Look at that. This is a crazy one, right?
This is magical. So you see some aloe in the water there.
This is a shot glass that are in. Looks like I got a fruit fly in there too or a mosquito.
I don't know. Dr. Dream all here by Pakistani Chiselfish, Breath of the Purple Dragon.
Those are three year old seeds I had when I popped them.
I have had a couple of people tell me that they did not get a single seed to pop out of the pack.
And those were that's an anomaly.
I don't. Unfortunately, those people were out of the country and I would have just mailed to them.
And I don't know how I've had the worst time getting things through customs in the last couple of years.
I just gave up. This is like where, though, I derived the Zakhustani came out of these.
I'm a door. This was my this is my stud. Do I have the other pictures of him in here?
I don't. This is this is my Afghan Kush that I had for several years and I end up losing him.
He maybe I'll have some pictures of it later. He goes frosty when he's when he's flowering.
Oh, here's one that didn't take quite a new term for the industry, a category of craft quality in a flooded market.
I know it will be abused by the greedy fucks, but you will get top dollar when presenting your boujala, a.k.a. fresher, new crop.
The stuff that the stuff sitting in a warehouse. Yeah, I know.
Yeah, I know. You all think curing is some special art form, but it's only needed on larvae.
We not finished. Right. My proper flowers are ready to go as soon as moisture is equalized.
Fresh or trichomes intact. Leave the sugar leaf on as a prophylactic in allowing the consumer a better source of personal key.
Got to sell it. And that takes a little persuasion. A good story sells everything.
Anyhow, but talking about the you know, we now know that there's stuff been sitting in warehouses for years and years, whether it's green, green market or gray market.
Who's you lay? Use it. Nobody's touched on that one since.
Yeah. What else we have here? Some more pictures and some kind. I think this is Breath of Green Dragon we're looking at here.
Possibly number nine. Oh, look at that.
These are that's a pretty cool one. Bug sex. Insect porn.
Check. I'm going to open up and check. 72 seedlings started an extreme vetting process.
Dr. Dreams Breath of Purple Dragon. Yeah, so the seeds were set into right in the sunshine.
And went ahead and did their thing. Let's see. I'm bringing that up right there.
Questions. You know, I need to run down and grab my smoke.
I didn't smoke this morning. Donkey saying goodbye. On my phone.
Let's see. Right. Time to crack the happy day.
Yeah, you know, Harald's talking about the right time to crack the happy day.
So that's a long running strain. If you're going to try and do a full term, it's it's time to get this pop in and veg in and figure out which is the male and the female.
You know, if you're going indoor, it's a whole different story. I actually didn't really run those under lights at all.
Those were all sunshine and good. I really hope you find those cocoa turps.
I ran all of my back breeding projects from that happy day into a wash the other day.
And the freaking it smells like tootsie rolls or something when it comes out as hash.
Let's see. Someone tried popping some 19 year old seeds.
Yeah, Squishy Mirror, a whole other show I'll do someday is actually reviewing my Instagram.
I've come across stuff where I'm going to do several of these review on my Instagram, seed popping and techniques and treatments for old seed.
And there's stuff that I'm holding on to till I have a laboratory because it just can't even waste the stuff.
Cool. On to more more postage. Oh, shoot. What did I do?
Let's see. We're up the line a few posts. Here we go. We were right there.
Yeah. So these were these were set in the direct sunshine and see how they take and the heat and all that stuff.
So if you haven't picked up, I do some pretty extreme stress testing on my plants.
Like one of the another reason I don't send stuff out for testing.
They literally do these insane stress tests like you've got to be fucking shit up to bring a fucking hernia out of these things at this point.
Late dust from a CBD hemp and the tangy full spectrum flavor hemp lines replaced.
So I didn't really pursue any of these. I crossed a bunch of full spectrum, high potential, like 22 percent CBD lines into a bunch of different.
TAC lines, but with absolutely no access to testing, this is one of the problems I have with trying to actually convince people like, hey, you know, I've been doing this a while.
It's been before testing and people were able to do this before testing and people say the strongest shit we had was before testing.
Now we just test for THC and it's like, yeah, I don't.
But so without being able to pursue that stuff with the CBD, I can't tell you what those numbers are at all.
What the results are going to be. I just dropped all that off.
Don't really waste three years, but I have three years of those projects I just put aside because I can't.
St. Bernard proven up at first flush. So what is that? That's this is like a 21 days, 20 days.
St. Bernard's doing his thing. Terrible photography with my old phone.
But but you get the picture, right? You see what's going on here.
These things are unheard of elites. They're they're they're these things that you're going to win, win prizes with if you pursue them a little.
Do you share? Is it genetic or epigenetic? Finding expression in several lineages.
So it turns out that this was the Masir Sharif and I only saw it on the Masir that I had a running around for several years and I saw it a couple of times.
This one is highly susceptible to over beating, as you can see.
But the. The fuchsia I find and I think Brother Bone pointed this out there.
Primarily, we see it as a result from changes in UV light.
I see it quite often bringing stuff from indoor to outdoor. But there are a few.
Naturally pigmented, regardless of UV fuchsia hair strains, there's there was the Berkeley blue back in the day.
I brought that up in a post one time. But.
Now we see those different hues in the hairs. Pretty neat.
That's really profound there, right? OK.
Oh, here's a little bit of artwork. I'm in some dire. So I was looking to sell some.
Yes, I'm not having regular income and sucks.
Fire at a fire sale going on some seeds. I always got artwork available.
This is showing some close ups. This one, I believe I sold this one, didn't I?
I think I did. I don't remember it being around the house anywhere.
It's kind of magical. Here's those.
Brought the purple dragon cruising along.
So a little little protection over him just to keep him out of the eyes of the neighbors.
I have really cool neighbors now. I've had some terrible ones in the past.
But. You know, guys got kids and I just soon not cause any issues whatsoever.
And part of part of my whole First Amendment right is keeping things not in other people's face.
Anyhow, what did we say? There was now there is 60 from seed and full on heart desert exposure.
Easy temps of 110 in a hot soil pushing this genetic genetic to prove up its hardy land race back cross capacity.
The purple dragon. I've got these out to F3 at this point, but I haven't released them.
They have three. You can get the F2 of these.
Here's the on the door, a Afghan Kush stud, and you can kind of see.
On the right side there.
On these leaves, you can kind of see.
If I got it shown on here at all.
It shows up a little bit on that top leaf across there.
This thing. Definitely.
Do some some high grade. It didn't necessarily have the volume you necessarily want to see on something.
But the ability to produce offspring that they themselves had males with.
Trichomes on him. This isn't the best trichome prediction run I had on that guy.
The purple dragon.
You see him up that side there too.
You get eeked by bugs.
Nothing.
I feel him.
Sheela Wothy.
I just broke my last of my Indian chillums. Unfortunately, little handmade standard.
Kind of bummed. But that came up with a new design for chillum.
I know I'm making these rectangular chillums that don't roll off of tables and break.
How's that right for invention?
Sheela Wothy. Been jarred up nine months. Broke it out for a particular patient. Needs the GoFast Ativa.
This really helps people. It's amazing.
Ugly little fucking thing. I just noticed someone saying ugly old school.
Which you got to understand. Everything I'm showing. I'm running through severe stress testing and stuff.
I'm running things through.
I'm overfeeding and underfeeding things.
I'm swinging pH from super high to super low.
Shit's going to look like crap, burnt tips and things like that.
I intentionally fuck things up as bad as I possibly can.
Then I select the ones that still produce.
That's my process.
If I'm putting a plant in a one gallon pot or six inch pot.
After all that abuse I'm still getting something that's one hit at the end of it.
You better believe when you put that in your system that's optimized and you're doing everything you possibly can to dial it in.
You're going to have some fucking chronic.
120 day flower cycle on the Sheela Wothy.
It was a lot of foxtail flowering and stuff.
I utilized this long flower open humidity adapted strain to cross up with a bunch of other indica types for F1 productions.
Which should be able to produce more of a dense nugget in a humid environment.
People have run some of those up in some northern latitudes and had great results so far.
I had some questions coming up in chat.
Yours truly talking smack on my all hair no trichome.
That's a land race that would literally knock you off your fucking ass.
The Maziri Sharif.
Hi Donkey, checking out your own.
Concept art for Dune not.
I've never, no.
Second print.
I'm going to be putting my artwork into NFTs.
I will have original full pieces and partial pieces.
People looking for.
Painting of my plants is something I've been wanting to do.
It takes time and money to survive while you're doing these crafts.
One thing I've always visualized doing is literally producing.
Painting of the plants for a label that I sell as a poster on Etsy.
You get the free pack of seeds with it.
I'm selling my artwork and you get a novelty.
Let's see.
F2, full desertity.
F2 is the most diverse position on the breeding scale.
You're going to have the greatest diversity in there.
I only release F2s after I've run them and found that even though there's great diversity,
there's going to be winners in each pack.
Quite often, they can be so diverse in an F2 that you get these really bizarre offshoots
that nothing at all comes through.
I prefer dry sift.
We'll get to some pictures of these.
Dry sift for all sorts of personal reasons, but bubble is way fucking easier to mass produce.
It's taken me years to get my bubble to the same level as my dry sift qualities.
Trichome ripeness on flowers.
This seems to be the question of the day.
We'll get to some of this, but everyone has a different idea of what's ripe as far as percentages and swelling.
This is a huge one here.
If you're selecting for making hash versus flower smoking, you're going to be looking at different aspects of your trichomes.
Someone was asking earlier about how do I select males.
I've been calling males.
I crush the stem to identify the calls as a last test.
For a second chance, odor and vigor can weigh heavy on trial in an early flowering boy.
What I'm showing here is the nature of the life force, vigor, in the land race.
You can see I literally just crush these fucking things, break the stem, and see how the males respond and continue to grow.
That's one of the protocols on males.
If I'm having a hard time deciding, that's the furthest.
You can see I literally break the skin off the fucking thing.
You can see down in here, it's still growing.
This is purple dragon.
I was breeding out the males on this guy.
Here's more breath of purple dragon, down to 50 after culling out the early boys.
Something I'm not ever going to do.
Usually, if we look at Instagram, you're looking at the girls' pages.
You get all these perfection shots that are maybe air-touched or whatever.
You take 200 photographs to get the one.
I'm not even about that.
I'm about the reality when I'm growing.
Unless you have capital and you have workers, and your entire life is all you do is in the garden,
it's really tough to have a perfect garden.
So many people, you see it in the chat, people harshen on things they don't think are perfect.
It's like, whatever, dude.
It's not what I'm after.
I'm after producing right now.
I don't do any production growing.
I've been doing only seed production for several years, and breeding, and stress testing, and sifting, and culling.
These extreme methods I utilize, pH swings and stuff.
Here you can see, though, the Breath of Purple Dragon at 15 days of tarp depth.
So, two weeks, this is where these guys were at.
This is the second cycle, I believe.
No, this would be the first cycle around, even.
And crappy photos, but 15 days, that's all frost already and turning purple.
Purple Dragon with the PCK stead I had selected.
Made my selection, and getting ready to go here.
At 21 days.
So, different cycles, depending on so many factors.
Sometimes I'll make my selection before I've made a clone run, even.
And say, this is the guy, this is the girl, and it's just fucking obvious.
Sometimes it's not so obvious.
And you've got to do full-on cloning of every single one of them.
Yeah, it was extremely obvious on this run as to who the girl was I was keeping.
And she ended up producing all the reversal.
But she was so stable, all the stress testing I did, I could not get her to hardly produce any reversal pollen.
And unfortunately, some of the best production I've done was taking that female and reversing it into some other plants.
And there just wasn't a whole lot of seed from that.
And I hope people took clones from the ones that they did get growing.
Here we have a Hendry Kissinger Phoenix, HKP Sogmaster.
And this is one I haven't opened back up.
I have a set of lines, but this is the HKP, Hendry Kissinger Phoenix, is a back cross of Hendry Kush into the Dr. Dream molecule.
And Hendry Kissinger is what my brother called his Hendry Kush back in the 90s when he was growing for Snoop Dogg.
And Phoenix is what my mentor called all of the seed he gave me from his life's work after the feds had busted him.
They missed a single pack of seed in the rafters on his old hand hewn Virginia farmhouse.
And so this is, again, 21 days in depth on this Hendry Kush dominant back cross to Dr. Dream.
So I'm doing some male selection here.
And going through, I'm going to show you guys some things I look at.
I look at things like this little dangler right here.
And I think that guy is part of the traits that indicate the hermaphroditization.
Early preflower that hangs out the same way as it does on the females in the lineages I work.
This is Dr. Dream Alk here. You can see it hanging right there.
Bio-One-O-Gonzo or 505 I believe they are now.
It's a shis... gosh... Narcoberry, Shiskeberry, back cross, Sour D.
Anyhow, it's pretty funky stuff. It was not stable.
These have the probability of being 100% stable and 100% hermaphroditic because both parents had hermaphrodites.
But what I'm looking at here is these different forms.
They're starting up and then which ones go first and which ones are last.
I'm also doing stem rubs and the smell of the flower itself.
Anyhow, so I'm doing some male selection here.
And going through, I'm going to show you guys some things I look at.
I look at things like this little dangler right here.
And I think that guy is part of the...
Shucks, did that again.
Hey, is anyone else having issues with volume?
I know sometimes I've had my mic turned down and I just checked everything is up.
So check your own personal player's volume.
Let's see, here again, Breath of Purple Dragon.
Six weeks. Someone was asking what kind of high this is.
This is a body narcotic, indica, overwhelming indica style, you know, typical indica.
I don't utilize the modern chemical typing because I do not have access,
nor do most of the people have access to a chemical analysis laboratory.
You can see these beauties, though.
Single stock, right?
A little bit of branching for the most part.
Quite typical of the father of this is the Pakistani.
Tends to be single column, solid colas, especially on the greens.
Yeah, I think this was my select one with the purple in there.
But here's the green without the purple.
Cool. Thanks for the volume check.
Marigold, maybe check your ear volume on your player.
Let's see. All right, cool.
Next page here.
Some more seedlings. FF1, Feminized Hybrid Designation.
First Follilial, running a bunch of Skunk S1 and Skunk Fem into Hindu Kush
for an end of growing season extreme test.
This was actually the, this is the root skunk that you might see from me.
And the root skunk Kush.
So I'm going to pop these into the greenhouse bed about September 10th
and let them finish and freeze up.
And they did produce beautifully going into winter.
Probably see some of these coming along here.
Here's one of the larger leaves I've ever grown.
I believe this is from Syrian genetic.
I've seen some from the Belchistan that dwarf this thing.
Right?
That's a nice leaf though.
So here's some seedlings.
And I'll talk about atoliation, the stretch that most folks really seem to have an issue with
when they're just learning about this stuff.
One thing I do is I'll go through and rough them up to stop the stale growth
and slow down the atoliation.
And this is the standard thing.
But these guys here, they're ready to pot up.
So I'll show you how.
You can tell there's, there's a root coming out.
So they're going to get potted up and we'll show you that next.
So here's some seedlings.
And I'll talk about atoliation.
The bee.
So it says atoliation or stem stretch is a major issue for newts.
Three things I do to stop it.
You need enough soft white or blue light.
Two, as you see here, I rough them up good, which breaks cells and forces scar growth.
Three is potting them up with the soft stem of the soil.
It will sprout roots.
Seedling stretch is part of good survival techniques.
In nature, the seedlings may need to emerge from last year's decaying plant matter or soil
deposited by rain on the hillside.
And that can be several inches thick.
And that's why we have seedling stretch.
So we have a comment here.
In biodynamic course, my teacher said you can regulate that growth with a simple T.
Water and humus, no bubbles.
But you have to get the EC of PPM right because apparently the stretch is a pit from pulling too much water with a really low PPM.
So there's lots to learn about stretching and stuff.
Yeah.
What's the next one here?
Seedlings are potted up in a production process.
Vary the tender stem to grow more roots.
Wet soil, when transplanting, tends to break roots as it's heavy.
Depending on your nursery situation, efficient process order of operation may vary as far as how much soil when.
I find filling many small pots outside at the soil station and bringing inside to nursery works.
But if I'm using outside greenhouse nurseries, it's more efficient to fill soil at the same time and pot up seedlings.
See here.
I pull the seedling while pushing up.
This is due to dryness.
If a bit more damp, I would invert the six pack and push the roots out down with gravity.
Ah, switching gears.
This is my sweet blue corn.
Blue corn woman.
Folks think they are breeding with no idea what breeding is.
This project has been 15 years making a multicolor sweet corn that is SS kernel in open pollination.
That SS is a hybrid only trait in commercial corn seed.
I've developed a way to maintain the hybrid double recessives in open pollination.
This combined genetics from about six mice lineages.
Isn't that beautiful?
I'm going to bring up comments again.
Let's see.
Biodynamic calendar is available.
You can get them online for free now.
Let's see.
Sup loyalty.
Boom, we're coming into the end here.
Let's see.
Let's go ahead and take another look at the next page.
Oh, that's what we like to see.
Breath of purple dragon coming into the home stretch.
Smells of fresh fruit pies baking at a truck stop.
Mmm, pie.
Boom.
See how narrow those leaves are?
Right?
Then they get people to look at some of the African sativas and like, aren't these leaves too wide?
But truly the PCK has some of the narrowest leaves I've ever seen.
And my mentor told me that when I saw it.
It was like, what?
But I've got it.
We'll get to one of these posts in here that show my widest narrow leaves next to my narrowest wide leaves.
And there's no comparison.
The wide leaves, even at the narrowest point, are narrower or wider.
I'm sorry.
And the narrow leaves are always narrower.
Just loving some of this purple dragon.
That was really a fun run.
All those straight stem big colas.
Oh yes.
What has he got in his mouth?
See that wing of a fly?
Oh, he's got the whole fly there.
You can see it sticking out in front of him.
I love these guys.
The jumping spiders.
They're excellent IPM.
I've got, they're actually, I have a good population in my house.
Cool, we're at 58.
I'm going to do some shout outs here.
Earl Zap.
Tamalapias Turpins.
Amanda's Prokruti.
Fried Piper.
Laura Camp.
Amadeus Prokruti.
MFK.
Squishy Mirror.
Loyalty, what's up?
Major General.
Hey, Loyalty, we've got to talk about some, your time in Death Valley.
Man, that's one of my favorite places on earth.
I was actually, we had a search and rescue looking for me when I was about 10 years old
in 20 meal team pass.
It was great watching you on Eagle, listening to your story.
Who else we got here?
Chronic Wanderers.
Brian Daddy.
Tugyo, let me see if I can say this one.
Thai Guy Grows High.
B. Casey.
OKB.
Major General 420 Army.
Thanks for joining us today, Rob and Thomas.
Yours truly, Left Field.
Cedric, Cedric Sidro.
Mary Gold, Midnight Rider.
Appreciate everyone for stopping in and seeing what I got to say.
And I'll be doing more of these Instagram reviews over the next couple of weeks.
Bringing out some of the hidden older information that I've presented
and bringing it up to the front line.
People ask about hash plant paintings for sale.
I have not actually been doing any painting for a minute.
I've been working on teaching myself digital arts, and I need to break out the oils
and start painting some of these plants and stuff.
Appreciate you all.
Utah's Best Artist, if you want to look at some of my artwork, Instagram, YouTube.
You can find through that hashtag.
And I'm going to go ahead and I'll be restreaming this on my personal channel, Alex Hardy.
Thanks for stopping in, folks, and have a great day.
Go out and do good things.
Remember the seventh generation.
We're just borrowing everything from them.
I'll close it out with a little bit of love on the pipes.
Oh, stone's not set proper.
Let's see if we can get a note out of her.
All right.
[♪ music playing ♪
Ah-hoo!
All my relations.
