So far bud rot like it's gonna come in pretty hard and fast when it happens. I know it is
Uh, but anyways, i'm very excited
So you guys just let me know when we're ready to start the the whole low down on that down and we'll get on
Woohoo. Okay. Well, we will get started. Hello everybody
Welcome to the dank hour today where we will be talking about bud washing post harvest and giving your buds a bath
I think it's an amazing subject and I think it's a very interesting one and and very controversial in a lot of aspects
there's been a lot of uh
recourse from suggestions of doing this, um, and I thought it would be a great subject to bring in and and discuss here
as well as
Possible methodologies on doing it in a commercial setting because often it is mostly done at home. I know myself I do bud washing
Um, so i'm very excited to kind of hop in and start discussing about this
Um
So anyways, this is the dank hour where you get educated entertained and simulated and join all of our crew over here and talk to experts
About what's going on and the most controversial subjects in cannabis. We have an amazing panel of
Experts that we're going to run through everything. So we're going to start right off the bat
Um and and invite our experts to say hello and introduce themselves
Uh to the audience and everybody out there in in the big beautiful world of internets
Um, we'll go ahead and we'll just do ptr we'll go manny josh peter dr. Anubis cory and ashley in that
You want me to go
Yes, sorry, my apologies. I hit that mic a little bit fast
That's okay. Uh, i'm manny. I like long walks on the beach while I smoke a joint. No, i'm just kidding. Actually, that's true
Um, i'm manny, uh, this is from ontario canada. Uh, i'm the founder of forest farms a licensed micro cultivator microprocessor
um breeder grower, um lover of the plants and uh all around good guy that likes to help everybody out and that's
Hi everyone, i'm josh I prefer uh hikes in the woods
but anyway, um, i'm
Grew up in the cannabis community been in it for about 20 years. Uh growing for about 15
Um worked in the industry for several years in research and development
Um, yeah, i'm just happy to be here. Thanks
Peter you're up
Sorry, uh peter future cannabis project happy to be here
Uh, dr. Anubis
Uh, anna schwab is my actual name. Um,
I have a phd in cannabis science using genetic tools to sort out variation i've been growing for about
Oh about seven years and I just relocated from colorado to new jersey to help
and work with a company called shore organics that uses
aquaponics
um agri-tech technology to grow clean
green and organically certified
Hemp and cannabis here in new jersey. So that's me
Hello
Hello everybody, my name is cory
I am a managing partner with resonate cannabis incorporated up here in canada
a large-scale cultivation operation and also one of the hosts of resonate radio
Broadcasting live through to youtube and twitch and you can find our podcast
On everywhere. There's a podcast and and honestly everywhere. There's a podcast
i'm done speaking
Hey guys, my name is ashley I run a fully aeroponic
cultivation facility here in michigan
I've been in the industry about
seven years now professionally
um grew
Uh, really in high school started in college, but really got into the industry
After graduating with my master's from the same plant lab as dr. Anubis
Um, I am the director at my current facility
Awesome and as always I am london your moderator and director of conversation
As we have an exciting one here as usually we go for about an hour to about an hour and 20 minutes of direct
conversation where we talk with our panelists and uh,
And talk about our specific subjects and run through everything
Then we like to open up the floor and invite a few people up for questions
So if you do have questions
Don't be afraid to write them down and come
To come at us a little bit later on in the show when we start inviting people up because we always look forward to sharing
Them and i'm sure there are going to be a few very fun and interesting ones. That is for sure
So I mean when it comes down to it, I would love to just hop over to josh right off the bat and ask josh
To you what's the definition of bud washing and and what exactly is it could you summarize bud washing and and what we what we're talking about
Yeah, another problem so uh bud watching is uh, just a basic concept of taking your budge
bud outdoor
Generally, I know some people have done it with indoors as well. But generally it's your outdoor bud
And it's just rinsing off
I need a particulate that has accumulated over the growth cycle
People have different methods and different mixes for what they use and how to do it
And I guess that's what we'll be discussing today
Awesome so I am super excited because like I said, I have I do a harvest every three weeks
And indoor outdoor you name it. I I do a washing system afterwards now
I wanted to talk to manny right off the bat as one of our more senior
people here and more experienced of the group and a purveyor of
Of such thing i'd like to chat about your method and what exactly do you do?
For the harvest process when it comes to just after harvest and this whole bud washing system
Hey london, thanks, uh, this is a
Really engaging subject for me and I love sharing it with people
I know there's a lot of varying different opinions on this
so
Our process basically starts with at the time that we are harvesting our plants. We'll set up a five bucket system
Three buckets with our own water one bucket with three percent
Peroxide about 16 ounces to to a bucket and one bucket with
about a tablespoon of
Freshly squeezed lemon juice and some
Baking soda and what we do is we start with the first bucket and dip the branch in swirl it around gently
Then into the second bucket that has the peroxide
The next bucket is an ro bucket
The next bucket is your lemon juice and baking soda and a final rinse in the last bucket
And then we make sure that you know, there's no excess water left on so we you know, we let them hang dry over the
um
Over the bucket for a little bit before putting them into the drying room
And what we found when we started doing this many years ago is that the amount of particulate that came off was you know?
Incredible and we also found that the our bud ended up tasting much much better because we weren't
Allowing all that particulate to cure and embed itself into the bud
And then be burned up
When we smoke it so that's uh why we started it and that's the reasoning behind it and and
You know anyone that i've suggested this to has kind of looked at me like i've got seven heads. Um, but uh as uh,
As they try it they quickly realize the the value in
In this process, man. I'm done speaking
Awesome. Well, i'm i'm excited to dive into this a little bit more
Um, especially with the different processes now i'd like to kind of jump over
Now one of the main concerns that one has when we're talking about bud washing is agitation
the breakdown of trichomes the loss
Of of all those beautiful little things that we have worked so hard to build develop and grow
I mean like we take 12 like a long long growing sativa can take you know, six months
You know a very long time to develop all these beautiful things and often people's are concerned
Oh, i'm gonna wash it i'm gonna screw up all of my hard work and rinse off these things
So I'd love to jump over to dr. Anabas. So when we take a plant
And and a trichome and these are cells right and we dip these into water
What is the effect that it has like are we just destroying these plants? Do they just shed this stuff away?
Are they just loose on the system and body of the plant?
Are they connected in a cellular level?
Can you tell us a little bit about that plant structure and what the effect might be to the actual?
You get dr. Emmons
Oh, sorry
Sorry, I spaced out for a second. What was the the question? I just heard the very tail end of that
No problem. What is kind of like?
Cellularly like we're going to break down on the plant
There's a lot of worry about breaking of the trichomes and losing all the the terpenes and the granular heads and stuff like that
What happens when we're washing washing a plant ever being delicate with it is like these are cells. They're not connected
Are they not do they just leach off fall off into the water?
Okay, right. So, sorry. Um, yeah
Well, I mean if you think about it, the plant is outdoors and it gets rained on it gets
You know it gets wet. Um
Just as we do, you know, we take baths we take showers the cells on the outside of the organism are there
to protect the organism
um, if we didn't have you know that that waterproof layer on the outside of
us and on the outside the plant the plant would absorb a a ton of water through through the cells and
um
You know
They they wouldn't be strong and and I mean the the plant cells have cell walls and they are definitely connected
And plants are strong, you know
they don't just break and snap and fall apart at the at the first sign of a little wind or
Or a little bit of harsh rain
um
You know, I mean a plant has to be pretty
Pounded by like hail or something like that for it to actually
You know fall apart and all the way down to I think the the trichome level I I feel like
those cells that make up and house
even the trichomes that house, um
Cannabinoids and and all those chemicals and stuff. I mean, they're they're pretty solid. They're they're not they're not as fragile
It's not glass. They're not as fragile as as as people
Think they are and if you as long as you're not like, you know
Agitating it like on a washboard or something like that or throwing it in a washing machine, I think
You know putting it in a bucket and swirling it around gently. You're really not going to do any damage to the plant at all
um
And that that is what makes sense to me. I don't
I don't see why um, the trichomes would break and fall off
uh, I don't have anything to back that up, but
You know, that's what I would imagine
Is going on
Yeah, and just just to back up what dr. Anubis said if that was the case
Then we wouldn't need ice in order to make hash to knock the trichomes off
We could just sit there with a hose and hose down the the buds
In order to get the trichomes to come off. So
again, washing makes sense and
You're not going to damage the plant at all by by washing it properly
Awesome. I wanted to
Jump over and kind of go over to ashley and kind of ask you because you kind of look at it a little bit differently
What's your harvesting process and methodology? Can you jump into that a little bit? Do you do a bud wash?
Do you do a bath? Do you do anything like this? Um in your facility, especially because you're an aeroponic facility
um
So i'm really interested kind of hear your point of view in this area and what you kind of do to get the best outcome
of your plant
so yeah, um
Definitely something that's tried and true and I agree with many, you know, I do it every single harvest what we utilize is
the product from biosafe
called xeritol 2.0
And what xeritol 2.0 is is it's like a h202 that's stabilized with periacetic acid
So this chemical was actually created
Um to combat salmonella outbreaks in food processing plants so that they didn't have to shut the entire plant down
so it just what it does is the
the periacetic acid
Really allows that h202 to stabilize so
H202 naturally is pretty volatile
Um, so that's why you always see it in a dark bottle
So as soon as you open that and it's exposed to air as well as light that'll start to degrade so we use this compound
called
Xeritol, which is just a mix of those two
And prior to any harvest the day before harvest I actually have my ipm specialist go spray
the entire room
Because just like london said you can spend all you can spend months and months cultivating these
These plants and you know, you can do your best to make sure that you've got the cleanest environment possible, but
mold mildew
Bacteria, they all occur naturally on people. And so if you're really trying to
To present your customer your end product that's clean
I will spray even if I think my room is pristine
so it's just a way to and the way that h202 a lot of these products work is they're actually just
Oxidizing any contamination that's maybe on your products you want to
Make sure obviously the plant is still wet when you apply it or growing
So you wouldn't want to find a bunch of mold in what you just dried and then try to blood wash
So I do want to throw that out there that there's definitely the proper timing for it
But if you spend all this time cultivating something and in this, you know in our state you have to pass certain microbial tests
For both adult use as well as heart, you know stricter ones for medical purposes and patients for good reason. So
To really make sure you're you're delivering the best possible products in my opinion
You would want that to be as clean as possible. So with this xeritol spray
we're able to go wash any possible contamination off of our
Harvest that's getting ready to come down now. You can also use this product
Um day of harvest you can mix up a
A big five gallon bucket of it and as you cut branches off do a dip. Um
because
Trichomes are naturally hydrophobic. So dunking them in water gently or xeritol or
You know, whatever your concoction you like that works for you. Um does but
Yeah, I don't think that there's anything to be ashamed of. I know it's a
Taboo topic but you know you walk into the produce section
and they have certain microbial loads that they
Um have to abide by before they can sell you any produce so everything in agriculture goes through a final
um
clean step so
You know, I don't think that there's anything to be ashamed of that
You're taking pride in what you grew and want to deliver a proper product. We utilize beneficial insects
so we want to make sure that that's wiped off of our
each harvest so
It's definitely an interesting thing that people almost seemed a little bit ashamed like oh I did something wrong
So now i'm trying to cover up. Um, you know, it's all a learning process, but
really trying to make sure that you
Are utilizing something so that because it also helps preserve that product that you just grew you can get rid of any contamination
you know that that that
Product is going to be safer to give to somebody a little bit later down the road. So I think it's
I think it's something that every grow should utilize. I don't think it's anything to be ashamed of
Um, I think it's just you showing that much more pride and what you took the time to grow
Agreed and just to add on to that as well. We wash our fruits and vegetables before we eat them
Why would we not wash cannabis that's grown out outside or inside that's susceptible to the same types of contaminants?
Not to mention, you know, I I love I wanted to jump in and hop in and reiterate and just kind of
Mirror a little bit what you said there. Ashley is the bugs. Okay now I you know, I I love bugs. I'm
Well, actually, you know, I I'm that's a complete another lie. I I absolutely hate bugs. They're terrifying me
They're weird. They're creepy. They give me the heebie-jeebies all to hell
I am working on being better because it's you know, natural environment and and these
Amazing predators can create a natural kind of
Natural biome in this space and allow both all of your plants to be protected
to be you know
Fed and taken care of they can feed your system
Their poop that comes out that comes in this to a rover beetles are amazing predators
They'll eat anything and everything that kind of gets into your soil like a mite or or thrips and stuff like that
there are really
But they also die and leave fecal matter behind that is easily break downable and turned into nutrients for the plant
So, I mean these are amazing
amazing tools that we can use at our disposal to naturally prevent and to actually prevent having to use things like lipid sprays or
or
strong
Pesticides you could completely avoid this and I love hydrogen peroxide hydrogen peroxide is a really
Amazing clear has been used by moms for forever
I mean sure you get very strong versions of it up into the 29
But the normal over-the-counter stuff at three percent
Is perfectly fine if that's what you're gonna do
Manny now you're in a commercial setting the hydrogen peroxide that you use for your large gallon tank
Can you give us a kind of your proportions and also maybe a breakdown of what why you do that step with the hydrogen peroxide?
So we'll buy hydrogen peroxide in bulk
at you know 33 or
higher percentage and then dilute it down to what we need and anyone that's that's doing it
I do recommend buying it at a higher percentage. It'll save you money in the long run
So the hydrogen peroxide side of things really kills off any type of microbial
Contaminant that'll that'll be in there. I've seen people use it for a lot of things
That'll that'll be in there. I've seen tests done
on
Plants that have had you know minor i'm not saying major but minor powdery mildew
And after they were run through the wash formula that I provided they were able to pass
uh microbial testing to you know, um
Not not even within limits but better than the limits. So, um, that's the reason for
For the peroxide
And and these bugs and these poops and these molds that are left behind some of them are beneficial
I mean like I use a bunch of beneficial bacteria in my system and I I use teas
I dip my plants in them at an early stage. I'm using a baculus that can never pronounce a popular properly
So I won't butcher it, but I will post it somewhere in the in the comments or something like that
Maybe josh can help me out for the youtube site, but
Uh, it is a great bacteria, but it it is a back
bacteria in these bacteria when
You know consumed and smoked and combusted can release my
Mitoxins as well and we don't know what the effect of them can be in the long run
So even if you're using beneficial bacteria, I think it's beneficial to uh to watch now i'd love to uh, cory
Are you pro or against what's your thought and standing on this whole subject? I'd love to hear a little bit of your opinion
Um
Yeah, this is an interesting topic for me, um, I i'm not used to practice
Um, but it's something just I mean I would just I was very
I I wanted to just ask a question about the use of xeritol
um xeritol is not
just
peroxide and periastatic acid
um, there's
80 of some other ingredients that are in there. So
I I just made me really nervous
to be honest with you, um, I can understand kind of the the cleanliness kind of aspect of it, but um
That that makes me a little bit nervous. Xeritol is a registered pesticide up here and I know health canada is pretty
uh, you know stringent with their pesticide labeling that they have but
That just really threw me for a loop there
Um the hydrogen peroxide i've definitely
heard of
um, the lemon juice is interesting for me as well. Like I would really love to see
um, like actual testing of the water and what is in there and just kind of seeing what what is the
Unintended consequences of doing this. Um, and i'm wondering if they're because especially for a large scale, right?
Or I guess not right a lot of people don't know that about me
But I i'm always thinking in that large scale aspect as well. And maybe this is my my next topic, uh for my chat with manny
But it's really interesting to kind of convert that into a large scale setting where you know, you can't really just set up buckets
For you know, three thousand four thousand plants
It'll be a little bit of a larger scale on that
But oh I have I have a system. I have a system. I have a system designed already. Cory. Don't you worry?
Oh, i'm sure you do brother. That's what i'm saying. I'm like this is probably going to be the topic of our next little chat
But you know the hydrogen peroxide definitely sounds familiar to me as far as you know doing that it was just the
You know zero tall again
Like there's there's some other stuff that's in there that kind of makes me a little bit nervous about that
But i've you know heard of the hydrogen peroxide thing before
um it always you know, the big thing that I always try and analyze with anything that I do in cultivation is
You know, why are we doing it?
And is there another way to do it that perhaps be more efficient? So there's a lot of things within this
methodology that really
Speak to my nerd side as far as like, you know testing some of this water and seeing you know
What is the actual difference of the cannabis that we're using here?
Is there a terpene difference? Is there even a cannibal like what is what is actually happening with the finished product in previous and
Can we achieve that?
Doing it a different way. Uh, that might be you know, either more efficient or you know, what have you that's something that really
Reaches out with me in this one, but um, that's kind of my my scattering of thoughts
with the bud washing thing
So cory just quick question I just pulled up the sds
for zero tall
and it's listed as
hydrogen peroxide periacetic acid and acetic acid are the only
Three ingredients now it treats a bunch of stuff but those are the
What's listed? So what did you see on there? That was scary
so it doesn't say that the the epa label that I have for zero tall has 27
hydrogen peroxide
two percent periocytic acid and then 70.9 other ingredients and those are always other ingredients that
You know pesticide manufacturers have that are inside that are usually proprietary
Products that are inside of these mixes and usually those are only available, you know through the poison control understanding what those are
From my understanding of what the pesticide courses, uh told me
But yeah, the other ingredients part is the part that makes me a little nervous
Go ahead
On an sds that would still be
um
identified
um
Uh, it's it would say proprietary mix but uh on the sds that other 70 is water
um
But yeah, it would be it would be on the sds
Even if it was a proprietary mix they do label those anything that we've had in the lab
And that's the way that uh, it's put on there if it's proprietary
Okay
Okay, well I think we should probably before we jump into like what exactly is it there we should grab a
zero tall about you there
but I really wanted to to step back into like the the bud washing and
Focus on in that many names since we got your attention josh. Anyways, i'd love to ask your methodology
And kind of your aspect and point of how you go about harvesting your plants and and what your thought process is there
um, well, uh
Bud washing is actually kind of new-ish to me. Um, i'd heard about it in the past and
I was one of the uh late acceptors. I um, i'd kind of thought you know
We've been smoking this weed forever and haven't had a problem. So what's really the point?
um, and then we did um a light peroxide, uh, we had a food grade peroxide and
Uh, generally I would have like an actual mix
But we had five gallon pails and we just poured a little couple drops in there and mixed it up
um
But yeah, so we would just chop plants down as they came out of the field
And they'd get de-leafed they'd get uh dunked in
the water kind of
Kind of moved around a little bit pulled out. They'd get uh hung up on a line
And then from there they got uh slightly more de-leafed and hung up to dry
but yeah, so uh
after having done that
uh, the amount of you know dirt and dust and whatever else is in the water afterwards was you know substantial so it
It did end up winning me over it was you know a person like I said like
why bother if you know, we've been doing this and we've been fine for years, but
You know afterward when you see
The difference it's like well, you know what for an extra step that really doesn't take a whole heck of a lot of time
Might as well, you know, we're always trying to get higher quality bud. We want
You know the best stuff that we can smoke so
you know if this extra step doesn't take much time and it actually increases the quality of the final product and
You know for me, that's a win
Awesome, I mean I my I do something very similar it goes plain water hydrogen peroxide
If I was using I usually for your home gardener will always suggest to use three percent hydrogen peroxide
Although that is very much
So right if you're going to be doing this on a regular basis do get a higher percentage
but do do take a little bit of time a little bit of research because actually I think if you go over 29 percent it
Hydrogen peroxide can be caustic cause burns. So it is important to be careful now a very very low percentage
It cannot be very perfect. Damon who is a lovely person in our panel here. He is one of canada's first medical
Uh growers and patients, uh, welcome to this stage. He is also the co-founder at rossi scientific
so i'd love you to talk a little bit about like using hydrogen peroxide and how
That might affect the plant or bacteria how it goes about cleaning if you could touch
um for outdoor
It uh, it's a great process if you're gonna end up smoking that weed. Um, I personally don't wash my stuff
Uh, because I just end up freezing it and then making it into hash
But i've got a lot of buddies that you know, they do this method the only
The only question I have and i've never like gone and gathered data to find this out is like is the hydrogen peroxide
Oxidizing anything in that flower?
Right if you're at a low concentration, I would say no
but uh, it's definitely
If you're gonna end up smoking that flower, yeah, you're gonna want to wash it and it's like man
You said you wash your fruit and vegetables. So
So
Like my indoor I you know, i'm not gonna wash that stuff because it's pretty clean environment
But my outdoor if I was gonna smoke it
Like i'm dealing with dandelion seeds and grasshoppers. So yeah, i'm most likely gonna turn around and wash that but you know
I just make hash
So thanks again for having me london. Love being here. Hello to the room. I'm damon
Awesome
Awesome, jim and welcome and rj welcome to the panel as well. Would you like to take a moment quickly introduce yourself?
maybe
You're a little bit more focused on the extract side. So
If you kind of want to run through a little bit of opinion on the ideal methods that you receive product in
Um from your direction and kind of what's the best outcome?
Great
Hey everybody, my name is rj ellis, uh, i'm extraction and process specialist with canada's leading third-party extraction company
You're quite glitchy there
Oh
You want to try to grow up into your quality there damon was really bad too trying to tap for me further
London I think it might be you
I think yeah
Yeah, yours is coming through really uh sporadic
And other people are gonna find
So damon
Well while I got your while I got your attention
I I just want to say that
You know
I think one of the things we have to consider with even indoor and we've even as clean as our rooms can be
We have to remember that if there is dust inside that tent from whatever media that you're using
From your skin from anything that comes in that dust is going to be on your plant
so I I I challenge you to take a
Branch and wash it and see what comes off and you'll be amazed that even the cleanest of rooms will still have
contaminants on on the
Yeah, i'll do it just because it's you manny
I love you, brother. Thanks. All because of is here if it is that rj guy, fuck him. Oh, yeah, absolutely agree
Oh, he's not even here anymore. Fuck. I gotta wait till he comes back. Sorry guys
Yeah, I totally get what you're saying, um, I noticed that
If I don't clean as good as I should between cycles
um
Especially like you look at you know, you look at some guys rooms and you you know
They're cleaning but they never clean their fan, right?
And then the fan instead of it being you know, that eggshell white it's it's like black because it's covered in dust
So you're right about that and you know, no amount of negative pressure is going to get rid of all of the dust
it's supposed to but
You know your mediums kicking up dust and stuff like that, too
I
Just for me and you know hearing london say it's not that much of an extra process
yeah, i'll give it a go on a couple of branches, but
I don't know. I'm an old dog and it's hard to like introduce new tricks. I hear you. Hey, I hear you
Can you hear me now we can hear you loud and clear go ahead brother
Finally, uh, hey everybody i'm rj
I'm an extraction and process specialist with can is leading third-party extraction company
So i'm not a grower. I focus on all things resin and extraction
um, so this is a cool topic for me because
In terms of extraction, there's a lot of different ways to remediate
or deal with these problems
So I don't necessarily need
the cleanest product
Because I can filter in line
um, so for outdoor and stuff like that like dandelion
seeds and
bugs and grasshoppers like dan was just saying like
I mean better to not have that in the product
but ultimately
you know it was going to a more refined level of extraction or
Something to that extent, uh, it's just not needed but I mean for the most flame product for a fire dab
I mean I would I would prefer
to have something that would you know be on the caliber of a high-end smoke, you know what I mean because
we're able to to maintain that caliber all the way through instead of having to dig a bit deeper and uh,
Kind of pull out some things
Hope that helps
Big time am I coming through again guys? Sorry. I'm having some
I
Say I think I got it clear
I can hear you. Um, there's somebody on peter's chat asking about how tobacco is made
Um just to answer that what they do is they uh grow the tobacco plant
extract all of the nicotine
Chop the like pretty much make a cardboard out of the leaf
Chop that up and then or no they before they chop it up. They spray the nicotine back on
and add uh
Botanical turpins and then chalk it up, right? So they're asking if the tobacco plants are cleaned
Yeah, there it's a it's a really interesting process as to how that goes
Um, supposedly there's a pre-roll company in california. That's going to start doing the same method
So that's just the pre-rolls are gross. Anyway
But we're talking like we're talking commercial tobacco like large big tobacco we're not talking like nice cigar
type of care that they they take with it, but my understanding is that
Tobacco like cigar tobacco is washed as well out on the field
Am I am I correct
Yes. Yes, you are correct. I actually had the opportunity in cuba a few times to go through some
um
cigar
Growing places and they did wash it as well
Awesome welcome to the stage chase, uh, we are recording
So is if it's okay, welcome to the stage if you'd like to introduce yourself and say hello, I'd like to invite you to
What's up, everybody? Um, I was just kind of farting around on clubhouse and uh saw that that peter was in here
So I decided to jump in and I didn't really uh hear all of your guys's conversation except for uh for washing
um
and I guess the the only thing that I would ask is if you had a
A completely sterile room if you were running a sterile medium something like uh, rock wool, for example
um
and you were completely
Environmentally controlled where you were able to filter out as much as possible and you had all the bells and whistles
Would you still feel the the need to wash?
Um a plant underneath those particular circumstances obviously anything that's outdoors
Um that's exposed to the elements. I I understand that process
um
But in a in a sterile environment
um
You know, I just trying to figure out and to wonder
Um if that would be needed in that kind of a scenario
So let me answer that for you chase
so
When you say a sterile environment are the people that are working within that sterile environment completely covered from head to toe
So that any skin that exfoliates from them will not land on the plant
Yep. So for me, I look at every person that would come into a facility as being contaminated
So I would have a generic air shower that would hit every single person
after that they would go into
The uh the locker room where they would completely if I had it my way I would make everyone shower
Um, but that make everyone change their uniform put new shoes on or shoes that would be conducive just to the operation
and then obviously
Making everyone going to their collective area where if they were going to be touching plants
They would have to go through another decontamination process after the fact
everything from using uh the light
um things for your shoes to be able to kill the microbials on your feet to using like the
the sanidate or the zero tall type mats, um
to be able to eliminate that besides that obviously with uniforms not having any type of uh
skin exposed
Hairnets beard guards the whole nine yards. So so would you there you you also be
Including in that zero use of bio ingredients whatsoever. Like you're not using any beneficial bacteria any beneficial bugs
You're going completely
Just clean and and sterile environment as your ipm
pest prevention
Yeah, so it puts you into one of two
Schools of thought in regards that obviously if you're going that direction and you're looking at it from
Being completely sterile. Obviously, you wouldn't want to use your beneficial insects
But if you were using like for example, like a living soil
um or something that you have to deal with, uh,
you know just the standard things that you have to deal with when having living soil that obviously I don't think that uh,
That method would work but under a completely sterile environment and for me this is more along the lines of a
um a gmp
um type facility and not necessarily
Just a a really clean best practices type scenario
You're speaking my language chase
I mean if uh, if you could look inside my head and anybody that knows me here knows that every single thing that you said
Is exactly how I am about my facility and about my girls
so
My suggestion would be for you to do this like anything else. It's always in the test
So do a test, you know take one plant and use it as your test specimen
And and wash one side of it and don't wash the other side of it and see and see what the differences are
Test the plant test the water
Um and and go about it that way i'm not saying that in a completely sterile environment that this is a completely
Necessary thing to do. I don't believe so
But it's still worth. Uh, uh doing the experiment just to see
What it is
that um
You're leaving behind by by doing that wash you probably
Sure and the reason why i'm throwing all this out because obviously when trying to set up a facility where you
Try to mitigate pathogen spread as much as possible, obviously
um being vertically integrated you would have to have a dirty room just because even on your receiving side what what do you do whenever
you get a uh
order of
Cubes some hugos or something of that nature. I look at it from the standpoint that anything that crosses that threshold
of your facility
Uh means that they're potentially bringing contaminants in and I think that that all goes back to the same
Thought process that it's usually not contaminants that find their way into a grow
It's usually them piggybacking on us some way or not cleaning
I know someone had brought it up earlier, uh, not cleaning the the space well enough
so whenever you do reset the room, obviously you are uh,
Washing out your flood tables and you're addressing your irrigation lines
But as far as like taking your fans apart being able to get into the rafters
Get the areas that aren't going to be easily accessible are the things that most people don't think about and yes, there are
um
Things that you can put in your hvac system
To be able to kill pathogen spreads as well
I know there's a couple of products like your arrow clean 420 that are essentially like air scrubbers that don't produce voc's
but at the same time, you know, where is that line between
Making yourself
unproductive because you have too many protocols that you have to go to because I can easily see how
by having too many of those things in place that it would take someone like an hour just to be able to
To get ready to go to work once they get to work and then after that what happens if they eat lunch or decide
That they need to get you know, uh something out of their car and they have to go through that whole process all over again
so, you know trying to find that happy median between
Keeping everyone nice and sterile versus, uh having overkill
Yeah, so if if I could if I could jump in just because we've had a few people join as well
I just want to touch on a couple facts
Hopefully i'm coming through nice and clearly as my mic was a little bit of an issue earlier, but uh, we are at the daycower
So i'm going to open up the floor a little bit here and allow people to come up and ask some questions to our panels
Of experts that being said we are still recording
um, so if you come up we uh, we will be recording so be warned and hesitated about that also, um,
On top of that factor as well. I like to like just kind of river rate kind of jump in chases is
In my opinion, you know as manny is a perfectionist and and and a really strong
Mind when it comes to this stuff and he's I've even heard him say is you can't prevent everything, right?
Like when it comes down to it, there's human error
There's problems and I think you even mentioned, you know when it comes to when pests get into a space
I think it's a hundred percent of pests come from us or what we introduce into a space if a space is sterile and clean
It'll stay sterile and clean if it's closed
If we the only way for those pests and stuff to get introduced in them is through us
So as long as we can do a protocol like what you're talking about for cleanliness to do them
Even then there is some slip and potential there and when we're talking about growing monocultures in large facilities
I I personally think that you could also still run the risk of something going sideways as well
So I would I personally think budwashing would still be kind of more of an advantage
Maybe at at bare minimum just to get rid of any small contaminants because any contaminant on your plant
during the drying and curing phase is going to increase the probability of moles or
Or so on and so forth. So washing your plant other than you know
Even if you don't have powder mildew if there's any flecks of anything on there that could create the ideal space for mold or bacteria
to grow
It it's going to happen during that period of time from those contaminants now that being said
You can negotiate around it, but I think it would just be there's no perfect world and in the perfect world
You wouldn't need to wash but there is is there is that actually possible?
I don't know if there is I would love to see the facility flay but welcome to the stage
Um again, and we have an open uh form here guys
So if you have any questions and want to come up and have a chat
Um, go ahead and pop one up and say hello. We are talking about bud washing post harvest bud bath
Do you wash your plants and what exactly do you do slave?
I'd love to know a little bit about your harvesting method now
I know if you're harvesting seeded plants, it wouldn't probably be very intelligent to uh, to bud wash but
You never know. Could you give us a little bit of your opinion? What's your process? Do you harvest and wash your plants or not?
I believe sounds very quiet
Is the audio working
I don't think you're coming through there flay if something's wrong with your mic. I'm not hearing you
I'll i'll wait for flay the to come on
I I just wanted to say that it really depends on the size of the rooms that you want to work with
I'm, not a very big. Um
I'm not a very big room guy. I like small rooms like maximum around 2,500 square feet
I like individual controls from my room. I don't like centralized air
Uh conditioning or hvac to run through all my facility
I want every one of my rooms to have its own individual system that I can control
On what you're saying chase about having a dirty room
Absolutely, you're gonna have a dirty room for anything that's coming into your facility
Thing that's coming into your facility the trick is that before that
material, uh or or product gets into a grow room or into an area where there's going to be cannabis that it's disinfected I
Wipe everything down with iso. I clean it. I make sure that it's disinfected before I I move it into a room
Is that going to stop a hundred percent of everything? Absolutely not
There's always something that's going to come in whether it's in your hair and your shoes and yeah
You know we do everything possible that we can to mitigate every single factor but
It nothing is 100 full proof. So all we can do is continue doing the good practices that that we do
Um gmp is definitely the way I I like to do. Uh, I like to do my facilities as well
I'm actually doing one in portugal right now with uh, another another couple of members up here on the board
So when we do that, uh, we'll definitely have some uh, some interesting photos to put up about uh,
How crazy I can get about the clinic?
Manny i'm right there with you. I go through all that same thing air showers. We change them to scrubs. There's a
Sanitate foot baths. Um, I make my guys
Bio foam everything before it comes in
Um, so I mean prevention is key
You're never gonna completely eliminate it by any means but the more you can think about that the better off you are
I'll i'll send somebody home if they show up and they're not clean. That's that's how anal I get about it
I mean if you're not if you're not clean showing up for work, how are you going to be clean and inside the facility?
I used to have my favorite thing in my oh, sorry
Oh, no, I was just saying that's why I like having a shower option for uh,
the the staff
But I also know that that's that's challenging especially if they have dreads or really long hair as far as like being able to dry
I I I love like I think it's it's it's a tell-a-tale sign too
Of of a person and the work ethics that they're going to put in manly as well
Like if somebody I think they're you you're reading you you put a subject out
I think you're reading more into it than maybe even you notice is that that person's messy and a it'll be a contaminant for your
facility
but b if somebody shows up to work messy and grody like that if for me with all of the staff that i've had in
My time that instantly tells me you're not ready for a hard day at work
And and I you're going to be useless to me
So go home anyways, because there's no point right if you can't even show up to be clean tidy and prepared for work
You're not going to produce at your full strength anyway, so there's no point in having you work
Um, but I I think that's it's an interesting point
Uh to point out as well with just the cleanliness and organizing of the facility
Does anybody have any questions to the audience that would like to pop up? I know i'm a huge fan of
Manny you said lemon juice and baking soda at the at the very end. Is that your last dip?
Um, or do you do a plain water before?
No, I do a plain plain or water before I finish the the baking soda and lemon are one of the intermediate processes
So you go ro
Uh peroxide ro baking soda lemon juice and then ro as the final rinse
So i'd love to just kind of get it while I have you our day because you're resident extract expert
So what exactly so when we look at the the gland head and the trichomes and stuff like that
What are they made out of they're made out of fat lipids and cannabinoids and stuff like that. How soluble are these things?
That's a really good question it depends on
the actual gland head because some gland heads are a little bit
Weaker than others i'll say
um
And are more liable to rupture
And then it kind of makes the entire gland head water soluble
Versus others have a bit more of a robust
Gland head and make it easier
To be extracted by water as an example
Certain strains will hash better than others
Due to that and certain strains will be solvent extracted
Better than others due to that as well
I'm, not sure if that really answered to your question, but there's always going to be
um
a bunch of
Phytochemicals that are water soluble
And then a lot that are not
So, I mean there is some water soluble compounds
um
How many I don't really know I think that's more of like a dr. Anna question than a than a me question
um
Yeah, you got anything on that? Dr. Anna actually?
Well, I kind of gave my two cents that was probably the first or second question that london asked at the beginning of the show
um
But I was more like for you is more like the cell structure in the breakdown like I mean
Is are these ideas or any part of the plant? That's actually water soluble, you know, none of it is
Yeah, I would I I think josh looks like he wants to say something um
I mean all the water in the plant is is contained just like the water that we have in our inside our bodies is
Contained in vessels and stuff. It just doesn't slosh around and like leak everywhere
um, it's very controlled your homeostasis within your body like
you know
It's it's it doesn't just flow everywhere. Um, josh. Do you want to say something?
Uh, yeah, I was just gonna say um depending on how
uh, like with outdoor your
Harvest goes um, if your plants have really dried back a lot
Um, you know, you can increase your tricone production that way but if you do that too close to harvest
uh the tricone
Like the tricone is a wax egg basically
um, but that uh, like it
takes a little while for that to
fully develop
And so if your tricone is expanded, but it hasn't the tricone shell hasn't fully developed yet
um
I I think that's kind of what uh, you know, like rj was mentioning that that'll
cause a strain to be less desirable for making hash with but um
You can still make concentrate like a butane extraction with that
Um, but you know in that situation
um
You know, what would that?
You know end up with having you know that you know those water soluble
Compounds dissolve through that, you know this slightly thinner tricone. I I don't know like the wax is still wax
um
you might lose a little bit, but uh, I don't think it'd be too significant, but uh,
Like rj was saying it will definitely determine whether or not you're going to be able to make hash with that product in the end
Can I ask a question someone said earlier
about using a wash of
Lemon juice and baking soda. Um, what is the purpose of using?
a
A something to be able to lower the the ph just to raise it back up. Um, are you trying to make a neutral ph?
Um, or why would you be using?
Of those two together for your wash
I'm, not i'm not actually trying to lower the ph the the baking soda and the lemon juice or again to kill any type of
contaminants and microbials that the
Peroxide doesn't get during the rinse
I think because
Lemon juice to hydrate peroxide can both be used as treatments to correct the breakdown of powder mildew
It's i've used it on my left or so sam. Welcome to this stage. Always love having you on you are a regular
Uh guest and sometimes a speaker on our lovely panel here. I'd love to ask you a question
Uh a little bit about your you specifically do
Q a and help out here in bc canada actually, so do you want to talk a little bit about the process? I mean outdoor
Bath or no bath indoor bath or no bath. What's your thought process on the whole?
Uh
honestly
I don't because I have never worked with a facility that engaged in in
bathing before um
Back when I worked at some of the bigger facilities that was just some we it was an indoor facility and we didn't do it
so i've never
Encountered the benefits of doing it. It was not even an option
and then I got to another facility and I just kind of helped it going along and then I got to uh,
Another place where I ended up working with uh rj, which was awesome
And there I was in I that wasn't my focus whatsoever on the on the extraction I came on to
I ended up kind of being focused on some other things. So
Um, that was just a really drawn out way of saying I don't actually know anything about it. I uh,
I'm just here to answer indirect things
Awesome, well, it's just I I love having you on stage and adding into the conversation now
You are new on stage welcome, do you have any questions for our um, our
Um, I was actually I was just gonna ask if anyone had like any new products that they used to wash because i've been using
peroxide and the
baking soda and lemon juice and it seems to be great, but
I was just wondering if there's anything else to add to that mix
I always find it incredible the amount of stuff that comes out
Of the bud
and it's like oh and another big thing is I think water temperature plays a
Big part in if you don't want to knock off a lot of trichomes. You got to get your water temperature
Sort of right. You don't want it too cold because that will obviously
The colder it is the more brittle the trichomes get and then they'll fall off
So I always try and do like a lukewarm
sort of uh
Bath for for for all three of them. I know some people use a colder watch
For I think the perox for the peroxide maybe
Like you can do it in different techniques. They do a cold wash warm wash and then uh room temperature wash
But i've found all three are just like room temperature or a little below
Is the least amount and what I did was I I took my water and put it through bubble bags
Just to see what came off and there's minute amount of crystals that come off when you wash
But uh, definitely the temperature helps helps you
Not lose as much crystals. That's a very good point now. Thanks for bringing that up
Lukewarm is definitely the way to go and as nav said if the water is colder
There's a higher risk of knocking off some trichomes. So really good point now. Can I just add one more point? Sorry guys
Absolutely
A skimmer is key. So here's the thing as you dip your buds in
Everything comes to the top if you keep on just putting buds
back in through that top layer of that, you know, there's that water tension that holds all the you can literally see the the mold and
And then the little bits of bugs and things
Um, so a good idea is to sort of have like a piece of cardboard
Or something to sort of skim off that layer
Between big between big washes, you know what I mean? Like you do a couple of buds
And I kind of had a question about that too manny as well
Well, I got you here is it's like so how often do you change out your water?
I'm doing like I do a bucket per plant kind of like it's perfect
I fresh it each time like I do fresh rounds each time and I just do a large enough bucket
For that plant that's just deep enough
I have like a stock pot that i've uh used for a long period of time and I just find that cylindrical
But I refresh the water every single time you find that's the best way to go about it or yeah
in a large commercial environment that seems kind of
Yeah, that that is the way to go about it in a large commercial environment
I would I have a system design that basically utilizes
A pump and filter system where i'm constantly pumping and filtering
Um from one chamber into another so that that chamber is constantly having a clean filtered
Water or or mix in it. So yeah, definitely, uh, if i'm doing it in buckets i'm i'm using one plant
Uh for one bucket and i'm changing it out so very good point
But nav just to touch on your question of other products, um
I wouldn't quite honestly
Be too too comfortable of or no of any quite honestly off the top of my head
There are probably a few out there
But I still think just sticking with
Hydrogen peroxide because it dries into to water and oxygen
Um
you know, I think it's safer than
applying anything else that could alter your end product as far as taste or flavor and same thing, but
um, I don't know of any other products that a lot of people use or ones out there just because it could leave
um a different taste to it
Yeah agreed ashley and uh
One of the points I want to bring up as well is the reason why I use the five buckets and three of them are
ro is we want to have
A rinse in between and at the end so that there is no
Leftover residue from like peroxide so that we don't get oxidization
So that's one of the reasons why I do have three buckets that are just our role. So that's important to remember
So so I don't have like I don't have a point example for this or like I haven't done it myself
But I have heard of people speaking about using kangen water because of the way it's produced closer than fleeing
It's just so clean and clear of everything that it's pretty much like washing with our water, but like cleaner
So it can be used as well. I don't know
Like I wouldn't put my two cents or 100% we're behind that but something to look into as as as the world gets closer
I'd like to invite connor to this stage. How are you doing today? Uh,
What's your thoughts wash your butts don't watch?
Hey, hey, no, thank you for the invite. I haven't talked to a lot of you guys in a while
So mostly wanted to come say hi. I have not
done any of this before um, i've heard about it and understand there's certain situations in which
Um might prove necessary
But mostly here to listen. I wash shoot tips not flowers
Clean up my little x-plants. I I was gonna say because that's that's an interesting
So what do you use when you guys are cleaning when you're because you're you're talking about tissue culture propagation, right?
So you're washing the plant
Cells free of bacteria viral load or anything like that
What exactly can you just while at the tail end here just leave people hang in for some more interesting subjects later on
Just you know, give us a little rundown on what exactly do you use? What are the chemicals that you guys?
Yeah, no, not a problem. Um really easy household bleach, um, generally between 20 and
40 for about 10 minute duration
And um, yeah, it doesn't take much you just want to
Shake it up
Um add a surfactant like 20 20 or something like that
And yeah, and then you do a triple rinse with sterile deionized water and then you place them in the culture
So not much
But yeah, you definitely don't want to be dipping your flower buds, uh in bleach or anything
So, hey, so hey london just to add one last thing
Is that I know that we're always constantly looking for extra things that we can do but I think with cannabis
sometimes and most times the simplest things are the best solutions and
This bud washing that we do and the way that we do it. It's a simple solution that works
I think trying to add more onto it isn't going to make it any better and could probably actually make it worse. So
Keep that in mind
Keep it simple is always the best the best way
Keep it simple stupid. I I love I I love the simplicity
And and that's why i've always kind of gone to the hydrogen peroxide
Point of it and just plain water. I've just never even done like let me do anything like that
I wanted to keep it plain and simple
But I think it is about not over complexing things and the more stuff that we throw on the more probability we have of things going
Wrong, so I just like to kind of we're coming close to the end of the hour here
I'd like to invite our
speakers or panelists to kind of have any closing statements that they might like to
Point or reference towards either our subject or maybe something interesting that they have going on in their lives
Either way, we can just kind of go through the stage and you can say whatever it happens to be that you want
Go ahead and manny. Do you have anything at all for us?
Uh, yeah, yeah monday was a really exciting day for us over in our project in portugal
we submitted applications for the
subsidies that are available through the european union for
Innovation, so a lot of hard work went into it rj myself and our partner over there
Jp put in a lot of long hours and a lot of work and we're pretty excited to
To get things moving and excited to bring, you know quality cannabis
Craft cannabis to portugal which really has never seen it. So exciting exciting times ahead
As always, you know, I I
You know realize that maybe people might be a little bit busy
So i'll leave it open if you want to flash your mics to kind of give me a right now you want to say
A ciao or like give a lowdown on what's happening on your week
Moderator or speakers if if you if you don't mind doing that for me if there's anyone otherwise we're going to close up the remote
We have one person in the audience that would like to come up and ask a question. So henna
Come on up and ask your question if you'd like
Uh, hi, thank you
Thank you for giving me opportunity. Thank you so much
Uh, okay. I am so new and I don't have
any
Knowledge about the canbes and I just want to ask would you please give me
Because I don't know it is fortunately or unfortunately my both boys are taking the beat
and uh
For repeatedly. I I don't want them. I I want to stop them, but it is
It is they start in the high school
And now it is it becomes like a smoking
thing for them
I appreciate your story. If you don't mind shoot me a message in the back channel
I can point you in the right direction
We have a panel of experts that we've brought on board here to talk about cannabis horticulture specifically
So if you have a direct question about cannabis horticulture, I would love to ask that to our panel of experts
Otherwise, we're going to close down the room and finish up. So do you have a question for?
Uh, no, thank you so much. I just have those questions because uh, i'm gonna i'm gonna back channel you no problem
I'd love to help you out. Hannah. I I I would love to just so just shoot me a message
In the back channel there and I will be happy to point you in the right direction
Okay. Thank you. Awesome. Well, thank you everyone. I appreciate each and every one of you. We have a very uh,
Fun show is coming up ahead in the future with a lot of amazing. How'd you get down there? Dr. Anubis?
um
with a lot of amazing speakers and
All right, that was actually good timing because jemma's coming
home right now
Uh, we got chad westport
Who's lurking in the chat right now?
Uh
Doing the technical production on a hash conversation
And hopefully you guys can hear me. Yeah, we got the audio going. So anyway
I will see all of you in a couple hours
Uh chatter bob you are not asleep you're always there liar
Anyway, all right i'm gonna kill the broadcast
And that is jemma's mom telling me they're here. All right. Bye everyone
