All right, y'all ready for this? So I was about to post the graphic for Marco and
Brian and Chad at 1, which is 45 minutes from now, and I was like, what are they
talking about? And they're talking how to build healthy colonies and breed
some of the larger members of the soil food web from springtails to
composting worms. And so I was like, what do we got going on in the compost bin
right now? Without further ado, boom. So I believe these are like a mold mite, but
it's, yeah, there's like a layer of leaves that are all damp and rotting, and
these dudes are, it's like a, it's like a sea of these things all across the top.
So let's get a little closer. They seem just very chill doing their thing,
slowly breaking that stuff down and pooping it out the back door. So anyway,
my guess is something like a mold mite. I also have black soldier fly larvae in
there, but these dudes are going to town on the top layer. All right, so the
Southern Vermont grower, you think they're, which mite in the mite family do
you think these guys are? Let's see, white decomposer mites.
This doesn't give them a name. Anyway, hopefully, since Mark is going to be
talking about this stuff in 45 minutes, let's go, what are we at, three times?
Let's go big, let's go four times in. There we go.
It's like an orgy, my god. And then in my worm bin, I got these little black ones
that I must view them as my first line of defense or offense and breaking down
all the stuff I throw in there. So I have like a rack system for the worms and the
worms don't really spend much time in the top rack, but the black ones start
the process and I got some fruit flies in there too, but I mean it doesn't
really bother me because they break shit down, or excuse the, that's a pun,
or they break the food down quickly and then as that top rack goes like down one
then the worms are kind of up in there and the black beetles and fruit flies
don't really, well actually the black beetles go a couple racks down, but it's
look like eggs, those little tiny ones kind of almost in the middle, maybe
they're just super small guys. Now it's in focus, sort of. Yeah, I don't think
they're a problem at all. They're eating and pooping and I'm sure my plants will
appreciate their poo. I don't think my plants are very discriminatory on...
Robin, you tell us. This is in my, let's back it out. Three, two, one. Oh my God.
So this is a wet decomposing or moist decomposing leaf that I pulled out of my
compost bin. And as I realized what Marco and Brian were going to talk about, it's
kind of like how do you, if these are good, I mean these guys, I don't really
need to make any effort to kind of have like the black soldier fly and these guys
come back and break shit down, but it's kind of like how do you, this is like a
bloom. It's like an algae bloom. It's a, I'm guessing mold mite. Let me look up
mold mite. What are they? Exactly. Do they look like mold? Well, pretty close. One,
two, three, four, five, six legs and two in the front, six legs on. All right,
let's see what these guys are. Yeah, I was, I was guessing mold mites or, but it'd be
cool to get the exact species and, and then the question is like, let's say this
is something you want to keep because these guys come and go. I mean, they're
probably a couple of times a year they'll suddenly take over, but it's not through
any effort of my own. Yeah, mine don't really, or I haven't noticed them escaping.
And actually what's currently in the top right now is a huge pumpkin that's, I've
been trying to throw in like cardboard and paper. I basically put an entire, you
know, big pumpkin in the top. And then I got one more to go, which is sort of
decomposing in a, like the metal, like the, the throwaway tin foil thing you'd
throw a turkey in right next to it. Yes, Ian. So do you know which kind of mite,
if I were to tell you these were in a, on decaying leaves, that's actually what
they're on right now, the leaf in a compost bin or tumbler. I like that. That
is a good contrast, the pitch black. Hopefully my wife doesn't come in and
freak out at what I have in the garage right now. It's not a big fan of bugs in
the house or outside. And the black soldier flyer, their larvae, and then
their, what do you call that, not carcass, but when they shed their, what?
When they, what is it, pupate? All right. So let's go. This is one time, two times.
Oh, there we go. That's, I feel like this is kind of like, this is relaxing. It's
like looking at fish in a fish tank. Does anyone have this on a big screen TV
right now? Three times. Orobatid mites. Let's look them up. Orobatid mites. Nah,
those things look too dark. Yeah, those are some dark. I mean, these things are
not, they're like diesel engine of mites. They're slow and methodical. Yeah, and
this is, I like the microscope because my, my eyes are just getting worse. So like,
I have to take my glasses off to see stuff that's close. Don Irie. What up, brother?
White soil mites in the compost bin. Let's see what the white, white soil mites. Well,
those are looking pretty close. They're not fast moving. White bugs on. Yeah. Anyway,
well fortunately we have the video, so someone who knows what they're talking about can tell
us and then I will post in the, I'll change the title to what it actually is. Let's see
what my mom has to say. Thank you, Don. Right back at you. No, Stu, I'm not going to burn
these guys. If all they're doing is eating my waist and pooping it out, I'm cool with
that. Anyway, that's not to turn this into a 12 hour marathon with lots of twists and
turns. Orbitis. Okay, we got another orbitis. But orbitis, okay, so everybody who's saying
orbitis, when I Google them, they look more brown. Yeah, so mold mites was my first guess.
And to give context, these are in the compost bin on a lot of kind of damp leaf matter.
I mean, there's other stuff in there, but they're definitely liking the leaves. I mean,
you can see like that is a leaf or part of a leaf. Okay, so there are white and brown
ones. Okay. All right, so those look like two contenders. That dude looks like he's
pooping. Let's get a close up of your little anus. We got another mold mite. So we had
a couple votes for mold mites and a couple votes for orbitis. But anyway, I think we
can all agree that they're somewhere in the mite family, decomposers. And I figured in
the spirit of what the 1pm Pacific time conversation in 30 minutes is going to be about. Robin,
thank you. Robin's on it. Yes, these two are too, they're too chill to be anything
scary. See the little baby one. All right, so anyway, I'm going to put these guys, yes,
they're unidentified crawling objects back where they came from in their happy home until
I rotate the tumbler and probably smush about a third of them. I always feel bad for every
time I give that thing a spin. It's two 55 gallon chambers. All right, what are we at?
Three. I know we are at four times. All right. That's as zoomy as we can be. Let's look up
cheese mites. I would not want mites on my cheese. All right. I gotta go eat lunch with
the family inside the house. Let's see if we can see the hair. Yeah, a little. I'm sure
you can eat all mites. Anyway, with that, see you guys on 30 minutes. Bye bye.
