And we are live streaming to you in high definition. Thanks for joining us
everyone on our world tour. We are in Jamaica today with our crew. Lance is
gonna be our guide, our tour guide. So Lance, why don't you take it away?
Yeah, thanks so much. Thank you, Peter. And as always, thank you everyone for joining
us here on another episode of Seed to Social where we have been making a
virtual tour around the world. As you all have might have seen already from past
shows, we've been everywhere from South Africa to Spain over to Thailand. And now
we make our way to another place that has quite a history with this phenomenal
plant, Jamaica. And I would like to start off by introducing two phenomenal
individuals that have quite a reputation in their own right in the
industry. First with First Man, which is fitting, who has definitely been a legend
again in his own right, specifically in the Jamaican market. And we'll get into a
little bit of his background and insight just now. Also the other person to
introduce would be Captain Hooter, who Hooter has quite a history as well
always telling the story from a phenomenal perspective and just came off
of finishing a book in Amsterdam and now has moved over to Jamaica to start doing
the same thing. So thank you both for joining. This is a show where, as Peter
mentioned, it's definitely a bit casual. We just kind of talk about everything
that's going on in the industry as it pertains to your neck of the proverbial
woods. Also get a little nostalgic and reference the old days and such and kind
of segue right into that. First off with Hooter, my gosh man, we've been up for
years now and kind of want to kick off with hearing a little bit of background
on what took you from doing a phenomenal job of covering. For any that don't watch,
definitely I suggest, you know, going on to the interwebs and tracking down
Captain Hooter and what he's been doing as far as covering the industry in
Amsterdam. But man, you land in Jamaica. I mean, you told me some obvious reasons,
better weather and better food to a certain extent. But what made you make
the move to this phenomenal island?
Ultimately, it came down to safety and my wife. Maybe not in that order,
depending on who you're talking to. You know, we were in an apartment in the
Netherlands where you're tight squeezed and we were right close to the ocean. So
we had an opportunity to watch people walking up and down the walkways there.
And going all the way from January to November of last year, we did not see a
lot of encouraging sites regarding the virus and whether people were taking it
really as seriously as they should have. And we were in these tight apartments and
people are not really paying attention to the virus. So we had a long history here
in Jamaica. My wife had lived here for many years and we love the island here.
And an opportunity arose where we were able to find a really great house that
had a swimming pool and close to the ocean. And it was less money than living
in the Netherlands and wide open spaces here. And we did some research and found
out that Jamaica had done a very good job in structuring its island so that it
was really trying to protect from the virus. And they had a great application
that they use so that when people arrive, they are tracked for a couple of weeks.
So in November, you know, we said, we'll just take a little virus Christmas break
and took off, came here and I immediately started working on a connoisseur's guide
to the Jamaican herb houses. New project was begun.
And it's phenomenal because you jump right into it. And I think this is a great
segue to this relationship that you have. Again, I've only gotten to hear this is my
first time in full disclosure getting to actually meet First Man live. But my gosh,
you know, hearing the background and you plug right in. First Man, what was it like?
You got this guy coming, originally a Southern California native, as I know him,
coming by way of Amsterdam to your backyard. What was that like? You know,
greeting this new cannabis fan to your neck of the woods.
You muted yourself. You got to unmute your audio.
I met Captain at a conference, Canix. And immediately there, you know, I started to just research the work that he's doing, the integrity that it stands on.
And, you know, for us being in Jamaica where we were robbed by our uncivilized behavior, the government's uncivilized behavior of making a plant illegal.
So, you know, in dealing with Captain and see the standard and, you know, what you look for and so on.
It was nice, nice to see that someone, you know, could tell you what is clean herb.
And, you know, we felt a little bit, you know, underserved, you know, just based on the fact that we never had those opportunities.
We always have to be hiding and running around corners, hiding our herb in weird places.
So we never got that opportunity to have those clean herb and the clean standard that we'd always be looking for.
How you store it and how you, the bud tender should move and so on.
So that was very, very, very, very informative, you know, and Captain loved his gadgets, you know, that can allow him to, of course, respect.
So you've been in a public venue where he literally busts out.
Yep. This is the guy who has a lighted microscope.
I remember us. We were in downtown Barcelona.
Yeah.
Bartholomew. And he busts it out.
And I was like, my gosh, this guy does not mess around.
And so much can be seen at that level, though, right?
Though, first of all, you don't think you're consuming some of these things and you see them firsthand.
Yeah. For us, that's a difference.
You know, that's a significant difference.
And then the person, you know, Captain's heart is really in that place, you know, that always sought a full courage.
The importance of the Rastafari story and relationship with the herb, you know, and that, you know, we're not just looking for a commercial viability, but really look into the representation of the plant, you know, because as far as I see it as Rastafari, human beings are not the one that is leading the discussion.
It is really the plant that is breaking bones and going over borders.
And, you know, we're tagging along as if we are the one ruling this process, you know, but to every heart that the plant touches, to every mind that it touch and, you know, and for them, it reminds me, you know, it reminds me of, you know, during a time in the 1960s where if you were just caught with a seed, you know, in Jamaica, it would be a year and six months mandatory.
No conversation, no arguments, you know.
And those Rastafari, Virgin and other Jamaicans to a lesser extent kept on moving, kept on moving.
Seven years if you were caught.
I mean, you know, I remember a friend of mine told me that he went to go to the market, you know, to get something for his family.
And on his way back, he stopped because his friends called him to share a moment of sacredness through the herb.
And it was seven years later that his family saw him, you know.
So those are the type of energies that we went through here in the Jamaica land, you know.
So to really see someone like Captain who is interested to find some way how to tell this story and recognize that knowledge, you know, whatever disparity or inequality that might exist based on this flag, this banner that Rastafari and the Jamaican people have carried over a period of time.
You know, that's that's very, very important.
It's admirable.
And yeah, that's that's what I've met through dealing with Captain in our neck of the woods.
And if I can throw something in, Lance, you know, when we met a year ago, we met at the Canex here in Montego Bay.
And what was fascinating was I was covering it for Cannabis Culture magazine.
The first man was doing the blessing that morning to start the event.
So I was the first person in the arena and he or he was the first person in the arena.
I was the second. We walked in and he was already there.
I walked in. We connected immediately and started to have a conversation right there that moment.
I told him some of the stories about my living here previously and my trips up to Nine Mile and, you know, being indoctrinated into the whole Rastafarian story, which is.
Which is, I think, so crucially important into what is happening here going forward.
And it's so important into the truth about this plant here and its destiny here.
And we made that connection right away.
And one of the things I'm doing here, one of the first people I contacted when my wife said we're going back, I contacted first man.
I said, you know what? I'm coming back to the island.
And the first person I need to see is you because I don't know what it is that I'm driving here or what's going to be happening.
But it's going to be coming through you.
And he was the very first person I saw and met when I came back to Jamaica.
And I'm going to say we've talked about that before and totally true.
I'm so stoked that you saw that first man in Hooter, you know, the fact that he has that level of respect for the craft and the culture.
That's really where it is, first and foremost.
And you're spot on, too, in that the plant is really guiding us.
I totally agree.
You know, we only have so much influence and some people are trying to really rein this in and capitalize on it and capitalize with it.
And, you know, that's something that a lot of us that are advocates are trying to keep that balance.
You know, like we want it to go mainstream.
We want it to be accepted by the masses and not be weaponized, because that's something that's your point.
No matter where we've gone, again, conversations in South America and Chile or conversations over in Europe.
You know, the plant's really been weaponized and it's so frustrating to hear and see what the repercussions were over the last several decades.
Because your point first, man, this is going way back.
Right. So having people who are stewards of it, it's again, it's such a great thing.
I think kind of getting into also talking about the craft and culture.
And I know it's a bit of kind of apples versus pineapples comparing California to Jamaica.
But I think there are those level of similarities, right, where people I know growing up and I went through my phase of just really studying and learning more about individuals like Bob Marley, which you have on your shirt, you know, and how he represented and had a louder voice in Jamaica than the government, which a lot of people I don't think quite understand how much weight that carried and how he brought that level of understanding around spirituality as it was associated and pertained to the plant, as you referenced.
But how challenging to your point, I mean, for being recognized as one of these epicenters around the appreciation and respect for the plant to have that hovering over your head, because we had it in California, too.
Right. I mean, until we didn't legalize medical locally in 1990, statewide until 96.
So we saw the same thing in the 60s, the 70s, especially the 80s.
Yeah, but you have to take into consideration something differently here is the fact that what happened here to the Rosses, and let me step outside here and please correct me first, man, if I'm wrong about anything here.
But what happened here was something that was so completely, totally racially focused and biased, number one.
Number two, the damage that was done from what the police did in California versus what the police did here are nowhere near close to the same things.
And we were sitting here talking just a minute ago about some of the true Jamaican cultivars like lamb's bread and I mean, all of those.
They're gone. I mean, you're finding some, but I mean, for the most part, those were all just they were the crops were destroyed, seeds were destroyed, lives were destroyed.
The knowledge of the people that were doing the growing in those cases, that that knowledge didn't get passed on.
There are so the ramifications of all of the damage that was done because this is just such a small island is much larger in as far as the overall effects of it.
In my right, please.
Yeah, go ahead.
I think the depth of the hypocrisy was was deeper than even that, because, as you say, California started advocacy quite early.
The extent and the depth of it was there as well.
There is no doubt in a we hail all cannabis advocates around the world because there are still advocates in California even now.
However, 1990, 1996, that was nowhere in our dreams.
And I think what happened when you started to have that statewide approach was there was an opportunity to honor the plant properly.
There was an opportunity not to be hiding all the time while you're interacting with the plant.
You know, while in Jamaica, that culture, you know, the government of the United States of America actually gave, you know, funding to destroy the crops here in Jamaica.
While while states were OK, it's the state law.
However, even though it is state law, please remember, it's not it's not passed federally, but the state people are having that kind of a much more leisure time than that than we had here.
I mean, just even now, even now we are looking at cases where the police force is still going in on Rastafari.
We are we are here in Jamaica now trying to put together an identification system, you know, to be able to approach the government.
Yes, we can look at this in many ways.
However, it is still a good thing, a good thing to put ourselves in a position that we are growing through these levels of negativity in having some kind of a centralized system,
you know, in who we are, what we represent and putting those those thoughts and and making them into a kind of a principle that should be presented to the world.
So even though there are good things coming out of it, you know, there are still a lot of challenges as it relates to day to day life.
You know, constant harassment remains still still the same, because all of a sudden now the police force in Jamaica don't exactly know who is Rastafari.
You know, before they had no.
Yeah, yeah, I know Rastafari, but how do I know that you are Rastafari?
You know, so, yeah, it's all the differences even still exist in terms of that deep level of exploitation.
And I know they are they are taking away people who have been in California.
I was there and saw the experience, those things to as well.
So, I mean, anywhere around the world, we have ganja advocates, you know, yeah, peace be unto you and more strength, you know, in carrying on this mission, you know, for the plant and with the plant and by the plant.
You know, it's one of the very interesting parallels I've noticed between Amsterdam and Jamaica and coming in both of the locations you have still being a grower is still an illegal act unless you're unless you have one of the licenses here.
But I mean, you still have the same scenario and it's.
Two thousand twenty one, guys, I mean, it's crazy.
I'm I'm really hoping that this big domino is about to fall over in the United States.
That's your job, by the way, Lance, you got to work on the industry.
I'm still forecasting 2022.
Now that's that's decriminalization or descheduling.
It's not technically legalization.
You all know Mexico is a good example.
You know, they went through the process of deeming it unconstitutional, which is awesome.
That is on an international level.
That is epic.
And I know some people don't like the term, you know, it's just a plant, but it's a plant.
It's it's it doesn't have to be chemically altered, even comparing to opioids or to cocaine.
You know, this is something literally you can grow it, you can dry it, you can cure it and you can consume it.
Nothing needs to be added.
Nothing needs to be altered.
Right.
So it is insane, though, that, you know, Mexico found that a few years ago and still they're working through establishing the framework for legalization.
So I think that the movement will happen in the next few years.
And it very much does have an influence for our listeners that don't quite understand how the dominoes fall.
While I would say the US is definitely not on the forefront in many levels like it used to be.
It still has such a major influence in this space.
Right. I know friends in Ireland and friends in England that are like, you know, we would be moving a lot faster if the US would come around and actually listen to a states because over two thirds of our country are legal on some level.
Right. I think it's the United Nations charter.
It's the United Nations treaty.
Yeah.
You know, yeah.
United. You're right.
I mean, the WHO, the World Health Organization came around more recently, the United Nations.
Finally, you know, you and ODC, which to your point, they do track all illicit illicit drugs around the world and the consumption thereof.
They're finally coming around.
It is an interesting kind of query as to where the EU will be versus the US in the next two years.
But you do make a good point going back to.
And that's why I think I kind of put it as apples versus pineapples in comparison of California or even Amsterdam, to be honest, compared to Jamaica, because of some of the things.
Again, just following more of the prosecution on other levels as it pertains to the Rastafari culture in general, that there is nowhere to go.
You're on an island like like you were stating.
That's when they eradicate a plant.
It's not like I can just take my plant and run the next state over to Oregon or run the next state over your run a country over to Mexico and hide my plant down south of the border.
Jamaica, when it's gone, it's gone.
They come in and they just just chop and drop the whole crop, which is really hard because we were talking about it before you joined First Man.
Buter and I were talking about all these phenomenal cultivars that are synonymous with Jamaica, just like there's there's super silver and lemon hazes and all those cultivars that are synonymous with Europe and and Thai stick and Durban poison and Acapulco gold.
There's all these cultivars that we associate geographically, almost as much as demographically.
So it is hard to hear that so much has been lost in recent years.
We were talking about real quick first man, because you can tell me if you've seen these.
He's obviously lives here, been here forever.
I've only been here since November.
I've been searching these specific cultivars since I since I landed.
I've been looking for lamb's bread, Jamaican pearl, king's bread, Jamaican dream, collyweed, Jamaican lion and something else I had heard about, which was called long time bud.
And that's these are all these these the legendary cultivars.
And I have found nothing since I've arrived.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's true.
It's true.
I mean, I have a we have we have been we have been seeing a few things, you know, that we have sort of triangulated a little bit to say it definitely has the lamb bread, lamb's bread flavor.
It's not it's not widely spread around the island.
You know, in my case, there is only one person that I know that truly has it.
And the one that existed from such time that you used to get the thing that asked from, you know, that strain is still around.
You know, you go to you go into the brownstone era, Bob Marley side era.
You'll find that those are still there as well.
Are they protected?
Are they preserved?
There's no system.
There's no kind of mechanisms around it.
It's just really that these cultivars are sort of just that they probably are surviving just based on the fact that they are not they are naturally kept.
Yeah. So if they seed up and the pollens blow all over, you know, that's that's probably just it's just the fact that they are naturally kept, you know, and people are paying attention to them for their actual buds.
But just for what they can get from the finger ash and so on.
So it's surviving that accidental way.
However, the same thing, people love the herbs so much, they start to go to the eight weeks and the 10 weeks and, you know, just to escape the police coming in.
So you can't do the six months cultivars, you know, you have to run to the hybrids and so on and so forth.
So in a way that also benefit the people from overseas, you know, even more because now they can germinate seeds and they can, you know, have the time to make different strains and so on.
While, you know, what we have is, you know, smoking things that are sort of fertilized to some extent.
And the message, you know, we kept the message going.
And it's almost like Jamaica, while we were suffering and while we were a poet, ties in our suffering, you know, we were still marketing the world, you know what I mean?
So it's a it's a relationship that we and this is why we advocate so much for the cannabis community, you know, for it to come together so we can recognize our own disparities and inequalities and and and honoring, you know, how can this community survive?
Through its stories, the truthful stories, the authentic stories, you know, and how can we lend support to each other, you know, to develop, you know, what has been lost and and where does it where is it preserved in the principle of it and not just necessarily in just the whole, but in the principle.
Because I think principles are there if we recognize it in the way how it should, the relationship that it is seeking to have with us as the human family, then really and truly the plant will restore itself, you know.
So it's just really our relationship, the relationship of uncivilized human beings, you know, that that is what will have to fix this process.
You know, I just want to say every time I hear first man talk, it's like I get goosebumps all over, man.
He's he's so pure.
I love it.
It's such a phenomenal way to put it.
It's so true.
I mean, that is that's that's the big debate here is the acceptance of something.
It's so natural.
We were in Thailand with our friend Kitty just a week before last, our last show.
And she is talking about how, as an herb, you know, especially from an Eastern medicine perspective, this is something that the elders were growing in the backyard next to ginseng and turmeric and other ailment solutions that were coming from the garden.
And it's a really, really, I think, a valid perspective to your point, first man.
It's not the plant.
It's the people that have the problem, right?
I mean, it's a natural plant.
We all have endocannabinoid systems.
We have the receptors to process this phenomenal plant.
So it definitely is something that I agree that just speaks volumes, you know, looking at it from a different perspective than most and kind of getting into one thing you mentioned as far as the genetics.
That again, it reminds me of a lot of people don't realize how much politics affects the plant, right?
Humans affect the plant because we've seen that in the 80s again with the Juan drugs, hashtags, thanks, Daryl Gates, thanks, you know, Nancy Reagan.
But when the Juan drugs came about, all of a sudden the crop shifted.
We had to get away from the skunky.
We had to get away from the haze, like those very, very pungent, high terpene profile plants started bringing them into the hoops, started doing them if we could underground, literally, not just metaphorically.
But then all of a sudden, to your point, we were looking for cultivars that didn't have that nose, that didn't have that smell.
And it changed what we were consuming.
And to hear you talking about how having to go with feminized or with auto flower versus what I love, 100% natural seeds that take the full 10 week, 12 week cycle.
That's such an important thing for people to realize that that's the impact beyond the taboo isms and the prejudice against the people who consume it and the plant itself, but also what the plant is as we know it today.
And how that affected the curing process here.
Oh, yeah.
Right.
And that's one of the things that is really a telling sign about what happened.
And even to this day, it is still affecting this market here.
Yeah.
And we don't want to, you're, you're all three of us are educators.
That's what we love.
And that's what this show is about.
But you talked about it earlier, Huda, on not wanting to put an emphasis on the negative one to focus on the positive.
But that is very much an important fact as well, that the way that it is processed.
And by that, I just mean simply not just the way it's grown, but the way it's dried, cured, et cetera.
And exactly to your point, that's been impacted as well.
Right.
Cause that's one thing I've heard is that the quality of the bud has been compromised because of it having to be sheltered so much.
I mean, of course we know 2015 was that pivotal shift in legalization there.
But it's still a big factor that has impacted still today, the way that the flower is processed and produced.
Right.
Absolutely.
And I'll have first man comment on this as well, but I mean, you can see it's a process here and it's, you know, again, as I understand that they were using, the police used it as a process of how they found growers in the old days.
Because, you know, you had the higher electricity bills that followed the people that were curing the buds properly.
So it was like one of the easy ways to track down the growers in the old days.
So they went to different processes of how to cure the buds, which still is something that you run into today.
And it is something that is getting better.
And the education is starting to get out there more and more on, you know, the proper ways of doing things.
And I think that we're on a threshold, honestly, right now in this country of going to the next level, maybe finally.
This virus, I think, is going to trigger not just here, but in a lot of different countries, the necessity to open up their markets completely to all the possibilities of the medical marijuana industry.
I've had some meetings here with some government officials and with some people in the tourism industry.
And, you know, I have a unique perspective of having to bend to all of these different markets and seeing what they're doing correctly and what they're doing incorrectly.
And one of the greatest opportunities, I think, is going to be in cannabis travel, especially medical, herbal, wellness type of travel going forward.
So that when people are able to get released out of their houses, finally, they're going to be looking for locations like Jamaica.
And I think that the island here is going to really start looking at, you know, the endocannabinoid system properly as all cannabis being medicine.
They're going to focus a little bit more on seniors and that market.
I'm hoping, I'm crossing my fingers that the board here gets to a point where they'll legalize some edibles so that the seniors will find an easier path into the medical cannabis market.
One of the funny things, and I think First Man can tell you this, if you go to most grandmothers' houses here in Jamaica, you'll find an old bottle of overproof rum that'll be in almost every closet or canopy in there
with a bud of ganja inside of it, which is a lovely tincture, as you know.
And that goes back generations here as part of the medical marijuana culture, which already exists here.
But there are some ways to move this into the next level now.
And I'm hoping, again, I think the necessity of finding opportunities for everyone to be able to participate in this medical marijuana market here in Jamaica
and working together as a cannabis destination, medical marijuana destination, I think is a wonderful project for everyone to really get behind here.
So I'm crossing my fingers.
Yeah, I think the technological world is really in a race.
You know, there are so many different productions that are going on, different ways of consumption.
Captain Oota spooked me the other day when he showed me all the different ways that these things are happening.
And I also remember going into Vegas to that MBJ conference when I saw the size of the equipment that they were using for cannabis production and so on.
And, yeah, of course, you know, Rastaman all the way from Jamaica was totally frightened at all those things that were going on.
Yeah, it's a lot.
It's a lot to absorb, you know.
However, I saw the intelligence of the plant, you know, in all of those processes, you know, recognising that this plant can really span so wide, you know, the entire gamut of the planet.
You know, I mean, if we can ever find a way how to use cannabis to replace plastic, you know, that's just so amazing.
And the plant has all of that kind of a potential as well, you know, energy, nutrition, you know, and we see where the plant can actually transform humanity.
I was looking at a document that actually showed that 15 out of the 17 goals for 2030 to make the planet a better place, the plant can do this.
So, you know, to me, it's almost as if when I'm looking at this, this conversation has not happened.
You know, people are just going into spaces, making production, but it's not following a line.
It's not following in the total concept of how the plant would want it to go.
So, for example, a lot of people, a lot of people actually think to themselves that all Rastafari smoke.
Yeah. And it's a myth.
It's not true.
But however, for us as Rastafari, what the herb does, it's a key.
Yeah, it's a key that has a particular type of roadmap to get to a particular space in self.
Yeah, that's the essence of that key.
And once it opens that space, we can get there naturally.
Yeah, we can really get there naturally.
The mental space is what I'm talking about at this moment.
You know, and a lot when we find out if you speak to a lot of Rastafari children, they don't smoke.
They don't need to smoke because it's almost like a genetic modification of how your mind then work.
It's it really works on state of mind.
So your your our children, they come, they talk the same way.
They have the same type of a mentality without taking a split.
Their their their mental capability has been developed in such a way where they understand,
understand the fullness of an approach to life.
And I think that's the conversation that we're looking to have.
What have we learned from the plant in terms of if we are going to commercialize this plant, how can that commercialization go?
Can this plant now be blamed for extending the use of fossil fuel?
Is that something that we can do?
Can this plan be caught up in a commercialization space that only recognize one set of people over the other set of people?
Can this be something, you know, that becomes something that that contributes to inequality?
And and and there is no social responsibility that is genuine and true.
Is this the message of the plant?
You know, and, you know, we can't just continue producing, producing, producing without gathering this family that has been so impacted by the plant and bring together a kind of a conversation that can ensure that wherever we are on this planet, we're having good medicine.
You know, and that that commercialization is not one that continue to kill its customer.
But commercialization becomes something that heals the planet.
Is that the message of the plant that all practitioners are connected to?
You know, and how do we actually how what's our benefit sharing plan between the plant and the planet and its people?
You know, we have to have these conversations unless this is what is going to be different about the cannabis journey and industry.
You know, yeah.
You know, so those are the spaces that I'm vibrating from.
We know the issues of the cultivars.
We know the issues surrounding all of the government and so on and so forth.
But the conversation, the data, you know, that this family that needs to come together so we can support our representation legally and otherwise.
I think those are the kind of steps that we have to facilitate in this in this time, you know, so we can be the force for the earth, you know, and.
And so much of it's full circle, that is you're so spot on so much.
We go back to the days of what they called Indian hemp back here in the States, and that was a major cash crop of this country.
We recognize the potential from paper to to rope.
Even myself, I was just telling a story earlier of how I did a tour of Australia.
I got to meet the first hemp, first licensed hemp producer in Australia.
He gave me a bowl that was actually created from hemp.
And he said, you know, when woven, this almost has the tensile strength of carbon fiber.
But unlike carbon fiber, if you throw it back into the ocean, it will disintegrate and go back to the earth.
So you're so spot on, first man.
And I know, Captain, I have had these conversations as well.
Anything that's petroleum based that's being manufactured today can be produced from this plant.
And that's very pivotal because to your point, it's something natural, just like it doesn't hurt us compared to opioids or compared to alcohol or compared to any other big pharma solutions in Western medicine.
It's something that mother nature already has in its genetics as well.
Right.
So the earth can be denied.
It connects with the earth cannabinoids.
That's not just human beings.
Exactly.
Exactly.
The size, you know, it's a live thing, you know.
It is.
It is.
So one thing that you talked about, Huda, and I think we have a mutual friend, Keiko Beatty, who love her indigenous Hawaiian.
Peter knows her very well, too.
I know she's been a brand ambassador, if you will, director of outreach, I believe is the technical term for the Coral Cove Wellness Resort down there in Jamaica.
And so what is your opinion?
I mean, Huda talked about this, being able to lean on the tourism to bring that normalization and also to bring the monetization to help strengthen, you know, Jamaica in general, as far as being better off financially.
Is that something that the Rastafari culture is open to as far as opening these doors to the tourism side of things and to the world on what you guys have to offer?
Well, I mean, it's amazing that you it's part of the project that Captain and myself are looking at, you know, we Rastafari indigenous village.
The space where I'm seated right now is one of those spaces that have created itself to transmit to the world about who Rastafari is and what we represent, you know.
So Captain has been to the space.
We're on a project together now to be able to use the Rastafari indigenous village as a kind of a pilot project to speak about the philosophy of Rastafari and how we can then use this to almost, you know, allow other aspects of our community to become advocates of themselves, you know, and so on.
So we are definitely on that path at the moment.
But it's just funny that you should mention Keiko because I only just met her five days ago, you know.
You're kidding.
Just like this is a comment to say if you never call the name of the hotel, which you pronounce wrongly, but if you never call it, I'm known for that.
I'm known for that first man.
Correct me.
I would never I would never even imagine that she's she's who we are talking about, you know.
And yes, you know, it's it's about that's what I that's how I met her, you know, in sharing in a retreat, not necessarily with cannabis, but with, you know, another plant matter that has just been demonized by this uncivilized governments of the world, you know, and that entire vibration.
And this is why when we speak about the plant, we're speaking about ayahuasca, we're speaking about peyote, we're speaking about all of these these plants that actually, you know, now it's it's robot on Mars, you know, and these plants take us there without a price, you know what I mean?
So it's really and truly.
That is very well put.
That's very well.
And so it's so important right now for, you know, to to know the family, to know the family and know where we are and and where is our safe space, you know, and how we can tackle this these uncivilized behavior that we're faced with right now.
But yeah, Jamaica, you see the thing about Jamaica and and and and Rastafari in particular, our advocacy really comes through our leadership, which is Emperor I, the first who Rastafari called our God and King.
And, you know, during all the time when uncivilized behavior and colonial systems attack Ethiopia, he was never, ever transformed into responding with evil, only if it becomes necessary for survival, but not for an outcome, not for solving the problem.
Solving the problem. Yeah.
And as a result of that, you know, for us, where this this was this was in theory, the Jamaican government claimed they approach it the right way.
For example, how did they go around the treaty?
They went around the treaty because their constitution gave them religious rights.
And this is the way how any country can sidestep a treaty and do what they want to do because their constitution supersedes it.
And that is what Jamaica government did.
So then it was a bipartisan approach, was a bipartisan approach in that both sides of the government agreed that this should go through.
They then set up after that some kind of advisory council, but this was not in law, the advisory council, because what the law does, it gives the minister of justice the right to sort of make the decision as to how he will seek to account for what Rastafari is doing.
So the first one had an advisory council to which I was the chair of that particular advisory council.
And, you know, they tried their best to find out who we are, where we are located.
You know, everyone is suspicious.
They trust government where we are located.
They want these numbers to come for us and put us in prison and so on.
But anyway, we trusted the process to some extent and we started to work with those process and so on.
But then, of course, sometimes you find a change of government and then it's a different kind of approach and then it's thrown into confusion and so on.
But from our community aspects of our community, because you can never, ever as any person speak on the behalf of Rastafari, because Rastafari is about the liberation of self.
It's the empowerment of the individual to find their own way and represent their own way.
But there are collectives of us who see particular directions that we must go.
So our our vibration is not to have a war between ourselves and our government.
We want them to become advocates for our process.
We want to know if someone wants a Ganja Slip.
The prime minister can say there is a Rastafari space down there.
It is in this location.
And that's what we are advocating for.
Yeah, we are.
We are. We are very tired to be criminalized by by this system.
You know, and you know, the statistics that came out is that Rastafari contribute to less than one percent of the crime in Jamaica.
So the only thing they are using to make us into criminals, the only reason why we go down to the police station in this day and age is because.
The police force refuse to accept that Rastafari has a liberated space in the law, and they still like to continue with the joke of, you know, listening to a Rastaman talk and stressing out the Rastaman and putting the Rastaman in compromising positions, you know.
So we are we are in a process now to advocate against this, which is going to include things like, you know, developing placards.
We right now the system in Jamaica is an application system.
We are now creating a declaration system where what we are saying to the government, this is who we are.
This is what we're doing.
And we're not hiding this anymore.
Tired of licking a gully, tired of licking it on the banks.
Now we want to full joy our herb in our own space comfortably with our visitors and friends globally.
Yeah. And that's the type of conversation that we're in.
So we are on this mission right now.
It is something that I would really love to share, you know, to see the best way how we can support this through any means necessary, you know, how we can either get it to the world, how we can get expertise in assisting us in many different ways as to how this message can be preserved.
All this message of nationhood and sovereignty to our communities.
Right. And all those conversations are what is wrapped up in everything that is ganja and cannabis.
You know, and I think it's so crucially important, if I can just jump in, that everybody's working together.
It's the theme.
It's one love.
Right. That's what this is about.
Right. There it is.
It's one love.
Everybody here needs to be working together.
A massive amount of all the people that come here and fly here to Jamaica in order to come for their vacation.
And I think First Man can tell us the actual numbers on this, but they list coming for Rastafarian in music, lifestyle, culture as being one of the major contributing factors for why they're here in the first place.
All of this needs to come together.
The story needs to come together.
All of it has to be into a nice, comfortable, well-working ball.
And the quicker that this country is able to do that and get this ball going, the better off it's going to be.
Because again, once Mexico goes legal and that tourism market explodes and the Bahamas and Australia and everywhere else, it's going to be a race to have who's going to be your destination.
And I still think that here in Jamaica is going to be one of the premium destinations, not just because of the cannabis.
A hundred and sixty five other serious medical herbs, I believe, and that number could be off the mushroom market that's here, the ayahuasca market that's here.
I just saw one of the what's it called?
It's called the mimosa terribolis, the thing that they make DMT for.
That tree is growing here, too.
So, you know, the possibilities are endless here from the medical side.
And then you add in the cultural and then the beautiful food and the beautiful environment.
And the beautiful people.
And the incredibly wonderful, loving, kind, hospitable people of Jamaica, which is unlike any other place in the world, except maybe Ireland.
Speaking of which, someone just joined the conversation.
Well, yes, hello, hello.
Surprise.
He's driving. Yeah.
Yeah, that's my that's one of my brothers, you know, his name is Russ Byer.
He's a part of the organization that I've been talking to you about as well.
We're the ones working together in term.
I didn't know that he was going to be on.
I'm like, wow.
We have surprise guests.
The Peter drops.
We lost him.
I'm assuming it's his connection, but hopefully he'll be back.
I've been troubleshooting, trying to get his Android phone to work.
So, yeah, yeah.
Stay tuned.
Yeah. So, Russ, so so we are on a mission.
This the same organization that you're talking about and the Virgin that you just saw that came up, he is our SOP grower.
Yeah. He's the one that is creating the standard operating procedure.
For for for growing our herb in what we call the rest of our way, you know, and he has done a good job in terms of laying out what a site plan should look like and what the standard of the herb could be and so on.
So we are supposed to hook up with this Virgin Captain Utah, you know, to to do our to do all those fancy lights you have there on the herbs so we can give it a category, you know, and establish a standard for it.
So we're really looking forward to to that journey, you know, because the standard of our herb, as Captain is just pointing out, not whenever Jamaicans get the opportunity to freely pursue what they want, then it's always like a Usain Bolt standard.
You know, this this island, there is something that is connecting here in an astrological way which allow us to fly.
So I'm very sure that once we get that opportunity to be able to sit properly, don't have to be worried about the police on our back having this beautiful type sunshine that we have here and so on.
Yeah, there will be some amazing spiritual connection and experience that can come from our relationship with the herb that will be unique in itself.
So I have good confidence in that.
You know, we started our first event in 2015 with the High Times.
That was the first international partnership that we had.
You know, we're definitely looking into those type of partnerships, too, not necessarily just in Jamaica alone, because we have created also standard operating procedures for what a Rastafari event would look like.
And even on the Rastafari space within an event that is not necessarily a Rastafari one.
So, you know, those are some of the things that I would love for ones to know that, you know, we are looking to share a particular standard of this culture and how this culture actually relate with the herb, because it's one link.
You know, it's not like the herb stand alone and it's different from our food and it's different from from from our songs and it's different from our philosophy.
It's intertwined into all aspects of our creative empire that we have here as Rastafari, you know, because it's about the creative and cultural industry.
And, you know, and that's the world industry.
You know, they just sort of split it up.
But everything in medical is creative.
Everything in mobile is creative.
It's all creative energy.
You know, and they're all smoking weed, you know, to make these differences.
They don't want to.
True.
Best ideas I've come up with.
It's it. It's all of it.
It is. And I think we're a little close to wrapping up, but you really put it.
That's something that I really stress, especially in my international travels.
The one thing I found on every continent.
And again, I know you can agree with this, too, Hooter, is that just like music, just like food, cannabis, it crosses every culture.
It's every lifestyle.
It's it's so interesting how it's it's a universal language of sorts.
You know, I don't think you have been brought up the same way or have the same beliefs to have the same ideology towards this plant.
It's just something that is there.
And it's so awesome how you kind of sum that up in that perspective.
First, we have another surprise guest.
Hey, good afternoon, gentlemen.
Well, Ras Maya is actually on the road.
And as you mentioned, he was actually driving.
So the signal is a bit weak and he did not have his earpod earphones.
So he's unable to hear you guys.
Gotcha. Gotcha.
Well, we appreciate the insight, Kirk.
Yeah, we just want to hear a little more insight, especially from a local perspective on where things are today in Jamaica as it pertains to the herb, to cannabis.
And sorry that he obviously was traveling.
We know it's timing and connectivity is a factor.
Yes, it is.
Sorry.
In terms of where the first man is, is a very experienced gentleman in this type of conversation and topic.
And it's very thorough.
But on my perspective on where we are with marijuana in Jamaica, it is a slow process, a slow transition to acceptance.
Right. And we're actually getting there.
I should not downplay our progression.
It is progressing, but it's a bit slow.
And we're going to get there.
Something wrong, something that takes time, right?
It does take time because the years and years of stigma that was surrounding the plant and all the bad, bad information, wrong information that was gathered.
And injected by certain individuals on the populace, it was incorrect.
So it's going to take some time for us to reverse that.
But what we need, we need more people on the forefront with the correct, correct information in the right sphere to push this information to the popular.
So they could have an understanding of what this plant truly is and what it can do for us as a people.
Definitely, definitely.
And that's a lot of what our discussions have been is just to your point, understanding how it was versus how it can be, of course, being a transitional state right now.
And it has been so recent for us in the industry.
It goes by so quick.
2015 did feel like it was just yesterday when this all started making a pivotal shift.
I mean, it wasn't that long ago that things started moving in the right direction, but it still takes so much time.
Yes, indeed.
Well, I have to say that I'm very encouraged by everything that's going on that I've seen so far since I arrived in November from the time when I was here a year before for Canix.
When I first arrived, the very first herb house had just been opened up at Drax Hall with Kaya.
And then you also had the Island Strains, which had opened up here in Montego Bay.
Since then, you've had a multitude of new shops open up.
I've hit almost all of them now.
Each of them already has their own little personality set up.
They all have their own chain of how they're bringing in their different cultivars.
It's like watching little babies that are just exploded and they're starting to grow and learn the market.
And it's so interesting having covered all of the shops that are in Barcelona and in Amsterdam.
Some of those have been there for decades.
And the similarities of things.
When you walk into a coffee shop in Amsterdam, they'll normally ask you, do you want to get high or do you want to get stoked?
Here, it's medical, right?
So you're going to have a medical prescription and or you'll have just acquired one.
So they'll have more information about you just walking through the door.
So in a lot of ways, your introductory first experience that you'll have here with a bud tender is going to be a more educated one in that they know more about you right off the bat, since it's not a recreational environment.
Right.
So they're going to know already ahead of time.
And what they'll ask you here is, do you want a sativa or do you want an indica?
And are you using medicine for the morning or for the evening?
So they're evolving it to another level, which is really interesting here.
Right.
I think there's so much wonderful vibe that is here.
And it feels like being here as a consumer, because I'm not really in the market, but as a consumer, it feels like there's like this this bubbling cauldron that's ready to go boom like that and explode.
I've heard of so many stories of all these great chefs that are here that are already creating, you know, proper types of edibles, right?
Infused edibles.
Can you imagine Jamaican food edibles here?
Oh, my God, it's going to be incredible.
I mean, just that part of it is is is ridiculous.
And with all of the amazing fruits and natural herbs and such that are here, they're going to be able to start doing infusions and and and crosses and mix ups that are going to be mind blowing, I think.
And again, here where you have all these people who are truly connected to the plant, for the most part, in the for the right reasons, right?
It's not it's a very different kind of a vibe here.
And again, I'm bubbly, as you can see, I'm encouraged by what's happening.
I understand there's some changes that are going to be happening with with the board and the people that are make the decisions here for the cannabis laws going forward.
So, again, I'm going to cross my fingers and give my support and to anybody and anybody that asked for any while I'm here.
And I'm having a blast in the meantime going around all of these herb houses.
I found a ton of really talented growers here that are, you know, against all odds kind of growing opportunity because, you know, they had a big drought here and then they had these really bizarre weather patterns.
And a side note for those of you who read the story that said that Jamaica was going through a ganja drought.
I'm going to say no, I didn't see a ganja drought.
There was ganja everywhere.
There was a premium ganja drought for a little period there, OK, where you couldn't find anything premium.
But even that, I think, has already evaporated.
I've seen it. I was just a Uncle Stoner out in the grill hooked me up with one of his discoveries from the other day out there.
Just found some great new stuff over here at Kaya Drax Hall last week.
Went to another one of the Ras Afarian houses there in Ocho Rios and found some premium buds there.
So you're all over the place recently.
Oh, you're doing a tour.
This is my job.
I'm working hard, buddy.
I'm working hard.
Well, I can't wait to read the...
I mean, you're a phenomenal writer and you do such a great job of documenting and you get so technical in a true can of sewer.
Not a can of snob, in a true can of sewer fashion.
I am looking forward to seeing that.
And again, First Man, I'm sure you made the trek here to the States and got to compare this versus there.
And it is so interesting because the cultivars, not just the geno, but the phenotypes that exist in different markets are one thing that always impressed me.
Because it's not about the fire, it's not the highest THC.
That's such bullshit and it drives me nuts.
I can't wait till we get over that.
Again, you know, and I know that Jamaica gets it as a market, but you see competitions like in Oregon, they have the classic.
And the most successful, the most winningest cultivars were not the highest THC.
They were the most diversified phenotype, the most diversified terpene profile.
Novel concept, right?
Because as I would say, cannabis, you know, it's the cannabinoids are the engine, but the terpenes are the steering wheel.
That's what really gives you that true experiential, right?
You guys get that.
That's what's so awesome down there is at least that winning curve is sorted.
So this is awesome, man.
I love it.
And yet another market that I need to get down to for sure.
I look forward to getting to hang out with you in person sooner than later, First Man, for sure.
Hooter, always.
Just quickly, First Man, can you give us some background on the Rastafari Indigenous Village and kind of what the purpose and mission is and what's going on with it?
Yeah, so Rastafari Indigenous Village, we started this process in about 2013 when we sort of look at the at the impact that tourism has.
You know, it brought us right back to the war in the 1940s, World War Two and the way how, you know, the people, the power of the people in preserving Ethiopia.
You know, it never had to do with the governments of the world.
It really had to do with media and how people were receiving the information that actually kept the spirit of the Ethiopians and other people of the world, you know, who were able to look at the decisions of the League of Nations.
It was at that time and see how they were making decisions and lobbying their governments, you know, to do better and to pay attention to the injustice that was taking on.
And I think when Emperor Aile Selassie realized, he realized that the governments of the world would never be able to protect Ethiopia, but the people of the world could.
And he opened up Ethiopia to tourism at that particular time.
You know, he was like the first tour guide that Ethiopia as a country has.
And it's the same process that we decided to do to educate and make people aware of who we are, because, you know, the issues surrounding Rastafari is that we are faced with extinction as a group of people because of how the government has related to us.
You know, you find that our children are disconnected from our our our liberty, you know, our way of life.
And this was almost like a move to to use the three Ps, which is to preserve, to protect and promote for its sustainability.
And it was it was a challenging step to make, you know, because our community, we see tourism as whoreism, whoreism because it prostitute the land, prostitute the people.
You know, it takes your culture and sort of put it on a show.
But for the 13 years that we have been here, we have managed to remain authentic.
We have managed to even build out our our our culture a lot more and improve it and actually give confidence in a way to the rest of the community that it's possible to to to to to to really confirm to the words of Emperor Ali Selassie, who urges us to become members of a new race, which is a human race and seeing the human family as our brothers and our sisters.
And we have really been able to build that kind of a relationship.
Of course, covid-19 came in in the 20s.
Yeah, 2020 sort of put an end to all of that relationship that we had, because as I as I say, our youths are not are are not around in the strong way that we would want them because of our culture has suffered.
You know, so we are not looking attractive to our young people in any way, shape or form.
And this is why we hope that our relationship with cannabis could create some kind of a sustainable development to let our children know that we are not idiots.
And I think that is what has happened, that everyone else around the world is able to benefit from the plant in in in in all different type of ways.
And for us as Rastafari or there is only our spiritual benefit, but there is nothing about our economic rights, you know, within that space.
So the village is one such space that sort of, you know, is almost like a kind of a light, a lighthouse that can assist us to touch base our community and so on.
You know, so that's the essence of it.
We have been closed since since March and we remain closed up until this day.
And yeah, it has it has really been a kind of a struggle, to be honest, you know, but we are people who live with the wind, you know, the trees, with the rivers.
And as a result, for some strange reason, we're still here, you know, because now it's original.
So it's our time. This is this is what we would know about.
We are the ones who know the bush that we can eat and have been eating it.
So it has been a pleasure to sort of come so close back to nature.
And that is that is, I think, what came out of this whole covid experience that's brought us closer to ourself, closer to our principles, even though we are within those kinds of a struggle.
So, yeah, the rest of our indigenous village, it has it has really served its purpose.
It has used tourism as a tool and it has been effective in that way.
Very nice. Yeah, someone's got the beats going in the back.
Yeah, very cool. I know we're at the top of the hour here and then some, you know, I really want to thank you guys again for for serving up on a call.
I mean, Jamaica is one of those places that Peter and I both had on the top of the list as far as this virtual tour goes, just because, again, as you pointed out, there's just so much history.
There's so much history around the culture, the craft, the people, every aspect of it.
So we definitely do.
We have any questions before we move along?
Well, so I had some housekeeping.
The the hottest hat in the cannabis scene will soon be on the the dagger love website, which is the social hat, which is the name of this show.
This will also be there.
I just ordered a ton of these shirts, which are future cannabis project shirts.
And I have some other ones.
Tonight, we're going to get solventless.
We have Calico sure and solventless is more talking hash right here on FCP two.
And then, Kirk, I think we should come back on when when when he's not driving.
Yes, yes, yes.
And talk about the elusive lambs bread.
Yes, sir.
Yeah, we'll be doing a second.
That's one thing we've figured out with this tour is we definitely are going to do a second round once we get through it and do want to have those additional conversations and look forward to that.
So definitely. Thanks again, man.
It looks like first man.
So first round.
Yes.
Good timing.
Yeah.
Sorry about the late entry, gentlemen.
And like you said, Peter, next time we'll be more organized.
Yeah.
And that's that's our fault, not your fault.
I only told you as we're going live.
So.
Yes.
Yes.
All right.
But so, yeah, with that, I guess, Lance, I see our our show sponsor over.
Yeah.
Green, green, green.
All right.
Our new show sponsors.
So definitely stoked to have them on board.
Thank you, guys.
For those that are watching or like, we'd love the banter in the comments section.
Peter does a phenomenal job moderating and facilitating in that regard.
Where we're going next.
That's an excellent question.
So we decided to go out.
Thanks, man.
We want to find out from you where you want us to go next.
You know, guys, we've obviously, again, we've gone to South America, to Santiago, Chile.
We've gone over to Thailand.
We've gone over to both Amsterdam and Barcelona, Barcelona.
I got that.
Or also now to Jamaica.
There's a few more places we were thinking Australia.
We were also thinking of Canada.
But let us know.
We definitely want to hear some feedback.
And so give us a shout out on the comments section, you guys.
Where is it that you want to hear a little bit more about what's going on now in the industry?
There is so much going on on a global level.
Keeping in mind, there's 40 countries, 40 freaking countries that have either legalized, decriminalized or deschedulized this plan.
So we want to hear from you where you want us to go on this virtual tour around the world.
We will go there and we will call up our friends.
Hopefully some not so last minute so we can make it happen.
But we will definitely get that on the books.
And we're kind of in a schedule of every other week.
But we can obviously get to weekly too as we progress.
So the other thing is we can visit U.S. states.
Oh, yes.
There are some Hawaiians watching right now who I think would be happy to take us on a tour of Hawaii.
I think that's a nice loop to bring it back to the to the contiguous or to the North.
Yeah, I've been talking to some people in India.
Oh, yeah.
We're actually pulling seeds together from various regions of India, Kashmir, Pakistan.
Sorry, I just ran upstairs to check the door.
Yeah. Speaking of land race, that's for sure, Peter.
That's a good, good touch point on India.
And I agree with Hawaii.
I mean, Hawaii has some phenomenal, again, Guter and I have talked about this, you know, from Acapulco.
Yeah, there you go.
I know.
And 808, you know, we talk about all those hilarious.
It is, man. And talk about some interesting growing conditions.
I went out there to Maui and man, you know, they've got some serious rainfall.
So they're always combating moisture issues, humidity.
But my gosh, Pineapple Express and Maui, wowee, there's some old school cultivars that'd be worth conversating and talking about the history and where things are today out there.
So I have more.
I have more Hawaii adventures.
Of incredible links that I went to to end up getting ripped off or not getting what I thought I was going to get that are phenomenal.
Supply and demand is an incredible thing.
And when you get to Hawaii and you don't have any bud, the things that you'll believe are bud are really phenomenal.
I bought seaweed with red wire or red string on them.
I have bought. Oh, my God.
I've had so many. But when you find the real hardcore, legit Hawaiian bud, it is incredible.
And I will or will not confirm I brought back some some genetics from there.
But you're right, man. You have to have that.
I think they call it willpower.
Yeah, I think they call it the what is it?
Coconut cellular.
I know there's an underground that they use as far as a term for having that relationship and connectivity.
But I think that's a good recommendation, guys.
I think Hawaii is the next stop.
We'll continue on our good call.
So I want to thank you, Captain Duder again, man.
It's definitely been great.
Uruguay, we'll put that on the list.
We are going to get back down to South America.
We're also going to get over to APAC to the Pacific again and hit up Australia here.
There's a lot going on down under.
So thank you all again for joining.
We appreciate it.
We'll see you.
Thanks so much for having me.
Always good vibes.
Thanks. Rastafari.
Peace and love in this house.
And for the rest of you, hopefully we'll see some of you tonight.
Last time. So with with Tony, who's a Boneyard Seeds and Cheddar Bob, Cheddar Bob started dabbing.
So I decided to dab too.
And I knocked myself the fuck out.
I was literally I put my video.
I killed my video and it was just the two of them.
And I was literally lying like this the whole time.
And fortunately, Tony can talk for hours.
And but it was literally a good hour that I was just comatose.
I mean, I was awake, but like I wanted to get water.
And the fridge is literally five feet that way.
I couldn't get up.
It's serious, man.
You're going to dab. You better be ready to set some time aside.
That's for sure. So anyway.
All right. Well, I will.
I'll talk to you shortly and everyone else.
Hopefully I'll see some of you tonight here on FCP Channel two, like ESPN two or C-SPAN two.
But better. Or CNN International or whatever.
But anyway, thanks, Peter.
Smaller, more intimate FCP.
All right. See everyone.
