Hello and thank you for joining us today. My name is Chad Westport and today I'm going
to show you how to take clones. Taking clones is a relatively simple process, a process
that every grower should know, and the reason I say that is because if you know how to take
a clone, then you're able to keep a single seed going for many years. And in the case
of finding a winner or something that works great for you, it's a really handy tool to
have. And speaking of tools, I like to get all of my tools laid out before I actually
start cutting on the plant. That way I can take my clone, dip it in what I need to, and
stick it straight in the medium of choice. And today I'm going to show you two different
mediums. I'll show you how to do it in soil or cocoa, and then I'm also going to show
you the aeroponic cloner. Soil and cocoa, pretty simple process. It requires only a
few tools, and I do like to get those laid out beforehand. I'm only going to be taking
clones off of one plant today, but when you're taking clones off of multiple plants, now
is the time to label them accurately. And do be sure to use a pen that isn't going to
smear or run off with water, because these are going to get wet. And the reason I have
three out today is we're going to try three different styles. We're going to try dipping
one into clonex gel, which is a rooting hormone. We're going to dip another into aloe vera,
which is kind of your organic or natural hormone rooting gel. And then we're going to do one
without anything. And we're just going to see which ones root first or root best or
have the best growth. The other tool that you'll notice here is a fresh, clean razor
blade. This is something that you want to do on each plant that you take clones from.
I use a clean razor blade on every plant for my IPM, because I know that pathogens
can spread easily through the sap of plants. And if I take a clone from an infected plant
and get the sap on the blade and then go to another plant, cut into it, I've just transferred
my pathogen. And that's bad news. So good IPM says fresh razor blade for every plant.
I also have pH water. It's important. I want to make sure my water is pH and that's going
to give the roots a best chance to take off. I have pre-watered my soil mix. And the reason
I do that is to grow roots, you're going to want water, but you also need oxygen. And
I found that if you dip straight into the dry soil and then you water it, there's a
chance for pockets or dry spots around the stem. And we don't want that. So I always
water it ahead of time, get the soil nice and saturated, but not soaked. And then I
stick my clone right in. So let's get started and look at the plant and see where we're
going to take our clones from. Generally, you're going to want to take your clones from
the lower portion of the plant. Now, if you clean your plant up before you put it into
flower, meaning you take off the lower branches, that's a great time to select your clones.
And that's exactly what I'm going to do here. There's some that are a little bit too long.
There's some that are a little bit too short. Everybody's going to have a different size
of clone that they're going to take. I prefer to take them a little bit on the smaller side.
That just works for me. And I go from the lower portion. But again, because I'm going
into soil with this, I want to make sure it's a little bit longer so I can get some depth
down into the soil compared to with my AeroCloner. And because I don't have 101 camera angles,
I'm going to do this in steps. One, two, three, four. But it's basically one fluid movement
from the time that I cut it to the time that I dip it to the time that I put it into the soil.
So let's go ahead and cut this one at the 45 degree angle.
And this one we dipped in the Clone-X, so we're going to label it Clone-X. Okay. We know which one that is.
Okay, I've selected another good one here. It's from the lower portion of the plant.
It has enough space to bury underneath the soil. So we're going to go ahead and cut this
one off and dip it in our aloe vera. You can see the 45 degree angle that I've cut
onto this stem. See? It's open-faced. That's the angle we're looking for here.
I'm going to scrape this one again. So let me just show you that. You're just going to
gently scrape the outside layer. And what that's going to do is that's going to promote
more rooting sites. But you don't want to go too deep. Again, it's just that outer layer.
It's like you're peeling a vegetable or something. Peeling a carrot.
Okay. Let me put my hole into the soil. Take my clone with no treatment on there and
boop, boop, boop, boop. Drop it right on in. Give it a little bit of a...give it a hug because we love our clones.
Clones are good to us, so let's be good to them. And this one, we're going to just write
nothing because we've done nothing to it. Okay. So the last step for these are to get
the humidity dome on and generate a little bit of humidity.
All right. We're about ready to finish these off. We've got our three clones, the aloe vera,
the clonex, and the nothing. We've got that in our tray. We got our tray on our heat mat.
Move that back there. We've got our humidity dome. And a little trick I like to do to kind
of get the humidity going is take your pH water, pH. Spray the inside of your dome.
Just give it a little bit of life, a little bit of something to drip.
Just a little spray. A little spray on the bottom of the tray too. That's always nice.
Spray the leaves because this is how they're going to get water. Real gently. There's no roots for them to feed water,
so they got to feed foliar. Give them a little spray.
All right. It looks good to go. Let me put on the lid. Put my tray on like that.
I'm going to close the vent holes on the top. And we're good. We're going to let it sit and clones are going to grow.
We're going to finish up here by taking three more clones off of the lower portion of this plant.
And these are going to the aeroponic cloner machine, which is my personal preference.
And I also tend to take them a little bit shorter. That way the stems don't sit down into the water.
So this one, we've got a short one here that I'll use. This one, oh geez, it's only about three inches tall.
We've got another one over here. It's about seven inches tall. But this one I'm going to take in the middle.
Now you typically want to take it at like a nodal space, right in the crux there.
It's supposed to be more growth hormones. But you know what? I'm going to slice this one in the middle just to show you that it can be done.
And then beyond that, we've got this one back here, which is, well, it's a normal size. So we'll take that one.
Okay, let's take our middle cut. Our middle cut, again, even though it's in the middle, we're going to do it at a 45 degree angle.
See if I can move this out of the way here and then get you a good example of the cut.
Boom. Okay, we got the cut.
And, oh, shoot. See, I messed that up. I scraped too hard.
That one's trash. Okay, we're going to have to go for another one. But we'll get this middle one, so let's do that.
Okay, so here's my AeroCloner machine with the three empty holes we're about to fill with the clones that we just took.
Let's lift the hood real quick, though. And as you can see under here, there is a mister, a bunch of misters, actually, that spray all of the cut of the clones.
And from there, it forms roots. We just take our plugs that we just took, we drop them in there.
Here's our short one. Drop that in there. And our cut from the middle.
So there you have it. We don't need a humidity dome.
We're seven days into the cloning project, and I've removed my humidity dome.
And this applies to any time. If you come back and you see that your leaves are dry, give them a little spray.
Because until they have roots, this is how they're going to get water and feed.
Alright, so all of them have pressure in the leaves, so I can tell that something is going on.
You can't see the roots, so you don't know. But the aloe vera, the clonex, and the one that we did nothing to, they all look the same. They all look good.
The clones in the soil were looking good, but we don't really know if they have roots yet.
With the aerocloner, we'll be able to tell.
So let's take a look at our cuttings. We have the cut that we took from the middle of the branch. We put nothing on it.
I don't see any roots yet.
We also have the medium-sized cut that we dipped in the aloe.
Yeah, okay. A couple little roots on there. It's going to have more days in the aerocloner. I'd say at least...
Yeah, more time.
And then we have our shortest cut with the clonex. That definitely has roots on it.
So, as far as the aerocloner race goes, clonex wins.
There you have it. Thank you for tuning in to my rough guide on taking clones.
This is Chad Westport, and please, join me again next time.
