All right, we are live. Welcome everyone to episode one of Seed to Social, where we're
doing a kind of, we're traveling the globe and the first stop is South Africa. And here's
your show host, Sir Lance Lott, Lance Lambert.
Thank you much, Peter. Thank you and welcome everybody. Yes, this is episode one of Seed
to Social, something that both Peter and I have been looking forward to for some time.
Both of us always have our eyes on the global market and there's a lot going on out there.
If anyone follows me personally, I'm always talking about the global market and the global
movement to legalization. Not that the US isn't very much relevant in that equation,
but there's definitely a bigger picture to be had out there. So one thing I thought would
be pretty clever, especially being that Peter has the Daga shop. And for those that know
Daga is a slang term predominantly used in Africa to reference cannabis. I thought it
would be fitting to reach out to a friend based out of South Africa, Michael Rossley,
who is a rockstar in his own right. Definitely a guy that knows what is in the haps as it
pertains not just specifically to South Africa, but you all probably know Zimbabwe, Kenya.
Things going on all around Africa, more specifically on the Southern end.
But wanted to introduce you, Michael, and if you could just give the audience a little bit
of background about you. And the proper pronunciation of that word.
We call Daga, Daga.
There you go.
Daga.
Excellent.
So I'm involved with Boveda. So I distribute their products and I get to do that actually
throughout Africa. It's an incredible product that is needed in a mass scale in Africa. There's so
much value to be gained from it. So that puts me into all sorts of places and I get to see
what people are doing on the ground, which is fantastic. Obviously, a lot of the stuff is full
underground. We're waiting for some sort of legislation in South Africa,
some sort of framework in which right now everyone's keeping quiet. But that's not a
problem. People are developing. They are going forward and there are some people who have
licenses. There's some backlogs with that, but that's a South African problem. Things do take
some time. But yeah, I get to show the product around Africa. And what an amazing thing. I get
to see some of the most beautiful flower in and around South Africa. It's quite a privilege to be
where I am.
And that's not a small market. I think one thing to point out really quick, because
a lot of folks that are pursuing the international scene, rather than individuals that are just
traveling or folks in this industry are looking to expand their brand, like you mentioned,
Boveda and Green Bros and many friends of ours that are seeking overseas. It's interesting
because a lot of them have their eyes on Europe, which has a population of about 722 million. But
here, the continent of Africa has over 1.2 billion. You guys have not quite, but close to
double of the populace of Europe. Yet, you all have kind of been on the down low, right? A lot
of people haven't really been talking out because I know you follow a lot of the news out of both
Europe and the US on cannabis. Do you think it's kind of interesting that more conversations
aren't brought up about the movement out there and where things are today?
Well, I mean, I think that it hasn't really been tabooed. In the mass populace in Africa,
cannabis is a normal thing. It's banned through the Western society. So that's where
it's a big taboo thing. But here, you've been able to, like we could always get cannabis.
You can find cannabis anywhere. It's just a matter of knowing who to ask. But once you ask
one person, the next person tells you. That's a good thing to segue into because,
well, I know Prohibition ended in 2018. And I want to say, I think you actually shot me over.
You shot me over the video of Parliament having that conversation. It was quite a big step
progressively for South Africa in specific. But to your point, I've heard some of the
conversation around how it was kind of not frowned upon. I mean, there's the tabooism,
but people are like, oh, well, that certain group of individuals are the types to consume
cannabis, right? It's always kind of been looked down onto by certain circles, right?
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the whole other side, and if you're talking the general population,
they can get their cannabis from traditional healers. So they've been using it as a medicine
for a very, very long time. But that's different to the cannabis that I saw at the Emerald Cap and
places like that. It's a completely different game. But obviously, it's illegal. That's a
Western, that's part of the system. And that has set back the industry in a big way,
because you're losing a lot of genetics. Peter's a genetics expert. I'm sure you've lost genetics
many times in your career. And what a setback that, because it takes years to develop these
things. So a lot of what we've done here in South Africa, what people have done, I say we
just as South African, has been lost, through prohibition. So you lose quality, which we're all
developing. And luckily, it's a land-raised place. Durban poison, Swazi gold, it came from this
area. So we've got a lot to play with. We'll set the right conditions. So there's certain places
in South Africa where you can select from a massive area, which means that if you can select
from a bigger area, obviously, you can find what you want quicker. Yeah, that's getting into that.
You touched on two very popular, I mean, Durban poison has been one of those, I would say one of
the most recognized land-raised cultivars that exist out there. And obviously, are a big part of
conversation. A lot of people love those genetics. But you're right, there's a few. And I think a lot
of individuals don't quite know just how good a quality, I mean, from your latitude to the actual
rich soil that Africa, and specifically South Africa, has to work with. So very good point. But
I think it's interesting, again, that a lot of people just aren't in the know when it comes to
what's going on out there on that continent. And love that you bring up the genetics. And I won't
say who, but a certain friend shared some genetics from South Africa with me, which I don't have
the time or the space to grow at capacity. But I did share those genetics with one mutual friend
of Peter and myself up in the Triangle. He sent me pictures and he is growing trees, man. I mean,
literally about three to four meters tall from those genetics that came from a certain part of
your country. So it is crazy to see. And that's another thing that, you know, do we classify that
as an exotic? Because that is something that came straight over, to your point, for those
that are less familiar with how genetics work and how the evolution occurs within the plant. This is
a big deal to get genetics literally from that continent versus from someone's collection.
Because you're right. It's just between, you know, the phenotype, the genotype, it's,
there's so many variables that go into as you try to carry those genetics from generation to
generation, from decade to decade. So what we have is Dermaboisin is nothing compared to
what was grown with those special seeds. Yeah. So, yeah.
Yeah. I mean, one of the legends of the cannabis industry in South Africa,
Jules Stubbs, who unfortunately passed away last year, he said to me, I think it was about two
years back, he said to me that he's extracted from so many different types of flower. You know,
he's been able to play, he was able to play with the flower for like a long period of time,
um, you know, while they were fighting and, you know, the court case was happening. So
he's seen, yeah, he's taught a lot. And after playing with all these different strains and
whatnot, he said that one of the best things you could get was just a land race, plain land race,
it was terrible flower, it's cheap as anything, full of seeds and stalks, but you can get it by
the bulk, you know, and it doesn't really matter, it's cheap. So, um, that was the ultimate oil,
the ultimate extract because you don't get any kiwi, gibbies or, you know, it's because it's
just so level. You take this up, like as a medicine for like, you know, you don't,
there's no creeps, you don't get the creep, you know, anxiety or whatnot. It's just a,
I don't know, it's a pure high. Yeah. And that's something I think to your point, that's even,
even what I grew last season, which headstrung haze is what I ended up calling it. And to your
point, it was very mild, wasn't a creeper, but it's something that's perfect for creating edibles,
because something we just talked about, we'll get into just now, because we'd love to hear about
the most predominant forms of consumption and the evolution of consumption in specific regions as
well. But to your point, that's exactly as very much on the level as far as THC is probably about
13, 14%, but a very diverse terpene profile, perfect for making can of butter and oil to use
in edibles. And so to your point, I think it is very valid in looking at, you know, it's not always
the highest THC or the highest CBG or the highest whatever, but it's something that's ideal for the
application in which you'd like to use. And especially to your point, again, with, you know,
using it more so from a medicinal standpoint, rather be from an herbal doctor, Eastern Medicine
type approach, or something that has more of a Western influence. Again, you don't need the wild
and crazy high octane or gaseous heck stuff, you need something that is going to help. And I got
to tell you, you're like me, Michael, you have your collection. You know, I know exactly which cultivars
are good for helping with my knee and ankle pain. You know, it's very little petty, but it's got all
the body that I need just to just to take me to that place of comfort. And not having to use
Advil or Tylenol or any other, you know, Western medicine that doesn't interact so well with our
systems, but getting into consumption. So so we were talking about that just now. Funny little
story, and we'll involve storytime in this too. Michael came out as a guest of ours last year.
Sorry, gosh, now man, the end of 2018. Over a year, we had you out for MJ biz in Las Vegas. For
those who don't know, that's the big industry show domestically here in the US. We also had you stay
along for Emerald Cup, which I was really excited to have you attend because the business side is
fun, but you really get to see the craft and culture and where I came from and my time.
But we were talking about how unfortunately, you know, all of us were coughing because it was a
crazy week. But you came down with something and that kind of shifted the way that you consume,
right? And then obviously the pandemic being cross of mind or top of mind, and crossing our
minds and the fact that we want to kind of keep our lungs as healthy as we can. So have you seen
that in light of COVID? Just with those that you know, consume in your own backyard, have people
taken a bit of a shift on the way that they're consuming and interacting with the plant now?
Yeah, for sure. There's definitely, I mean, one of the big things is that there aren't any shows.
So, you know, there's no spreading, you know, sharing joints, really, a lot of people like
one share joints, you know, and you know that, but it is a sharing thing. And there's ways around it,
you know, there's lots of interesting devices that people have got, these little caps that you put
into the end, and then you can smoke, send the capacites and so people will find a way.
But, you know, typically, you know, in African ways, it gets passed around, you know, like a
circle, and each person takes a drag. And, you know, that's how that's how it goes. But there's
also not many social gatherings. So you're not really, you know, you're not seeing too many
people anyways. So it's actually been that's, it's very different time.
We're seeing that. Yeah, that's over here. There's on the production side, you know,
as far as manufacturing goes, the individuals that are still doing extremely well with joints
are the ones that are segwaying into the dog walkers or the you know, the personal J's,
right. So the definitely under half gram, you know, point 4.3. Somebody's really small. Matter
of fact, oftentimes, the crutch is almost longer than the actual other half joint. But it's
something that really interesting in how it has shifted it. And again, going back to the
international is when you're out here or when we're in Europe, or traveling. That's one thing
I tell people is it's a commonality, just like food and music, you know, it's you don't necessarily
have to speak the language to enjoy food with with others, you don't have to speak the language to
really, and that's what I love about world beat and more of the European music scene,
because it is something that acknowledges a multicultural audience versus, at least in the US
are music's very segmented and very clicky. But that's exactly it. Like you said, it's cannabis
is that common ground that no matter what continent I step foot on, everyone seems to share
and share, you know, with a smile. So it definitely does affect socially, but interesting to hear that
that's something that doesn't segregate continent or country that you all are going through that
same as well. And you guys don't have as many alternatives, right? I know, topicals and
transdermals and elixirs and a lot of the stuff that we're into out here. That hasn't quite evolved
there yet has it as far as concentrates go? Well, not from a medical point of view. So
underground, yes, there's lots of people making lots of different products. And it's a lot of the
things are made backyard. So you don't you don't quite know this, you know, standard testing
standards and that sort of thing that becomes an issue. So you can get topicals and things like
that. People do there are a lot of people who make gummies and they make rusks and biscuits and
muffins. And so you know, that is teas is also a big thing. And I just, you know, tease tease actually
a phenomenal way. And I've actually experienced that myself. Often, you feel like you're getting
sick, you get a sore throat or whatever. And that night, I'll make myself a strong tea.
And I've got a concoction of different flour that I put together. And I'll steep for a long time and
drink the tea, go to bed next morning, no sore throat, you know, wake up a new person. So but
yeah, I mean, it's unfortunately, that's a back back to backyard concoction, which is
standardized. It's not going to work exactly the same every single time. It's not going to work
the same for each person every single time. Yeah. And that's one of the things I know magical
butters are quite we're friends with Garen and the crew at magical butter. And, and I know that
they're quite popular over there as well. But that's one thing even on the forums I see there
is people are constantly asking, you know, how much do I add? How much is this? What do you think
the percentage is? And it's like, yeah, there's so many variable. I mean, we get into variables on
the back end, you know, your your indoor outdoor light depth, yada, living soil, you know,
synthetic soil, blah, blah, blah. There's so many different variables and how you grow it,
and how it evolves. But then on the way it's consumed in the way it's processed exactly to
your point, I know some people that for me, it's my oil. I'm not this I'm more of a micro doser.
I know people that do the one to one ratio, literally one part oil to one part to one part
flour. And for me that that knocked me on my bum. I mean, I'd be absolutely done, you know,
so it is unfortunate, inconsistent, but it is I'm sure again, another commonality over there,
as it is here, where there's people that they've gotten it down to your point, like you said,
you have a certain mixture of flour, and you know what the outcome is going to be based on this mix.
And a lot of people don't acknowledge that this flour, in many regards matures with age,
right? Because things like THC oxidize into CBN, which can happen now is what's helping you get
that good night's sleep. But it's constantly providing a different outcome based on its
condition, even after it's cured, right? So a lot of things can change during that. But it's cool
to hear. I'd imagine maybe even throwing a little turmeric and ginger or some other kind of Eastern
herbals to it, right? Absolutely. And that's, that's where storage becomes such a crucial
factor. And what I've often, you know, unfortunately, because it's an underground thing,
the flour that I see is mostly too early. So you get it, it's great. It's fantastic. It's,
you know, but I found that and I've got like a, I've got like a whole bunch of jars, which I've
been testing for like a long time. And that flour, if you just leave it for three months,
six months, it's completely, it's a different thing. It's completely different, you know,
converts into something which is, I don't know, it's a different medicine. So, you know,
how that, how that works, it's just quite phenomenal. But also the beauty about the flour
is that you can play with it to some degree, because it's actually harmless. It's relatively
harmless unless you, you know, you have too much and it's your first time and, you know,
or you've been drinking alcohol and you get the greens and, you know, you feel like you're going
to die. But, you know, most people, you know, if you're going to do this, go low and slow.
And by the time you're on the macro dose, you already know what the low and slow dose is. So
now you double it, or you quadruple it. And okay, cool. Let's like, let's drop it.
That's it. That's what went in my head. Exactly. You said I was like, you know, and as part of the
public service announcement, I worked with the PSA team in Colorado when they legalized adult use
in that, that, you know, start low, go slow campaign. That was really, I mean, it sounds
cliche or cheesy, but it's so true. And to your point, refrain from getting cross faded as a kid
say, right? Don't, Oh, I'm good with two or three beers. That's only a buzz for me. And then you
take a couple of hits off of something that's 4x the potency is what you smoked when you're a kid.
And all of a sudden, to your point, you're just absolutely blitzed. And I compare it to people
saying, Oh, yeah, I got totally drunk off tequila and Tijuana one time and I'll never drink tequila
again. Well, don't blame it on the tequila. Blame it on you not knowing how to throttle and control
that intake. So very interesting stuff. But you're right, it is dynamic. And I'm like, you know,
we always have good conversations about this because you're definitely a can of geek like me.
And, you know, I also have jars in my closet. And I know I'm not the only one I'll go in, I try to
leave them alone. It's a set it and forget it type of thing. You know, once I pull them off cure,
but I will to your point, I'll unscrew the top. It's in a sealed old school Mason jar,
but it's in a sealed container. I open it up and I can smell the aging of the terpenes and of the
actual profile, even just the head, even just the aromatic of the plant. To your point, it's
constantly evolving. And there's just this this chemical thing that's going on. And it's been
studied a lot, especially by our friends at Boveda to your point. I love Brian over there, head of
R&D. He totally geeks out on this stuff and has an actual sniffing machine that smell crazy stuff.
But it is true. You're right, you need to preserve it. And that's something that again,
I think it's in every country. I think it's all around the world where people haven't been
really cognitive about how they preserve it. A lot of people just throw it in a baggie or put
it in a pouch or I mean, I have one friend that kind of funny story. He is friends with this is
a movie. I'm not sure if it made it over there to South Africa, but it's called the Sandlot.
It's kind of a cult classic for some of us 80s kids. And one of the guys from that show actually
grows his own. So this friend of mine, he goes, Oh, he puts this kind of tray up on his desk. He
goes, Oh, I want you to try that. He's like, I'm not I'm like, what is it? That's the first thing
I want to know. And I'm not a can of snob. I'm open to trying anything. But he's like, I'll tell
you after you try it. And then I try a little bit. He goes, Yeah, he's all remember, you know,
you're killing me smalls. Remember that guy? The idea? So buddy of mine, he grew that I'm like,
oh, it's pretty good. But my next reaction was Jesus is fricking dry, man, because you just
have it sitting out on this on this tray. So of course, it tasted like fire, because a lot of
people don't recognize that, you know, as you do a lot of oxygenate to your point, you're losing
the terpenes. So really, in my mind, you're losing the steering wheel to the car, but the engine
is huge. I mean, you're really getting that big, that big bang. And so again, it's something that
it's still it goes back to education, which I know that's something you're doing in your travels,
as well as constantly educating people, and helping them understand that if you want to
think quality, not quantity, to your point, not the bag of bulk of stems and sticks and
seeds, but something that's really nice, mid or high shelf, you know, you want to think about
keeping the quality, you know, so interesting stuff. I mean, that's like everyone, everyone
spends so much time and effort in creating these beautiful flowers, you know, it takes months,
and it takes years, actually, to develop all the skills to get to the right place. But, you know,
in one grow, it takes a few months, and then right at the end, like the last week, you don't
spend the time on trying. And then you don't spend the time on curing. You know, it's, it's all
wasted. It is. That's most growers, like we agree, it's half the battle. Like, yeah, you grow it,
but drying it and curing it, even I'm guilty of rushing the dry sometimes, because I just want to
get it to that next stage. So I'm really all about focusing on the cure. And even I have to stop and
go, man, turn down the fans. You don't need to be blasting it here, you know. So it's definitely a
learning curve. Well, with other things in regard to that. So, you know, obviously, we were talking
about how, you know, the end of prohibition in 2018, still working on the frame framework,
it's available, but it's still, you know, you're kind of almost in a bit of what we call the gray
market here. You know, in California, we had medical, we legalized in 96. But, you know,
still, we're kind of in this Wild West stage, if you will. So what are some of the other nuances
that you noticed when you came out and you visited? I mean, we got to spend a little time in
the Vegas market together, we spent a little time in the NorCal market together. What were some of
the things that you noticed that were kind of aha moments where you're like, man, I wish we had
this back home versus others where you're like, why the hell are they doing it this way? Like,
why is it, you know, what were some of those things? Because I know you were definitely
taking mental notes along your trip. So I'm curious to hear. Yeah. So to be honest, that's the
MJBiz completely blew my mind. I walked in there, I'd never seen anything like that in my life
before. You know, I've been to some of the biggest exhibitions here in Africa. So the biggest
exhibitions we've got are mining exhibitions, you know, and walked into this MJBiz and it was
the thing I've been passionate about for so long. And I just opened my eyes and there was...
You were a kid in a candy store, man. You were just like, your eyes were big the whole time.
I couldn't believe like, there was more than I'd ever thought about cannabis before. You know what
I mean? Like if you had a picture of what it was, there was now the mechanisms for that picture,
but with multiple people plugging in and providing different solutions. It was just
mind blowing. So the tech was insane, which is fantastic because, you know, that's obviously
what prohibition, you know, that led to was, you know, a loss of innovation. So to see that was,
you know, it gave me faith that like cannabis is a movement and will move forward. You know,
there's definitely enough input into it to see that this is going to succeed.
In the meantime, people are going to, you know, slowly transition. So, you know, I think the
future is probably there's going to be a lot more micro doses in the world. You know, it's like
everyone, every single person on the planet will take a micro dose or whatever. And according to
what your ailments are, you'll take different things, but you know, that's a different story.
But the technology was just incredible. All the different packaging types that that's one thing
that like blew my mind, you know, all the different types of jars and different packets and
the way the packets open into like big disputes about like, you know, these packets aren't right
because you can't do this because the law says that and each state their own stories and it
becomes very complicated, but fascinating to see. Some weird things, there was some,
I don't want to, I don't want to say the name, but there was a company that also provides a
solution to humidity control, but they were hunting these sachets, which they put terpenes on.
And this is something that I've heard people in South Africa have done. They've also, they've
done it with bovina sachets. They'll take their terpenes and they put it onto the sachet and put
it into the flour. You know, my thing is like, why not grow the terpenes on the flour that you
know, it's like I compare it, man, adding terpenes after the fact is like buying enriched flour and
then adding the vitamins back into the, the enriched flour that the whole stripping of that,
it just doesn't to your point. And it's, it comes to mind, you know, it's just like,
it's just, yeah, you shouldn't have to add something back in that should be there. And it
just tells me that the individual who is growing it just didn't know what they were doing. You
know, they're so busy either racing on the, again, either spending too much time on the highest THC
numbers, or they just didn't know from a nutrient standpoint, you know, how to take care and harness
what that plant had to offer from a, from a full genetic sweep, you know, again, including both
the terpene profile and the cannabinoid profile. So definitely interesting stuff. And I know you,
you definitely like some of the diverse genetics that we came across in, in Northern California,
too, although, again, got under the weather, you know, day one, so you weren't able to enjoy it as
much as we wanted to. But I know it's another thing that, you know, kind of, you know, kind
of caught you off guard as far as how many different flavors there were, so to speak.
And that was in the middle of the cookies, the, the big cakes and cookies movement,
right? That was when I remember wedding cake and Skittles was still pretty hot, but wedding cake,
and I think ice cream cake had just come out that season when you were out here, too, which is a
whole other, oh, man. Whole other thing. Well, gelato and wedding cake is for the winner. So
crazy stuff. Well, expanding beyond that, you know, so let's talk about the rest of the continent,
obviously, and some of the shows you've been to, you've done a show in Cape Town, you've done,
there's a show in Johannesburg that I know you've attended as well, yeah?
Those are probably, to your point, considerably smaller than, than what we're doing out here.
But do you get people in from the rest? Do you get people down from, you know, from, from other
parts of the country? Zimbabwe. Yeah. So those experts are actually, I mean, I was blown away by,
you know, the people that came just from overseas, you know, they, there were people from, you know,
like the guys from Cavita, they brought out a whole crew into this display, and the guys from
ETS sent, you know, stuff down. It was quite, quite amazing to see, you know, everyone has
this interest in South Africa. It's one of the perfect places to grow. So, yes, it's tiny in
comparison to what you guys have in the States, but we also have like a much smaller market.
Machinery-wise, you know, the guys, this is, it's too new, you know, it's,
there are a couple of guys who are doing it, and locally, but it is new, you know, and there's no,
well, there are, there are ways to sell machinery, you can sell machinery now, that's fine,
it's not really a problem, but it's how do you connect the customer to the, you know, there has
to be the strategic, you know, grey to white to, you know, it becomes difficult for the white to
find the grey, and, you know, it's, but, you know, the States engineering side is phenomenal. That's,
I don't know, I don't know, it's everything you've got there, it's just, you know,
it's just too much, actually.
We're at the top, right? You talked about it before, it's interesting, you talked about how
things have definitely been a bit of an evolution in the fact that, we hate to compare it to alcohol,
right, but we did, that was our other prohibition here in this country, and, you know, you talked
about what people are growing in their backyard, you know, the snack, crackle, and pop of the stems
and the seeds and everything, and the underground scene, you know, we were dealing with that here,
too, like that whole bathtub gin type scenario, but once it did move to that level of legalization,
kind of like the alcohol industry, we've really been self-governing, you know, as far as just
in self-regulating in many instances, you know, while, yes, you're right, like, some markets
require child resistance, not that we have child resistance on tobacco or alcohol products,
mind you, I mean, my nine-year-old can definitely pop the top on any alcohol bottle, not that we
have any in the house, because I don't drink, but point being is, you know, we've really taken
those steps to have like, oh, it's a two-step process in order for it to be child resistant,
and implementing some of those things, so I think that'll come there, too, but hopefully that tech,
but you're right, it's also connecting the gray and the white market, too, which is a challenge,
so cool, we have a few more guests, look at this, the house is filling up.
How's it going, guys? Hey, hey, so Wesley and Robert, and I'm not sure if you guys know Michael,
I'm not saying South Africa is small by any means, but I'm not sure if you guys know each other,
but maybe if you guys want to introduce yourself, starting with you, Wesley.
Yeah, thanks very much for the opportunity, Lon, so good to meet you, Peter Hazard in the background,
Michael, hello, and Rob, what's happening, my man, you're right.
Good evening, guys, I think I might have a bit of a refurbished.
We caught him out there, yeah. No worries. Yeah, thanks for the opportunity, I'm Wesley
from BioLeaf Technologies, we represent BioLeaf Technologies in South Africa,
we're the sole distribution agents for Lux Lighting in South Africa, and we're
also big up to the boys at Inkali, we also build turnkey facilities, cannabis facilities,
indoor grows, greenhouses, outdoor, anything related to cannabis, we do it,
our partner from Lux Genetics, guys can check out his Instagram feed and see some of the best fire
that is available in the world, you know, when we brought the guys out from Lux two years ago,
and we gave them some of the stuff, and they just couldn't believe the level of quality that was
coming out of South Africa, they thought it was imported, but it's not, so it's brilliant.
Yeah, so all good, so we're just happy and proud to be part of the community and part of this
industry, and we just keep our heads down, our backsides clean, integrity all the way,
and just try and build from strength to strength, you know what I'm saying?
Definitely, and it is, it's a global thing, to your point, it's awesome for the shout outs, and
no one should underestimate the genetics and the growing, because to your point,
we were just talking about this earlier, Wes, it was, you know, that you guys, not just from a
latitude, but from natural soil, and just the, you know, the things that influence so much on
the pheno versus geno side of the equation, you guys kind of have it sorted out there. And I think
people, again, I don't know why on a global scale, so many people are focused on, you know, Europe,
and the Americas, and even Australia before Africa. But again, it's like, look back at the
history books, you guys, this is where one of the original, one of the most popular, in my opinion,
land race cultivars came from, was in your guys's backyard. And I was bummed to not get out there,
I was supposed to come out there last year for a show, and then, you know, shit happened, I don't
know how else to put it. It's, it's, it's the invitation, it's an open invitation, I'm telling
you now, as soon as you can fly, as long as you got your, I wouldn't say vaccine in the one head,
because that's fine, just leave it there. But you'll need a COVID test, and then come around
to South Africa, and we'll give you a tour of everything that we do.
That'd be awesome. Very cool. Well, Rob, moving on to you. So glad to have you as well, Rob,
if you want to give the audience a little bit of background on you. And,
yeah, I just, I just want to check if you guys can hear me clearly.
All good now.
Okay, so obviously, I have a bit of a delay. So,
okay, so I'm going to talk with this delay.
What you've been smoking, Rob?
Other than some beautiful, some beautiful stuff from Kruger National Park,
all grown with indigenous microorganisms.
But now you're speaking the language, man.
I'll be right over.
I'll be right over.
So basically, I've just been playing with all of the different indigenous trees. And basically,
I now have access to a microscope to start looking at what we find underneath our indigenous trees,
especially the ones that we've left within the Kruger National Park and the
reserves around these protected parks. I think we might have some gold within these areas,
and I'm really excited to start looking at this.
Nice, nice. It's cool to hear that it's preserved. That's another thing before you guys hopped on,
Michael and I were talking just now, and that's exactly what we were saying is
the challenge of preserving something that, not having to be backbred or crossbred,
just something to keep it pure and in that perfect state as a specimen to be able to
potentially play with later on in spin-off. It's awesome to hear, but I mean to hear it's coming
out of Kruger. And I should disclose, I did date a young lady there for about four years,
one of my best friends from college, his cousin was from there. And she told me about Kruger.
Beautiful.
Yeah, it really, and that's where I got a special appreciation.
Not only the woman, not.
Oh yeah. Very smart. That's one thing I learned too. My gosh, you guys, Patrick,
there's no joke there. I mean, seriously.
Limited resources. And obviously we have something like the Future Cannabis Project, which
I've been a big supporter of and a proponent of since I think 2018, I've been following Peter and
them. I've been making Hedge on the French Canoli tech. And I've been exploiting, using these
indigenous microorganisms to that secondary metabolize. And I'm trying to emphasize this
almost everywhere. The fact that these secondary metabolites are literally changing what I've
come to know. I come out of a, from growing a plant outside my bathroom window as a nature
guide at a lodge, being fired from a lodge, having consumed cannabis, but alcohol was okay.
And then going into a state of getting access to good genetics and now having the capability
during this lockdown, literally just planting and playing with multiple genetics, hunting,
and just seeing what I can come up with without a microscope for now. And then analyzing each
little bit that I've inoculated with whatever, and I've played with and analyzing that data.
And then just trying to put it out on the Future Cannabis Project, zero two, and hopefully,
we can entice more guys to go out and get access to a microscope. Hopefully we can get a few,
which we can get people access to and just get people excited about this. I think it's a large
part that we've been neglecting and coming from an area of working in private nature reserves
and the Trigger National Park. I think it's important that we emphasize this.
Very true.
Can you guys actually talk about-
Rob, I mean, if I can just add to that, at the end of the day-
Go ahead, Wes.
Yes, Wes.
No, carry on.
No, no, no, you can go.
Yeah, all I was going to say is that with Africa opening up in terms of our industry,
we know the Trigger National Park is one of the best biodiverse pieces of land in the world.
There's just like that biodiversity, there's biodiversity in terms of cannabis and genetics
and cannabinoids and terpenes and all that sort of stuff. And the more people start using
microscopes and talking about this and all that sort of stuff is, the more we'll be in a position
of knowledge, not so much power, it's not a power game for me, it's about knowledge because then
knowledge-
It's the knowledge, where's my-
It then becomes the power. And then we can just show all the good that comes out of this plot
that we also love and change the world for a better place. And everybody needs to be included
and stuff like that. I just love it. I haven't been in the industry for a hell of a long time.
My partners have been in the industry for a shitload of time and I just absolutely love it,
like you have no idea. And we just got to talk about it, we've got to do it right,
we've got to ask questions, we've got to push each other and all that stuff.
Definitely, I agree with you. And I think this is what excites me, especially about
the indigenous microorganisms. That's exactly what you're talking about. This now includes
the people that are in the areas that don't have access to all of these salt-based nutrients that
everybody's talking about on social media and everywhere that's advertised to these people.
We can actually physically say, listen, that actual tree in the back of your yard,
if you collect those leaves and twigs and things, by then creating a compost under these
environmental circumstances, you can now have a fungal dominant soil or you can
get rid of your pests or whatever the case might be. And I think this is what excites me, it's
such a big field that's open for us to study. I've done scorpions in the Northern Cape with a renowned
doctor and we can find new species even today. And soil, if I pick up one teaspoon,
it's unlimited. We need to get people out there and we need to understand what is the function
of each one of these things that we are seeing. When I look at Leighton Morrison, it excites me
when he talks about, when he gets excited about rotifers and things like this, that's in the soil,
this is what I want to show the people. What is out there? We still have to find out. And like I
mentioned, the secondary metabolites, I am seeing the difference in my smoke, I'm seeing the
difference in my hash, especially when it's aged. So yeah, I'm excited to see what all of this holds
up. And I'm excited that Peter and them are actually spreading their wings out or their
feelers out and roots out to Africa and guys like us who just have been waiting for the opportunity.
And we want to do that. That's one thing that Peter and I always, again, we have great
conversations about. To your point, there's a lot of shows, there's a lot of groups and all the rest
of it. Their core motives might be questionable. That's one thing that's never been the case with
FCP because again, it's the underground. It's like those that know, know. We always talk about
international because while he was building this behemoth of FCP back here domestically,
I was traveling around the world in the industry. And I was like, to your point,
I'd run into people at Auto Pot Summer Social or Product Earth up in England or Canifest or
Mary Jane's, Anabis, these guys all over the place. And the stories they had to tell in the
true underground, like what you guys are talking about, I mean, the whole next level, because again,
you're right. There's no perfect science. There's no perfect formula. We even had a
conversation, Peter, you probably remember the one we did in the basement. What was it? Venice,
where there was a conversation about the Appalachians.
I was going to ask Zulbar to mute his mic, but he just disappeared.
Sorry for interrupting once again, but I think you just briefly touched on something that I'm
trying to also emphasize, especially when I go to places like Mahuba, Stluwe, Tzaneen,
it's like these places hold gold. I mean, that soil, you literally stick any genetics in that
soil. And I promise you, if you stick it just after the equinox into the soil, it's going to
show its sex in December and it's going to flower all the way through. You're going to harvest March,
April, depending on how long it flowers. And it's going to be magical because of that soil. Now,
for me, that's the important proponent. If we can identify these areas, we can create our own
Appalachians. We can then work with these breeders and identify which genetics works where, and then
isolate those genetics and work with those genetics in our own little ways, which we have
been doing, or incorporate what we already have, which what the guys already have been working on.
You know, I mean, the possibilities are endless. And I think this opportunity right here, it's
magical. Well, can we actually take a step back? So I have two questions. One is farming in general,
it seems like kind of salt-based farming is dominant and that extends to the cannabis world,
I'm assuming from what I'm hearing from you. And can you guys just kind of talk about farming in
general? Like forget cannabis, just crops in general, like what you're... Because you're
talking kind of KNF, living soil stuff. It seems like that's not prevalent. It's all about the
universities, Peter. It's all about what the universities have been pushing. And all of
these kids are getting the qualifications on these formulas that are worked on. Now, I cannot speak
out of any experience. I don't know, come out of the agriculture background. Just call me a
field or nature guide. I've been taking people in and out of Kruger National Park and private reserves
majority of my adult life. But I worked with the local people. I used to get my cannabis
from the local people. Now, wherever they got it from was never completely disclosed. It was
this area and that area until I started planting these seeds. I started looking at, okay,
but this thing looks similar to this. And only my experience in identifying a tree or a shrub or a
flower gave me that ability or partial ability. I'm not there, absolutely not yet. I think there's
still so much to be learned about this plant and everything else. But I'm definitely excited
because we have the capability now to plant multiple sources of genetics and literally hunt
if you have the space. I don't want to rant too much and talk too much. I'm going to hand it over
to Zollbart so that he can introduce himself. But thanks for the opportunity once again, guys.
Yeah. So Zollbart, after you go, my big question is, and Michael, you visit lots of grows and
Wesley, if you're Lux, you're visiting grows too. But it's the distribution of grows. Is it a lot
of indoor, a lot of outdoor, a lot of greenhouse? Are people growing in soil? What are the trends?
Is it a mixed bag of everything? And then also with the cultivars, are all the US dessert
strains and the runts coming in and infiltrating the South African market? Or is it the local
genetics and the historical stuff is holding its own? Or does everyone want their dessert
strains? So anyway, and we just lost Zollbart again. So when he comes back, but why don't you
guys take that just kind of how different people are growing and what they're growing?
What are each of you growing? Yeah, Peter, I think
I can say that, yeah, quite a number of operations that we deal with.
You know, some of the guys are doing hydro-hydro style, so in a cocoa, peanuts mix.
And then a fair amount of guys are also doing in organic soil. So
in terms of what I'm seeing, all the bigger,
let's say more professional growers are using a cocoa, pearlite mix.
Because obviously from the consistency point of view and pest management point of view and
all that sort of stuff, we find that they're having better results. So for me, what I was
seeing is a 50-50. There are quite a few facilities out there. Some of them are very, you know, just
normal greenhouse tunnel, you know, just to light there, just to keep some of the plants in veg.
There's no light deprivation tunnels. And then you get the extremes that we, you know, we've got
proper HVAC systems and light depth and trial masters, automation and all that sort of stuff,
you know, RO water, et cetera, et cetera. So, but there aren't many of those around there,
but they're certainly coming. In terms of genetics, you know, a lot of the guys that are growing
in terms of permits are growing CBD and it's the same old dynamite CBD, Charlotte's Angel.
So the CBD strains are all the same that the guys are growing because there isn't a
large selection of CBD genetics that the guys have got. And then, yeah, just some of the guys
that are growing in their own, you know, in their own personal space and stuff like that,
they like to come and get, you know, do certain crosses for themselves. There's a lot of guys in
the group that just share genetics and, you know, somebody's been hunting and has got a good couple
of strains and, you know, so let's take this phenome and we try this out and all that sort of
stuff. So, you know, you've got the Dutch passion and the, you know, this crosses is around and
stuff like that. But some of the pure stuff that I've seen out there is just like, how can I say,
you know, we don't have to boast about it, but we know what we're doing and some of the genetics
that I've seen and not just because he's my partner, but natural genetics is pushing out
the need to be doing this for 20 years. And, you know, making a cross genetic is not just about
saying, OK, cool, let's try this, let's try this. There's real thought that goes through, you know,
it's about the terpenes, about the yield, it's about the flowering times and all that sort of
stuff. And to get those things to be stable and then just hit it consistently every single time,
you know, not to shoot the light, not to hit the 30 percent THCs and all that sort of stuff,
because it's not about that. It's about to have balance. Everything in life needs balance.
And so, you know, those good genetics that are out there are few and far between, you know,
this is my two cents worth. Yeah, well put too, because I know while Spain and in the U.S.,
specifically the West Coast, California, a lot of the genetic guys have been spending
quite some time with the crossbreeding and such. That's again, it seems like to your point,
you know, especially in Africa, similar to Australia, you know, they'll dabble a little
bit in some of these what I call the trendy triangle strains is what Peter's talking about,
the cakes and cookies, right, all that. And nothing against it. A lot of it, you can track
it back to the stuff that we've been working with for you, whether it be Acapulco gold or
Swazi gold or, you know, Thai or Durban, you know, you can always track the genetics back to the
source. But some of them are just getting too out of control also, in my opinion. I don't know how
you guys feel, but I mean, I'm not saying I'm a purist, but you're right. There's so many variables.
There's so many different ways. Just concentrate. And that's where I feel bad about domestic growers
is some of these guys are trying to keep up. It's like a rat race. It's like you just learned
how to properly grow. You learned, and this goes back to what you're saying, Rob, you learn based
on the soil living or otherwise, but you learn the soil, you learn the sun, you learn all these
aspects of how to grow these genetics. And then it's a new year and here's new genetics. It's a
new year and here's new genetics. How are you supposed to master the craft if someone's not even
at launch, even just the slight weather spike? I can promise you now some of these things,
it just hermes out on you. Then what do you do? Now, I learned out of an earlier program
from tonight, from some breeders that there's a certain thing that you can mix. I think it's
called STS, which I'm definitely going to go have a look at from Mr. Toad. I think it's 44 big-
That was from last night.
Oh, last night. Yes. I'm definitely going to experiment with that because I've had that
problem now, especially when you try and push it a little bit too long after summer and
fall has gone. Now for us, especially in the central part of Kruger National Park, we're so
lucky. I can literally flower right through the year, but certain genetics, they just tend to
herme out on me. Now I'm excited to try out this STS and report back whenever I can.
I think just to hit on the genetics, Peter, I'm definitely playing with, I've never bought a
single seed in my entire life. I've only ever got gifted from people I met or people I gifted
things to. It's difficult often then to know exactly what you're working with. Then often,
my stuff is just marked an unknown with a number or it is marked a certain area from a certain
person. But at the moment, I got some stuff that was gifted to me after police confiscated my stuff
after I attempted to cycle with my bicycle and spread the THC happiness. They confiscated
literally everything I collected from all of these breeders. Then I was beat up, I was beat down,
I felt a little bit negative, but then I got gifted seeds, which was from Archive Genetics.
I think it was a designer OG, there was a Gelato 41 in the mix, a really special Sundance kid.
There was then also a Star Dog involved there. I also then take stuff that I've grown from my
other operations with other friends and things that I ended up leaving after this whole lockdown
and then ended up growing alone. I've used some of those genetics and just taken the best males
all I'm trying to do is just try and create something that's strong and vigorous and
pest-free. Then from there, I'll start working and isolating. It's just difficult when you don't
have the palette, you aren't introduced to all of these things. It is then difficult to grow it out
to say, oh, it is that. But then I can genetically look at it and say, it reminds me of this. But
then when you smoke it, then it's a broad profile, then it's very difficult to say.
Yeah. It's funny you put that, I share with Peter. In my travels too, I'm like you,
Rob. That's why I smiled because I've always been gifted, thank you, Michael, amongst other
friends. It's the only way to do it. Sometimes they aren't always labeled. I had a handful that
I popped this last season. A few were autos. Nothing personal to those. I'm just not an auto
guy. I like all natural. The ones that I did that grew the strongest were, I think it's some
sort of jack-her-off. I called it a headstrong haze. I agree with you. That brings the excitement
because then it's not an expectation of, oh, this is how skittles are supposed to smell. This is
how they're supposed to taste. This is how it's supposed to hit. No, it's what you make of it.
It's difficult if you have no idea, Lawrence. Yeah. It's a plant. I love, again, going back
to the soil. You guys get it because this plant is part of the phyto-remediation class. It is what
it eats. There's a lot of other plants. Again, I'm notI dated a viticulturist, but I'm not an ag
or viticulturist major either. I do know that there's some plants that are very resilient.
You could grow them in shit and it'll never taste a day like it. Then there's others that,
be careful what you plant it in. It's very synonymous with cannabis as well. Interesting
I'm trying to tell the guys, you might be successful that first growing thing. Man,
I've got this down. I know exactly what to do. Come second harvest or close to second harvest,
you're like, what am I doing? I'm not sure exactly. It could boil down to genetics. It
could boil down to the microbes. It could boil down to the temperature of the soil.
Then this is the thing. I think this is why something like the Future Cannabis Project
is so important. I think we need to get more people on this and more countries involved.
Even if we get somebody to translate, I think there's a lot of people that hold secrets that
we need to get a hold of these people. We need to get into those areas and let them tell their
stories because mine is insignificant. I can promise you that. Everyone's story matters,
man. Let me tell you. We are going around the globe. You guys will have to stay tuned to
Australia, Thailand, even down to South America to LATAM and such.
We have Steve who's listening who can talk about Zimbabwe.
I actually collected a bunch of seeds in Thailand and then made a little hole in my sleeve and then
smuggled them in. I have been crossing a few things with it. Also from Cambodia,
something I got on an island, which is very fruity. I got a hold of one last seed I had
left from my whole bicycle trip in 2019. It was sangria from a breeder in Johannesburg. He got a
little bit pest resistant. I knocked it up with this Cambodian which I'm trying to isolate. The
Cambodian, for some reason, specifically, hermaphrodite. It comes from Cambodia. I was on
the island and I went to Cambodia specifically, got the seeds there. From some stuff, I just
picked up a little brick which they compress. Then also a bunch of indoor homegrown stuff from
Thailand. I actually taught there for a year, 2013 to post 2014. I was scared in the beginning
to smoke weed because of the stigma. But then when you actually start getting involved with
the culture and the people, it's used and smoked everywhere. I got a hold of a bit of the genetics.
I'm excited to start playing with it, especially now that I'm alone here in this environment where
I am. I must be honest, I have a battle with grasshoppers. It's three different species at
the moment. Before that, it was five. It's literally every single day walking there,
picking them off the plants because I don't want to spray anything. Then I'm trying to find a way
to let them attract each other with the hormones. I'm trying to collect them and trying to attract
them to one corner of the garden. It's really difficult. I've sacrificed some of the plants
which they love. I literally just gave them four and said, just go ahead, guys.
This is the exciting thing. If I can learn out of these experiences, that means I can go to a rural
community and I can say, listen guys, plant these seeds. You are guaranteed that the grasshoppers
won't like this one. That you won't find pests or whatever. Then it means that these medicinal
healers now have access to better genetics, better plants. It's not to say that they don't.
It just means that what are we trying to heal? What are we trying to help? These are the tests.
Let's now put the good genetics in these guys who already have all of the experience in the world.
That's what I think we should be doing. You're fortunate in grasshoppers, man. We had a round
and it was thanks to the crazy temperance and such that we had. Believe it or not, some do feel that
it was partly to do with COVID as well. You guys are like, what the hell are you talking about?
I'll explain. In California, we produce about 67% of all agriculture items. Artichoke capital,
garlic capital, and broccoli capital. The list goes on based out of California. They normally
do a pretty good job in the state keeping the pest issue down. With the pandemic, a lot of people
weren't spraying. All of a sudden, it was just this crazy free-for-all. A lot of us had problems
with budworms, believe it or not, which are a little bit harder to find and get off of a plant
versus a grasshopper. Not saying that one doesn't do more Every single season, Lance. Every single
season since my first plant, I promise you, you walk around. Certain plants have them. Some of
them just don't. This is one of the things why I got off social media and a lot of these things
because people would spread news like stick foil at the bottom of the tree. It's like, no, guys,
it's a moth that lays the egg. They don't climb up the tree. It's just this educating the people,
telling them that that is not an egg but it's an aphid. You see that little thing? It's not an egg.
It's a little creature. Now, look through this microscope or look through this magnifying tool.
Now, you can actually see it's got legs. That's a female. It's multiplying. Education, man. I
really wish that we could just drop pods everywhere where there is cannabis throughout Africa so these
people could instantly get access to the education that they desperately need.
Yeah, for sure. For sure. Well, tell me one thing because you mentioned it, so I want to elaborate
right quick. Perpetual crops. You mentioned a little bit of hermey seasonality there, but
you guys are able to outdoors with a fair amount of confidence, it sounds like, to perpetual growth,
right? Only certain areas, I must be honest. Being low-lying, very close to what we call sea level
and also sub-tropical. We tend to have good sunlight and good enough sunlight for most
cultivars. But like I mentioned, certain cultivars do tend, under certain temperatures,
there's quite a temperature drop some places sometimes. But I found in our area, right
through the year, all up until December, if you want to put your new starts in again,
it's manageable with very, very little light deprivation or anything. We don't have those
large amounts of light hours. I think maximum, if it gets to 14, it would be amazing.
So it gets about 13 plus. That's a way we tend to, at least in
Southern California, and we can, same thing, perpetual outdoors, but just with caution. But
we're typically between 10 to 26 C. And same thing at about sea level. I'm at, Peter, my gosh, I think
is it like 100? I'm at 900 feet. But still we have enough to work with, but you're right. You
have to be able to cognitively be aware of the variances between winter and summer. They're
quite a big swing. And a lot of it, to your point, goes back to the environmental from an insect and
pest standpoint, not so much what's going on with the sun or the soil. I've just marked my Cs. I've
just got into this habit where I say, this is winter and this is summer. I mean, everything
up until summer, you use this. Everything past that, you plant this. And that tends to, and
that's only because some genetics tend to be more vigorous during that climate, that specific time.
It's not an exact science for me yet. I wish to get there, but it's slowly, slowly getting there.
Nice. Nice. We got a new welcome, Motherland Genetics. Can you hear us?
I think I can hear you. Thank you so much for adding us onto the show.
Thanks for being on. It's great you guys all have such decent signal, man.
Wi-Fi. We've all got Wi-Fi.
We're in Africa, man.
I know how it is. I remember well.
I was also pleasantly surprised that you guys could hear me.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, in talking about the growth scene, so kind of going back to Michael and Wesley,
do you guys come across individuals like Rob who bring this kind of mentality and mindset towards
not just growing in the process, but towards the plant and towards the freedom of the plant, which
I kind of thought was cliche when I'd hear that in Australia, I'd go down there for Mardi Gras
and Nimbin, you know, free the plant, free the plant. But then it kind of makes sense because
it really has been restricted, especially in Western civilizations or Commonwealth countries.
So Wes and Michael, when you guys are in, feel free, whichever to pitch up first,
when you guys are going to more on the commercial side, do you run into a rock? Do you run into
someone who really has the passion and has their heart in the right place when talking about
the plant and what they want to do with it? Does that exist on what's going to be the,
you know, I guess, less the gray market, less the black, more the white market?
Yeah.
If I can, I think that's exactly what these conventions brought was the collective cannabis
user could come together and just be a part of the public and talk to like, you know, each and
every single person before you couldn't find that person. You basically have to, you know,
navigate your way in the background on your computer through these forums and things like
that. Information was difficult to find, or local information was difficult to find. You found it
through your network and you could find it, but it wasn't available like it is now. But then these
conventions happened. And now it's like you put the piece together. This person needs to speak
to this person because, you know, this person's struggling with that because, you know, they
didn't know each other. That's where like this future cannabis project is so valuable in a place
like this, which is, you know, third world country, because now you've got internet, you've
got to say, you know, people can access information quite easily. That's coming, you know, we've got
ears open, but yeah. Just quickly, Robert, to help solve your pest infestation, we brought in
the expert, Steve. You have an answer. Yeah. So I was growing up and I don't want to take up too
much of the conversation. I was growing up in Zimbabwe, outside of Kodoma and Morandera. And
we had the same problem as you, because we're actually not that far from you and over in Kruger.
I mean, it's a day's drive, not even. So we actually had that same exact problem with the
grasshoppers eating the Cambrian layer about halfway up the plant. And then the whole top off
the plant falls off and it's a huge pain in the ass. So what we ended up doing is, and this was
off of advice of Chris Trump. This is not my idea. I'm not taking credit for it. I just recreated it.
But we went and took and did IMO collection. Like you were talking about with the indigenous
microorganisms, where we take rice and we collect that and boxes with cooked rice. But instead of
doing the cooked rice, we replaced 30% of the cooked rice with collected grasshoppers and insect
frass. And that allows you to collect the chitinates feeding microbes that actively will
predate on them and help make a more toxic environment for the grasshoppers. So we were
able to take that, convert it into liquid IMO2, and then brew that with water, just water and IMO2,
no LABS, no OHN, like you would traditionally for an LIMO. Just the insect frass and rice
with sugar, 50% for IMO2 mixed with water, brew that for 24 hours. And then carpet bomb everything.
We used about teaspoon per gallon for inoculation for the sprayers through a paint strainer, just
to get rid of the junk. And we were able to basically carpet bomb, not only the field,
but everywhere around it. And within a couple of weeks, we were able to really knock them back
tremendously. And not only that, it's something you can make at the farm, right? Like forget about,
that was the biggest problem in Zimbabwe, being remote. I'm sure a lot of you guys have the same
problem is getting pest management. Even in SA, you have a lot of biobees there and Ruperts there
and some of the other, Coopert, I'm sorry, not Rupert. Coopert. And some of the other
beneficial insect companies are there. And you can get most of the beneficial insects that you
have access to in the United States. You really can, even though you wouldn't think you could.
But getting them from there to your farm sometimes is a whole journey in and of itself,
as all of you know, for sure. And that liquid, I call it IPMO instead of IMO or integrated
indigenous predatory microorganisms. And you can adapt this to any type of pest, right? So
you're saying you're out there collecting all the grasshoppers. We'll just take them and put them
in and make that, right? But you could do this with any type of insect, right? Who's to say that
you couldn't do this with other insects that aren't grasshoppers, right? So it's just taking
that same kind of methodology we use for the soil microbes and applying it to pest management. It's
just something that, you know, it's kind of one of these bright ideas. It seems obvious, but people
just haven't talked about it. It's crazy, man. I'm smiling. I'm smiling because I love it. It is
such a simple application. That means that one can go to anywhere and tell them, listen, this is how
you mix it. Make a simple recipe for them to follow and they can literally then get rid of
any pest. Which, you know, I'm not too worried about these grasshoppers being that I'm only
going for myself and I'm only experimenting. I'm only researching. I'm only learning, you know?
That's the only purpose of this. I can kill a plant if I have to. I can give all 50 of them to
the grasshoppers if I have to. I'm fortunate, but some people are really dependent on their crops.
If something like this can work and if I can prove that this tree together with these grasshoppers
will take away your, or keep your grasshoppers away long enough for you to then reapply, reapply,
we can then save your crop. That's humongous. That's massive.
Not only that, your cost per application per acre is incredibly low. A few dollars, you know?
Perfect. Perfect. Which I appreciate your time and effort, ProtonPonix, for coming on.
A quick jump on to give us that little pocket of information and education.
Sure. I look forward to doing an episode on Zim sometime in the future.
We'll make it happen. We're solution-oriented here. So you had a problem, we brought in an
expert with a solution. I love it, Peter. I love it.
Our solution guest for the show.
So Motherland, I want to hear about your grow setup.
Yeah. So what we do mostly is community-orientated cannabis cultivation.
So basically that's with us working with rural black farmers and we set them up with the growers.
We give them the knowledge to cultivate high-quality cannabis. What we've noticed was
once we started working with them was that they were lacking from the genetic side.
It was basically that they didn't have much knowledge, much skill. They were using bag seed
or seeds that they were getting from plants that were growing, say for instance, in Swaziland.
And the monetary value of the crop that they were getting just wasn't enough. It wasn't sustaining
them because everyone out in the country is now growing good quality cannabis, you know? And
there's two different types of growers here in South Africa. You have a commercial grower that
has a lot of money, that has a lot of funding, that's able to do any sort of cultivation that
he can. And you have a lot of people that don't have that same opportunity. They don't have the
money to apply for the licenses, to put the money in for the facilities. And those are the people
that we went and we started assisting them. So we've been doing that for a long time.
It's cool to hear because that's something that you guys may have heard here domestically. We're
moving forward with the MORE Act to try to get federal legalization, but a big element to that
was equity and equality. It's something that you guys know, the plant was weaponized more so in the
US than almost anywhere in the world, although Australia is pretty shitty too with regards to
how they treated it. But I mean, that's exactly, it's great to hear that that's happening down
there because again, it's something that we're finally recognizing needs to happen here,
stateside as well. It's just not enough equality and there should be by all accounts.
If I could just speak on our pest management, I'm not sure if people would think that it's
the right way, but what we do is because you're working with all of these rural
communities, they have a lot of chickens on their farms. So we strategically place the farm beds,
so wherever our cannabis beds are next to chicken coops. And then at certain times of the day,
we will let the chickens out into these grow beds. And what they will do is they will eat
almost most of the insects that are in there because for us, it's extremely difficult to get
nutrients. It's extremely difficult for us to go out and to get any form of pesticides or anything
to use on our plants. So we have to make use of whatever's on the farm, whatever's growing there.
In terms of our nutrients, our soil has to be up to standard so that we don't have to keep on
adding nutrients in. Then we just keep it very basic, like we've been using BioBuzz. And in terms
of pest management, we haven't even been spraying anything for pests. The worst problem that we have
out there is mulch. And that it's just been a copper soap. But the chickens, the chickens
was a big difference. Once we started letting the chickens into the field, they just started
eating all of the insects. There was hardly any insects left. All of the caterpillars were gone.
We used to have massive grasshopper infestation and the chickens just sorted all of that out.
That's great to hear. I mean, closed loop is not overrated, man. That's exactly, there's a lot of
farm, especially again up in NorCal, the cottage style growers, they're all about it because it's
not just, I want to be organic, but it's also a financial scenario to your point.
Accessibility. I mean, you guys know it's not quite the distances you're talking about,
but some of the guys up on the proverbial hill, as we call it, I mean, they're four or five hours
from a decent shop. Their paychecks not coming until the end of the season anyway. So they spend
hundreds of dollars, thousands of dollars on. Yeah. So definitely one that I would be a supporter.
I mean, that's, I think you guys, it just makes perfect sense.
Yeah. I've also found, the closer you can mimic nature, the more successful you'll be. Like we
were discussing the worms earlier. Ever since I enticed the wasps to be around more frequently
and more often, they've sorted out the problem I had with the worms. So yeah, like you say,
if you can balance it, obviously the closer look we can have at that balance. In other words,
if we can have a closer look at the soil, if we can really inspect what's happening,
if I throw this in the soil, what are the direct results on those living organisms?
I think we need to emphasize this. If we could put a microscope, I'm thinking of rural communities
having come from this area. If we could have one microscope for the whole community, it would be
perfect. Or one microscope to analyze the whole community. Because I think the quicker we can
analyze the soil, see what's happening there, what's going on there, the quicker we can then
sort out the plant. We need to balance the whole relationship. And that is what I've been trying
to do with perennials. I've been playing with perennials to keep that fungal organic layer
constantly without any effort. Because it boils down to effortless farming. So if these guys can
continuously put down a crop without any problems, I found so far that the sweet potato that I grow,
the certain cultivar, it protects the organic layer, it makes the soil fungal dominant.
Preliminary research so far proves this. Like I said, I will have access to a microscope and then
I can physically see what's happening. But I can see out of the plants, I can see out of the yield,
out of all of the controls that I've planted in all of my other experimental beds, that
specifically by having a perennial that protects that organic layer and then in turn creates and
replenishes that layer every single season will then allow for a more consistent
and decent yield. But now it boils down to cultivars again and pH levels of the soil
underneath these perennials. So let's just be excited that this wave, we are right at the
tip of it and we are riding it like a surfer. So as long as we can just get the knowledge to
the people that really need it, that's dependent on the crop. Yeah, very true. Awesome.
You know, if I just may, we've been working with the corporate biologicals for the last two and
a half years and their slogan is partners with nature. So I mean, most of everybody knows that
it's a Dutch based company and the whole focus is providing predatory mites and using nature to
combat nature's problems. And we've seen major success. I mean, how many people I speak to on a
daily basis that are using rose care on their plants? I mean, that's awesome. You know,
people want to smoke their plants, but they use rose care. Yes, they're going to kill everything
else, including themselves. So let's not worry about corona, let's worry about arsenic that
the guys are applying to this stuff. So I mean, this important to this topic about RPM
is so important because, you know, Lance, you mentioned it, phytoremediation, the plant absorbs
every single thing that it has. So people need to be so careful in terms of what they're applying
to the plants, both from the vegetative foliar applications to the soils, the amendments and
stuff like that. And they just need to be careful because 90% of the product is smoked,
it is ingested, it's in your lungs. And, you know, next minute, we have the same issue that you guys
in Cali had with the vapes. And the guys were putting vitamin, I think it was vitamin D3,
I think it was. I think it was vitamin D3, you know, which they thought was great. But I mean,
look at the problems that it's causing, you know, so people need to just, you know,
be careful what they do, and just make sure do some research and go to credible sources.
You know, Michael, you mentioned it, you know, all these conventions and stuff like that,
people are reaching out and saying, go have a chat to this, like networking, and the community
is getting larger, but it's getting smaller as well. You know, it's like the global reach is now,
I mean, I'm talking to you guys, and you in the crew, Robert, you in the crew, the park,
I don't know, Zorbot, I don't know where you are, you're somewhere around.
Madelaine, you down in the in the in KZN, Lance, maybe in Australia or California.
Yes, I think I'm on.
Michael, you and Joberg. Yeah, 100%. So, Steve, I don't know where you are from, Bru.
No, you're right.
You know, the world is so, so small, the world is so small. And we have to reach out to our
networks, to our people, and the community has to help one another in terms of pest management
and stuff like that, because people are so quick to turn around and say, oh, we're just going to
use neem. Okay, we're just going to use this, and we're just going to use that, but they don't
actually realize what they are putting onto the plants and ultimately what they're ingesting.
So, you know, let's just keep it clean.
Yeah, definitely. I think we have a gross responsibility when it comes to what these
people are ingesting. And that's why, you know, regenerative organic farming as much as we can,
I would love to, you know, push that as far as we can, you know, especially in the rural communities,
if we can identify the trees and the grasses and the things that will remediate the soil,
give us the things that the plant need or the microbes need to then in turn give the plant
what the plant needs. Because remember, we're talking about secondary metabolites,
and I want to emphasize this. So it's invaluable. It's invaluable. And especially this, like I've
mentioned so many times, I don't want to repeat myself. But I think, Michael, I would like to ask
you something, Bavita. Out of my experience, you know, the packs, once you've gone through
whatever you call curing yourself, it is then more valuable to add the pack than trying to
add it very early on in the stages of curing or drying. Once you add it into the jar, I think
there needs to be, and I think it needs to be emphasized because there's been a trend lately where
people, especially in South Africa, say that, well, you know, these Bavita packs, you know,
it's still, my stuff is still creating mold and bud rot. So I'm just curious to know, you know,
at what stage do I know when to add that Bavita pack? Because I want to start adding packs to my,
you know, because I grow once, I try to hit a very good season and then try and store
and smoke it at its optimal time for as long as I possibly can and then only run again.
So I'm very curious because I want to start running Bavita. So if you could, like, give me
a slight education on that if you guys don't mind. No problem. No problem. So I've seen that as well,
and I've experimented with it myself. So I've grown mold in a jar with a Bavita pack.
And that's purely down to people not trying their flour enough. So, you know, the water activity
level is just way too high. The sachet can only take so much moisture out of the air until the
sachet is full. So if you put wet flour into the jar, the sachet is going to suck up the moisture
in that jar until it's saturated, which is I think it's roughly, Lance, you can, I'm sure you'd be
able to. Yeah, I can take off. It's about 45 minutes. Yeah.
Then you're sitting with moisture problems already. So the best way to do it is to rather
over dry and then resupply. So the problem is it's a weight game. So and the greedy nature
of people is, you know, I want more. I want more. I want more. No, more is not necessarily better.
So, you know, and then you leave it wet, you know, and then it gets passed down the line to
the next person to the next person. So eventually, you know, you've got moldy weeds for people who've
got cancer, which is not not like a rather dry down and takes a little bit longer. So if you try
Chris, and then you put this, the sachet is in and, and you wait, you know, and that's
experimentation. So you're gonna have to obviously comes down to bad density and things like that. So
obviously, you know, that's each strain is going to be different. So you kind of have to figure out
what works better 5862 but always within the 5565 range, you don't want to be above that 65%.
And as you know, with microbes and whatnot, that's microbial growth. So keep it below that
anything below 55%. Well, now you're losing a lot of weight, you're losing your cannabinoids
and terpenes and that sort of. So but yeah, that in theory, rather bring it all the way down,
like 11 12%, but the sachet is in immediately after you dried. So as soon as you put the that's
the most critical time, like as soon as you've gone from dry to jar, if you've got a jar, you've
got a sachet, like I don't I don't have any, any jars I used to test it. So I used to say,
put a 58 and a 62 and then a jar with nothing. And then eventually I gave up on the test of the jar
with nothing because nothing always became nothing was 5862. There was something there
like 58 is different for certain strands 62 works different. But yeah, I mean, that's that's the
best way but yeah, you can't wet flower needs to be dried and dried properly. Yeah.
I don't know if that that answers.
Not definitely. It's just being being somebody who would want to harvest only under ideal
conditions and you know, store and smoke my flower for that period until I restart again.
I want to store it under the most ideal conditions and I've noticed, you know, I've tried various
methods and I'm struggling to keep right at the end the last couple of flowers I smoke, you know,
you're just getting very little of what's left of the profile. I'm just curious, you know, if if I
do want to start incorporating Bovidas, you know, where do I start? Do I start incorporating them
when I do my QA my bins? Yeah, do I incorporate them once I jar them? It's just like figuring all
of that out. And I think like you say, it's boiled down to the cultivar, the density of the nug,
and it's a bit of experimenting. But that's the nice thing about having all of these different
sizes one can experiment. Yeah, I mean,
That's nitrogen Robert, just fill it up with nitrogen.
That was a trend that died rather quickly.
This guy's in a flush with the liquid nitrogen and as soon as the liquid hit the bud, it was
done. It was and another thing guys are finding out it's like tennis balls, man. They, oh, I got
it nitro filled, no oxygen, they'd open it up and it smelled good for a minute. And then it's almost
like time caught up with itself. And all of a sudden, it would rapidly go to where the state
it would have been in. But but I'll tell you, Rob, because just my ears working for Rob.
It's like coffee, what the guys at coffee do. Yeah, you know, like Ili, the Italian brand,
the three kilogram container is filled with nitrogen pressure infused because all the
flavors inside the coffee. It's not sitting on the outside. Exactly. You know, so there's
the difference, you know, slightly different. Yeah, very much so. But Rob, I'll do,
I usually drive for seven to 10 days and I'll keep it around like, you know, like 60 degrees
like 1819 C. And then I'll the first week of cure, I'll stand alone. And then second week,
I drop in the bovido to fine tune it. But to Michael's point, a lot of people put it in from
from the first day of cure, because they know inside, I mean, for the wind, like you can get
a hygrometer for super cheap. I mean, I think you guys get Amazon, but like get a hygrometer and
then you can just see what you're dealing with. And to Michael's point, it's good in good out. So
if you know that your rh is is around 50 to 60% I'm a big fan of the 58 to his point 58 and 62
aren't much difference. But I don't know, I kind of I'm erring more towards the side of caution,
I'd rather be lower than higher, with most of the cultivars I'm working. So but one thing I want to
get in kind of a last thought the talking point here, because it's come up a little bit in our
private chat is, and this is kind of a hot topic, because I know you guys, it's a little bit more
exasperated there than it is in the US. A bit of this potential of like an octopoly or monopoly,
but you know how the government and and the illicit versus the legal market, what do you
guys think of from the legal stance today? I mean, obviously, post prohibition ending 2018. But
creating this framework, do you all think it's going to be free market? Or do you feel like
the government's trying to put their hands pretty far into it? Or there's certain couple of
companies that are trying to monopolize certain aspects of it? You know, we'll kind of go around,
we'll start with you, Wesley, if that works. And it's a very difficult question to answer, because
I think deep, deep down, you know, the community is completely divided. And I just think
I do honestly believe that there's a willingness from government. They just don't know how to do it.
And that's a problem in South Africa that we're sitting with lots of cooks. But nobody really
is prepared to stick their neck out. And there's always something else that's more important than
cannabis at this stage. You know, from from a couple of the people inside that that I speak to,
we know that the commercialization bill is coming. And it's not as bad as we see. But,
you know, we've also got to be careful what we read. But then on the other side,
you got to see the actions of our government and our police force and stuff like that in South
Africa, and what they're doing is criminal. And, you know, it's always these mixed messages. And
the problem is, we just don't know. But the narrative that has been pushed at the moment
is that it's trying to, you know, they're trying to make it exclusive. And it's for
for connected people, which at this present moment in time, based on what I'm seeing,
I believe that yes, connected people certainly have have a big, big toe in the door, and they're
getting all this all the right stuff. And, and the middle guys, the ones that that are backing,
you know, so it's, look, this is Africa, prohibition has been around here for a hell
of a long time throughout the rest of the world. So I don't think we do anything different. But,
you know, I do think that there are people that are listening, you know, just have a look at
what happened in Canada, and how things are, you know, how things are turned out there. Now,
the black market is starting because, you know, why genetics, because everything has been trying
to be kept so close and so controlled. And, but I still believe in my heart,
we're going to come out in the right direction. I think we're going to come out
in better suited or in a better position than some other countries have.
We just need to be clever. We just need to be fighting the fight and keeping the integrity
going and showing, showing everybody what what our community can can do. And, you know, it's
about doing the right thing all the time. So I think, I think we'll get there. It's still going
to take a hell of a long time. I don't think there is enough political will at this present moment
in time, because everybody's still, you know, still trying to sort out script to gates and
state capture and all that sort of stuff. So there's load shedding, which is starting in 25
minutes for me. So I'll be cut off. So there's a lot of other priorities that the country needs
to deal with, but it will come. I think it will come and we just need to keep on fighting the
fight. So yeah, that's my two cents. Awesome. Awesome. Rob, any, any, anything to pitch up?
Any final words on that thought? I don't want to go on a long tangent or rant, but I think
they completely missed our private bill that they presented. You know, just myself, I don't have that
luxury. I don't have privacy. The, the circumstances that I live under are just, you know, it's, it's
not private. It's, it's not that I own it or my parents or anybody own it. So it's not only me
who sits under these circumstances. And I think my motherland genetics would know this firsthand that
we, we sitting with people that cannot abide to a privacy law. We should be incorporating a
community-based projects where we collect these areas, let's call them Appalachians,
let's call them Tewas. We need to collect and allow these communities to distribute their
everything that they can grow under that same brand and guarantee under that standard operating
procedures, whether it's regenerative organic, which would be the easiest in all honesty. And
it's just having, having a marketplace, but I don't think that we will ever be allowed
in, in, in my lifetime. Unless, you know, the people not look at it as a wealth or as a commodity
rather than a savior for our nation. You know, we were sitting with people who could literally,
we were sitting with tradesmen, we're sitting with medical qualified people who can distribute
CBD, whatever you want them to. We can cultivate hemp if you're not interested in THC or CBD,
but I think, you know, we need a lot more dialogue and we need dialogue in areas where
the dialogue's not being heard and it's where people aren't being educated. And like I said,
before I go on a very long tangent, I want to give a motherland genetics an opportunity to also speak.
Thank you so much guys. You know, like I feel like from our side, we've experienced the worst
from everything because it was no information. It was no one willing to share information on
how to do things, who to speak to, the documents to sign, where to apply for funding. And it was
a case of where everyone just has to do your own thing. You know, you have to find people that
you think are going to best assist you as well. And then you have to be afraid of sharing
information as well. But I think Wesley and Robert covered most of the points, but currently with our
industry at the moment, if you want to do anything commercially, you need to have a lot of capital,
a lot of funds, and you need to be connected. Like we've seen, you know, certain people
being allowed to sell raw flour as legal bud, where everyone else was not allowed, you know.
And when it came down to the community work, you know, it's a bit hard to say, but we couldn't go
into the communities and help them and give them the genetics, give them the equipment,
but not finish off the process. They were growing all of this. How do they convert it into capital?
You know, and thank God that here in KZN, we have a number of cannabis clubs.
And, you know, the cannabis clubs stepped forward and they were like, we'll take your product,
you know, we'll convert it into cash so that you can take this money back and give it to the
communities. And that's why I will always fight for community development, because we've seen
communities come from nothing, you know, where they were stealing and they were robbing other
farmers around them because they couldn't sustain themselves. And what cannabis did was,
it put the kids into school, it gave them food. Guys didn't even know how to drive. Now they've
got three, four vehicles on the premises, you know, like they're starting to uplift themselves.
They are starting to build houses. It's not the instance of where money is just going into
people's pockets and no one is benefiting from it. So why I came out, you know, with my brand
and why I started speaking about things and showing people was to try to prove to the
government that we can do this, you know. The model that Robert was talking about where
communities need to be involved in it. You need to be involved in the process of
commercialization. Currently, the way that they've set out everything is that you need to have a
certain facility. Your facility needs to be spec'd a certain way. The growers need to grow in a
certain way. And a lot of the black people in our country, they won't be able to live up to
these standards. They won't be able to put that type of money into these facilities. And like
we've done research projects, we've even worked on a couple of tenders for government, you know,
to prove to them that it is possible. But that's where they fell off. You know, they didn't supply
the funding that they promised to. They didn't fulfill the agreements to assist us. They just
left us in the dark. And it's very hard-sought and it's demotivating as well. When you try your best,
you know, you go out there and you put yourself out there and nothing happens from it, you know.
It's very disappointing. And the final point that I'll just make is on the proposed bill that they
put out, you know, where they said that you're only allowed to have eight flowering plants on
your property. You know, like as a breeder, as a phenohunter, how can we do that on our private
property? It means that all of us that are breeding now, we have to go in, we have to get licenses
as well. So it cuts off a lot of people. But I guess, you know, like there are positives towards
it. You know, the people that are truly motivated and determined, they will eventually get it.
And people that are half-par and not on point, you know, unfortunately they will fall off. But
I think that's what I have to say on the topic. Thank you.
Yeah. Very good feedback, man. And I love it when you guys all, we're all on the same page. It's
about community, not capitalism. It's crazy how no matter there, again, or Australia, South America,
it doesn't, everywhere capitalism is too strongly influencing the outcome of, you know,
allowing this plant to actually flourish literally and metaphorically. So, you know, I want to thank
all of you guys, you know, all of you guys, it's a big deal to be out of the proverbial green
closet. I mean, here, you know, I'm spoiled. Peter and I live in a market where we've had legal
cannabis for 25 years now, you know, so it's a little less taboo. I know it's still a big deal.
I know it's still quite a substantial thing for you all to join us and to come on and obviously
speak your opinion and give us your insight and professional position on this. So I want to thank.
Sorry, Lance. I mean, sorry to interrupt, but I mean, you make a fantastic point. You've been
sitting in California with legal cannabis for the last 25 years. You know, we're not there yet.
We're almost there, you know, in terms of the privacy bill and stuff like that. You know,
we can do that in the privacy. So that's a huge monumental step. Yes, there's a lot of
flaws that things need to be accepted, but there's a huge step in the right direction.
You guys have been legal for 25 years. We've only had it since 2018. So we're going to catch you
buggers because as soon as South Africa is legal, like it is in Lesotho, I'm telling you now,
the Californians are going to be getting all the genetics from Africa.
I will say I'm more worried about you guys than the Aussies.
I think you guys have a little bit more of the true roots as far as genetics, but you guys,
again, you know, it's been awesome. And I will, Wesley, when it is safe to travel,
I committed to Michael that I would be getting back down there. I'd love to catch up with all
of you. And we will be doing more of this. And when things get to the new norm, you can bet that
we'll be having future campus projects. We'll be having special events at, you know, Spanibus and
at places where oftentimes a lot of us are coming together already. So, and I really want to thank
all of you for making the very first step to social. This is awesome. And just quickly,
I, we actually didn't take any audience questions, but I saw a bunch on Durban poison. Is it the
mythical land race that nobody actually has? Or have you guys actually experienced and smoked
what you would consider the real Durban poison? Maybe we can just do two minutes on Durban,
the legendary strains. I'll just quickly jump in and say, I've not had the privilege ever to
have smoked in the original. I've only had things that was passing down onto me,
proclaim to be Durban poison. So what I know to be Durban poison is definitely not what it is.
If I could say something, you know, like we've been working with a community from
the Inanda Rift Valley. So that is the community on the coast of here. And we believe, you know,
like we've, we've released our own versions of Durban poison. You know, we've released a regular
version as well as a feminized S1 version. So like we've been working with this community for
the past, let's say three to four years. And we've just been selecting phenos that were showing the
most traits of the original. Myself being an Indian person in the Indian area, but in
Wazulu, Natal, Durban poison has been smoked for years. You know, it's not a strain that he,
that he's, it has a lot of bag appeal. It doesn't look good. It generally has a lot of seeds and
very stringy as well. Like with our research, with the Durban poison that was in
Mendocino and that was going around California was called Durban F1. And what that was, was
a hybrid between Durban poison that was crossed with something from America. And like, that's
just on my research, you know, so what we found over here in South Africa and what's still growing
in certain areas of Wazulu, Natal is the original raw base of the Durban poison, which can also just
be known as Durban landrace, Durban heirloom, but it's a very stringy plant. It takes an extremely
long time to flower. It's very light on the chest. Like you can smoke a lot of it. And generally it
has a lot of seeds and the buds are very small. And what we've also found here in Durban is that
the phenotypes vary throughout the year. At different times of the year, you'll find
different types of Durban poison that will look very differently. And once you start working with
the strain over years, and when you've worked with it, that it's been grown in its outdoor
condition, you'll be able to identify these phenotypes. And it's not phenotypes that can be stored either
because they grow differently at different times of the year. It's just one of those crops where
it's not like a hybrid or one of the newer age strains where if you store the phenotype, it's going
to grow exactly the same no matter where you grow it. If you grow it in a greenhouse in Durban, or if
you grow it in a greenhouse in Johannesburg, it's going to be exactly the same. But with Durban poison,
it's very dependent on the climate that it's exposed to. It will grow differently in various
areas. That's why there are many land races in South Africa, and a lot of them can stem from
Durban poison. They just have a variance in the location within South Africa that it is grown.
So that's just my thoughts on DP. That's what we call it over here. We call it DP.
And you guys can have seeds. If everyone wants to test out some seeds, just hit us up on Instagram
and we can send some seeds. Just out of curiosity, Motherland, have you ever made any hash from
the real DP? No, no, I haven't had the opportunity to do that. But we do dry surf hash. So
I could possibly do some of that and maybe send you down some.
Okay. No, no, because I'm trying to get as close to charas from India as possible. And with my hash
lately, I got a chillum when I traveled to India. I got a kaya. And I must say, I now after two
years, I finally like kind of isolated the kind of cultivars. I'm just curious, you know, the
original DP, if it had any genetics that originally came from a hash producing area.
Nice. I don't think so. Hey, like,
I thought that was a microscope.
Or is it a mantra telescope?
I once had a girlfriend who asked me, is that a pocket for the dildo?
Peter, that's beautiful.
There you go.
That's from the compost, the thermophilic composter. So anyway, that's what I've been
playing with what you guys have been talking about.
Out of my little future cannabis project education, is that a nematode?
It is.
And so just quickly on our little glimpses of what we've been doing,
Dragged you away.
So just quickly on our little global tour, we can always revisit South Africa. So we'll check
in with you guys again.
Back around the horn for sure.
So this afternoon, let me just cut to it. We're doing a fundraiser for BOG.
That's this afternoon at two o'clock on FCP1. And then tomorrow morning, we have
Sasquatch 503 on the Living Soil Show. So that was just the community announcement
segment at the very end.
Awesome. Perfect. Thank you.
Perfect. Thank you.
The Zimbabwe spot.
Thank you much, you guys. We'll let you get to that curfew.
Just call it the Southern African section of the future cannabis project.
We can include Botswana and all these guys.
That would be amazing. I love... because someone was asking earlier about the genetics from
Reunion and Madagascar.
And Mauritius has some interesting stuff too, actually.
Mauritius.
So anyway, in a future conversation, we can...
But mind you, Mauritius is very... the bars are not very open to cannabis in Mauritius.
My experience is that the police also stifle the guys. So they have to harvest
really early. So you get white pistols. Yeah, it's not the best product,
because you're harvesting it early. But it's not that bad genetics.
So yeah. Thank you once again, Peter, guys. I'm also going to check out and say good night to
everyone. Thank you, Laura.
Zollbart will get you with a good internet connection next time.
Photosonics.
All right. That will kill the live stream. Thank you, everyone.
Cheers, all.
