Alright, so Tom sent the SOS distress call out because when I was here two weeks ago
all these buds were looking beautiful and
Not so much anymore, so we called our IPM specialist Saul in
To come help us out. Yeah, and everything kind of went south very quickly
I went away for literally overnight to go visit a grow in Las Vegas got back and
Noticed right away the next morning that there was something wrong
and I know I didn't know what it was and it and
It it was then quickly rampant. Let me tear it Tom bring the camera over here
We'll tell you exactly what it is, and this is what remember what I grabbed last time that one caterpillar
So look yeah, you can come over here and see his buddy over here wait Tom first look. Do you see this one?
What's that right there right there right and then his buddies hanging out over there? Where's the other one or?
Of the many here oh
Wow that one's huge
Tom that one is a fat caterpillar. That's
That's gorging itself, and then the other clear sign their turds everywhere
Stick around and you'll see them there
As
They feed they just put their dry. Yeah, there's a little black
Yeah, pretty much
You can see them on many of the buds, so what is this that we're looking at what are the what are these?
We're just looking at some caterpillar signs and symptoms. Okay. Here's some more
It's a very likely very chewing damage. Yeah
But you can see it
Basically where we where we see our
Our foe over here is this guy where did he go?
He's been roaming around here, he's been laying his turds right there
Yeah, and he's been chewing everything here you see all that chewing damage
Does it take just one to do all this damage you I've seen two in a bud yeah, but
When you see this damage, it's not long before you find him if you just start looking for him
So you go you look for this here looks like chewing damage, and then you look for their turds, right?
We already saw what those look like
You see that they're not far
It is a great picture of a
caterpillar
Feces right there right where exactly for there
Let me get this huge guy
Where's the huge one?
There's some more
Feces
There looks like it
Look at that this guy is his head buried into the
Right into the middle of the of the bud. Here's something to shoot at
Which one their feces isn't always dark brown dark brown there's some lighter colors, too
Okay, so let me take a picture and then dark down here, too
You see that all this you see these all that right there all the dark stuff doesn't all have to be dark brown
They're sometimes almost orange or even yellow
yellowish brown
Some fresh poo as my daughter tells me yeah chewing damage poop
Look around and you'll find them, and it's it's important as soon as you see them
Oh look here look here. Here's what I meant
That's two different colors, oh look at broad colors
Feces right there, okay, so let me take a picture of that and they're dried
They look like yeah, so that dry can range it can range anywhere between those those colors are
Here's a bunch more right here, it's actually looks like pellets Wow yeah
Easiest way were I saw nobody didn't know what they were yeah, I mean look at this way to distinguish
I don't know if you can see that here come over here
easiest way to distinguish between slugs or snails and
Caterpillars because they do a lot a similar chewing oh
So the feces is the feces is caterpillar and slime trails is slugs and snails can you see that perfect?
That's awesome. I hope I can get that from you. Yeah
Okay, so so is that pretty much the main problem. We have going on here. I mean you see other well
These are this is all poop everywhere. Yeah, yes, it's it looks like bud rot right yeah
Did you one question ask is what was the weather like before you left?
Overcast and kind of muggy or
Not particularly it was you know out here it hit that what the 117 it was super hot okay weeks ago
Sooner hot yeah, yeah, and just a few miles from here to hit the 121 in Woodland Hills
Yeah, we did have
You know and yesterday it was 105
You know so it's been triple digits, and but that was extreme heat and shortly before I left
The praying mantis have been slacking I mean I assume they would shout on the caterpillars
They would yeah, if they're big because I've been so I mean I'm big enough
I'll you I did get a little complacent because I had like two praying mantises in here
They were all so it's interesting because when we were here
Two weeks ago. I saw a caterpillar, and I killed it all I found one the other day
I took it off, but I didn't I obviously missed so so some of some of this could come around this side
Is the cameras right there so some of this could be?
Partly because of the caterpillar right
So bud rot or gray mold is Botrytis cinerea
It's a fungus that affects
all kinds of different plants
Strawberries and grapes being other big crops that it's actually a big problem
And usually it's something that
Appears or shows itself
Once you've got ripe fruit or in this case ripe flowers, right?
They have you know been growing and their sugar contents high
and
That's exactly what Botrytis can grow on
but
But it's a it's a disease and that's
That's not all well. I was getting at the caterpillars will wound the tissue and
Spores find it easier to get into the plant tissue and and germinate
Right, so that's a very common cause of bud rot and so they're almost symbiotic in a bad way
Yes, I mean reading the environment for the for the yeah
I brought yeah, so you're seeing bud rot and caterpillar damage. You're seeing I'm saying yeah
Well, I mean it's tough to see the caterpillar damage on the buds themselves because it's just a hole
You can pull that guy out and you can see that you'll see the hole
No, let me do you have a knife
or something to
What about that?
Here hold this yeah
Tom goes into his toolkit. Well, what about the scissors? Sure. Yeah
Yeah
Want to show you something I see here something to focus. I don't know if
I don't know if I could go back in time here, but
Tom, did you cut a piece of these flowers off right here?
It looks like you
Yes, yeah, is that where you first saw it?
Probably on this plant look through the viewfinder when you're talking
That was the one thing I noticed from the Steve Cantwell videos, but I'm
You're like holding it over here talking. Oh, yeah
Yeah. All right. So here so you found two two specks of it here, right?
Yes, and then you came in with a knife. Well, the thing is is that yeah got brown and pulled right off
It pulled right off. Yeah, so yeah, but it was already infected, right? So some people are of the mind
Cut it if I put it in the ground, it's gonna be a little bit more
So yeah, but it was already infected, right so some people are of the mind
Cut it if i'm close to harvest and I can keep what's below
Some are of the mind
You know cut it down low eliminate another source of the spore
Especially if you're early right like you are now, you know, so or well you were right
I tried early on but I realized I mean it happened so fast within literally a day
I know within a day the viewfinder that um
That it was out of my out of control. Yeah, I I didn't know what to do. Oh, it's it's quick. Yeah
Yeah, it's like with any disease I mean, um, so I guess my question is for something
This is obviously not a large grow if you do see it. What do you do?
uh
so
What do you do when you see it?
Basically, I can do is what we call roguing, you know, you remove tissue. That's about what you can do
Uh, if you find a caterpillar in here
You're gonna look down below
You see all these turds that drop down on all these buds below could have been he was just feeding up here
Looks like he was feeding up here
But all these all that feces that dropped onto these very right flowers
And then given the right conditions
Those contain spores too. I mean if he had been feeding on them like that, not just that, you know
They begin to decompose the tissue around where they landed also begins to decompose
It's usually that combination of like something wet and the caterpillar feces and then it it blows up so
Get rid of that cola. And if that's where it started and do a major
so
Looking because obviously those are much worse. These have um sort of been trying. Yeah to maintain themselves. So
Are these too far gone honestly, um, yeah
You can still save this for extract
um, there's you know, you'll get some extract there, but uh,
But get in there every hour that passes stand right there. Every hour that passes is lower yield, right?
Because you're not gonna get much out of these dried up. Uh, you know
Sections. Yeah pieces of flower
So basically if you start noticing and it's almost like you want to chop early to save what you have
It may not be perfect but yeah, yeah, I mean if you could afford to you could um, like what we would do
um where I where I um managed ipm is
You know that it was kind of susceptible
Strains were susceptible to this this fungus. So you'd start seeing it blowing up on
a particular particularly sensitive strain
Um, you would uh, so i'm going to take a picture you might harvest that early for you know for fresh frozen
So say you haven't seen any of the bud rot, but you've seen a couple of the caterpillars
um
What is there pest management we can do to to sort of uh, keep these caterpillars? Oh, yeah
Yeah, there's there are lots of strategies. Um
Uh the caterpillar at this stage that we saw there there's not much else other than picking them off
Um, because the materials that you might use
At that advanced stage aren't allowed in california cannabis
Right, which are what?
um
Substances, they're natural substances called spinosads
um number of products have them it's a
stomach neurotoxin for uh for insects the insect chews on
plant
Material that's been sprayed with it
And it it uh, it basically poisons itself
Right, so that's something you'd want to do during veg when it's yeah. Yeah. I mean you would you can't though. It's not
All stages of so, um the other you know, this is
Uh, this could be done. This could be done when it's just starting
Let's put it that way and if and if you see big caterpillars
You're not going to get them with the other strategies only spray strategy
You might have with a big caterpillar is to spray spinosads
Which we can't and that's kind of the question that tom was asking is what can we do at this stage?
Well when you found a caterpillar, um, what about if you first see a caterpillar? Yeah, so that
Stage that's your that's where the answer lies. Okay, okay is um
If any of you heard the other
uh video or streaming that we stream that we did
Um, you probably you probably recognize that i'm big on monitoring, right? So you need to know what?
Caterpillars and their adults look like and when they're present as soon as possible. So that usually comes in
In in catching the flying adults, right? So males and females
Will meet up with each other. Um, they'll fly
Male will you know mate with the female female will go off and lay eggs
Right. So if you're it's not good about monitoring for moths
Right you catch that before all that
Exchange has gone on right? Right. So look at that and then what like you you might so you see them
How do you prevent those them from laying their eggs? So you you you trap
You trap right? Um, there's very little you can you can do to like reduce their numbers
Um, but it's really important at that point to identify the species that you've got
Right, and it's hard to do it from looking at the moths
so for instance that one is uh
Do you see it that one looks like it's like the corn ear worm
Right. So would this be like like the white moths that I see flying around everywhere? Is that what?
It I I think it is a white moth i'm really bad at uh moths and butterflies
But um, yeah, I think it is like it's not like a monarch butterfly. No, wait, it isn't it's a brown
Sorry, it's helical verpa
Zea, and I think it's a brown one
Let me uh, so I have a question like looking up here at at all of these up here
um
Did where the caterpillar is hitting?
Each one of these or is there is there a disease? I don't think so. I don't think so if this is
you know botrytis, it does look very dried up and then
usually it's
You know something going on within the plant usually yeah, the botrytis has actually entered the plant
Okay, not not the whole plant but the tissue that's affected now, maybe
um
the botrytis flared up on you because of some
some climate event like some
Humidity or something that happened but then after the heat this is this could be why you got all this quick browning
Yeah, you know because the tissue was dead already. Yeah, um, you just probably weren't aware of of the symptoms
I mean we'd have to we have to break some of these buds open so that you could see what
Although there is a lot of caterpillar damage. So a lot of this could have been
from them
Yeah
so
This was not just caterpillars. Although geez i'm finding
Lots of feces. Yeah, and I didn't think that one should have had any
So basically you're seeing a one-two punch of botrytis and caterpillar yeah, yeah, um, it's a disease that
Here's there's this for you another seed. Thank you. Um
What's that a seed nice? Yeah, so there's a disease and then there's
I guess effectively what you might call it the vector. Although it's not really a vector. It's there's what's causing a
A susceptibility to the plant and then it's the the caterpillars injuring it. Yeah, right but back to monitoring
If you can id mods
Those are going to come in earlier, right? Yeah, so
mods are hard to control there are strategies, but
They're very difficult for the ones that are normally attacking cannabis
but
That could be the trigger for certain applications
for example
the the um
Bti have you heard of bti vacillus sternogenesis?
Good idea
Also, let's um, there's these plants over here while you're talking all right, i've got a few more. Yeah, you see, uh
You're getting it here. It's just starting. Yeah
And here you don't see the chewing damage
No, I can't might be some here, but I doubt it
Although i'm seeing
feces right here
That looks like feces
I would say a good chunk of it is because of that feeding. I mean these
They seem to be in a lot of your buds like
Right there. So there was a caterpillar here at one point feeding
it's possible it's
It's a primary reason, huh?
I mean i've not seen I can't find them either. That's the other part. Yeah, that's caterpillars. Yeah. Yeah
But yeah, there's quite a bit if you look in here
um
That's a clean flower right there, right more or less. Yeah, but it's just been completely shot on
And yeah, so any humidity change any injury just the fact that you have a little fermenting
um little
compost pile of caterpillar turds
on tissue that's already
well advanced and nearly ripe close to harvest
You know, it's it's setting yourself up for another site where
Where the fungus can blow up on you, right?
And then the spores from this plant here
Looks like this cola up here you cut back too, right? Yeah, you took it you chopped this one off, too
When you first saw it, yeah, yeah, yeah, so he started up it started up here
Can send it that way
you have more injuries or really soft tissue and then you get the right weather conditions and
Now you've spread it that way. Um
It sounds like once it's
It's spreading. It's kind of hard to uh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, very difficult. Um
There's really um, I mean this one looks actually well now there's the bud right? Yeah
Yeah top cola and what's interesting what we've been finding a lot of is
almost every diseased
even the the kind of the less diseased buds
are covered in caterpillar you see so
I at this point I might say
it's the main reason I mean it's
Any flower that's got any so you think the caterpillar just overwhelmed it and then the betrayer the weird part is
we only found those two, but that was a quick glance and um
Yeah, it's that's what i'm saying. I mean i've been out here every day looking for caterpillars
It's tough to find them. You saw their green
It's like a grow where you only have a couple plants they're not like all bunched up it's not hot and humid and
you know air circulation, you know, there's there's there's also strain susceptibility so
Are you are you aware what the disease of the disease triangle i've heard of that before it's this concept that was developed. Um
Related to disease um implants, but it's the same for humans. Um,
disease disease triangle consists of it's a way to explain how disease
happens how it proceeds and how it can
Damage you economically, right? Um, there's three components to it. The first component is the presence of
Whatever pathogen so what come out of the heat come out of it good idea
Whatever pathogen we're talking about right in this case, it would be actually botrytis scenario, right?
um spores
Could be the presence
um, but there's also what are called sclerotia
and that's it's uh
Near the end of the season it goes into a sort of like a hibernation type, you know suspended animation
uh, basically it's a survival structure and then that structure can
stay in the area and
Once again germinate in the right conditions
When there's on in the next crop, you know what I mean? It can survive on plant debris
It can survive on rich soil. I mean it can survive in rich soil. Um, so it's just waiting there. Um,
To germinate again. So the presence is is uh, one of those components of the disease triangle
Obviously, um, then there's the susceptible host
Right, so that's where I was getting here. Um, this is obviously a susceptible host. It's a problem in all cannabis production
uh grape
grapes
Also, it's a problem in many, you know vineyards. Um
uh in strawberries, it's also a problem in in strawberry, so
We're talking about hosts that will
Can be parasitized by the fungus, right?
and um
And yeah, um if we think about it, we've got
different susceptibilities, right? Um
There's a in the vineyards. For example, there are a couple grapes that are very thin skinned varieties
That are much more susceptible
To the botrytis bunch they call it bunch rot in vineyards
versus a loose
uh versus a hard skinned grape, right that has you know, tight tight little berries
They're less susceptible, um, they're not it's not as easy for the fungus to penetrate the tissue
So varietal differences in grapes make a make a difference. Well, guess what?
They also do in cannabis. I don't know what strains you have here
but uh
If you have those susceptible strains
you you can see the difference between
You know five percent in one strain. Let's say and thirty percent in another strain, right?
So strain is big. We still don't understand that very well. Um
mirror implore
Cannabis growers to take notes
So are there certain pests like you say even just for a small home grow like this that I might want to keep around?
To sort of counteract the butterflies or the yeah, let me get to that. So
The last component of the disease triangle is actually
the environmental conditions for
the disease to infect
right
um
and basically the concept of this disease triangle is
You have to have all three of those components
present in order to
have disease or have disease that's
economically
You know
problematic, right?
um
If you can break with one if you can control one
You can control the disease right? Right? So if you had if we had a cannabis strain that was not susceptible
to um
to
You know to this to the fungus
Zero percent susceptibility and you grew only that guess what you broke that triangle there. You eliminated a susceptible host, right?
Another part of susceptibility we talked about it the chewing damage caused on the on the uh,
on the flower being an
An area where the fungus can infect and get to the tissues easily and quickly
And feed on it and sporulate and pretty soon destroy that butt. All right, so if you don't have that damage
Then you've not you've made it less susceptible whatever host it is so you can see how you can focus on these
areas, so
The big one for botrytis honestly is is environment
environment is
by far the largest
The most important part of that disease, uh triangle. So how would you evaluate this environment?
That doesn't look too tight. Let's put it that way. But what I mean by that is
Fungus likes humidity. Yeah fungus like likes a certain range of temperature, right if you
Grow plants too tight, uh to their canopies or to yeah, you're not you won't allow for airflow. All right
We were talking about botrytis and grapes
Um the the two susceptible grapes that I that I was talking about the thin-skinned ones also have very very tight bunches
All right. So if a spore gets in there, there's no way
To change the environment in that cluster
To be other than just humid and dark right and when the grapes get sweet
Now it's got food, right? So you've you've got this strain that's got a tight great tight
Cluster formation whereas a loose one like you see in table grapes, you know how you you
You can see every grape inside the cluster on table grapes
So not as susceptible even if these plants had been uh farther apart
They still the nature of these plants was the large leaves. They were growing abundantly
Yeah, leaving a lot of shade underneath and probably still a lot of opportunity for
uh the bugs to uh
Be comfortable. I mean i've not seen this before where every bud seems to have some feces
So a big I think a big part of it must have been the caterpillars
um, but but uh, I mean again, what strain is this do you have
Like uh, um
What's the high cbd strain it's it's a high cbd cross by with an alien, uh
fire
um
So we know it's like harlequin
We know even less about cbd, but what's interesting is these are these are two different cultivars
So all these over here one, but those are all autos that are totally different
And this this one that over here that was simply destroyed this plant that was an auto
Now these here are newer ones and they haven't been quite uh,
Affected yet. These are our younger plants this one. However, you're not yes, that's probably not going to go very far
Yeah, and you've already got it there that won't go very far I think and I think I can see in here
The caterpillar never mind
Yeah
Yeah, you got quite a bit of feces down here
So and you got quite a bit right there. So wow. Well, how about this? Okay. So what what keeps the caterpillars back?
What's our yeah, so okay. Well, I wanted to I wanted to talk about that disease triangle just because you know, then you see
You see the impact of the of the caterpillar, right? It's making the host more susceptible right sit on the couch. So obviously, uh, just
Destroying that particular component of the disease triangle
is uh
You know is going to be helpful to ending the disease or keeping it from hurting you economically, right?
So what's the strategy? Well, we talked about monitoring. That's the foundation. All right
You want to know as early as possible, right? You have a
You have an insect who's going to lay eggs. They're going to hatch
Are we going to want to feed you've got some time before that happens to to put in some control out
action for for caterpillar, um, so
Fastest the the earliest sign would be when the adults are flying into your grow
right
so monitoring for the moths is
Super key, right? It's it's very very important. There's a lot of ways to monitor for the moths, but when you see them
You can begin initiating
Actions that don't even require for the larva to be out and about yet, right such as um
You can be you can start your bacillus thuringiensis. I was saying bti. Um, it's a another it's a bacteria that
when the caterpillar feeds on it it
grows in its stomachs and its stomach and
So so would that be like a foliar spray or something? It's a foliar spray. Yeah. Yeah
So you'd put it what like in water and yeah, it would be a foliar spray, right?
You see you see the why wouldn't I have used that? I mean, why wouldn't someone just use that anyway as a precautionary measure?
Well, you know, there's philosophies about not wanting to spray for any number of reasons, right?
um, you know, there's there's there's disease and there's potential for burn and then there's there's expense, you know, every spray is
Labor and material right? So a number of reasons why not to but you'd make a very good point
Um this this particular bacteria specific to caterpillars
It really doesn't it doesn't really hurt any other insect or any other animal
So it's pretty safe for the plant like an aphid wouldn't really be affected by it. That's interesting. Not at all
Um, it's it's specific. It's it's I guess you can call it a disease. It's it's a disease specific for caterpillars
Well for me in particular knowing that I really have a caterpillar problem back in this yard. It might make sense
Maybe it's all the dog food. That's all and you can decide, you know, yeah, absolutely. Um, i'm where i've been working with some
Cold crop growers and salinas and right now salinas and other parts of the country cold crops cold crops like uh cabbage that kind of stuff
The salinas is going through a big problem with diamondback moth
And they're using these sprays for the caterpillars and some of the growers have sprayed
Geez, um
like a dozen times and you know where they would have only done three sprays in the
In in in previous years and it's just this real big problem and there will be years where certain
Caterpillars are going to be more problematic than others, but you're right if uh,
If you kept up on it early enough
You can put those sprays out and what's important to know about those sprays is the caterpillar has to feed on them
but once the caterpillar is
Advanced in other words far along on its development one of the later larval stages
They're not they're not as susceptible anymore to it. So like our friend right here would be an example of he would probably
Yeah, he would just he would eat the the bti jimma. Can you be our caterpillar model? Can you show?
Can you just put your hand out? Thank you. Yeah, he would eat the bti and then just uh,
Prove it out give you the finger. That is some caterpillar. Okay, so all right, so
Early, so there aren't like okay. So what else what other what else can you do?
So so so when the caterpillar is young and it feeds on this stuff, that's when it gets them
Okay, so you if you can put that stuff out right about when they're actually so I saw I yeah
We saw some pretty small caterpillars about two weeks ago. So that would have been it
You could apply like four weeks ago we should have sprayed you had if you had known
Right the week before that and had started
Eagle eyes on the uh, well, we saw them. I just didn't I would have done all of that. Yeah. Yeah, I didn't know tom was
It's it's yeah, I mean instead of instead of yeah, that's what i'm here for
Right, you were feeding them
Um, but yeah, you know that's that strategy
There's more good to it than bad
Um, the usually the formulations for that bacteria aren't really dangerous and sprays
So they're very safe sprays and you know if you're doing it everything the right way
Um, and you get those on early enough and you can't just do it once and expect it to work
you know, you've got to come back at whatever the label recommends and and uh, just
Just know I I can't find the eggs. I don't know where the tiny larvae are. They're really difficult to find. They're green
They're smaller than than most of the leaves so you're not going to find them always they're they're in there
They're chewing
If they chew on this if they just happen to chew on a leaf that I sprayed with this
Then they're toast and control can be achieved now before that that part like keeping like even trying to do something
So that you don't have to spray would that be just limited to like trapping the moths or because i'm outside mass trapping for?
mass trapping for um for moths is is
Really that I know of not a really good strategy for control because they can fly in from everywhere
But if you want to dive in a little deep
um, there are pheromones and
You know what pheromones are right there what males or females emit to attract the other sex for mating?
there are some all moths this is how females attract males through pheromones, right and they
They they they could be miles away even and the male can pick up the scent, right?
um, well for some of some moths not many and actually
None yet that I know of that
That hits the the cannabis plant, but but you know, we never know when one of these moths that i'm talking about will start hitting us
We've been uh, well scientists, you know have been able to
Synthesize these pheromones in the lab and then you can use something that's called mating disruption
So if you take the synthesized pheromone you put it in your farm
Um, you put it, you know, you distribute it through your farm and you have this huge cloud of pheromone
Like a like a million or like a trillion females are in that field
Which would attract all the males it'll attack track the males, but the strategy is where is she?
He's blind
And there's this huge cloud that he uses himself to guide himself directly to where she is. Oh, so so if there are females
You scrambled his radar everywhere and he can't find the female so he can't mate. Yeah, that's called mating
Because where I thought you were going is like, you know when I was growing up
We always had beetle traps where you have the pheromones too
Which attract them and they go into the trap that they can't get out of and you have a thousand in there the next day
there are some
Some pests where that really works effectively. I thought you were going where you put the
Pheromones near a pigeon and then so they'll start mating with pigeons
That's interspecies
Yeah, yeah
Anyway, where'd you put it?
But yeah, but like I said as I said, there's there aren't very many
species where we have these pheromones for um
We do have a few I know
I used to battle light brown apple moth
in
in herbs
And there happened to be a mating disruption pheromone and that's exactly one of the arms of the strategy we used
Um as as well as the the bt sprays, well, it sounds to me. Well, let me ask this have you seen something of this?
decimation scale in a in a commercial grow recently
The odd part is is I can't find the caterpillars, but I can see all their feces in there
So they're crafty. It's it's about looking i'm sure there's more
I mean it took me about what two minutes to find two of them, right? Gemma. Can you go find us some more caterpillars?
Yeah, look look in the fluffy flowers
Yeah, so
Again, I don't think mating disruption is a good strategy for cannabis because we just don't have
You know, we we barely know which caterpillars are gonna hurt us and the ones that are hitting us. I don't believe we have
Mating disruption. So you've got is that pheromone applicable to all different?
Butterflies and moss or like only one species specific. So you need it's not even it's not even family specific
You know like insects have families. So you'd really need to know which one is infecting your plants
so like that was cornea worm, right, um,
but
What's the strategy there? Okay. Well, um that there's nothing specific for cornea worm. Um,
But but we'll get to the biocontrol. So okay, so so
The pheromone wouldn't work for cornea cornea worm, but the bt toxin would work, right?
What else is available then you can talk about you know
Um macro, you know predators beyond just the bacteria. That's a micro predator, right?
It's a parasite of the of the caterpillar, right? Um, there are um, what are called?
the parasitic wasp the uh
Okay, trickle grandma wasps. Yeah. Have you heard of these? Yeah, so
um wasps are really interesting, um order of insects in that they're very commonly parasitic
Their lifestyle is parasitic
so i'm sure you've heard of the tarantula hawk and how it
It'll inject its eggs into a tarantula and then the eggs the larva will eat the tarantula from inside out
New adult hatches right or emerges, right? Right. Um, there happen to be
small
teeny wasps
The yeah, they're actually grandma right? They do the same thing with uh, yeah
Except that they inject their eggs into the moths eggs
So they'll search for and find the cluster of eggs or the individual eggs and inject their egg
And then during the development, so you want so say you were going to do a wasp treatment you would want to do that
Yes, when you have the food available for them when you've got it's they're not eating right? They're not feeding. No
Yeah, it's not a it's not food. Yeah. Yeah, they're putting their eggs. They're putting their eggs in them. Yeah
So you need to know why wait?
Why wait? Okay, have them have them there so they will so if you if you bring the wasp and they're not going to go
Away, they're going to stick around. Oh, they will go away. Yeah, so that's the thing is
You know, they will be they will search for caterpillar eggs
And then if they find a hornworm egg and it happens to be one of the ones
That species that likes hornworm there in your uh in your tomatoes
Then they might just fly over there and and work on that and then eventually get distracted and go look
But that's the whole point with monitoring. Let's say you spot the adult you you know how to identify the cornea worm adult, right?
That's when you start your bt sprays, but you also start your wasp releases. Okay, and you keep and you do
So we would we would like you guys breed parasitic wasps
so we would bring a container and tom would what like just put it like at the at the base of the
There's a couple options. There's um
There's loose eggs
That you can put and they're not eggs actually they're pupa. They are the eggs of another moth, right?
that was
That have have a moth development. What about all the feces? Can you tell from the feces what we're dealing with?
It's hard. It's really difficult. Um, you mean like which caterpillar?
I mean small feces might mean a small species of caterpillar
But it could also be a larval a younger larval stage of a big species of catch, right? Whatever
But no the the way to do it and it's even difficult it's even difficult collecting um the you know when you collect the individual
Caterpillars because you know, they go through numerous stages. They molt through their life stages. So
And they don't look identical. Um, I have a slide on a presentation
which has um
Five different looking caterpillars and I ask people how many caterpillars do you see here? They say five I say no
That's the same one. It's just different larval stages. So you you gotta kind of at some point you gotta
Sometimes have to rely on an expert with the common ones. So yeah, not only do you need to monitor but you need to be
Ideum and entomologist because here's the thing is
Those wasps there are different species of those wasps and like we rear three
Right. Sure. They tend to target different species of moths. So if you release the wrong one
You might as well not be releasing at all. No doubt, right? So you got to know
Not just which ones you have but which other ones, you know, you may have more than one caterpillar
Yeah, exactly. So
So the challenges are huge parasitic wasp only focuses targets one type of caterpillar egg
No, they they do cross over to different things. It's just it's just the research has shown
That this particular wasp can can control
this particular caterpillar
In these crops whereas this one can't even though it may on occasion inject its larva
Maybe it's not a preferred choice for it or maybe just didn't evolve on that
Particular caterpillar and the egg is not viable and or the larva dies, you know
It's just almost you know
The research had that there had to be a lot of research and you'll often see where these trichogramma wasps will all target one species
but there may be one that's
Really good at controlling it. All right, so that's why you want to know what you got. Who are they?
What's where when did they come and and who are they and you can distinguish?
Caterpillars not just by their appearance, but their moths. So if you're catching a big
Dark moth and you're also catching this little tiny yellow moth
Uh, that's two species, right? Well, that was going to be my question. Do you think tom has multiple species of we only saw that that?
That cornea worm, but I didn't but we saw two of them we saw there's yeah, they're the same species. Okay. Yeah
So, um, so possibly there's another one, but it could just be it could be but we haven't found it, right?
So yeah, there could be although it's not so the cornea species. Is there a specific parasitic wasp species that love?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's uh, you know the trichogramma's like I said, I
I can give you more details on a list of you know, we have three species of trichogramma
Of a list of what which ones they tend to prefer and can have been shown to control
Um
So next season we would be we'd bring those out early. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's always um preventative
I mean I i'm uh
I I focus on biological control, right? I've been doing pest management now for six years
In different different crops, right several different crops
um
but the the bulk of those years have been
Putting together what what are called biointensive
IPM programs basically, they're founded on on the idea that we're going to try to control
our pests and diseases with
Biological agents such as so that you that okay continue but such as bt that's a bacteria
Um at these wasps, they're also
They're they're also they're insects, right?
And there are other predators of caterpillars too. So that's kind of so basically anything that's living that would attack the thing
You don't want whether it's a bacteria a fungus another bug. What about the soil biology?
I mean can do does it begin there? Um
I mean
Soil I mean that that's where everything starts, right? Um
you know the um
plants evolved in soil, right so
and we know that nutrition and um the right kind of soil but
But something like a caterpillar would love to eat a super healthy plant. Well, that's what I know
These flowers were so beautiful caterpillars is a tough one to say that the soil soil plays a big
big part of it, but
You know you have good soil you can have a healthy plant with better defenses to fight off certain things like
the botrytis
Let's say you had a flower that was grown in very good soil, you know
And by good it's a broad definition of what we mean by good which includes microbiota, right?
but we're talking also struck structure of the soil and you know, um
the food and
As well as the microbiology going on there, but any number of these things that can strengthen the plant
One of the ways that the plant is strengthened is by its tissues
Uh, it's it's cell walls thickening, you know, and what's that mean? That means it's a lot tougher for a disease
to to injure to actually
Some of these diseases actually send what are called these fungal diseases send what's called an apresaurea
Which is like a drill and they'll drill right into tissue
um into the cells of the plant well, if they like hold on to and just
To get in and start and then start proliferating inside of it, right?
They don't even need an opening for them. But uh, you know if you have
Uh tissue that's it's more, you know, that's that's tougher, right? Because you took care of giving it absolute perfect
soil conditions
Then you have some level of there's less susceptibility, right?
And so you've weakened that one component of the susceptible. Sure. It makes sense to me
Yeah a little disappointed because that was what this was all about was, you know, yeah our attempt to really you know
Yeah, why I think it's really strong plants and this is back to my question with caterpillars
Like I don't I think a super healthy plant a caterpillar would love to eat. Yeah, sure
and and at that point you're you know, you're talking it, um, the the
The thickness you remember these things looked amazing two weeks ago. They were just like
Yeah, that's why that's why botrytis and caterpillars are are a bane in outdoor growing
So, okay. So so botrytis. Is that something that lingers like doesn't fusarium linger in the soil?
So even if you like clear all your plants out and you plant again, it's just like sweet
yeah, um
so a lot of fungi will go into what we were talking about earlier the
the state of suspended animation
um
You know normally called a survival skill to have yeah a survival structure. So like powdery mildew has one
That it can occasionally at the end of its life
Form one of these structures that keeps it essentially alive in this structure
And botrytis definitely has one a matter of fact one of the managing techniques
For managing strategies for managing botrytis and strawberry is to remove infected fruit
from
from the rose
So dead fruit from the rose when you harvest the harvesters go through and if they spot botrytis
they may I leave it or cut it into or they may see a
They may drop strawberries that are infected with botrytis. Well, that's the source for more botrytis for the way
You're saying they're doing this accidentally, right? Not intentionally some some
Sometimes they cut them to squash them and keep them from you know, being at least above the ground, right?
So others if you ever see a harvest in a strawberry field, it's riddled with you know
Dead fruit afterwards if you don't get in there and clean it up soon and you have infection in that tissue
Then you're just risking the next flush of strawberries, right?
Same thing if you grow outdoors in an environment where you leave filthy plant residue after a harvest
Let's say you're an outdoor grower and you happen to be growing in soil and you don't do something about
The survival structures that botrytis may have left
in dead tissue
You know you you you'll have it there for next year and it's just waiting for
So so the physical manifestation of botrytis is bud rot basically, right? Yeah, you got it
That's good. That's a good way to look at and then what about fusarium? What would be its physical?
Manifestation that's a number of different, uh symptoms
um
The most common so fusarium is one of the wilt diseases, right? So the plant everyone knows what a wilting plant looks like
um, what's interesting about fusarium is you know
If you have a plant that that wilted because you forgot to turn the water on for an hour
And then you run out there you turn it back on it'll it'll pick up pops right back up
But you you won't do that it won't do that if it's in fact affected with fusarium, right?
Because because what fusarium does it it gets in from the soil?
And it um, it actually plugs
the vac vascular system of plants
right, so
Even if the wa even if the soil is wet, they just can't pull water up. And so there's this
Chronic wilt where they're not getting the water they need right? That's typical the other one. Um, the other fusarium
uh
symptom would be when a plant dies and let's say it didn't even die from wilt you can cut the
the base of the stem usually
Usually the further down you go the the pith the inside is is is brown
It's not the healthy light green color or almost, you know, yellow color. It's brown and soft
and that
That could be one of these wilt diseases
Um best thing to do, you know, you know, we know we know fusarium
Um lives in soil too, and that's how it moves around through the roots
You know if you have old soil
And it's in there, you know, you're you're risking the next crop, right?
So what can you do? There's a lot of things you can do right? I just that was going to be my question
Yeah, so let's think about what the strawberry growers do they suffer from these wilt diseases as well
um, they
Conventional strawberry growers will use what's called methyl bromide. Have you heard of that?
um substance that's been
It doesn't sound it's close. It's it's close to being to being banned completely, but um
If they did my understanding is if they banned it outright strawberry the strawberry, uh industry would really suffer
Uh, because so like everybody's using it. Yeah, well, no, no, not everyone's using it
But but it's still it's still something that could I think really hurt the strawberry industry if somebody just organic strawberry growers
No, you can't. Okay. So that it's a toxin. So by organic strawberries, yeah
It's a toxin that's actually fumigated into the soil and there are fields out there where if you didn't do that within a
Maybe two cycles
You're you're just losing money. You might as well not plant. What is it combating a rot the the uh, the storage, uh, the the
The survival structures of the fusarium in this oil and other other soil diseases not just fusarium
What um when apples rot what is it that's rotting them the famous? Oh, there are a lot. There's a lot of rotten
Rot, uh apple rot diseases out there
I'm, not an apple expert, but there there's there's quite a few fire blight's a big one that bacteria
um that
Well, so how come banana growers are so fucked with the fusarium is it like
More vicious once it gets into soil that bananas are in because it seems like you're like, oh strawberry growers get it all the time
But they're not like we need to abandon these 10 acres for the next 30 years
Not 30 years or like burn the fields not 30 years
But they will they will take breaks and grow something else because if you just keep it going
You don't you just don't not allow enough time for that fungus to those survival structures to to you know
Not you know, but I thought that period is like years and years and years like
I was like i'll just hang out until you come back, but it depends on the pathogen right? Where does fusarium feed on?
It it's a it's a bacteria. Yeah, so it's a fungus that gets yeah, it gets into the plant through this through um
through the roots
Makes its way up the vascular system feeds on whatever
Sap is going through begins to multiply
as it grows it causes
clogging of the vascular it's kind of like I guess
Arthrosclerosis. Yeah, I was gonna say getting like, uh, yeah like clogged arteries or whatever. Yeah. Yeah pre-heart attack. Yeah
Okay, but the good news is tom doesn't have fusarium in addition to botrytis and butter and yeah, we wouldn't know but you know
Going back to our conversation we had last sunday with uh with chris, you know, we talked again about
endophytes and you know relationships and
you know, we
We ourselves have all kinds of microorganisms living in us right and on us
You know the the micro flora in some cases. They're beneficial in other cases
they could kill us but
They may not they may just be living in us
Because we have a nutrient nutritional source for them, but they don't
Explode to such levels of infection that
They will harm us, you know, so we could have all kinds of pathogens in us that could kill us
um, and and the way it happens with
with humans is it's the same thing that happens in plants is
Some kind of susceptibility is increase in the human can be from a stress it could be
um from another disease, for example, um some of the
Immuno, um
Some of these diseases that affect the immune system for example, um aids aids affects the immune system, right lupus
And then it's something else that kills you and then something that was already in you
That was being kept at bay because you're mowing. Yeah. Yeah, and it pops out same deal. So, um, I mentioned uh,
Plant pathologist that I've worked with for years now. Um, steve koike and he's seen enough
He's seen enough plants now, I mean i've asked him this question a number of times and last I saw him was about a month
ago, and
He he was still wondering about that is how much fusarium is there out there?
We're just not seeing is it really a problem or is it a problem?
under certain
Circumstances is is this host?
Susceptibility do we mean a problem? Yeah or in humans?
Uh, no, no in in plants. Yeah, so in cannabis specifically. Yeah. I mean we found
We found fusarium, but it was interesting. Uh, it was first time I took it to the lab
Uh, I think we collected 30 plants that had symptoms we sent them in and two of them had fusarium
You know
None of the rest could be detected by any of the symptoms. I mean steve
Plated them out for us once once it grows a few days. It's pretty easy for any mic
Microbiologist plant pathologist can identify it usually
By looking at the the petri dish it was grown in right?
so
You know, okay. So
What's the deal here these do these have it?
It sounds to me like the symptoms
In these plants, even though they're the same as in these two plants are the same as these eight over here
um
It may not be related to fusarium, right?
So 30 of the 32 plants did not have it even though they all expressed the symptoms. Yeah
Yeah, it was so do they know what those other plants had?
They didn't test, you know, they had mosaic appearance of the leaves you've you've heard about the mosaic viruses, uh,
You know
Also affecting the the crop. Um
They looked like mosaic. They did not have any mosaic. He put them through a panel of
different pathogens and
Basically, all he found was fusarium now. This was before we knew about the viroid
So if if he had that my next question would be hoplate and viroid
Hoplite and viroid we don't know because at that at that time I don't think the viroid. Um
I think they're called the primers which is the
What you need for the test?
wasn't really
Commonly available because it was just kind of we were barely learning about it. I i'm I very clearly remember coming back
from that, uh
You know from when we sampled
Um, it wasn't until months or probably even a year later when I first heard about the viroid
right and um had you seen
What turned out to be the viroid much earlier and then when people told you that there was this viroid and this is what it?
Does you were like i've seen you know, you know the testing the heavy testing for viroid happened after I
left
um where I worked and
And moved to beneficial insectary that was really when everyone started to really key in on testing and um
Some places went out and tested all their um, you know their mother tissue every single plant and eliminated everyone that
That had the viroid in it. So it was it was a it was some time ago that you know, I I learned about fusarium actually
You know potentially being a problem in cannabis before I learned about the viroid. It's like every year. There's some new disease
Oh, that's not even every year. It's everything I wanted on this cannabis party, too
And fusarium, where does it come like where would it come from? How would it be introduced?
It could also be a survival structure. A mommy and a daddy fusarium have a baby fusarium. Is that what?
Yeah, I mean, but how do they get into your garden? I mean brought in uh, it could have come in with your soil
Okay, it could have it could be in
There could be that some other plant here in your garden is susceptible to it and there are survival structures
And you were watering your lawn one day. So the same strain of fusarium could be infecting other plants. Yeah
Well, okay. Well, um there I know of at least two I think it's three
Species of fusarium that we found at in our soil
right
One of them the one that's thought to be the main culprit is fusarium oxysporum
And that's the the same one that hits
Other crops like give me an example of another crop that it loves. I believe that's strawberries. That's the main fusarium
so basically it's like
yeah, I mean that that's like a super disease that can like like, you know how like uh coronavirus it's like
They don't think necessarily cats and dogs like we couldn't transmit it to a cat
They can't transmit it to a person but with this it's like it could go from like
Tom's cannabis plant to like the neighbor's strawberries and then like the next neighbor's growing weed and it's like what's that like exactly?
So you do yeah, I can find food sources. Yeah, there's uh, there are
There are really interesting strawberries and weed in socal. Well, uh, like fusarium
I got one for you in the middle of the state where you have all these different central coast. Well, you're surrounded by them
I got another one for you. Okay. Um
so so they bought this so the um
I was talking about grapes and botrytis, right? Um
So the grape that the grapes that are typically affected by botrytis are the pinot noir and chardonnay grape. Those are very commonly
That's a very common fungal problem. These are thin skin grapes. Remember we talked about that. They're not very tolerant
Of very high temperatures so they could easily get sunburned and damaged. So that's why they're normally grown in regions of france
Coastal cool climates that also happen to have a high humidity
So that they have a very susceptible host with the thin cluster thin skins that are clustered tight
And then they have the the perfect environment and then as soon as that spore lands there
Guess what? You have the disease the triangle components, right?
so
Botrytis scenario is happens to be the same triangle here
Yeah
Yeah, you at some point there had to have been some kind of weather event. Um,
I'm pretty convinced. It was that the the heat wave. Well, okay. How about this?
So we have a new batch of auto babies that I just brought over. So
They'll be susceptible. Yeah
But wouldn't it imply that they need the same shitty like weather event?
Yeah, but let's think about this we can talk about macro environment or in the sense. It's already here
It could easily get to them, okay, so let's talk about the macro environment, right that's behind you as well. Don't forget
Yeah, we got it everywhere. Yeah. Yeah, so there's not a plant that does not essentially they're everywhere. It's like covet, right?
Yeah, exactly
Even in the white house, okay
Yeah, um, have you have you ever noticed how your biggest buds that top cola are the ones that are normally first affected by
Botrytis, right?
So I mean you can see it have you and then second question is
Um, those were the ones that you were trimming where you saw it first, right?
You cut those off because they were the top bud. Yeah, right. That's usually a really big bud up there, right?
Well, we got those because tom didn't want the neighbor to see his gigantic plants. Okay. All right
So you injured the plant gave it gave the botrytis an entry
but but yeah, so
um
What about that micro environment inside the flower? Have you noticed that botrytis starts from inside the flower?
All right, the gray mold usually I mean i'm not saying it doesn't on occasion start on the outside tissue
Even even on stems you'll see botrytis
I haven't seen that routinely, but I have seen it. Um that big flower which is tight. Um
That's not one solid piece of plant. There's nooks and crannies in there, right and we're talking about microscopic
Spores right? So we're talking about a very humid environment in there, right? And it's also dark and cut and you know, so
even something like
Raising the humidity for a few hours at the wrong time
That that big bud once it's closed up and gotten tight that's close to harvest, right?
What happens to fruit once it's closer to harvest it softens, right? All of a sudden now that host is much more susceptible
Because it's began to it started to decompose. It's part of the
Natural plant process to decompose tissues get thinner and more easy to for the for the fungus
Fungus, what's that? It's weak
It's it's weaker. It's softer. It's full of sugar. It's it's it's it's got spores inside
It's like a salmon that's swum all the way upstream and the bear is just sitting there being like this is too easy. Yeah
Right, you got it. You're tired. Good analogy. Good analogy. So so each part of these this triangle can can
Can give you a different impact in this case you had
The susceptible host was caused, you know
If you notice it started on your biggest buds
So the ones that were the ripest were more susceptible and the caterpillars came bit holes into them and allowed faster
entry into the flower and
You you basically you got susceptibility of host maybe the environment didn't have as much to do with it
this time around, you know, but there was presence there of of the
of the fungus there was
Susceptibility and and the environment had to have been at some point perfect for it to have
germinated
We did it Tom
So proud
Actually, you know, I
Is cold is the ones at the top were the last one they see really yeah, I don't know I don't know
They were pretty brown up there. Well now they are. Yeah, you you've got I mean, it's kind of remarkable. I know
like
To see I mean how much feces is out there. It's practically every bud
Have you never seen have you is this like the most feces in a like?
God we are breaking records. I mean and he's seen a lot of
Commercial facilities. Hey, listen, you learn you learn about a really important symptom and you know
Now, you know to monitor for mods early, you know, okay, right? So the recap for next year's start
What's our prescriptive strategy again? It's what I do what I do is that is that your acidic wasps? Is that your daughter?
Gemma, yeah, give her a quarter of a kilo of food
Right and then get everyone and maybe it is only corn earworm right now, you know now we can look at sandwiches. There you go
Now now we can look for what does that moth look like now? You're gonna have to set up traps probably at some point
Right start setting up
Light traps are a good way, you know, a lot mods are attracted to light
Is there a pheromone trap that's like literally the zapping light?
Oh any light, you know, I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know
Is there a pheromone trap that's like literally the zapping light
Oh any light right mods fly around these light bulbs, right? No, no, but but you're saying put a trap out
Yeah, you don't have to put a zapping trap that'll destroy it
But a sticky card trap or something like that. You can buy moth traps that are based on glue to you know
So maybe that's a way to do it. There's also what are called the delta traps
You may have seen them the county puts them out for different flying pests
It's a little folded looks like a little tent little paper tent that's hung in the tree
That has glue all on the inside and it has a little pheromone which is actually intended to attract the male
Yeah, if you capture some of those moths, that'll tell you what kind of caterpillars you're going to wind up with, right? Maybe yeah
Maybe perhaps maybe well, okay. So, um
I'm never i'm never a sleeve roller. Is it a problem in cannabis?
I've never heard of any of these leaf roller families being a problem in cannabis
I have heard of them showing up and feeding a bit
Right, but what's the one tom has but it's a cornear worm and what's the adult version of that called?
It's the same cornea. Yeah, it's a cornea moth
Cornea or butterfly. It's helicoverpa zea. What's the difference between a moth and a butterfly?
uh
mostly moths are
night flyers
You know, mostly okay. That makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, but um, likewise most most butter
I think that's I mean there's families. There's I mean, there's there's
I'm, i'm really yeah, I never really see caterpillars flying around at night
I'm, not good at the what I call the the order lepidoptera. It's a tough one
It's I mean distinguishing leaf roller moths from each other
That gave me fits in school. Yeah
That'll be all trained. I'll train jemma in that skill. Yeah
well, so so we we don't know but but we i've never seen mealybug in in um
In cannabis and i've heard some people say. Oh, yeah, i've seen it and
I kind of found it hard to believe it's like i've never seen it. Well, that's that's a little bit arrogant
Just because I haven't seen it. Um, I got a photo of some from texas
a few months ago, so
Maybe leaf rollers aren't a problem in california cannabis, but what's it gonna do to oklahoma? Right? So
Knowing what's around and what's coming regional pests
so what were you seeing a lot of in in
Norca well actually in socal too you're up and down the coast. So what were you seeing? That's the main one
Oh, so we have what everyone's getting. It's it's not the only one they're getting. I um, actually
But like this is a noticeable uptick in this across california from previous years
No, no, in fact, it could have could have been a pretty
Okay year, but actually the some of the lake county growers I work with
um, they uh
They are reporting. Um
They are reporting a bad caterpillar like okay lake county
Yeah, so like the caterpillars are honed into some different regions. So I was at um a greenhouse operation in selena
There's a caterpillar. Um, and you know, we found the damage we found the damage I could see it
It's like okay. It's a matter of time. No turds
I don't see any feces at all just a matter of looking around and there he was about that long. This is
Not does not look like a cornea worm, but i'm not positive like I said a lot of
A lot of these wait, is that the one from here? No, this is from a grown salinas. I caught yesterday
It could be younger
It could be a younger one. Yeah, it was bright green. It even painted the alcohol green vials
Do you have like hundreds of vials with different insects in them? Not anymore not hundreds
Well, so i'm gonna take it back
And i'm gonna look at it under a scope and i'm gonna look at features
Sorry, where where was that one from? It was a selena screen. So do you need to uh,
Develop a program from them based on that it helps because then you can target to the most effective wasp, right?
Right, um that that so okay
So by the way next next season you you need to show up. What's today like october?
What are we what day
Wallpark the third today october 3rd, so he should have shown up here like september 1st
For like the ipm inspection slash strategy
But then it fell but then coronavirus we knew that this was something we wanted to yeah
We just didn't we did want to have this. Yeah, like two months ago. Yeah or a month and a half. Yeah, I mean
monitoring starts
Monitoring starts when you bring the first plant into your grow and never ends after that here
I'm gonna leave these for you
and uh, I I give I hand these out to some of our customers what do we just put alcohol in it or what do you
Put in just isopropyl alcohol or and then the bug and if you find it catch it kill it
If you don't I mean we live close so I could actually get it from you come pick it up. We can show up here. Yeah
But if not if you're far off somewhere, you know another okay, so people send you guys bugs
You don't even have to send the bug just just catch it catch it kill it in alcohol then stretch it out
So it's not moving around on you and take photos very close photos very clear photos
from different angles
And off not often sometimes it's not enough. Um, we've got a really good. So what are what are some of the interesting?
Bugs that have come across your radar recently that that people have like done that and taken pictures and sent them to you guys
Oh, geez, there's a lot well, I just saw do you have that scale insect? What did that leaf end up?
Oh, oh, it's it's over on the uh,
the straw
Okay. Yeah, because um, I took pictures of it while it was uh, would you leave it on the straw over there?
Yeah, but i'm gonna see about you know, taking this thing. So what did you find interesting about that?
Well, there's a scale insect
Oh a scale insect. Yeah, but I think I think I think it may be dead now actually
Because it was it was on green tissue. This was green about a half hour ago
Put it down. I can actually get a I have you I have a photo. Anyway, it's uh
It was it was a lot lighter orange color. It's right there that brown thing. Yeah
I can I took a photo before it before it met its end
And
Here here's a really good one here. Oh, wow. Wow. Is that that? Yep
I'm gonna get a super
And what is that? It's a soft scale. I don't know which one yet, but it's a soft scale
it's another
insect that sucks on plant sap and feeds on them and
Is a problem in some crops
Citrus has the california citrus scales
It looks like a little tiny scales, you know what it look at this photo here
It doesn't look like a raisin. Does it look like a turtle shell to you? Yeah, kind of
Yeah, that's what they look like. They're little and what is it? It's a it's a soft scale. I don't know which one
Oh, that's the type of insect. Mm-hmm
What's like that family common for like known for well, they they'll feed on plant sap, right?
But do they become a problem?
You don't know enough yet, but that's brand new. That's the first time i've seen that
Yes, these the adults are the adults can fly. All right
The males can fly I believe it is mostly but they're they're they're so small that they'll be carried on them
Yeah, and if there's females around then they'll mate and the females will lay eggs
These these often actually these have a
These actually are have keep their eggs inside of them
So if you flip them over, in fact, if you had a scope we could do it
Although I think it's fried now because it's sat in the sun. Yeah, but um
So it was alive before yeah. Well, look at the color difference. Look at the color difference
It's this was a green leaf like half hour ago, right?
Yeah, and um, it's cool. It's I probably still have enough to make some kind of close identification of it
It is
It's right here. Oh, there it is
Yeah, it still kind of looks like a like a turtle right but now it's more shriveled
Yeah
And so you haven't really seen that I haven't ever I mean we suspected a possible
I suspected a possible we we
We we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we we
Yes
my
my colleagues and I had had a
A few photos that a grower sent that we argued was is it scale? Is it?
Is it um a seed a seed that that's uh, i'm sure if I went to a scale expert
That they'd be able to
Id that that's that's an okay photo right there. You can see that's that could be
this little dot here could be where it's uh
where it's waist drops out of.
Gemma, we're looking at bugs.
So, yeah, so I will take him.
Let's see what I mean is if I don't get him,
I can't positively ID him because I haven't seen him or her.
It's actually her.
Gemma, who gave you the iPad?
Is Laura the best host ever?
So, Tom, look around for more of this, huh?
Look around for more of this.
Yeah, text me that picture and I'll send you these ones.
It's not difficult, right?
No, not at all.
All right, so this is amazing.
All right, so Tom had, let's recap again.
Tom had Botrytis.
You're rubbing it in now.
Now you're rubbing it in.
He had the scale bug, right?
Yeah, which again, we don't know
if this is even a problem, right?
Could have been a confused.
But you've never seen it before.
Not this, no.
Even if it's not causing problems,
it's never been seen before.
But we're so new at this, right?
I'm sure someone else has seen it.
Oftentimes they'll see it but not be able to see it.
I'm just saying, it hasn't been,
like if you've never seen it,
it hasn't probably been commonly seen.
Like maybe one guy's seen it a couple times.
So that bodes well, right?
If no one's seen it and you find one,
there's a bug that particularly.
What's the last thing that's kind of been like the,
what's the Asian wasp, like the big gargantuan one?
That's, what's it called?
Yeah, that.
Like the killer wasp.
Yeah, that one.
That giant one.
But anyway, like something where someone saw the first one
and then it's like, shit.
I guess it would have to be,
most recently was that the cannabis aphid.
That blew up.
So I heard about it and again, I'm.
Like what was the last year no one talked about it?
No one talked about it in Salinas.
Cause keep in mind, it's a tiny area that I worked in.
Nobody talked about it.
Let's see, not 18 we've saw it.
17, sometime around 2016.
Sometime around 2016, nobody was talking about it.
And then suddenly like some people were talking about it.
Well, no, no, Oregon and Colorado.
And it had been described.
It's not like it got discovered on cannabis.
It's a hemp aphid, you know, it evolved on hemp.
But were Oregon growers and Colorado growers
seeing it even earlier than 2016?
You know, I'd have to go back and look at this.
I'm not great about exactly when it happened,
but there was a bulletin sent out
by the Oregon Department of Agriculture
to all the cannabis growers.
They legalized a little earlier, right?
That, hey, this is a pest of cannabis, be wary of it.
It got to Salinas, like I said, the first infestation.
My experience was in 2018.
We were, at first it was difficult to figure out
what to do about it.
Now we have some strategies.
How problematic was it at first?
Was it destroying whole crops?
That's the problem is we never took the data.
And that's, again, I wanna stress that is
we really, really need the growers
to get diligent about that.
Was like reporting it?
Yeah, there was a situation where that first infestation
hit me, it was about probably an area
of about 500 square feet that it was a mess.
It was a total mess.
And I begged that we harvested it earlier
so it wouldn't spread to the rest of the crop.
In the end, we were able to contain it to one area,
but it was bad.
It was really, really bad.
Where to the point where they crawled off of it.
I mean, it looked like an army crawling off of it
when it was,
where it's drying,
when we were drying the buds, they crawled off.
And that's right when I left Harborside.
And I said, hey, I beg you,
check the potency and yield on this, please.
But unfortunately, nobody went that next step
and said, hey, let's look at what this aphid
in this extreme situation did to this bud.
I mean, we're not gonna know what potential it had.
You mean, did, that's what I was gonna say.
Was there a baseline of like,
this thing expressed itself this amazingly last year?
There's that.
You could compare it to the rest of that crop
in the different, maybe there was the same exact strain
in the same exact greenhouse, but in another corner.
It's like years and wine grapes, right?
Like there are certain years that are like,
exceptional years and the bottles reflect that
in their price.
Yeah, something like that, I guess.
Yeah, so, but that would have been a great one where,
okay, take good record of the yield
of that particular strain
and then do it again the next time you grow that strain
and then do it once, keep them under,
keep them from being attacked, maybe put special,
special more resources into keeping that strain
from being attacked and then now grow on where you have,
okay, I had a successful crop with it here
and compare your yields per square foot
and compare your potency in the flower.
And then if you found a drop in 1% yield
and half of a percent of potency, was it a problem?
It looked ugly, right?
And it, yeah, it made it stick around in your garden,
in your grow and it moved to other crops.
So yeah, that's a problem, but how problematic is it really?
How damaging is it?
It's just really early.
Although at a certain point, we know in other crops,
aphid infestations, when you see a plant covered with aphid,
it can't be good, right?
But how many are tolerable?
We just don't know the research.
What if-
Wasn't that the point of like some pests is good,
lots like of a species, like having a couple aphids,
like I wouldn't use good, but like not negative.
Let's put it this way.
And then like, but having a ton is obviously the-
Nature's typically balanced, right?
You don't see massive infestations,
well, unless like somehow humans might've interfered,
but you do see them on occasion,
but nature balances itself, right?
Populations of predators climb
with the populations of the pests,
pest populations drop off,
populations of predators drop off.
It's a cycle.
It's like my compost bin where like,
there's a food source outside my house
where there never had been one.
And now black soldier flies are like,
and their larva, I mean, it's like millions of,
or not millions, but like hundreds of them
in like in my worm bin, they're in there too.
The worms aren't very, they're just like-
I love those guys.
I gotta tell you a story sometime about those.
Cause I was playing around-
About worms or black soldier fly?
Soldier fly larva, yeah.
And cannabis.
I love them, but they keep,
the larva keep finding their way
under the floorboards into the house.
And so my wife sees like these larva
crawling across the floor and is-
I was growing them indoors myself.
And I would occasionally-
Like when I see them, I'm like, sweet,
like let me release you outside.
Yeah, that's cool.
Do your job.
And she's like, what the fuck is this?
But yeah, it's like that.
Something's gonna come.
You plant something, something's gonna come.
You know, you've made something artificial here, right?
Some of the pests that attack this.
Well, it's less artificial than just the grass though.
It is, yeah.
It's getting back to-
But you've brought a non-native plant
into this environment.
And who was here waiting?
Cornear worm was here waiting.
It's susceptible.
All the native pests that have been waiting patiently.
Cornear worm was probably around here
since you bought the house.
You know, it's been here forever.
Where has it been feeding?
I don't know, maybe your neighbor has some corn or-
Oh, does it love corn?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, it's a critical-
Clever name.
Actually, it likes corn ears.
Ah, interesting.
So it focuses specifically-
Would the ear be the outside part?
No, the ear is the-
Is the actual kernels.
So it'll do the same thing.
It'll dig into corn.
Oh, it'll go inside?
It'll go into the core, like the-
I'll tell you what, go to your farmer's market.
If there's anyone here that grows corn locally,
you know that Bacillus thuringiensis
is that bacteria I told you about.
One of the first successful Monsanto GMOs.
They took corn and inserted the gene
of the Bacillus thuringiensis into the corn.
So the corn naturally produces the BT toxin.
And when the corn earworm feeds on it, it dies.
The corn is poisonous to it, but not to us.
We do the same thing with cannabis?
But it doesn't know that it's about to eat poison.
Potentially.
Wait, what?
That's exactly what Monsanto will do.
Yeah, that's what Monsanto's gonna do.
Like it starts munching on the buds.
If you make a BT cannabis-
They'll grow BT cannabis.
You make a BT cannabis and then you-
What's BT short for?
A Bacillus thuringiensis.
And they've done it for corn, and guess what?
It made the difference between people in Africa
having something to eat, having crops, and not.
Oh yeah.
But it's around here.
But on that front though, Tom,
what if you grow some BT corn out here?
Around the, all around here.
As like a, what do you call it?
A banker plant?
A trap crop.
A trap crop, right.
Yeah, yeah.
See what I'm getting at?
Tom, that would be the power move.
Some Monsanto'd out corn on the perimeter.
Not to even eat, just for-
It is, keep in mind, it evolved.
We think it evolved on grasses.
Gross puts them out to grow out here.
Because these same caterpillars-
Like, seriously, don't they have a patent that-
You can buy it.
You can definitely buy it.
You can buy BT corn.
You just couldn't like breed
and then sell them to other people or use them yourself.
Grow it and the moth will fly to it, lay its eggs on it.
As soon as the caterpillar hatches and starts feeding,
and it doesn't move into your crop.
It's possible that corn earworm moth
likes the smell of corn better than cannabis.
So maybe more moths will go-
Who would?
I mean, that doesn't, I mean, they were so pungent.
I know.
They were amazing.
They're still pungent.
They had huge potential.
But GMO crops, that's, I don't know,
that's not really sexy in cannabis, right?
But it's interesting to have it as the trap plant.
Yeah.
You have to be like, I'm not even gonna eat the corn.
There are other BT crops out there too.
You know, again, I don't wanna be-
Well, GMO cannabis is an inevitability, you know.
Heck, it could be, you know.
But not in Tom's backyard.
No, but you know, there's genetic modifications
Tom may be rethinking that after this round.
Remember that there is more than just
outdoor grown cannabis.
You have greenhouse and indoor cannabis.
And typically they have that extra protection of exclusions.
So they have screening.
The question is, are there unintended consequences
to making the BT corn?
Oh yeah, there can be very.
We don't know for sure yet, but there can be, you know.
Yeah, you're making it resistant to these, you know,
to these disease and this predator.
But you know, what's the trade-off?
Are you killing-
There's a lot of trade-offs.
Nutrients?
We don't know.
And what it does to your body.
Well-
We don't know that yet, but you know,
imagine you've heard these stories, right?
A farmer down the road from a Monsanto farmer
got cross pollinated.
And then it's the fuck up.
He can't use his seed.
Like it's his fault.
It's the wind's fault and he can't use his seed.
There are no laws, I guess,
from pollen flying from one farm to another.
So-
That's a huge, huge problem.
You trespassed onto my property and now I have to pay you.
You stole, yeah, I have to pay you now.
I can't use my own seed, you know.
But you know, it's all handled in the courts.
And if you've got the money, you've got the lawyers.
Yeah, I think that was Monsanto's strategy,
just to bulldoze legally.
Yeah, so there are those.
And then, you know, you could consider, you know,
corn has wild relatives out there.
And if then, if you, you know,
if there was some kind of cross pollination
with a wild relative, I mean, that's possible.
Now you've created this wild plant that is-
With that defense mechanism.
That is protected from caterpillars.
And then what happens with that?
Can it now dominate and outcompete other plants
in the same, you know, environment?
Yeah, corn abyss, corn abyss.
It's a, yeah.
Fozzie bear.
I don't know, it's a topic.
It's fun to talk about it, but.
Yeah, you'd have this wild mutant gene
that's like, sees its path to like total freedom
by not being controlled.
Right, so.
Right?
Yeah, exactly.
But again, you know, like I said,
ear, caterpillars are a problem,
usually in outdoor cannabis.
And then the next would be in greenhouse.
You can get, you can have problems.
Tom's gonna move into it.
Well, we are gonna, maybe this is our inspiration
to finally set up the, yeah.
Well, yeah, they're tough to battle.
But the strategy is once again,
monitoring and acting early, you know.
As soon as you have any hint that it's time to act
with these guys, with these bugs,
then act, you know, start your BT sprays.
Start, this is hemp, right?
No.
No, this is high THC.
Is it, oh, okay.
For some reason I thought you said it was this high CBD.
Well, no, so all right.
This one's like right down the middle.
The autos are actually high CBD.
You're selling it as THC cannabis.
Or I mean, you're growing it for, yeah.
If you were growing it commercially,
you'd be selling it as THC.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Right, so yeah, because I was gonna say in hemp,
I'm not as aware of the laws,
but then you still have that other weapon,
that spinosad I told you about.
I'm not sure if that's legal in hemp still.
I know it's not good, if not in cannabis,
but in hemp it might be.
So you have another weapon.
You know, you got your sprays.
Start your wasp releases early.
They're really not that expensive.
You know, just, we recommend a certain frequency
and a certain amount.
And some growers say, I'm gonna double the frequency
and I'm gonna triple the amount.
That's how bad I wanna protect.
And that's how, that's the kind of investment
I wanna make to just have one more weapon
to throw at them.
Well, you deal mostly, obviously, with commercial groves.
But obviously everything would be less.
I mean, for just a little home grove, so.
The smallest container we sell, the Trichogramma wasp,
is gonna be, you know, tenfold more than you need.
Yeah.
So what does that cost?
Oh, I'd have to dig into it.
We get these overprotected.
Well, ballpar.
Well, go to our website, greenmethods.com.
It's very political.
And that's kind of the retail.
That's our retail website.
So you can see what that,
but of course if you're commercial, then there's.
You mean hundreds are gone?
Oh, I mean, no.
We rear them ourselves.
Yeah, they're not that expensive.
It's totally worth it.
Let's put it that way for prevention.
I mean, you can see this.
I go through, count, cut your,
if you're gonna harvest this for oils
or whatever you're gonna do with it,
but take the time to give them to your daughter
and have her go through every one
and see how many of them have the turds in them
because I saw, I don't think I saw one that didn't.
It seems like they all hit you.
And it could just be the drying of the chewed up bud too.
It's, yeah, so it's well worth it.
Look for other caterpillars.
And so we got worm poo.
I mean, the question is then also,
where are all the caterpillars?
Or could one caterpillar do a lot of damage over time?
I bet if we started digging in there.
Can they?
They can.
But normally they don't move like.
They don't move.
They kind of like, yeah.
But this could have been any number of events.
I mean, I did not see classic Botrytis mycelia,
the hyphae.
I didn't see it.
So I'm still like, what the hell?
It's dry.
So does that mean that potentially
it's not Botrytis at all?
You know, it looks like Botrytis.
It looks like that end stage of Botrytis.
I was in here a few weeks, a week ago
to see what it was like.
But yeah.
This, which I broke up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
See.
Yeah.
There's some gray there.
It's tough.
I, I've seen a lot of Botrytis, but this is, this is odd.
So, but yeah, look for more caterpillars.
Just find as many as you can and send them my way
or I can pick them up when I'm out here again.
So you live in LA?
Yeah.
I live in Palms.
Just north of California.
North of Culver City.
Yeah.
So I, I have a few growers out here in the Valley.
I was just here last week or the week before visiting.
Indoor guys?
Indoor guys.
Yeah.
And what do they have to deal with?
Well, indoor and greenhouse,
pest complex is a lot more, it's a lot more similar.
Indoor guys have a really, a harder time with root aphid
than, than maybe the greenhouse ones do.
And then outdoor guys have very little problem
with root aphid.
So it seems to be like the opposite
with the caterpillar, right?
With the, you, you get a lot of indoor growers
that are saying, I can't get rid of these root aphid.
Whereas in greenhouses, you might have easier control.
And then outdoors are rarely a problem.
I've not heard of a problem outdoors.
Usually what happens, an infested plant,
if it gets, if it's got them in the pot
and it gets transplanted to the soil,
they'll often, that'll end,
that'll often end the infestation of root aphid,
just transplanting outdoors.
I know, so it's like, so different environments.
That's interesting.
So people who are like propagating in greenhouses
where outdoor grows, they could have root aphids
on the indoor part and then bring them out and.
It's been seen before.
And we have hypotheses on why that's the case.
You know, so.
Well, that's a clue right there.
There's something in that indoor environment
that is conducive that the root aphid likes.
I tend to think more.
So my hypothesis is those are not very good diggers.
The aphids are, root aphid, it's rice root aphid,
actually came from rice.
It was a pest of rice, let's say.
That's how it was identified.
So it was called rice root aphid,
but it does like other crops.
This is a, it jumps plant species too.
Yeah, I know it's a problem in, you know,
the monocots, like the grasses, rice being one of them.
So would it be a problem with corn?
I don't know.
But I know it's also a problem in broadleaf
because I know it's a problem in Salinas celery, right?
The same exact aphid.
And we know that it infects, it infests cannabis.
But what I was getting to is, I don't,
I mean, I'd like more data on this,
but I've done a lot of this where, you know,
found infested pots of aphid.
And then after harvest cut the root ball in half
and looked for them and they weren't in inside the pot.
They were populating that space
between the soil and the pot.
That, which makes it that border there,
which makes it a lot easier with all those spaces
and caverns in there for them to move around
and for them to find roots.
So that's their optimal place to hang out once they're-
Yeah, if you notice indoor growers,
rock wool growers, you know, the rock wool cubes are wrapped.
Guess where they are?
They're in between that plastic.
And they might have gone into, you know,
the rock wool is just like fiberglass, right?
It's a bunch of laminate, you know, just layers of glass.
Where they can feed on the roots.
Yeah, they feed on the roots.
Yeah, they can get into some of those little crevices too.
So, but-
So hydro growers deal with them too.
Hydro growers deal with them too.
I often say, like, soil is probably the best
because like I would be hard pressed to think
that you're ever gonna find your root aphid
become a problem in that setup
because they don't dig well.
Like I said, they can move in those cracks
to get to the roots.
Well, roots are a little bit farther away from the walls.
And by the time the roots do get to the walls
of those pots there, I mean, that plant might be
so large enough to where it's not a problem.
Yeah, so the environment really defines
where the vulnerabilities are.
It could, it could.
Tom, I remember this same view two weeks ago
was beautiful and epic of these lush plants.
I know, and you know what?
That's actually, I mean, hate to learn
from this experience, but how long really was that?
Two weeks ago, you said?
Yeah.
What if you'd cut, what would your yield have been
if you'd cut last weekend?
Double what you have now, right?
So it's a lesson for some growers.
Most growers, they're aware of this.
As soon as they see one flower,
they're in there cutting.
Lesson is if this was Botrytis, which looks like it,
and you know, it may be, I always used to say,
Salinas is a hard place to grow cannabis
if you don't have good environmental control.
And I always used to say, if, you know,
without the good environmental control,
we don't call the harvest, Botrytis calls the harvest.
It's the one that decides, you either pick me,
or you either harvest me now, or I will take it.
Or I'll take it all, right?
And you know, sometimes growers, that's tough to do.
You've gone through the whole life,
and then the last week or two is when this starts up.
And you're like, what the hell?
And at that point, it's,
smartest thing we did once,
when we did have a little problem was harvest early,
and send that out fresh frozen to live resin.
And yeah, the yields suffered,
but it was not as bad as if we had let the Kola go
to a dried up, crumbly, you know.
I mean, this might still have THC in it.
And I've-
You can use the turbo over there.
Yeah, there's, I mean, we probably all smoked Mexican weed
that looked worse than that, right?
That is true.
Yeah, but yeah, I don't think anyone-
Fortunately not for a very long time.
Yeah.
Well, this has been really interesting.
I mean, I thought about that, but I didn't even know.
I mean, because the flowering cycle
was really started relatively recently too.
And that was really fast too.
Everything was-
And it was looking beautiful.
And we saw that one caterpillar.
It was, and this is the first time I've done this.
That's what you know now.
As soon as you see a moth, you know,
you got to set up traps next year.
Once you, as soon as you start,
as soon as you take the pods from-
Tom's like Rocky knocked down by Apollo Creed,
and it's an eight count.
And he's getting back up to plant again next season.
Yeah, well, it's not too late, right?
Couldn't you do another autofire?
He's not going to take defeat.
But yeah, you just, you know,
the other thing we talked about is
if we are talking about botrytis, which, you know,
again, I'm not, I'm not really convinced yet.
Wait, you're not convinced that it is?
100% that that's what's going on.
But you're like 98%.
Yeah, it's just, I don't see like typical structures
of the fungus.
It's all dried out.
And the fact that I see all that-
You're seeing a unique disease.
Tom, maybe in addition to the scale, which is unique,
we also have a previously undiscovered disease.
There's no question that there's something like,
you know, it's not, yes, there's, I mean,
but it's like a disease rather than just like-
It's just, it's just, again, break those buds open.
And if you find feces in every one, I mean,
I did, I looked at a lot of, quite a few of them.
We saw a lot of fecal matter.
Then it is the cat, yeah.
And then where are they?
Where did they go?
Did they finish their, you know,
they've got to go into a pupil.
And you've become an expert in identification
of the different fecal matter
from different species of caterpillar?
No, but you know, there's a difference between like snail-
Do you aspire to that skill set?
Eventually I'll get there, I guess.
I mean-
That's one of our GEMMA trainings.
To be able to identify the different caterpillar poop.
By flavor.
By flavor, yeah.
By taste.
Corneal worm tastes a little corny.
All right, well, I think that was a good-
Well, yeah, that was really-
A good deep dive.
A deep dive.
And I think we have a semi game plan
for earlier in the season next year.
Oh yeah, I mean, just start monitoring,
look into, again, first step, let's ID those.
Collect as many as you can and put them in jars.
I left you these.
And then, you know, because that's where it starts.
And then, okay, well, we have,
at least we know who's hitting us.
Yeah, well, the one we had on the table,
what does a caterpillar do?
Inched?
It inched away.
Yeah, anyway, let's say you know you have three of them
eating your buds, three different species eating your buds,
then you go look for what the adults look like,
you figure out how to identify them.
And that's what you look for in your traps.
As soon as you see that one of those adults-
Tom, that would be epic if we actually identified
two different specific species.
It happens.
And next year we're totally prepared for them.
We actually discover them, so then we-
Right, and they're also new, undiscovered.
Well, right now I think-
Gemma, well, I have to name them.
What's it, the corn ear?
Yeah, the corn earworm.
Yeah, that's a common one.
It's our worm of choice.
It's a common one.
In the Valley of Los Angeles.
But it's not the only one, no.
Gemma canna-killer or something like that.
We'll name the new discovery after Gemma.
Or we'll let her name it.
When you're called in, is it,
I would assume it's better for you to be working
with grows from the get-go.
Yeah, so I do, I work for a biocontrol.
Not to be brought in once there is a problem.
Is that your least favorite time to come in?
That's probably when you're called in.
Yeah, unfortunately.
So that's a big message, too.
So I work for a biocontrol company, right?
We sell insects for crop protection
and other predators for crop protection, right?
So in our industry, it's all about vigilance.
Because if we rely on sprays and try to integrate
a biological control program, you will struggle.
Because some of those sprays will hurt
the predators you've put into it.
Like how are the maroon products?
I have some experience with them.
They do say, I've attended some of their presentations,
some of their webinars, and they do say
that they are softer on beneficials.
But I personally haven't seen the research,
so I don't know.
So they're like, while this may do something
to beneficials, it's not as bad as what it's doing
to the thing you don't want.
Yeah, and that's a tough one.
You gotta say, okay, well, give me the mode of action.
How's it behaving?
Because, for example, BT, Bacillus Thuringiensis,
if you told me, you know what, this is dangerous
to the caterpillars, but it's not dangerous to aphid.
That's absolutely true, because the mode of action
is only for caterpillars, right?
So if we knew the mode of action of some
of these other products that claim that they are harmful
to pests but not to the beneficials,
and we find that it made sense, and there's some research
that made sense that they would hurt your pests
and not your beneficials, then you could say,
all right, well, there's something to this.
Tom, I'm digging those flavored waters.
I think we're out.
Oh, she got more?
I don't know.
I thought they were new purchases when they showed up
mysteriously in front of me.
I drank both of them.
Oh, did you already have one?
I had two.
Oh, then they must be in there.
She just went to Costco.
No, I didn't, well.
You take the video, and then you edit it out
and everything, all that kind of stuff.
Yeah, like a two-camera.
I mean, this is like, it actually,
I mean, this camera, I think, overheated,
but it's effective, and it's budget,
I can easily carry two iPhones around and two microphones
and be like, I could actually do a cool conversation.
Oh, shit, that's the same worm.
I'm the same caterpillar.
And it'll hit you right at the same time,
right about close to harvest.
Is an inchworm a caterpillar?
Yeah.
Okay, it's just called inchworm.
Yeah, actually, the more common name is a looper.
And butterfly or moth?
Butterflies and moths produce caterpillars.
No, no, no, an inchworm.
Oh, a looper's a moth.
Okay.
So even though they look cute and wonder baby.
See, they call them loopers because, okay.
Nice.
Oh yeah, great, thank you, appreciate that.
Sorry, I drank your previous one.
Thank you.
Should I turn this off?
You can turn that one off.
This is, I guess this is,
they just call that a green looper.
Yeah, it's like the common cute inchworm.
So let's look up, if, you know,
I'm pretty sure that that's cornea worm.
It looks like many, they are.
I took some macros of it, but then it got away.
Here's what the adult looks like, okay.
It's a brown moth.
It's not.
Tom, we should also know what the adult form looks like,
so you don't kill all the ones that aren't doing any damage.
Here's cornea worm.
One.
Damn.
That's definitely a nice, tiny moth.
It's a noctuid, I think, as a family, noctuity.
This thing looks big.
My noctuids can be very.
It's not working.
Did you see any of these around, Tom?
That's what the adult looks like.
It's a brown, tannish brown moth, you know.
Tom, be on the lookout for that one.
Yeah, that thing is a.
Okay, what size is it?
You know, you.
It looks kind of big.
Again, it's not a pest that I commonly battle.
Look at this wedge shape is like,
that's, it's a noctuid, right?
I think it is.
I didn't even know where to look for him.
Yeah, well, that's what, you know,
that is, that's the other place where we come in.
That's why, it was sort of like,
all I needed was the knowledge,
but we never got there.
No, I went, like, for example,
after I came two weeks ago,
I'm bummed that, like, I didn't come five days later,
because we would have started to notice stuff.
Here's a good photo.
It shows you that kind of triangular look.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, they look like that.
You got to look for things like the spotting on them.
And, you know, you see this on the second wing.
So there's two wings like that, right?
Is that male or female?
I don't know.
I'd have to look, but you see the brown.
You see the second wing,
you know how butterflies have two wings.
This bottom wing has that browning on the edge.
That could be a big identifying feature.
Well, what happens when it lands?
Is it going to land?
I'm just generally any big moth take out.
Well, don't kill them.
Don't kill them.
Catch them.
Because we can ID them.
If you catch them on glue,
Right, but once we ID it,
you can just kill everyone you find.
Put the glue in the refrigerator.
And a guy, I work with another grower, a cannabis grower.
He's in Durand out there up in Santa Cruz County.
Last time I visited him, he's like, hey,
what's the first time you put the pin through it?
I found a bug.
He said, I found a bug, a weird red bug
I'd never seen before at the base of one of my plants.
And it was just like a hundred of them just at the base.
And I said, did you catch any?
He said, yeah.
And he caught it, but the mistake he made
is he didn't put it in alcohol.
Oh, so it just shriveled up to like a raisin.
It shriveled in the fridge.
At least he put it in the fridge.
So when I ID'd it, luckily this bug is so distinctive.
It was easy to tell what it was.
And it was a bug called the Bagrada bug,
which is common in coal crops and a problem in coal crops.
But he found it on his cannabis?
On cannabis, so okay.
So is that coming?
First sighting of Bagrada bug that I know of.
But.
And when was this?
It was on the base of the plant.
And this is.
You said the base, like.
The trunk of it, the very bottom trunk, right?
And it was a, what is it?
Gathering there.
But how could it be feeding on such tough tissue?
I mean, hemp tissue is really strong.
And this was a nymphal stage.
This was just a nymph.
I swear, it had already laid babies.
No, it had not molted to an adult yet.
It was in the process of molting.
So it didn't have its wings yet.
You could tell it was a nymph.
That's how you can ID that.
By looking at it, you can tell,
okay, this looks like the second stage.
Did it come with an egg?
Yeah, yeah.
And you can ID them with their eggs.
So what could have happened is a bagrada bug
from a local cabbage farm or some wild mustard out there
flew in, got confused, laid its eggs.
That's what could happen with that scale.
Oh, and maybe won't eat the plant.
No, I mean, it might feed on it.
It's like a whale that went up the river
and then couldn't figure out how to get back out to the ocean.
That doesn't mean that we should block all rivers
so the whales won't go in, right?
When's it a problem, right?
Although I could see California doing that.
Let's over-regulate this.
Wow.
Let's cripple everybody.
So, yeah.
Yeah, so.
Do most crops like they, to stuff like this?
Do they have like an acceptable percentage of crop loss?
Yeah, so great.
I mean, you're hitting on the subject
that I like to talk about the most.
We're asking good questions so that we're on fire.
Yeah, so, okay.
So, obviously we can see what pests can do, right?
They'll harm your property and they harm your yields
and therefore what you make, what you come up with.
Your moneymaker.
Yeah, so, but.
What Tom shakes.
But BT is not free, right?
You have to pay for it.
So, at what point is using BT a good idea?
Right.
All year long, every, from start to finish?
Yeah, you probably stand more chance protecting
from caterpillar if you do it that way,
but did you really make more money
or did you throw it away in your material you use?
So, there's what we call the concept
of the economic injury level, which is.
Like, first of all, you have to figure that out.
So, say you have, so what is the cost of the BT
for say, I don't know, your plant growth?
I'd have to really look that up, honestly.
Or is it like percentage wise?
Like you're going, okay, you know.
I mean, is it in the single digit percentages
that you're, you know, I mean.
Usually a lot of these soft materials
are pretty inexpensive.
So, but again, you know, it's,
you put labor into it also.
You know, you had to put labor into it.
There's all that involved in it
and that's why we've developed this concept
of the economic injury level where at a certain point,
it pays to do something.
Before that point, it doesn't pay to do something.
Okay, so this is an extreme situation
because everything here has been impacted by this.
But you, and this is not a commercial,
but in a commercial, you certainly would not want this,
which is why I asked about, is there a percentage?
Like, there's a trade off, but how does a farmer know
what percentage of their crop they might lose
to a situation like this before they have to do it?
It's a very simple answer.
Research, university research.
And how long have we been researching this crop
at the university level?
Now let's talk about other lucrative California crops.
Let's talk about the top two, almonds and grapes, right?
Do they have guidelines?
They actually do.
You could get on, go online.
There's resources available where they'll tell you
if you have X amount of this pest per leaf
after sampling 20 leaves in a 100 square foot area,
then you must act.
But before then, you don't.
See what I'm saying?
We just don't know yet.
So we don't have those.
And the guidelines for the crop can be very detailed.
I mean, for grapes and almonds, they're fairly-
Well, this is really interesting.
For other crops, there's guidelines.
So if you see a certain percentage of pests
in a certain-
Area.
Area, then it's a time to act.
And those are very specific guidelines.
It's a mathematical equation.
But none of those guidelines
have been established for cannabis.
Not yet.
Not, and that's when-
Tom, I think we blew past the safe caterpillar threshold.
There's no question that we did,
but that's why I asked.
This is just a home grow, but for a commercial,
you wouldn't wanna lose your entire crop.
And neither did we.
Neither did we.
It's not all loss.
You could still-
We could still get that oil.
Pretty close.
You can get some live resin out of that.
We can make some-
But if we don't know how we have,
is there still anything that's smokeable?
Like, would you make hash out of that?
Yeah, you could make hash out of it.
Like ice water hash?
Yeah.
Like you would smoke it?
Yeah, there's trichomes on the leaves.
There's tons of trichomes.
But there's also a whole lot of botrytis, right?
Yeah, but you're filtering it out, right?
Your bags filter that out?
A lot of it.
Not the spores.
Okay, what do the spores do when you burn them?
I don't know.
And inhale them?
I would venture to guess not much.
You'd probably rather have less botrytis spores
going into your lungs than more, right?
I like the botrytis.
I mean, if we're talking about aspergillus-
It coats his lungs, yeah.
If we're talking about aspergillus mold, then yeah.
Does aspergillus grow on plants?
Dying tissue, yeah.
So I can guarantee you that if-
I know, but that would be only, like you could eat it.
It's just if you smoke or,
actually no, the spore is inhaling the spores.
Yeah, well, I mean, if you think about it,
you have a joint, right?
And you light it, or in pre-roll, you light it.
That first puff isn't all burning smoke.
There's some, whatever spores were in there
went right into your lungs.
Alive, and they got shot right into your lungs.
Nice.
So, but yeah, I mean, in a resin,
in a live resin, you're gonna go through
all this purification process.
No, I know live resin.
I'm saying ice water hash.
Ice water hash.
Solventless.
I couldn't tell you, I dive into the research,
botrytis, lung problems,
and I'm sure someone's done something,
but I haven't heard that it's prominent.
Right.
All right, well, let's,
so I just realized that Gemma missed
not only her three hour Chinese class this morning,
but she also just missed her dance class too.
Is she happy from that?
She does the dance class online?
Yeah, she doesn't want to be in school right now.
Yeah, so she wasn't gonna remind you.
She wasn't gonna remind you.
Four and a half hours of Zoom classes.
Oh, so it's all online, the dance class too?
Yeah, the dance class was,
and I knew it was 2.45,
and I texted her mom being like,
is there a Zoom link for her 2.45 class?
She's like, I'll check on the link.
I think class is at 3.45.
So I was like, oh, okay.
And then I come back,
and she forwarded something for the teacher
that's like, we'll see you at 2.45.
And it's now like 4.10.
Well, you learned about corneal worm.
That's right.
Well, yeah, you know.
It was a good use of my time.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, my interest in this was like really,
literally, first of all, doing it, experiencing it,
but then also-
And to smoke it.
Well, yeah, I've been smoking it and all of that,
but like, it's the home grow aspect.
It's trying to bypass having to go and pay all those taxes
if you do all of that.
So obviously, there's risks, and there's all of that,
and there's costs, and there's time,
and there's all of that,
and it's a learning process.
But generally, there's sadness, right?
Well, yeah, I mean, this is not the outcome that you want.
Right now, my dominant feeling is sadness.
I mean, we've determined, like a lot of other people
who might, you know, like,
and everyone's doing their gardening now.
And you know, there's a big argument
for like people growing their own cannabis,
especially if you need more, you know, if you wanna,
you know, if you're a patient and you wanna do that.
But you really gotta get past this.
It takes a while.
There's a workout.
It takes a while.
There's a learning curve.
You just have to remember, we've taken a plant from nature
and we have bred it for a certain characteristic, right?
Production of cannabinoids and terpenes in oils.
Well, there's a cost to that, right?
There's a cost to that.
It's the same as, you know, like we've taken cows
and it used to be a wild animal
that used to have better defenses against predators.
And nowadays we've, you know, we've created cows
their entire life is intended, you know,
they're just producing milk.
So you're saying-
Well, and they're also in like cow cities.
Also we're creating plants with less,
with fewer defenses.
Potentially, yeah.
And if you look, if you compare indoor growing
with outdoor growing, you know, a lot of indoor grows,
you're further coddling the plant, right?
You're giving it everything it needs.
You're making it an indoor plant.
So now you've got a coddled-
Totally dependent little baby.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that's often the, why these plants are more susceptible.
I mean, there's-
I told my wife she's an indoor plant.
She lives inside the Brentwood bubble.
Yeah, I mean, you can see the difference.
You can see the difference in indoor grown plants
versus outdoor grown plants
and their susceptibility to certain things.
You know, it's an artificial,
these are cultivars that were artificially produced, right?
Would they do as well if you put them back out in the wild?
Probably not as well as their, you know,
wild type relatives out there, right?
Run free, Chihuahua.
Yeah, exactly.
We bred you to be tiny and helpless.
At one point, that Chihuahua was hunting rabbit.
Right.
But also they've been bred
to have these extremely desirable characteristics.
Yes.
And other creatures are equally as attractive.
Or even better.
I mean, more attracted.
It's, you know, there's a,
what's starting to, you know,
like come out of a lot of, you know,
the growers that are paying attention is,
is, you know, the susceptibility of certain strains
with certain terpene profiles.
I think I mentioned this at the last video.
Oh, you mean if it's high with one terpene,
it potentially could attract a certain pest.
It could, or a certain terpene profile
represents a plant that's more susceptible,
not just to insect attack.
It represents a female to the male moth.
I mean, the breeze is picking up.
I can totally smell them.
Yeah, so.
I mean, it's a totally touching.
We just don't know enough yet.
That's just.
It is interesting, like, like terpene profiles
are kind of like frequencies and at different,
like for example, the moth, like are pheromones,
like is it a smell, which would imply it's a terpene, right?
They're hormones.
They're actually hormones that you and I can't smell,
but the male moth can.
But does that imply that it does have a smell?
To him.
Or is it a chemical that they just sort of recognize?
It's a pheromone.
It's a pheromone.
So it's not a smell thing.
Okay, so it's not a terpene.
It's like, it's, but it's a,
in the same way you think about terpenes with smell,
a pheromone is to like a chemical trigger.
Yeah, I mean, it could be that,
but let's keep in mind that a lot of these.
It's a chemical trail with the ants.
So moths, for example.
It's just like the synchromoth moths.
And what does the butterfly eat?
Well, the adult, nectar and water.
So would it make sense for nectar,
for adult flying moths and butterflies,
which are nectar feeders,
to have the ability to smell flowers?
Nectar.
Find the nectar that way.
I say yes.
Right, okay.
But if you put like a gallon of nectar in front of me,
I would probably be able to smell it, right?
But what if they're not only focusing on nectar?
What if they can smell terpenes
that those flowers are producing?
And what if they prefer a certain plant
that produces a certain flower that produces?
So you could, in breeding cultivars,
which all kind of are going off in like the berries
and the desserts and the whatever,
but like you may cross paths with some insect
and the insect's like, holy shit, that's my favorite.
That smells good.
Or maybe it smells like something that you really like.
So it smells like it.
I mean, limonene, what is limonene?
It's a terpene that's in cannabis, right?
But it's prominent in limes and citrus fruit, right?
It's one of the, I mean, it smells like limes.
That's why it's called limonene, right?
It smells lemony, right?
Could that lemon smell be something that attracts
a citrus pest to the citrus trees?
We just don't know.
Is it?
It could be, right?
And if it is, would more limonene attract them to,
or a plant that produces more limonene
attract that same pest?
I just, you know, it's been a couple years.
And it is the idea that they taste a leaf
that they've never tasted before
and are like, I actually like this.
Well, yeah, but this study is really important
to crop management and all of that.
So is this type of research being done?
So get to it.
So, okay, so yeah.
What are you doing sitting here with us getting high?
I'm not smoking.
No, this is important to your research.
Yeah, I mean, it is, I mean, okay,
we work close with a lot of people
that are in the research side of it.
And, you know, again-
So you mentioned Steve as one person.
Steve would be one, he's-
Give me some other people.
Well, you know, we know people at, you know,
different universities that are entomologists.
Like I would assume UC Davis is very strong.
UC Davis is strong.
Are there any like professors there?
Cornell is also, there's a lot of these universities
that, you know, we have some contacts there.
I mean, there was the recent find of the cannabis aphid.
Up until it came to Salinas,
we weren't sure whether one specific species of a wasp
was capable of parasitizing the aphid
until we were actually able to-
You put them together.
Until we were actually able to have some adult wasps
emerge from a dead aphid and send it to an expert
in that particular family of wasps in Florida.
And they came back-
Because there was no one in California
who had that specific expertise.
Or maybe that's the only person we knew
who was an expert in brocconids.
So they, well, I didn't know them,
but I was introduced to them.
We sent them the emerged adults,
and they came back and told us,
yes, in fact, it is this wasp
that is commercially produced from us.
So I heard about it, the Aphidius Colmani wasp.
Up until then, we really weren't sure if Colmani did do it.
So yeah, the research is ongoing.
And that's when you guys were like,
we got a new bug we're gonna breed.
That's the type of research that they do.
When they get it, they'll spend a million dollars a day
on this type of research.
And that's what they'll do.
And then they'll knock it out.
I found this yesterday as well, which is exciting.
You got all sorts of vials.
See that aphid right there?
It's black.
It's actually dead.
And it could be,
it could be that it is one particular species of wasp
that when it puts its egg in the aphid,
the aphid turns black.
If it is, we might have another weapon.
So you may see a wasp emerge from there,
like in the next day or two?
That's why I collected it.
That's what I wanted to do with the,
that's what I want to do with this.
I want to cut it out and look underneath
to see what there is down there.
But the scale-
And you're like, this may be a wasp
that we don't currently have in our lineup.
I suspect it's one that is commercially reared.
Okay.
That's my suspicion.
That's dead right there, right?
That aphid's dead, yeah.
He's dead, but he's not dried up and he's black.
And actually it looks like the cannabis aphid.
It could be another aphid,
but this grower had the cannabis aphid.
This is about all they had.
And it doesn't look like the other black colored aphid
that I've seen attack cannabis.
Is there something called the cannabis aphid?
Yeah.
That's what we've been talking about.
I didn't know it was called that.
That's its name.
Yeah, hemp aphid.
It's the aphid we've been speaking of.
Floridon, floridon cannabis.
Are there any vials that you haven't pulled out
and shown us?
Well, I just, I keep these.
I tell growers, give a handful of them to your crew.
Have them carry them around with you always.
Catch it.
So I can help you-
Well, remember when we had the leaf hoppers?
I still have one at home.
That's right.
I could send you a picture.
Actually, I have a picture of it on my-
Leaf hoppers are interesting.
We were just talking about beet curly top virus, right?
Yeah.
Last week.
Now a reason to start really thinking about
whether or not leaf hopper is gonna be a pest of cannabis.
Because it-
We had them.
It's what transmits that virus.
Yeah, and by the way, we had them too.
And that's when we had like the praying mantis were like,
what's up?
This place is amazing.
So you can imagine a situation where a farm is infested
with the beet curly top virus.
And that's being transmitted within the farm
by a leaf hopper.
And that somebody decides to put a farm of hemp
right next door.
Like in the same way that a mosquito transmits from human.
Okay, got it.
Got it.
It's exactly that.
It's maybe the virus has been around forever
and the leaf hopper has been around forever,
but it wasn't until you put the virus that got into the
plant that the leaf hopper was feeding on.
Oh, you know what?
I never posted a picture of it.
I posted a picture of a different one from home.
Leaf hoppers.
This one was,
Yeah.
I was like, you're kind of cute.
Yeah, there's a-
But now, yeah, that reminds me.
I need to-
What's it called?
It's beet curly top virus.
It's a, well-
It makes your leaf.
It makes the tops of beets curly.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, it was found in beets-
Just like the name says.
I guess, and that's where they came up with the name
beet curly top virus.
We're very literal in the naming of pests,
of insects and pathogens.
Tomato spotted wilt virus.
What do you think it does?
Right?
So, but yeah, but it's not exclusive to beets.
It has other hosts.
Apparently now, cannabis or hemp is a host.
Nice.
Plain?
That thing's cool.
Looks like it's made of wood.
It's probably-
It looks like a wood plain, right?
For the wildfires, maybe?
Now that seems more like a vintage, like-
Yeah.
All right, well, let's, that's a strong-
Yes.
Strong ending.
Tom's mind's blown.
He has a lot to think about
between this season and the next season.
Like I told you, like I said-
We'll develop a game plan.
Obviously.
Well, hey, you know.
I didn't know you at the start.
We'll take this disease head.
Now you know him intimately.
Do you feel like that?
Kind of like,
like you get to come and intimately evaluate
people's gardens, like their grow operations.
Essentially, yeah, that's my job.
They're basically burying themselves up to you in a way.
That's why I don't mention names of people I work with.
Right?
I don't want to tell anyone who I might be selling bugs to.
So this specific grower had this disease.
It was terrible.
Yeah, this grower in Salinas,
that leaf hopper.
I wouldn't buy their weed in a shop.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like, no, that's a,
yeah, there's no reason to mention anyone.
Throw them under the bus.
Yeah.
Everybody has them.
I mean, everyone has pests.
Well, Tom, you're burying yourself
to thousands of people right now.
So you're very brave.
Yeah, I mean, but then again,
there's a reason for this, right?
You're learning, you learn through it.
You know, now you have one more strategy,
but hey, you know, we didn't know each other.
We're sacrificing you to teach others.
The perspective, like my perspective,
it will always be a non-commercial perspective.
That's not what this is about.
So, you know, so everything is considered
from a home grow point of view.
It's the cost, what I'm going to do,
how can I protect this?
And that doesn't mean the grief isn't, you know,
isn't real, you know, in the sense of loss
and the time and all of that.
But, you know, whether that changes your decisions,
maybe not because the lessons are still the same.
You know, you have to be vigilant from the beginning.
The question for me has always been,
is there something I can do even before all of this?
Oh yeah.
To like prevent it, you know?
Yeah, so I'm not a biocontrol specialist,
although I know a bit about biocontrol.
I'm an IPM specialist,
and that stands for integrated pest management.
Keywords integrated.
It means not one strategy.
Like one of my profs used to say,
all right, if you had a boxer come out,
if you had Mike Tyson come out
and all he knew how to do was throw an uppercut,
it wouldn't take long before his fighter knew.
Although that is the killer punch in punch-outs.
It is his killer punch,
but he's also throwing everything else at you.
But if all he did.
Is that the one where it's like left, left, right, right?
I never played it.
And I think I did once and he killed me
like in the first round and then I stopped.
But let's say all he did was come out with an uppercut
and he just like wound himself up.
Soon you'd know how to defeat him, right?
It's the same idea.
You gotta use everything.
You gotta use right crosses, jabs.
The pests are like, we saw that strategy last year.
You're not gonna fool us again.
Yeah, you just have to throw everything at them.
So there's all kinds of, it's not just about.
When we talk about pesticides
and when we talk about biological control,
we're talking about one arm, one strategy in IPM.
That's the eradication strategy.
That's kill it.
That's the last thing you do, believe it or not.
That's like your last straw, kill it.
You have things like keep them out of the grow.
How do you do that?
Or under control.
Select strains that are more resistant.
What about hitting their life cycle?
Something that, the disease triangle.
We talked about that.
You can think of strategies.
Right off the bat, we talked about strategies.
If you control the caterpillar,
you make it less susceptible to the disease
because there's less injury.
So there's all these, it's a myriad.
Tom's gonna become a black belt
in the understanding of the disease triangle.
Well, it takes a lot of reading and time
but to think about it, but that's kind of my job
is design a program that is more bio-intensive.
In other words, trying to work around biocontrol
so that we can reduce or eliminate sprays
but at the same time, integrate as many strategies
as I can think of.
And also, again, coming back,
if you're dealing with commercial grows,
these are grows that will have different strains
in different seasons and all of that.
But I assume that what they don't want
is to have to fight the same battle year after year
or face, I mean, I guess this is just the challenge
of agriculture anyway, right?
Yeah, yep.
So it just seems that the cannabis in particular
which is only now really starting to scale up
is dealing with these issues on a truly commercial scale.
You got it.
And there are things we're doing that are good
and there are probably more things we're doing that are bad.
It took a couple of years before the cannabis aphid
really became a problem in Salinas
from when I first heard it.
Was it on a different plant?
Like, do people know like it came from this
or just came out of nowhere?
No, it's a...
I mean, obviously the name implies that it loves cannabis.
We talked a bit about it on that last Sunday, right?
Remember?
I wasn't paying total attention the whole time.
Fordon, the aphid.
I'll be totally honest.
The aphid's in the genus Fordon
and it has a relative that's very closely related to it
which is the hops aphid.
Hops and hemp are related so that pests that feed on them
happen to also be related.
So is it outside the realm of possibility
that the hops aphid can host on cannabis and vice versa?
Is it outside?
Or that like it did a Neanderthal like diverging to...
What are we?
What are we?
We're hominids.
Hominids.
Neanderthal was hominid too.
But we're not Neanderthals.
So my point is like,
my point is like,
do you think maybe in a short period of time
the hop aphid like diverge like...
No, they are clearly different species, right?
We don't know and we don't have evidence.
But do you think at one point like a million years ago
or even a thousand?
Because bugs recycle.
They have so many cycles in a year versus us.
I don't know how many Fordon aphid there are out there
but it is a family of aphid.
And so they're related in some of their genetics.
Didn't they recently find like amber of,
and I wanna say something like a...
It was a fly, wasn't it?
With the giant sperm?
In the past of what?
I think it was a fly.
Of an insect, right?
Wasn't it a fly?
It was a sperm of an insect, right?
And I think it was still stuck to the female.
I think she...
I think...
So does that mean that they...
She was inseminated and...
But what does that mean?
Did they recreate that fly like in vitro?
At this point, the technology is not there yet.
As far as I know.
Oh sure, it's there.
Like a prehistoric fly.
Yeah, it was here.
It's probably like this big.
No, but you know, it's...
Like a cow sperm in size.
Is it possible that the hops aphid can...
Is it possible that the hops aphid
can bring hops late and viral to cannabis?
Well, definitely.
Because basically if you like beer, you like weed.
And everybody, by the way, this is our Tom's expert opinion.
What about those of us who like wine?
Disclaimer.
Tom is not an expert.
You can like weed too?
You can like weed too.
Yeah, beer and buds and weed and wine.
If I liked...
Yeah, I do like beer and I do like weed, so.
Yeah, so...
I am like the aphid.
But the cannabis aphid's known only to host on the cannabis.
Although, you know, it obviously has to follow
somewhat of the life cycle of like the hops aphid,
which goes...
Which hosts between cannabis and stone fruit.
Prunus, prunus species.
Okay, but sorry, before cannabis was around,
the hops aphid was going...
Obviously, hops are grown all over.
I mean, not all over, but like...
What's the other one?
Dragon what?
You're talking about the trees?
No, no, no.
You mentioned another...
Stone fruit, sorry, not dragon.
Like prunes and peaches and all that.
Okay, that's the definition of stone fruit.
And it hosts on both.
Yeah, because it's got the...
So when there are no hops fields around,
it's like all hang out on the peaches and plums.
I still don't understand it.
Although I do know that it will,
can overwinter basically feed
and actually also believe it can reproduce on prunus,
like the stone fruit and then back to hemp or hops.
I'm not sure about this aphid,
whether eliminating...
And there is no aphid yet,
but eliminating all the prunus trees in the area
will just break its ability to overwinter
and then help with control.
I don't know.
Oh, because hops die at the end of the season
and those trees linger on.
And it's in temperate climate.
Like, do those trees...
Like, let's say, I assume they grow well
in like the central coast.
Do they lose their leaves in the winter
or are they just going full year?
You know, it's even just,
it doesn't necessarily have to feed on leaves, right?
It could be feeding on branch tissue or something.
You know, a lot of aphids when they overwinter
will overwinter on a naked tree that's, you know,
in the bark or, you know...
How about in cold environments?
Like I grew up in New England.
Yeah, I mean...
Because here it's like,
you could survive all year long
and LA is an insect.
Where did prune trees come from originally?
I haven't researched it,
but at some point they bred them
to grow in different climates, right?
In Iran.
So they were bred to grow in different climates
and, you know, there could be a prune that grows here,
a prune of species that grows here
that doesn't back east and vice versa.
Yeah, this is very interesting.
I mean, I think,
have you dealt with a lot of any of these large grows
where the farmers transitioned over to hemp
from other crops?
And so, you know...
So, you know,
because we've been hearing about this for years,
you know, large grows
and a lot of them didn't make it.
They kind of didn't know what they were doing.
They didn't know what they were gonna do with their crops
after they harvested them.
But now there's this other component.
Did they know what pests they were up against
with these brand new crops?
And all of that.
Yeah, no, to grow something completely new,
there's definitely...
I mean, the blueberry farmer up,
I think in Washington State,
I talked to a couple months ago.
He then grew hemp at scale
and he was like my first season.
And he's like a world-class blueberry farmer.
And he was like,
it just slapped me around.
Yeah, I mean, if you're not ready for it,
it's like anyone,
there's a learning curve for every crop.
There are some easy crops to grow.
How would you like go away from a crop you know, blueberry,
go, oh, here's this new one, I'm gonna make a killing.
And, you know, I don't understand the mentality
because here's like a smart person.
How could you not even...
How could you do that and not do your bottom line research?
You know?
And again, the bottom line research isn't there.
You have to remember...
And then if it's not there,
then you're taking a real challenge.
Yeah.
Well, it's like all the people who are growing hemp
and then we're like,
shit, I have nowhere to store all this stuff
once I cut it down.
That's what we were saying.
They didn't know where they're gonna store it.
They didn't know how to cure it.
They didn't know how to then manufacture it.
You have to dry and cure this
if you wanna sell the flower.
Why would you make that investment
if you don't know you're gonna...
Could it be that the investor
for the cannabis operation
is a different animal altogether?
Could it be that somebody that wants to switch,
let's say, from ornamental flower production to cannabis?
Well, no, but here we're talking about the people
who are doing hemp farms at scale.
Like not cannabis, but like hemp farms.
Same deal.
Same deal.
But it's at such a bigger scale of like,
what, you've never done this before
and you haven't thought out...
Like, and you didn't bring someone in
who knows what they're doing?
But see, so that's what I was getting at
is you have the chance of success
for somebody that has grown another crop
and has done it for years
and understands everything that goes
into the business of farming.
Having success with hemp, I think,
is greater than somebody that's just investing
to try to make...
Oh, 100%, which is a lot of cannabis operations.
Which is a lot of cannabis and a lot of hemp.
I mean, if you...
What I'm hearing from you
is that there's a body of knowledge
unique to every different thing that you grow
that if you're not aware of it, it'll bite,
take everything from you.
On the pest side, I focus on cannabis.
I've had, what, three years now?
Just almost exclusively focusing on this crop
because it's a new crop.
And so, it's like I am learning more and more
about different indoor, outdoor, greenhouse...
Environments.
Environments, pests, composites,
different states and their pests.
So, your learning curve is like...
My learning curve is like that, yeah.
So, that's kind of my goal is focus on this niche.
I couldn't tell you anything about plant nutrition
other than what a basic botany class
or plant physiology class taught me.
But going forward,
that would probably be really helpful to you
because how could that not...
Like, when you're talking about...
Well, don't get me wrong.
I mean, I do know...
I mean, aphid is known to blow up
and plants are excessively...
They have excessive nitrogen.
Right, exactly.
So, why wouldn't that apply to this?
I don't know if we're sure about that yet,
but it's something I follow.
We definitely...
You can't get into agricultural pest management
without knowing something about plant physiology.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yeah, because of those relationships or...
But I would never jump into growing.
Let's put it that way.
I would land flat.
I could probably protect the plant,
but it would be a spindly, weak plant, low yield.
But it'd survive.
Unlike Tom's.
It might be pest free.
Yeah, Robusto is the...
I'm still letting them go.
It's so funny because even some of these back there,
it's sort of like they have a will to live.
Well, keep in mind, if there is a disease there,
you're harboring that...
Potentially harboring botrytis.
So, all that dead tissue,
when you get it, you want to clean up.
You're gonna want to clean that whole area.
Burn it.
Strawberry growers, like I was telling you,
they pick up the strawberries and bury them
far from the field.
Torch the backyard.
Yeah, they clean up.
Get rid of them, get them far away.
Yeah, because you basically have a propagule,
something that can come back to life
once it has a susceptible host.
Right?
And the environment.
And then these will line up and become like airborne,
like spore life, right?
And if botrytis is a problem in tomatoes,
and you have those there,
or if it's a problem in any one of these other crops
of yours, which it has a lot of hosts.
This one looks like a poo with leaves coming out of it.
It has what?
It looks like a poo with leaves coming out of it.
Yeah, you know, if you have spores
that landed on your lawn there,
and you watered with a sprinkler,
and this is one way that spores can move
from plant to plant.
The drops of water hit the ground,
pick up the spores and splash onto the growing bed,
and then it happens again,
or the wind dries that spore,
now that it's gotten closer to the plant,
and the spore flies up and lands,
let's say on a pistil,
as it's just beginning to show signs
of like the flower primordia, right?
That's all you need.
That spore's there, and that could be the death of-
I watched it happen.
It was like I knew it was happening,
because it's like, you know, you can see it happening.
It's obvious, but I didn't know.
I mean, there's nothing I could do to prevent it.
I didn't know.
I mean, you know, I mean, it was so fast,
literally within a few days.
And also, I'm like, I need,
rather than go in and do that,
I'm like, oh, right, this is the first one.
I know it's happening,
but I want to have someone come here, you know?
And about to do this.
So that's why I-
It's time.
We're setting up next season.
I think it's the plan.
I wouldn't go in and rip everything, you know,
like all the brown,
because I've done that with a few of them,
and there's nothing left.
Yeah, there's a chance that if you had harvested
this last week, gotten rid of all the dead, dry brown,
and got in on maybe some kind of really aggressive drying
of everything else, that you'd have saved half of it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But yeah, no, I mean, that's,
I think once Peter and I met,
that was kind of the idea is if I become part of this thing,
you know, I'll be around next year or next time.
He lives in LA.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, to see what we could do to, you know,
do our best to protect.
Well, it's so interesting,
because there's this other thing.
We need Eric Nugshot to come.
I'm so like such an advocate for home grows.
I've had this idea for a long time,
like, you know, like tending to people, you know,
that's why that was another part of this.
Like, let's see if we can,
and we have an indoor thing here.
Can we successfully do some home grows?
Oh, no doubt.
And then I thought, well, you know,
take, tend them for people, you know?
And I think that actually with cannabis, you know,
people should want their home grows,
but it's a lot of work.
I'm realizing it's really a lot of work,
because, you know,
you almost have to have daily eyeballs on them.
And I wasn't really aware of that.
And even something as small as this,
it's like, you know,
like catching, like seeing, like catching that,
it's work, it's work.
Like, you know, and I even got one of these,
or like this, just so I can get in real close.
Nice.
To go in there.
I still didn't catch all of them,
but that's what it takes, so.
It does, and there are all kinds of tools for it.
And, you know, if you know me long enough,
you'll know I preach monitoring.
I preach, it's-
You preach mono what?
Monitoring.
Oh, monitoring, yeah.
If you don't spend the labor resources on monitoring,
you could end up with, you know,
a really bad situation quick.
Yeah.
And-
Really quick.
Yeah.
Like within two weeks, when I was last here.
Even more than that,
because when I, I let him know right away
what was going on.
He has the text.
It was, and I was like,
I think I've lost the whole thing.
Yeah, I think I said-
That was a week and a half ago, easily.
I go, I'm pretty sure this entire thing is gone.
Because I saw what was happening.
And that was a week and a half ago.
Yeah, I was in Rhode Island.
Yeah.
Yeah, that hot event could have also been
something to do with it, right?
Although the-
Yes.
The heavy presence of-
So when he texted me that,
my response was, keep an eye on the other birds,
look into them with a knife and eyes
to see if you can find any caterpillars.
Like pry them apart, like look closely
to see if there are any caterpillars in there.
Well, now you know to look for the poop
and the leaf feeding damage, right?
But clearly, once you start seeing people-
You know what, you need to-
You have older ones, yeah.
You need to train your dog on that smell
and then have her bark when she smells it.
That specific worm poo, I mean, caterpillar poo.
Maybe the cats will be better suited to that.
That's an interesting idea, using dogs.
Dogs for scouting your pests.
I mean, yeah.
I gotta go home and cook dinner, but this was awesome.
Strong work team.
Tom, you are like Jesus sacrificing himself
for the good of other home growers everywhere.
I'm a homegrown martyr.
I'm a homegrown martyr.
But he rose from the dead.
And next year, we'll bring some new diseases
and plagues to attack your plants.
It's so demoralizing because that feeling
two weeks ago when I was like-
Because I've gone into a million hoax.
That's when your hopes were at their highest.
I've gone into a million.
Two weeks ago.
And I go, oh my God, I have these.
And just not even because I don't like touching them,
but so sticky and I'm like, oh my God,
I made this happen because I've been taking
so much good care of them.
And so that feeling was beyond,
if you're a cannabis lover and go.
And because that's how they were.
I wouldn't even touch them and my fingers
would come away still.
I'm not even touching them.
And contrast that with your current feeling.
So how long have you been growing?
Here's the thing.
This is my first.
Yeah, so you just had to talk to a few cannabis growers
and ask them the messes they've had to deal with.
Oh yeah, no, I already know.
I mean, I know.
I mean, I know that this-
There's a learning curve.
Yeah, no.
There's always a learning curve.
I know this loss is relative.
All I'm saying is that coming from that feeling
down to the other one,
you really have to do a little work to revisit that,
to jump back in and go, okay.
But like all the growers I've talked to,
who've done it, they're like,
well, your plants die.
They die.
And then you grow new ones and it's the cycle of life.
But here's the other thing.
He brought these things over.
Even the one on the left,
it's like I didn't think it was gonna make it.
It was like sickly.
It was nothing.
And it's like every day.
So they're like little babies and nursing them back
and it became this beautiful little plant
only then to die.
He's bonded with them.
I have bonded with them.
I have.
It's sad, I know.
Yeah.
But here's the other thing.
These were also designed.
It's not living soil.
It's like, everything was according to these guys,
you know, organics alive, great guys.
Well, the caterpillar just ignored it.
It's life that came.
So it's sort of like finding the balance, you know.
I don't wanna kill the caterpillar,
but I don't want to overwhelm it or just sway it.
Basically these beds over the winter,
we can build up.
And the beds, I just went to a grove in Las Vegas.
The only living soil grow.
I think in all of Las Vegas in the first one.
Beautiful farm.
This is Steve Cantwell.
Steve Cantwell.
Do you know who he is?
He was a mixed martial arts champion.
Now he's got this grow.
It's this.
Now he's an indoor living soil.
Right there.
At sale grow.
And he uses these beds, right?
And it's all, I mean, they're just, it's so, it's indoor.
You know, it's controlled environment.
You get dressed in your little booties,
all of that stuff.
This is his weed.
This is his weed.
The banana man.
Really cool guy.
And, you know, so we're just,
I'm going for a living organic environment.
That was the idea.
So when you come back next year,
Tom's going to have a 4 by 60 bed out here.
He was at his 22nd, I think,
cultivation in that same soil.
And so he's supposed to get richer and richer
as it goes on.
22 is a lot.
Like years, you know, it's really interesting.
I think four and a half.
It's a craft.
It's a science and an art.
Wasn't it like four and a half?
Over five.
I think we did the math.
Might've been four and a half.
It's on the tape.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's all, it's a science and it's an art.
You know, people have to have worked with a crop
and a specific growing system
to really figure out how to make it work.
Some people are gifted.
Yeah, it's not easy.
And everything was consistent,
which is always impressive to go and see the plants.
Everything was a beautiful grow,
not even terribly large.
And he has his hands on everything,
this guy who was a mixed martial arts guy,
and now, and his knowledge is so he's totally into it.
And so that was basically the question
because everything he produces, he sells, right?
He's got a sweet little small business,
but everyone wants to get bigger.
We're not selling any of this.
No, no, no, none of this.
But how do you get bigger and maintain quality control?
Maybe go slow.
Maybe go slow.
I've seen so many people fall flat on their face,
just biting off more than they could chew.
And if you're making it with a small business,
if you're paying your people, you're making some money,
what's wrong with that?
Right.
That's why people go to and major
and get degrees in agricultural business
because that teaches you how to do that,
how to start a farm and make it successful
and grow and eventually become rich from it.
But you jump into it without really knowing what's involved.
You've kind of, you've set yourself up.
Well, I mean, what'd be interesting,
and I think it's interesting to know at what point
in cannabis scaling up,
does it become like a real different type of product?
You know, less, you know.
What is it?
Less quality.
Cross the Budweiser threshold.
Yeah.
Yeah, give us another five years.
We'll know a lot more.
Exactly.
All right, so let me.
You don't want any of this?
No, that's done.
I got what I needed.
So yeah, let me grab the.
What about, what are these specimens doing here?
What is that?
That was Gemma was feeding.
Oh my God, on cue.
Gemma was feeding the caterpillar,
but then it got loose.
We're going right now, baby girl.
I'm gonna leave in 10 minutes.
No, Gemma, we're gonna leave now
and let's go cook some dinner
and look at our plants at home.
You can, if we get back quick, you can go in the pool.
That's your incentive to want to leave quickly
because we got to leave quickly.
When something we have to do
aligns with what you want to do,
amazing things happen.
Did you ask Ryan about the little leather pouches?
No, no, that's the leather pouches.
Where were they?
They were in the bag.
They were there?
Oh, good.
I was like, thank God.
Oh my God, thank God.
I thought I checked in there.
They must have been shoved somewhere.
Okay, excellent.
Gemma, we had some amazing conversation out here
that you missed.
But Gemma, we decided some things
you're gonna get really good at.
Where'd you go?
You're gonna become our caterpillar identifier.
You're gonna be like our patrol, like on the,
what's the north wall in Game of Thrones?
What do they call it?
I've never watched the show.
I don't know.
I get what you're saying.
A sentry?
Yeah.
I never, I only watch the set scenes.
Gemma, the glasses, Mike.
Okay, don't.
Did you bring these over for the babies?
I did.
I need some, some, some.
Oh, okay.
You didn't bring any, did you?
No, I assumed you had.
All right, so there's, all right.
All I have is this.
Can you?
Totally out.
Baby girl.
And so I was trying to save this plant,
like the gardener.
It's a totally different, this plant over here.
The gardener brought that?
Like from his house?
Yeah.
Tom, that's like a vector of, in fact,
he's probably has like mites and.
Yeah, that's a.
It's like a spider mite.
Actually, I would love for you to look at that right now
and be like, dude, this has all sorts of stuff
you don't want to be introducing.
Wait, so the gardener was like.
He had to get all this.
What is that?
That is a, yeah.
That looks like dirt, actually.
Yeah, you know, I mean, it's a totally different.
So he was like.
It's flowering already.
But he was like, you're growing weed,
I'm growing some weed at home, too.
He goes, he goes, it's not doing really well.
And he had it in terrible soil.
And so I put it into this and put some better dirt in there.
Tom, you are such a caregiver to these plants.
Well, I wanted to try to help him.
I love it.
But I think I'm gonna give it back to him.
It's doing okay, but I couldn't mess with the roots,
so I couldn't mess with his original.
He just had, it was just shitty.
It was really dense and, you know.
Do you see any spider mites?
Oh, I wasn't even looking for that.
Was, do you know, was he growing inside or outside?
Yeah, he didn't tell me.
I mean, he.
And have you been keeping it in the shade the entire time?
No, no.
But it started to.
I'm sorry, you had it over there, right?
Yeah, it was burning.
It looked like it was burning a little bit,
so I took it out of the sun,
but it's been getting plenty of sun.
Yeah, it would rot in there.
There's definitely rot in there.
Nice.
Not nice.
Tom, we're not the only ones.
It just got here?
Just got here.
Tom, you are like the grim reaper for weed plants.
It wasn't too.
They're like, I don't wanna go to Tom's house.
Why not harvest it?
Yes, baby girl.
Oh my God, you're taking food to go?
My God, she gave it to you or you just took it?
She gave it to me.
Okay.
Get it ground up.
I mean, these do look like a little bit like turds,
but no, I think this is just dirt.
Yeah, now we're finding them left and right.
So show me how many in about one minute you found.
About a minute of scouting.
How many are in there?
I don't know, I lost count.
Like eight or 10?
Probably 10, yeah.
And it just took about a minute.
So, I mean, we've yet to see one bud here
that doesn't have the poop in it.
All right, so basically in better non-blinding light,
we're finding tons of caterpillar.
They're probably gonna hide when it's hot, right?
Right.
So now that it's cooling off.
They're coming out to feed.
They might be more likely to come out
and start chewing on other green parts.
Meat.
Yeah, I mean, if there is Botrytis here,
that's more and more convincing.
It's not the real problem.
The problem was all this feeding.
So we have predominantly a caterpillar infestation
that is re-habit, havoc on every plant.
Once you can look close, then you'll find them.
And I mean, that's a lot for like a minute of scouting,
right?
Yeah.
But the turds give it away.
Interesting that the leaves weren't focused on.
They just came at the right time.
The moth laid its eggs at the right time.
Oh, so sometimes they lay their eggs much earlier
and then you start to, I mean, you see like a lot more of this.
Yeah, I mean, you see, normally what I see
is a lot of leaf chewing damage,
which leads you to the area where you, like this here,
which leads you to where to look for them, you know?
So, okay, I see that leaf chewed.
I see that leaf chewed there.
There's gotta be a caterpillar here.
I look, but normally where you don't see leaf chewing,
you don't expect them to be there.
So I'm wondering if what happened,
they hatched by the time there was significant amount
of flower tissue and started feeding unbeknownst to Tom.
And by the time you got to this stage,
they were everywhere.
They were just hiding.
Here's one.
See, it's a...
Well, I mean, I have had people out here
who were more knowledgeable than me, but-
They didn't see them.
Well, I think when we saw that first one,
it was kind of like the early days of them
coming to the party. No, but that is exactly
when I would have started, I mean, if I'd known.
But you know what, Peter does make a very important point,
is when you scout is important.
I tend to like cooler part of the morning for scouting.
For exactly this reason, when we first came out here,
it was nothing like this.
And now we're seeing them.
I mean, I'm picking them out of practically every flower.
One-handed.
Yeah, so they got you good, but you'll be ready next year.
That's right.
Shake it off, Tom.
Okay, I'm gonna bring Gemma home.
I've already shaken it off.
This has been, I mean, the thing is,
is like, you just need to know,
I could deal with that.
I'm okay dealing with caterpillars next time.
Yeah, look at this.
Look at it.
Found one?
Why not, just like the-
The turds?
Yeah, knowledge is power, right?
Absolutely.
I'm not scared of that.
So we know the strategy next year.
A lot of what scares me is not knowing.
Good thing is so far, it's just been that corn ear one.
It's like miniature rabbit pellets.
All right.
Cool.
I'll leave you guys to,
you guys are like gorillas grooming the plant.
I have to go to the store.
246, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14.
Here, show it to me sideways.
Ooh, wow.
A lot of unhappy caterpillars and alcohol.
So you'll basically ID these
and be like, they're all the same thing.
It looks like it's all the same caterpillar.
Right, that's crazy.
Okey-dokey.
All right.
It's hard to walk away.
It's like, when did we find the last Easter egg?
We don't know.
That is really funny.
So, a very young larva there.
Brownish, yellowish brown,
all the way to this big fat green one.
But it's all the same.
Appears to be all the same species.
Did you get that from one thing?
That was three buds.
Gemma, we have some more caterpillar for you.
You have to dig in there and you'll find them.
Gemma.
So more than likely, if you find this many,
oh, here's one.
Forgot that one.
Oh, that one's a baby.
And they're all the same species.
Okay, so that is the corn ear.
That's what it looks like to me.
Like I said, I'm on the next group.
Now what is it, the corn ear caterpillar?
It's the striping that, I showed you the photo.
I'll show you.
The two stripes that go down its back.
You wanna attach the boobie here?
Yeah.
