All right, and we are live. Good morning, boys and girls. Nick is here to drop some
knowledge on carbon. We always talk about plants and nutrients, but we neglect carbon,
which is somewhat important, right? Yeah, and I think the past couple of episodes
that we've done, we've sort of looked at the importance of carbon. We've kind of, you know,
approached this understanding that carbon really should be treated as a macronutrient.
And I haven't been on here in a few months, but it's definitely good to
reconnect with you and do another episode where I hope people gain a lot of valuable information.
And there's going to be something that is going to be very relevant to people when they go into
their gardens. They're going to have a renewed sense of understanding of what's going on in
the plants. And ultimately, it's an attempt to increase everybody's yield and everybody's
quality. You don't have to be a multi-million dollar producer. You could just be growing at
home in a tent, and we still want to see you achieve the best results that are possible
to achieve. So that's what we'll be going through today. So when did you first kind of start
focusing on carbon as kind of critical to plant health and growth? You know,
Rooted Leaf started in, we opened up our manufacturing plant in April of 2019. And
ever since then, it's just been this kind of gradual learning process. We learn about what we
do and we learn about how it works and why it works. And now, as I sit here today, several years
later, I think I have a much stronger understanding of what's actually going on inside of the plants
and why they respond in such profound ways. I'm sure some of the audience members can also speak
some of the effects and some of the results that they've seen with our products after having used
them. So there's definitely something going on inside of the plants because the reactions and
the responses are pretty dramatic. And so over the past couple of years, I've tried to think about
what maybe is the most simplified version of how I can explain what's going on in a way that
doesn't really confuse people more than it should. The way that I look at it is almost like
when Albert Einstein came up with E equals mc squared, there's something very simple about that.
There's a lot of complex stuff on the back end that you have to understand. But the fact that
you can summarize that briefly, that quickly, is really a testament to the strength of that
knowledge. Because if it's not simple enough to understand, then it's probably too complex to
actually be functional. I think my question was more, you mentioned in 2019, you started a company,
which implies that even before then, you were focused on kind of the importance of carbon and
how to, you know, fermentation is something you're very knowledgeable about. And it seems like a lot
of your products are based on fermentation and creating some sort of carbon chemistry.
So can you go even further back to kind of like fermentation to carbon is important to,
you know, nobody out there is really doing anything based on carbon?
Yeah, yeah, definitely. We'll take one step further back. So my background revolves primarily
around chemistry. You know, maybe 15-ish years ago, I had a kombucha brewery. And so I was
fermenting tea. I would take Phoenix Mountain oolongs, and I would ferment them with honey,
and I would get just the most amazing flavor profile out of it. And it's such a different
and unique experience. It kind of got me thinking a little bit about the importance of
fermentation chemistry in the expression of, you know, at this time, it was food, obviously,
food and beverage, how fermented food products can actually have these flavor profiles, which
are very vast and expansive. And someone might look at kombucha and say, well, it's fermented tea
and sugar, it should taste the same. But I couldn't be further from the truth. It all
depends on what kind of tea you use. If you use a black tea that's fully oxidized, it's going to
promote the growth of a different SCOBY, you know, different ratio between bacteria and yeast
to something that is like a white tea, which is not as oxidized. So same thing with the sugars,
too, depending on the type of sugar that you use, you're going to get a different profile of
microbes. And this was very, very interesting to me about 10 to 15 years ago. And then after that,
you know, I was young at the time, I didn't really know how to run a business like I do now. But,
you know, I learned quite a bit. And I took all those learnings with me to a chemical manufacturing
company here in Washington State, I was hired on and I ended up doing some formulation work for
them. I ended up taking a look at some of their processes and process flows and optimizing that
and making sure we didn't have waste going on. So it was more industrial chemistry than
fermentation chemistry. But I still learned how to, you know, run reactions, I still learned how
to make stuff from scratch, so to speak. And then around 2014, about 10 years ago,
I got really interested in the legal, the recreational system here in Washington,
I had been involved in the medical system since about 2008 or 2009. And at the end of 2014,
Washington passed the I-502 initiative, which is the recreational system. And it kind of
was an inspirational point for me to take what I had learned at that time from the fermentation
chemistry and been brewing kombucha and the industrial chemistry, learning how to
actually manufacture at scale, and then kind of combine that with my passions for cannabis plants.
One of the things that stood out to me most immediately was that all of the
options that are available out there as far as fertilizers go, they're pretty much all the same.
They're pretty much made with the same ingredients, just different ratios and a different
label. And what this results in is performance that's more or less the same, you're going to
get maybe a 5% to 10% difference at the most, but that's as far as the optimized product lines
that are out there that are not carbon-based, you can get pretty dang close results with each other.
Like I said, when we first started making these products at Rooted Leaf, a huge portion of it was
that I didn't fully understand what was going on yet. I mean, I knew that the products worked,
I understood from a formulations perspective why they would work and pulling in from the
experience I had with fermentation chemistry, I sort of saw similar things happening. And I
just wondered if that, what I perceived when I drank the kombucha and found this entire universe
that was unexplored of possibilities, I just wondered if that would translate over to plant
growth, because plants are very sensitive to their environment as well. They're remarkably sensitive
to their environment. And yeah, I hope that answered the question a little better.
Yeah, no, definitely. I think I'm also monitoring the chat, but
all right, do you want to just jump into kind of what you wanted to talk about?
Yeah, give me one sec here. I just wanted to pull up the video so I could take a look at some of the
comments. Yeah, yeah. So, you know, the general premise here that I want to sort of talk about is
carbon as a macronutrient. We can get into some of the metabolic pathways. Obviously,
we're going to be talking about terpenes and cannabinoids and what are some of the things
that you can do to increase the concentrations of terpenes and cannabinoids in your plants.
It's going to focus primarily around carbon metabolism, and we'll look at some of the
inputs that are required. A lot of it is going to be simple at first, and I hope to kind of open
up deeper and deeper layers of detail for people to explore and really just question, you know,
run some questions by the audience. I want to challenge people to think a little bit differently
about the importance of CO2 in a grow. And the specific way that I'm going to get people
to think about that is by asking questions around a very, very little known topic in C3 plants,
which is a carbon concentration mechanism. It's oftentimes assumed that C3 plants actually don't
have a carbon concentration mechanism. I've been trying to talk about this, you know, for a very
long time, maybe on other shows, other platforms. When I'm talking in person with people, I oftentimes
struggle because the explanation I give is very complex and the tidbits of relevant information
are at the end of that explanation, but to get there can be a little bit frustrating. So, I think
I found a good way for us to start off and ask a question for people, but I haven't actually perfected
it, haven't refined it. This is very much so a rough draft thing. The question is, specifically,
it revolves around us taking a look at the concentration of CO2 and oxygen in the normal
atmosphere. The atmosphere, the air that you and I are breathing right now is about 20% oxygen.
And what this translates to is about 200,000 parts per million of oxygen saturation in the air.
CO2, on the other hand, is closer to 400 parts per million. So, we have this ratio that exists
between the 200,000 parts per million of oxygen and the 400 or so of CO2 that's in the air.
This is interesting because obviously there's a lot more oxygen than there is CO2. Now, there's
this enzyme inside of C3 plants called RuBisCO. I think we may have talked about it in the past.
RuBisCO's job, it's like a giant vacuum cleaner. What it's trying to do is suck CO2 basically out
of the air and convert that into a sugar. This is the Calvin Benson cycle in plant metabolism.
But if you look at the concentration of CO2 and oxygen at the active site of RuBisCO,
in other words, what is RuBisCO's actual environment like? What we realize is that
RuBisCO acts on CO2 three times roughly, generally speaking, and it acts on O2 only once.
So, this ratio is actually fundamentally inverted from the natural environment. The natural
atmosphere, again, has 200,000 parts per million of oxygen, but only 400 of CO2. So, the question
that I have is how is this possible for RuBisCO to invert that ratio? It's acting on CO2 three
times for every one time that it acts on O2, but if you just look at the ambient concentrations,
it shouldn't be like that. RuBisCO should be firing way more on oxygen than it does on CO2
because the abundance of oxygen in the air is so much greater than the concentration of CO2 in the
air. So, this to me suggests automatically that there's some carbon concentration mechanism that's
present inside of RuBisCO. Just quickly, RuBisCO is an enzyme, correct?
Mm-hmm. Yep. It's an enzyme that has dual specificity. It can act on,
it can carboxylate or it can oxygenate, and it has this dual specificity which a lot of people
consider to be an inefficiency, and it's not optimized because there's TAM plants and C4
plants that actually have more distinct and discrete carbon concentration mechanisms.
They're entirely different, and the ones that are in C3 plants are actually a little bit more hidden
overall. But yes, yes, RuBisCO is the engine that catalyzes the conversion of CO2 into
triggers for the plant. Yeah. I was going to say just for the layman,
enzymes are kind of catalysts that help change other things and help maybe combine stuff or break
stuff down. So, they're almost like, yeah, I mean, I guess catalyst would be a good word to use,
right? Yeah, yeah. Technically, the enzymes themselves are catalysts, but a good way to
think about that in layman's terms is that you have, enzymes are basically like workers that
have specialized toolkits and they have specialized functions. So, your woodworker is going to have
your different tools than somebody that works on granite and cuts granite blocks, and that's going
to be different than someone who welds metal. You have different tools, different purposes,
different functions, different energy requirements for these various enzymes.
Yeah, they're basically workers and they accomplish certain biological processes. A lot
of it has to do with the production of energy and the expenditure of that energy, manufacturing
terpenes and cannabinoids, for example, that requires energy. And so, there's certain enzymes
that are involved along the way. It's a very, very complex series of processes, but you can think
generally that these enzymes are workers that are all, their activities are all coordinated with
each other. Some enzymes function to feed other enzymes, like cannabinoid and terpene synthase
enzymes require energy coming in. They require substrates coming in, building blocks, basically,
they require the raw materials, and then they themselves produce a metabolite that gets stored
in the plants, specifically in the trichome heads. So, the more you can feed these enzymes
and allow them to do their work, the better your results are going to be overall.
So, the thing to really focus on here is that what is going on in the active site of rubisco
that allows it to experience such a high concentration of CO2 relative to O2,
when naturally the atmosphere is very rich in O2 and not very rich in CO2. So, there's some kind of
concentration mechanism happening here. And this is the thing that I want to kind of expand on and
have people better understand. Are there any questions before we really kind of get into it,
take a deep, deep dive? If you're not supplementing CO2, is that where those
plants usually need more time? Hold on. I think we can jump into it. But yeah,
if people have questions or comments, just start posting them and I'll kind of keep track of them.
Yeah. Yeah. So, carbon, the place for us to start is that carbon is a macronutrient for plants in
the sense that it takes up more... Most plants will take up more carbon than they do all of the
NPK and the CalMAGs and the micronutrients and the silica. You could take all of those elements,
combine them together, multiply that number by five, and you're probably still going to have
more carbon inside of the plants, especially for cannabis, because all of the monoturpines and
sesquiturpines that we want our plants to produce, those clock in at roughly 90% carbon by weight.
And then all of the cannabinoids that we want plants to produce, those cannabinoids are roughly
80% carbon by weight. So it makes sense just in terms of the mechanics of it, right? If you give
your plants more carbon, even if it's in the form of CO2, your plants will produce more stuff that
is mostly carbon by weight. And I just use the term, they'll produce more stuff. That's kind of
a generic term because obviously we're going to be looking at things like the production of cell
walls, for example, very rich in carbon. The formation of new vascular tissue, new cells,
very, very rich in carbon. So the more carbon you give your plants, the more you're going to
experience rapid growth with those plants, the more you can increase the density of those plants
overall. There's a lot of good stuff that happens when you remove carbon as the limiting factor
in a grow. And traditionally the way to do it has been to seal a flowering room and to just
inject a bunch of CO2 gas. And the thing I want to try to get to with people is that that's not the
correct way to do it. That if you want it to concentrate the amount of carbon that your plants
are experiencing or subject to, that there's better pathways to take because the plants are
doing it themselves in a different way. They're not just relying on ambient CO2 concentrations,
because again, the ratio of oxygen to CO2 is so vast and different that obviously there's a
mechanism there inside of the plants that allows them to concentrate the CO2 sufficiently so that
rubisco fires on CO2 three times for every one time that it fires on oxygen. And what ends up
happening is if you increase CO2 concentrations, at a certain point there's a notable detriment
to the plants. In other words, it actually is counterproductive. A lot of people think that
there's no upper limit, or maybe the upper limit exists as some mathematical ratio between the
light intensity and the dehumidification potential of the space and all that stuff. But in reality,
excess CO2 can actually present a problem for the plant. It can make it harder for it to actually
fix the CO2. And the mechanism specifically is one that ties this carbon concentration mechanism
specifically is one that ties a lot of different activities that are going on inside of the plant
together all at once. It's trying to coordinate everything. It's like if you've got two tires
spinning on a car, you should probably have an axle that connects them so they can spin at the
same rate, so that their movement is coordinated and you can actually get this thing to
move in the direction that you want it to move, particularly for engine enzymes and buffering
enzymes specifically. And just quickly, the kind of not hot boxing, but CO2 boxing your plants
essentially is basically them doing some conversion to capture the carbon
through their leaves and stomata. Is that accurate versus the roots?
Yes. So the idea basically is that if you increase the CO2 concentration surrounding the plants,
that rubisco will automatically be able to act on CO2 more than it acts on oxygen. So this is
the carboxylation versus oxygenation reaction that rubisco runs. The carboxylation reaction
pulls CO2 out and it produces sugars. And those sugars obviously get used for a variety of
different things. Those sugars can be used to feed beneficial microbes in the soil. They can go up
trichome stalks and get deposited right underneath the trichome heads where you've got these terpene
synthase and cannabinoid synthase enzymes that are actually operating and actually doing their
thing. And those are the ones that make all of the, you know, Dank's sauce and wizard juice that
everyone wants their plants to produce. The more you can get carbon metabolized by the plant,
the more likely you are to end up with carbon rich substances at the end of the grow. Obviously for
purposes of what we're talking about here, everybody knows what they want. And it's just
very convenient that the molecules in question happen to be mostly carbon by weight. But the
actual concentration mechanism doesn't rely on excess CO2 present in the air. It's actually an
internal thing that happens within the plants. There's this thing called, there's an enzyme
called carbonic anhydrase that exists in the thylakoid. And what's interesting about this
particular enzyme is that its job is very, very important. It's the role that it plays
in delivering CO2 to rubisco is the thing I want to try to get into today. Because if you think
about what the plants are trying to do, the plants are taking in this light energy. Sometimes it's
very, very high energy over a thousand PPFT or over a thousand parts. This is very, very
intense. Plants don't necessarily have the ability to get up and walk away from the sun. So they have
to have the energy that's coming in, get sent out somewhere. Whatever comes in, it can't stay in the
cell because the cell gets overexcited. You could quite literally blow it up. Just like if you
overcharge your battery and don't have an overcharge capacity, you can blow up the battery
with too much electrical energy coming in. So the plants are always in this state of trying to
convert this photon energy coming in from the lights. They have this thing called the electron
transport chain. They're first doing something called charge separation. And then at the end
of their metabolic pathways, there's this charge recombination thing that happens. But the idea
basically is that the energy of the sun coming in, those photons coming in, stimulates an electron
transport chain, which is then used to create a proton gradient and then drive the formation of
energy-rich phosphate bonds. We have a couple of things happening here. There's this redox chemistry
stuff happening, right? We've got the electrons and the electron transport chain, and then we've
got this proton gradient that's also being built up. So these two are kind of balanced against each
other, and the plants are trying to maintain equilibrium. As the light energy flows through
the system, the plants are trying to convert that light energy into something that's very useful.
And in this process, they try to maintain equilibrium. Now, when plants are going
through these processes, there's a lot of different stuff happening. They have to coordinate the
activities all together. There's water being taken up. That water is being split apart using the
energy of the sun. And then as the water is split apart, basically it allows the plants to create
this proton gradient that is then used to make ATP. So that's at the end of photosynthesis. People are
like, well, what does photosynthesis produce? It produces ATP, which is an energy molecule,
and it produces NADPH, also an energy molecule, redox pair. Both of these get fed over to rubisco.
So now let's kind of go back one step, right? We've taken energy from the sun. We've managed
to convert that. There's charge separation, right? The electron transport chain starts to get
stimulated. The proton gradient is created. Water molecules are being split in real time here.
There's all this stuff happening. Energy is coming in at quite literally the speed of light.
Water is coming up as fast as it possibly can that the plants are taking up. They're splitting
that water apart. And in reality, what's going on is that the delivery, the production of ATP
and NADPH, these energy molecules, the production of them is tied fundamentally to the delivery of
rubisco. Because again, you don't want to overexcite the cell. The plants need outlets
for the energy to get spent because they can't just accumulate it freely within their cells.
That would result in the cells being overcharged or overenergized. So they have these factories
that produce stuff. And then once they produce stuff, they need to get it out of the factory
as soon as possible. Because the factory starts to fill up with energy-rich molecules, it's not
really doing any benefits or favors for the rest of the plant or for the rest of the cells. And it
can actually start to create some problems. So the ATP and NADPH that are produced get fed to
rubisco. Now, rubisco is the enzyme that either acts on CO2 or it acts on oxygen. And for the
longest time, it was thought that rubisco would just like, oh, it fires on CO2 and, oh, it fires
on oxygen. And there wasn't really a good understanding of the mechanics behind it and how
plants were able to discern between the CO2 and the O2. But again, there's this massive difference
in the ratios between what rubisco experiences versus what the rest of the atmosphere is like.
And as it turns out, this carbonic anhydrase enzyme, it actually is the mechanism that coordinates all
of the stuff. We have the intensity of the sun and the light coming in and all that electron
transport chain producing energy-rich molecules. We've got this generation of the
proton gradient that's being maintained by carbonic anhydrase. And then ultimately,
its job is to deliver CO2 to rubisco in conjunction with ATP and NADPH. I know these
are kind of big fancy words and super large concepts for us to go through at 8 o'clock in
the morning on a Friday. But the idea basically is that all this stuff is tightly regulated,
just like two wheels are connected by an axle. Same thing is true for plants. The way that they
produce energy and the way that they spend energy is fundamentally coordinated. It's hardwired.
And you've got these important enzymes like carbonic anhydrase involved in the delivery of
the ATP and NADPH and the CO2. So all of the primary metabolic pathways within the plant,
all these convergent points of metabolism are being managed and regulated by this one enzyme
that has a very, very important job, very, very important role. It's actually been shown
experimentally that if you knock out the thylakoidal carbonic anhydrase, that the
delivery to CO2 drop, I'm sorry, the delivery of CO2 to rubisco drops by 26 times, which is huge.
That's a massive decrease in the overall amount of CO2. That's, I mean, 26 times is, imagine if you
had 26 times greater terpenes or greater cannabinoid concentrations. These are not,
it's not a small number. It's such a vast and huge number that it starts to make sense why
and how more specifically this is a carbon concentration mechanism in C3 plants. The way
that it works is not to take CO2 out of the air though. The way that it works more specifically
is that it pulls from carbon pools that are stored within the plant. And so just increasing the
plants, exposing them to higher concentrations of CO2 is not the best way to actually achieve
a better productivity. It is to a certain extent, but as anybody who has a sealed flowering room
will tell you, it's a very slippery slope because as you increase the CO2 concentrations,
you have to increase the light, the saturation. You got to increase the light intensity.
You also have to increase the concentration of nutrients in the feedwater because as the
plants are trying to work more, they need more minerals so they can achieve that work.
And they also need more CO2 because that's the substrate for RuBisCO to act on. But the way that
it gets delivered to RuBisCO is not CO2 floating around in the air and all willy-nilly. Sometimes
it acts on CO2, sometimes it doesn't. CO2 is delivered to RuBisCO in conjunction with the
energy that's produced from photosynthesis. And it makes sense, you know, imagine to kind of go back
to the example of enzymes being workers. Imagine you have a worker and you're paying that worker.
And when I say you're paying the worker, I mean you're giving that worker ATP and NADPH because
that's chemical currency. Basically, it allows the workers to do their work. But imagine the
worker doesn't have a substrate. So now you have this disparity between energy that's being,
you know, produced by the plant and flowing out to enzymes and a lack of substrate for the enzyme
to act on. Why would you pay a worker and not give him raw materials to build anything? Seems like
kind of a waste, right? It would be better if you could coordinate all this stuff to make sure the
raw materials will get delivered to the job site at the same time that the worker will be there to
accept those raw materials. And then there's payment coming in in the form of energy required
for that worker to actually work. Now you have all these things being sort of tightly coordinated,
very tightly regulated within the plants. They know where the energy is going to go is the same
spot that the substrate is going to go. And there's all kinds of other stuff that flows towards RuBisCO
to help it function and to help it do its thing. But the point ultimately is that plants are not
sending ATP and NADPH to RuBisCO without also knowing full well whether the carboxylation
reaction is going to happen or that oxygenation reaction is going to happen. So that's the,
generally speaking, the overview of the carbon concentration mechanism in C3 plants. And the
way that it works, again, is not by increasing ambient CO2 concentrations to 2000 ppm or
something like that. There is a point of diminishing return. And part of it revolves around
the fact that RuBisCO is very slow to fire. It operates once every three seconds, roughly. That's
the turnover rate, meaning that you can count one 1,000, two 1,000, three 1,000, and that's one
turnover of the enzyme. That's pretty slow, especially if you consider how fast the speed
of light is. I mean, three seconds is a huge amount of time for photon energy to come in and
bombard chlorophyll, right? This is happening at quite literally the speed of light. So why is it
that RuBisCO over here is so slow? Once every three seconds is awfully slow compared to the speed of
light because these buffering enzymes are trying to build up and coordinate all of this activity
and allow the engine enzymes to fire and operate very predictably, very reliably. They want to
remove variation and variability from the equation because it doesn't make sense to, again,
it doesn't make sense to pay a worker when you don't even have the building blocks and the raw
materials aren't going to be there for the worker to act on. No one does that, you know?
Right. Plants don't like to do that either. As it turns out, plants like to make sure that all
of this stuff that's coming, all this energy coming in from the sun, the water that's being
taken up and being split, that's happening at a different rate of speed. The proton gradient
that's being created within the plants happening at a different rate of speed. All this stuff has
to get coordinated so that you can, as a plant, the energy can be moved in conjunction with other
molecules like the CO2, for example, being released to RuBisCO. So now RuBisCO has the CO2,
it has the ATP, it has the NADPH, and it can utilize them to produce sugars. And once the
sugars are produced, Pandora's box starts to open up. We can talk about anything from, you know,
feeding beneficial microbes. We could talk about chemical weathering of silicates, the actual
building of soil over a very long period of time. We can talk about terpenes, we can talk about
cannabinoids. The idea basically is that there's this gateway that the CO2 has to go through.
And that gateway is RuBisCO. It comes in as CO2, and then it leaves as a sugar. And then once it
leaves as a sugar, it can be converted into quite literally anything that the plants need to grow.
And this is why carbon is a macronutrient, because the carbon concentration within a plant
makes up a majority of its overall biomass. And aside from water, obviously water can be a huge,
you know, especially for wet plants. It's obviously a huge constituent of their weight. But
if you dehydrate the plants and let all that moisture leave, what you're left with is mostly
carbon-rich residues. And there's, you know, some residual moisture that's always going to be there.
There's some oxygen that's going to be there and some hydrogen. But primarily it's carbon that
we're dealing with. So plants at the end of their life, once all the water leaves, once everything
is done, the factories are shut down, chlorophyll has been broken down appropriately and all that
stuff. What we're left with is mostly carbon by weight, particularly for cannabis plants,
but also generally speaking, if we're looking at growing wine grapes and we want to look at the
concentration of phenolic compounds, or if we want to look at the bricks level of strawberries,
as well as grapes, you know, these things are defined by carbon. The higher the bricks,
the higher the carbon overall. Same thing with hops for a beer maker. They want to see more
alpha acids. They want to see more of that stuff within those lupulin glands, which are very
similar to trichomes in cannabis plants. But all of the terpenes and alpha acids that hops plants
will accumulate are lo and behold, mostly carbon by weight. So it doesn't matter what we're talking
about. It doesn't matter which crops we're talking about. We're ultimately going to be dealing with
this issue of how did the carbon get there and what did it become? You know, how was it metabolized
by the plants and what is its final form factor? But the idea is basically that you've got a high
concentration of carbon inside of the plants at the end of their life. It doesn't matter if it's a,
it doesn't matter what kind of plant it is. It's mostly, it's going to be mostly carbon by weight.
So just quickly from a layman's perspective, is Rubisco taking, first of all, does it only
work on CO2 or does it work on, like, is there,
CO2, is Rubisco breaking the CO2 from the O2 or is it keeping it in that CO2 structure but
making it, is the CO2 coming into the plant or is the Rubisco extracting the C from the O2,
breaking that bond? It does break the bonds. Yeah.
So it helps get just the C? Correct. Correct. Yeah. The plants don't really care for the O2.
Right. And I think everybody, going back to like kindergarten days, we learned from a pretty young
age that plants breathe out oxygen and they breathe in CO2. Humans are the exact opposite.
We take in oxygen and we release CO2. So there's this balancing act that happens where the plants
fundamentally are a little bit inverted. And that's good because it maintains equilibrium.
You know, plants also have mitochondria so they can undergo oxidative phosphorylation. The
chloroplasts are responsible for photophosphorylation. But yes, the specific thing that
happens is that the CO2, the O2, the plants don't really care about. It's that C that they care
about, that carbon that they care about. And the reason that there's energy required going in
is because there's a certain strength associated with this bond that's formed between the O2 and
the C. That's why the CO2 floats around in the air and it kind of exists as a molecule of CO2.
It's a fully oxidized carbon. And to reduce that carbon, in other words, to remove that oxygen,
it requires energy to go in to break those bonds down, to break that molecule apart. Just like if
you need to use power tools, you have to plug them into the wall because there's electricity
that's required to actually rip through this granite with a granite cutting wheel or something
like that. I'm just kind of making an analogy for the workers. Obviously, that's what the enzymes
are. But the idea is that the substrate they're acting on, CO2, has a certain amount of stored
energy inside of it that needs to get broken apart. And the oxygen isn't really required for
the plants. They mostly care about the carbon. The more carbon they can access, the better they can
do things like make hydrocarbons, terpenes and cannabinoids, things like that.
Okay. So the rubisco's main function is provide... That bond has energy, so it needs to put in a
little more energy than that bond to break it apart. And then the C's unlocked and available
to the plant. So when I think of carbon, obviously, carbon's attached to oxygen in the air,
but then you also have the brown in the composting world, you have the greens and the brown.
So does rubisco also... Decaying leaves, do they need bonds broken in any way? And is rubisco
relevant to that or just carbon? Does rubisco only work on carbon that is attached to O2?
Or does it also just work on carbon and... I mean, do you get where I'm going?
Other carbon that maybe needs to be unlocked from other molecules, I guess?
No, no. I understand what you're saying. Yeah. And rubisco only operates on CO2 versus O2.
It's got the carboxylation of CO2 or the oxygenate... Or the sugar that... The RUBP sugar,
I think, is the initial, is the ribulose phosphate sugar. So that gets carboxylated or it gets
oxygenated. So it's CO2 or O2. And this is a process that's powered by the energy of the sun
coming in. Obviously, there's pigments that first absorb that and the electron transport chain. So
there's a bunch of stuff that has to happen first. But the idea basically is that the energy that's
produced from photosynthesis feeds this work or this enzyme. And it's one job is to suck CO2 out
of the air. Ideally, obviously, it operates and it fires on oxygen as well. It has this oxygenation
activity too that does recycle CO2 back to rubisco. We can kind of get into that a little bit
later. But if you're talking about decaying composting material, rubisco is not active
in those. There may be different enzymes that are active at that point.
So it's not... Yeah. So rubisco doesn't play in the composting pile. Its function is elsewhere.
Got it. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Because
rubisco is powered by the activities of the electron transport chain. So we have a plant
that's alive being exposed to light energy, taking up water, using that light energy to split the
water, generating a proton gradient, creating ATP. And then at the end of this process, that ATP
and any DPH get fed to rubisco. So there's a couple of things that have to happen first that are
going to be defined by the plant being alive. If the plant's not alive, you can shine all the
light you want on it. It's not going to photosynthesize. And if the plant doesn't
have a root structure, if it can't take up water, again, it doesn't matter how intense the lights
are or how rich the concentration of CO2 is even at the active site of rubisco. If there's no water
present, there's no ATP that's going to be made by the plant. So these are biological processes
that are happening in real time, and they do require the plants to be alive. If you're talking
about decaying material, I think a great example is tea and how tea is made. When tea is first
plucked off the plant, you can wither it, you can dehydrate it, you can end up with something like
white tea, which you don't allow to oxidize at all. That's why it retains that color. Same thing
with green tea, very low oxidation. But when we get into black tea, for example, really what we're
trying to do is allow the constituents, those green constituents inside of the leaf to actually
brown and to actually oxidize. This is why you get a difference in the way that the leaves themselves
look. White tea looks lighter in color. Green tea obviously looks green in color. And then black tea
is way darker. And when you actually brew that tea up, you're left with a color in the cup that's
much darker. It's like dark red, crimson, kind of have some really nice gold hues to it. The darker
it is, the more oxidized it is. And generally speaking, the more reddish it is, you're going
to get like, you know, dark red colors, crimson colors. These are the result of transformations
that occur that are not powered or driven by rubisco, much like, actually, I should have
mentioned this first because there's probably not, there's probably one or two tea heads in the chat
room, but maybe a better example is actually the browning of an apple. The browning of an apple
occurs as a result of enzymes that are exposed to oxygen. They use the oxygen to oxidize stuff.
Whereas on the flip side, the activities of rubisco are not involved in the browning of a cut apple
at all. I hope that answered the question. Yeah. And is the plant itself producing the
rubisco protein or enzyme? Like does that live, someone was asking if it lives, is it part of the
cell? Yes. Yes. It's within the plant cells themselves. The concentration of rubisco
can actually increase in the right environmental circumstances in the right conditions. But yeah,
the idea is the plants are always producing rubisco. They're always trying to get more
rubisco because they want more carbon. And well, that's why, is it kind of like more cowbell? Like
the more rubisco a plant has available to separate those CO2 bonds, the happier the plant is to,
up to some kind of diminishing return maybe. Yes, you're correct. And I will say that it's
a balancing act for the plants because it doesn't make sense to produce more workers if there's not
more raw materials coming in. If you have access to more raw materials, then you can have more
workers present because then that work simply gets done faster. And this is what's meant by the
density of chlorophyll or the density of rubisco. If I gave you a leaf and that leaf had a one
square inch surface area, let's say I gave you two, right? Both of them are one square inch in
surface area. You can't necessarily tell what the concentration of rubisco and chlorophyll are like
unless you look under a microscope. So let's just say one plant has grown under high intensity
lights, very nutrient rich feed water solution with high CO2 concentration, somewhere around
a thousand to twelve hundred ppms of CO2. If you looked under a microscope, what you'd see is that
the space that exists between the various chlorophyll pigments is much smaller. Whereas if
we looked at the other leaf, let's say the other leaf is grown in ambient CO2 and it's grown in
shade, right? Not a very intense grow environment, but let's just say it's also one square inch. If
we look under a microscope, we will see a bigger distance that separates the chlorophylls and the
rubiscos because again, there's not enough light energy coming in to make sense to have more
rubisco. And furthermore, both rubisco and chlorophyll, those are very, very important
constituents of the plants. The pigment chlorophyll takes in light energy and then obviously through
the electron transport chain, there's a conversion of that light energy that happens and then rubisco
is fed. So there is a coordination between the two of them, but they both require nitrogen to be made
and they're both considered major nitrogen sinks for the plants. These two, the chlorophyll and the
rubisco will account for about 90%, maybe more of the overall nitrogen that you ever put on your
plants. So anytime you see that first number, the NPK, when you look at that number, just know to
yourself in your head that 90% is going to be taken up by the plants and then transformed into
either chlorophyll or rubisco ideally. Now, obviously there are different uses for nitrogen,
things like proteins and amino acids and et cetera, et cetera, but a majority of the nitrogen is going
to get sunk into these tools, these workers whose job it is to convert light energy or to utilize
that converted light energy. And it makes a lot of sense. I mean, the more energy plants have access
to, the more feed water they can take up, the more nutrient dense the feed water can be. This is why
in a sealed flowering room with high PPFD light intensity and high CO2 concentrations, that plants
actually feed a lot heavier too. And anybody who's gone down this path before knows that you can't
just increase the light and the CO2 without increasing the food availability because the
plants will very quickly become hungry. They will become deficient in nitrogen because what they're
trying to do is take in all of this excess light energy that they have access to. And one of the
ways they do it is by increasing the nitrogen metabolism. They need more nitrogen because that
more nitrogen equals more chlorophyll and more chlorophyll operating when there's more light
allows the plant to make more energy. And then obviously the energy is utilized by rubisco. So
if you have more energy coming in, it makes sense why the plant would try to make more rubisco
because then that energy can go out and actually produce sugars. And this specifically is why
plants grown in the right environment with high light intensity, high CO2, high feed water,
they grow twice as fast, three times as fast. They grow twice as much in some cases. And what they
grow to be twice as much can actually be twice as dense as well. We're not just dealing with
a larger biomass with less concentration overall because that concentration was thinned out or
spread. It's the opposite. We have a higher biomass and that the biomass itself has a higher concentration
of stuff inside of it. That's why you can't shade grow your cannabis and expect
35% cannabinoids and five plus percent terpenes. You need that high light intensity. These are
very energy rich molecules that the plants are trying to make. And if they don't have access to
it through the right pathways, then they're not going to be able to produce the things that you
want them to produce. Got it. So on nitrogen essentially is the energy source that helps
Robisco be created, thrive. But if you have too much Robisco, it essentially means that
the Robisco creation process is taking unnecessary energy, which in the form of nitrogen, that could
benefit other plant functions. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I look at nitrogen as a tool that plants use to
capture more carbon. It's a building block. Basically, if you give your plants nitrogen,
they basically say, oh, great, I can use this element to then make stuff that's going to allow
me to capture more energy from the light and to capture CO2 out of the air. This is obviously
chlorophyll as a pigment and then Robisco as an enzyme. So all of this stuff is coordinated,
though, because if you if you look, you know, going back to our sealed flowering room, high
intensity, everything is dialed in. Everything's perfect. The amount of nitrogen that we can expose
those plants to is going to be very high before they start to burn because the nitrates that are
in excess. Yeah, Derek, Derek's right, it's found in the chloroplasts. Yeah. So but, you know, the
way that Robisco operates, again, the thing that I'm trying to point out to people is that Robisco
doesn't freely capture carbon out of their Robisco gets CO2 delivered through the carbonic anhydrase
mechanism that's present inside of the thylakoid specifically. And if you knock that thylakoidal
carbonic anhydrase mechanism out, the total pool of CO2 to Robisco drops by 26 times,
because, again, if it's just left to its own devices, Robisco has to deal with 200000 parts
per million of oxygen and 400 parts per million of CO2. So as the CO2 and O2 are floating around
in the space, there's obviously a higher concentration of oxygen and CO2. So the
efficiency goes down of that carboxylation reaction. And it actually only increases when
CO2 is delivered to Robisco. And that delivery mechanism also happens to be tied fundamentally
to the electron transport chain to the development of this or the generation of this
protein, sorry, proton gradient. And then subsequently, the ATP that's created,
the energy that's stored in that bond gets moved to Robisco. So Robisco can utilize that energy,
that energy is released within Robisco to power this process. But the energy is delivered
in conjunction with the CO2. What did you what did you what was the phrase for the pathway for
the energy delivery? The are you talking about the carbonic anhydrase mechanism? Yes. So car,
I'm just gonna yeah, and how do you spell anhydrase? A n h y d r o u s. And yeah, and and
then and then what was the next word mechanism? No, carbonic anhydrase. No, that's what it is.
carbonic anhydrase. Ca. But it's in the phylloquine. So carbonic is C a r b o n i t carbonic
anhydrase, which is a n h y d r a s e. So that's also an enzyme, right?
Yes, yes. carbonic anhydrase. Anything that ends in ace is technically an enzyme.
So you have this, you know, you're looking at Robisco right now, you see the carboxylase
slash oxygenase. Anytime you see a se, that's a good sign that we're dealing with
an enzyme. And the CBB cycles, the Calvin Benson cycle. Okay, so
carbonic anhydrase is what is pulling the co2 essentially to the doorstep of the Robisco?
It delivers Yes, yes, it delivers the co2.
to and then the Robisco does what it does. So the co2 is it coming through like the
stomata and the leaves? Initially, yes. But the plants are always trying to maintain as
much carbon as they possibly can, because the whole point of plant metabolism,
ultimately is to take co2 out of the air. Right. So as this process starts,
Robisco plays a very, very important role. And all of the soil that exists everywhere on Earth
is was created through first the activity of Robisco allowing co2 to come in and become
deposited inside of a biological system. From there, obviously, the sugars get converted to
organic acids. These organic acids get pushed out of the roots of bryophytes that first started to
colonize land, maybe a couple 100 million years ago. At that time, there was no soil, there was
nothing around, there was no soil because there were no plants that were going through this
process of chemical weathering, we had just a bunch of silicate crust going on. What ends up
happening is the co2 gets worked into the plant through Robisco. And then there's all of these
other enzymes on the back and their job is to try to recycle that carbon because they don't want it
to be off gassed again, they don't want it to be oxidized. They've done all this hard work to reduce
the carbon chemical reduction. There's no oxygen inside there, it's fully reduced.
If you look at the molecular formula for monoturping, you'll see that there's no
oxygen inside of there, there's only hydrogen. There's only the positive charge, not the
negative charge, right? So this is the thing I want people to understand is that when co2 enters,
the planet's fully oxidized, it's meters all the way over here, it's fully oxidized, could not get
oxidized any further. Plants have to chemically reduce that carbon to break that oxygen down.
And then when they reduce it, they can create sugars. As a result of it, they can create
terpenes from those sugars that get further and further metabolized. You've got this very,
very complex series of enzymes that exist in a network, a metabolic network
that try to pass the carbon around and make sure that it can be reutilized without being lost.
Plants actually do a really good job of shoving a ton of carbon into the rhizosphere. And like I
mentioned, you know, about a minute ago, when bryophytes first started to colonize land, and
they started to shoot roots out, really what they were doing was taking the carbon that was in the
air, and converting it to organic acids, those organic acids, like citrates, for example,
and acetates, those would get secreted through the roots. And it allows for the chemical weathering
of these silicates to happen. So now the plants are actually physically mining via chemical
weathering, they're mining certain elements out of these silicate parent materials that exist.
And over time, over the course of several hundred million years, soil is actually quite literally
created. And now when soil is created, we have this entire ecosystem, multiple kingdoms present,
we have fungi that rely on the carbon concentrations in the soil, we have bacteria and beneficial
microbes that rely on the presence of carbon in the soil, we even have nematodes, we have worms,
we have basically all forms of life depend on the presence and concentration of carbon in the soil.
When that carbon starts to leave the soil, when it starts to oxidize and get released back as CO2,
we get a decrease in the organic matter that's present in the soil, this decrease of organic
matter is just a measurement of how much carbon is present in the soil. So that carbon concentration
of the soil going down directly affects microorganisms like the fungi and the bacteria,
they can't do their thing in the absence of carbon, because they rely on carbon, it's a substrate,
it's a building block for them. You get all these, you know, differences in the physical properties
and in the chemical properties of the soil, what it can support, what it cannot support,
how much water it can retain, how much, you know, the mineral load that can be provided to the
plants, all this stuff starts to change drastically. So yeah, I forget where we came from that, but maybe
got a little off topic. Well, it was kind of because you had mentioned that something else
transports the CO2 to the rubisco to then catalyze it and make the carbon available into the plant.
It seems like also the plant, almost like using all parts of the animal or
reusing and recycling that maybe, so carbon can be used for a purpose and then the plant
keeps the carbon in there to reuse the carbon for another purpose? As much as possible, yes, plants
will try to accumulate as much carbon as they can. Sometimes that carbon is passed around
back and forth, there's reversible reactions, and then in some cases the energy has to flow outward
and it creates a terminal metabolite, meaning that it's a, generally speaking, it's a non-reversible
thing. So, you know, when the plants make terpenes and they make cannabinoids, those generally
speaking are non-reversible, meaning that the plant isn't going to be able to take those forms
of carbon back in and process them efficiently in a way that releases carbon to a different
mechanism or a different enzyme. That carbon has been sunk, basically. It's there.
But they're the carbons that we value the most as the end user.
So, you know, part of your starting point was, you know, creating a self-contained room and
adding CO2 into it isn't necessarily an efficient thing to do. So what are you advocating for?
I think if you take...
Like, the goal is to make, tell me if I'm right, the goal is to make as much
carbon plant available, correct?
Yeah, yeah.
So that I can use... So it has, whether it eats a little or a lot, it's available to the plant.
So what are kind of the ways to make carbon available to the plant?
So I think one of the best ways, most familiar ways for people is feed the soil, you know,
take good care of the soil chemistry because that's a major carbon sink. The plants are,
from an evolutionary perspective, plants are like giant vacuum cleaners. They suck CO2 out
of there and they shove it in the ground as much as they can, as deep as they can,
as far and wide as they can. You give them a couple hundred million years,
they will quite literally change the surface of this planet from silicate minerals to soil rich.
The soil didn't exist prior to the chemical weathering activities that
are initiated by plants that have rubisco because rubisco is the gateway for all of the carbon to
enter the plants. And then from there, once it's inside of the plant, it's really the Pandora's
box of opportunities and possibilities. Plants are really trying to, you know, take carbon out
of the air, shove it in the ground. That's the evolutionary sort of path that plants have taken.
Now, just in terms of more like general metabolic processes, plants always have stored pools of
carbon that's available for them to do a variety of different things with. Think about it like a
bank account that's continually built up with money. Anytime you need to go to the store and
buy ingredients to make a sandwich, you've got funds in the bank account that you can go and
buy stuff. But if you've only got $5, you can't buy three different things that cost $5 each,
right? So this is what the plants are faced with every single day. They have pools of energy,
that they're constantly building up, constantly storing carbon. And then when a stressor comes
along, like a bug is crawling around on the outside layer of the leaf and it bites into the
plant, the plant has to form a metabolic response to that. Those responses in its metabolism require
energy that costs money. The plant needs to make a sandwich that will repel the insect. This
sandwich obviously is a molecular sandwich. It doesn't have like meat and cheese and doesn't
have sauces or anything like that, but it does have elements inside of it. Some of those elements
could be nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen. If we're talking about terpenes, it's carbon
and hydrogen. And those represent basically work that the plant has done. Just like a bank account
that has money inside of it probably represents some work that someone did to earn that money.
So plants do work. They earn the carbon in a reduced form. They break the water molecules
apart, which is crazy. Very, very complex stuff here. And then they use that energy after it's
been stored up. They can spend that to create defensive compounds like terpenes are a great
example of defensive compounds. So otherwise the plants try to build up their pools, their stores,
because they're always faced with a different stressors and they can't predict them very
accurately. I mean, they do their best to deal with them, but imagine it's really, really hot
outside, the really intense sunlight beating down on the plants. And next thing you know,
there's a cloud that passes over. What happens there is that the intensity of the sunlight
decreases and the plants are able to adjust to that in real time. Their photosynthetic machinery
will start to gradually slow itself a little bit because they don't have access to as much
light energy coming in. So that's going to be the rate limiting factor. The availability and
concentration of the light and really the intensity of the light is what drives the splitting of water
molecules apart. So they can't really split those water molecules apart without the energy of the
light coming in. Now, having said that, there are instances where the plants can store the energy of
the light, obviously in a chemical format. That's the whole point. And the plants can access those
forms of energy later. That's what I mean by the bank account that's being built up with all of
these resources. The plants are able to make terpenes and cannabinoids as a result of the
accumulation of energy. So the what and I apologize to the person that said I blasted
their eardrums out, but the plant itself can create rubisco, correct? And can a plant uptake
rubisco like outside rubisco? Plants do make rubisco. I don't think that they uptake it
externally. I think this is an internal process for them. They are responsible for creating
rubisco and they do so by using carbon and nitrogen that they take up. The nitrogen that
they take up is typically in the form of nitrate and it has to get processed too.
This is kind of an interesting point for us to segue maybe into looking at besides carbon. Carbon
requires reduction, right? Going back to CO2, that's oxidized. We want it reduced. Redox chemistry,
right? One is fully oxidized, the other is fully reduced. It doesn't have any oxygen inside of it.
Plants are really trying to do this at all times. They're trying to take stuff that's oxidized
and reduce it chemically. Besides CO2, there's NO3, which is nitrate. Now, CO2 and NO3,
which is that oxygen constituent, there's two inside of CO2 and three inside of NO3,
which should tell you that the energy expenditure for processing nitrates is pretty great too.
Beyond that, we have sulfate, SO4. We've got three elements here, carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur,
primarily that the oxygen is not required inside of them. I would go into phosphates a little bit,
but they actually, the oxygen and phosphorous bond is maintained in the plants. That's not
the same. With those three, the nitrate being NO3, the sulfate being SO4, and the carbon dioxide
being CO2, plants are trying to take the energy of the light and use that light energy to create
chemical energy that they can then use and spend to break the oxygens apart. Nitrate reduction
effectively competes against carbon reduction, meaning that the activity of rubisco is going to
be hindered or limited by the presence of excess nitrates within the plant. Because if the plant's
dealing with excess nitrates, the reduction power has to flow there as opposed to flowing to
rubisco. Now, all of this energy that's being produced in the plants isn't going towards making
terpenes and it's not going towards making cannabinoids. It's actually going towards
making chlorophyll. Last time I checked, no grower in the world is getting a lab test for how much
chlorophyll they have in their plant tissue. They're all getting lab reports for how many
terpenes and cannabinoids they have. Those don't have any nitrogen inside of them whatsoever.
So if you have excess nitrogen coming into the plants, know that it's just an energy draw
away from the power that could be going towards producing terpenes and towards cannabinoids. This
is also why a lot of growers in the mid to late stages of flowering like to cut out their nitrogen
or like to drop it down very, very low. The plants obviously, they need a little bit of nitrogen,
but relative to what's required on the vegetative stage where they're building the chlorophyll,
they're building the rubisco, right? These are the major sinks of nitrogen. At some point,
the plants stop building that. The plants aren't building and growing new tissue.
They're actually forming flowers. The flowers themselves do contain chlorophyll and rubisco,
obviously, but not nearly to the same concentration as the big water leaves and the big fan leaves
that are present in the plant that are grown in the vegetative stage. So at some point you do want
to cut nitrogen levels out because otherwise you get this competition between rubisco and
nitrate reductase. The reduction power can only flow to one or the other. They effectively compete
against each other. Now through photorespiration, plants have figured out a genius way to recycle
CO2 back to rubisco and effectively reduce the nitrates without creating such a huge competitive
draw against the activities of the Calvin Benson cycle. But maybe that one we'll get into a little
bit further or a little bit later. The idea basically is that you've got these elements
that you're feeding the plants and if you feed them in excess, particularly the sulfates and
the nitrates, you get a reduction, a decrease I should say, you get a decrease in the activity
of the terpene and cannabinoid synthase enzymes because they don't have the energy flowing to them.
The energy is instead flowing elsewhere and the connective tissue between them is the oxygen that's
present in the CO2, in the NO3, in the SO4. That all requires energy coming in to break the oxygen
apart. It's not like the oxygen and the sulfate is special or in the nitrate is special or in the
CO2 it's special, it's just oxygen. But it has a very strong tendency to want to play with these
elements carbon and nitrogen and sulfur. That's why the default state out there in the atmosphere,
the default state of these elements is their oxidized forms. Again going back to it, we have
200,000 parts per million concentration of oxygen. You bet that oxygen is going to want to react
with everything that it possibly can. Most of these elements you find in their fully oxidized
forms out in nature, CO2, NO3, SO4. Plants are trying to convert that, they're trying to reduce
it because that reduction is valuable for them. It allows them to create and store energy and then
use that energy to produce things like terpenes and cannabinoids. Okay, another, and I think
there's a small segment of the people watching who are like keeping up. I'm not in that section.
I'm two levels down. The carbon that is isolated in the soil, the plant takes that up too, right?
Yeah, plants don't really have a choice of what they get or what they don't get. They can't just
decide they don't want to take up a piece of arsenic. They're going to have to take it up,
they got to deal with it. Same thing with carbon. The more soluble carbon is working up inside of
the plant, the more they have to deal with it and the better it can actually be for them overall,
particularly if it's soluble. Right. Where my question or comment is going is that there are
multiple ways for the plant to get carbon. One is that there's natural carbon that is not bonded to
O2 that it can uptake and then the rubisco helps it make the carbon that's attached to O2 available,
correct? If you're talking about carbon that's been processed already downstream of rubisco,
then yeah, it could not contain any oxygen. In some cases, it could still contain a little bit
of oxygen, but the dynamic of how that oxygen interacts with the molecule itself is a little
bit different. What comes to mind is organic acids, like the citric acid cycle, for example.
It's a great cycle to talk about because what it does is it allows, you can type in
Krebs cycle or citric acid cycle and we can take a look at it. The idea is basically that you've
got these engines that are active within the plants. As the sunlight is coming in, all this
activity is happening. You get this citrate valve that starts to open up and it's really just
funneling the byproducts of photosynthesis. Rubisco has acted on CO2, it's produced a sugar and
it eventually works its way through a series of complex networks of enzymes that are all
responsible for passing carbon around to each other. That carbon is effectively fed into a
cycle that produces skeletons for amino acids. That two-oxoglutarate that's produced within the
Krebs cycle becomes a building block for amino acids in plants. Now we have carbon coming into
the plant, same thing with the energy of the light, and then it's producing a building block
that can then be used to create amino acids by combining the nitrogen that's being taken up from
the feed water with the carbon that is being fixed by Rubisco.
I was going to see if I could find a picture.
Images. All right, well I'll cue something up. No worries, if you want to type in
citric acid cycle, we can kind of take a look there. I just want to point out to people.
Is the Krebs cycle the same as the citric acid cycle?
Yep. It's a cycle that allows plants to metabolize carbon that's being
taken into the system by Rubisco. Again, keep in mind this is an active process. Plants don't
want to hold on to this stuff. They need stuff to flow through the system. They can't just
hold on to the energy, they can't hold on to the charge. They're trying to open up valves
that allow for the export of things in a semi-closed loop system, basically. You want to
have certain types of systems that are fully closed loop, meaning the energy is never really
lost. It is just completely cycled over and over and over again, but in the presence of an open
state, meaning that you have energy coming in, this creates a dynamic where the plants
have energy coming in, so they need energy going out. These cycles are opened up a little bit,
and you get this flow out. Does this diagram mean anything to you,
or does it make sense to you? I still see the chemical reduction of CO2.
Okay. You know what? Hold on. Stop screen sharing. Yeah, my computer, for some reason,
I will see what I'm trying to show everyone, but everyone will see, and I never know when it
stops working. All right. Share screen. There we go. All right. Let me know if you see that.
Yeah, yeah. There we go. Yeah. Yeah, so there's certain redox pairs that we see there,
the NADH inside of the mitochondria, the chloroplasts have NADPH, and you've got FADH2.
This cycle right here, actually, the important ... Let's not get into the specifics of the
individual steps. What I want people to understand is that when the sun,
the energy of the sun is coming in, this cycle is opened, meaning that it's not in this closed
loop system. It actually opens up along certain points, and the metabolites or the building
blocks that come out of those pathways are then fed into other pathways. The best example of this,
particularly, is that the 2-oxoglutarate that's produced within this cycle right here,
within the Krebs cycle, I don't think it's actually shown here, but oxaloacetate is similar.
That's how C4 plants concentrate carbon, and same thing with malic acid. But the idea is basically
that this carbon is coming in, and it's being used to construct building blocks. Instead of having a
perfectly closed loop, when the sun is ... Well, when the lights are on and the energy of the sun's
coming in, you have this open structure with stuff being exported from the cycle, because you've got
new stuff coming in to replenish the stuff that's being exported. I think someone said there's
pump and dump thing going on here. Let me see here. Yeah, constantly put ... Wiesen in the
juice said constantly pumping and dumping different cycles to maintain balance. This is 100% true.
In the open state of the citric acid cycle, the carbon that's being metabolized by RuBisCO
then creates a building block known as 2-oxoglutarate, which is a skeleton for all
amino acids. Now we have this coordination of activities. We have the reduction of carbon.
Now we're getting closer and closer to how that reduction of carbon interfaces with the reduction
of nitrogen to then create amino acids. There's a very complex series of processes that have to
happen. Nitrate reduction is actually very energy expensive. It's extremely, extremely high cost for
the plants to take nitrate, which is NO3, and then progressively break that oxygen apart further and
further and get to a spot where it's fully protonated. It's fully reduced into its ammoniacal
form. That ammoniacal form is oftentimes ... There's an amine group, A-M-I-N-E, the amine
group basically. When you have an amine group combined with an organic acid, it's a very
... When you have an amine group combined with an organic acid, in short, you have an amino acid. Amino acids get their name
from this exact thing that happens. The point is basically that you have to have
chemically reduced carbon present for the plants in the form of 2-oxoglutarate in order for them
to actually be combined with chemically reduced nitrogen in its ammoniacal form.
The plants have to coordinate this because if there's no skeleton, if there's no
organic acid skeleton, it doesn't matter how much nitrate is reduced because there's nowhere to plug
it in. Having free ammoniacal nitrogen floating around in the plants can actually be detrimental.
It can actually cause some problems. It can physically burn the plants. If anybody here has
ever applied too much ammonium onto their plants, you know what I'm talking about. The plants will
actually physically burn. It's a pH thing. It's too much acid being built up in the plants. It's
like if you're working out at the gym and you hold your breath while you're lifting weights,
your muscles are going to burn real quick. Plants don't want to hold their breath. Plants want to
keep stuff pumping through the system so they can replenish and maintain balance. One of the
ways they do that is to take reduced carbon and combine it with reduced nitrogen to make amino
acids. Now those amino acids are really, really fundamental building blocks. Obviously, they come
together and they make proteins and things like that, peptides in some cases that are a little
bit shorter overall. The plants are always going to try to recycle carbon in the form of this
amino acid where they can. You've got enzymes that make the amino acids and then you've got
enzymes that convert them through transamination reactions. Maybe they'll remove that amine head
group and plug it onto a different organic acid residue. In some cases, when the plants are really
stressed out, depending on what kind of stress, they can actually change the profile of their
amino acids. It's been shown pretty conclusively that plants, just for example, plants that are
subject to drought stress will start to produce more proline as an amino acid. Proline interacts
with, it has a high capacity for water. It has good water retention qualities to it. I'm sure
it also factors into the biosynthesis of cell walls because cell walls contain something called
hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins. If you've got better integrity to the cell walls during periods
of drought and dehydration, chances are the plants can accumulate more moisture inside of their cells
and prevent that moisture from leaking out. Then there's also the physical properties of
proline. There's also some amino acids that are created as a result of the plants trying to store
a bunch of nitrogen inside of them. There's the nitrogen to carbon ratio. I think it's arginine.
I'm pretty sure it's arginine. Arginine has the highest ratio of nitrogen to carbon, which is good.
If you're looking at your plants and you get a sap tissue analysis and a breakdown of the amino acids,
if you see arginine, it means the plant's flush with nitrogen. It may actually need a little bit
more carbon, more organic acids present so that it can make different amino acids. Because as that
ratio gets closer to one-to-one, it basically represents this convergent point between nitrogen
metabolism at large and carbon metabolism at large. The third thing for us to overlay on top
of this discussion real quick is sulfate reduction. Because sulfate has to get reduced just
like nitrate has to get reduced, just like CO2 has to get reduced, sulfate must also undergo similar
conversion. But the reduction of sulfate always terminates in the biosynthesis of cysteine,
which is an amino acid. An amino acid that contains nitrogen and sulfur and obviously the carbon
residues inside there. Cysteine is a really, really important amino acid because now we have three
elements, all of which require reduction power. All of that reduction power competes within those
three. You can only go to the store and spend $5 on this, $5 on that, or $5 on that. It's very
difficult for the plants to spend energy that they don't have processing all three of those.
So there's a very, very tightly coordinated series of reactions that occur within the plants.
They're always trying to create this balance. But cysteine again is so important because it
represents reduced carbon, reduced nitrogen, and reduced sulfur in a form that is relevant for the
plants. It's bioavailable for them, obviously. It's very relevant for their metabolic processes.
But it's huge and it's critical because these are the oxidized elements that take a huge amount of
energy away from the plants. And the fact that we have this convergent point between those three
elements within this one amino acid is a testament to the fact that plants can actually balance out
the equation very, very well in real time with changes in light intensity, changes in available
water that's present, and then even the water that they take up from the soil, it could have
different composition of minerals. It could have a different composition of elements. So plants have
to deal with this stuff in real time. One day they may not get the magnesium sulfate watering, and
the next day you may water your plants with magnesium sulfate. They have to be able to
respond in real time without throwing themselves off their equilibrium or off their balance.
And with the case of sulfate, I think that the sulfur push or a sulfur boost is kind of like a
PK boost V2, if that kind of makes sense. There was a study that came out, maybe it was a year
or so ago, a little bit further, maybe two years, year and a half, that had looked at
sulfur-containing metabolites inside of trichome heads. And they found that there were certain,
I believe it was cannabinoids, maybe some terpene fractions as well, but I'm pretty
sure it was the cannabinoids that contained sulfur. And they were trying to find what
compounds were responsible for that characteristic kind of skunky aroma.
And as I mentioned, cysteine has fully reduced sulfur. It's no longer a sulfate group whatsoever.
It's actually in the form of a thiol group. Thiol groups are critical for balancing out redox
chemistry for the plants. They're antioxidants. They're really, really powerful antioxidants for
the plants. And so the primary goal or function of the plants and its utilization of sulfur is not
to store it in the form of a metabolite, but rather actually to use it functionally. It's a
functional thing. It's not a structural thing. So when you put too much sulfur on your plants,
they do have to detoxify that. They reduce that sulfur and then they oxidize it again.
And that takes energy away from the plants that could otherwise go towards producing
terpenes and cannabinoids. The other thing about this study that was interesting was that the
concentration of these sulfur-containing compounds was actually very, very low. I want to say it was
measured in the parts per billion. So it's not like we're talking about a huge amount here. You
don't need a ton of sulfur to go on your plants in order to produce that skunky kind of smell or that
sulfur-containing cannabinoid. Very, very tiny amounts of it are going to be required. And the
ones that are produced, the quantity that is produced is likely going to revolve in part or
in whole around being a functional antioxidant within the trichome heads.
Okay. As I said before, some of us are, have some glazed eyes and other people are
taking notes like they're in organic chemistry for the third time.
All right. So there are a ton of like little questions, comments.
Comments. So people have been asking about calcium. So rubisco and calcium.
And then there was another calcium carbonate. And then
what? Yeah. Yeah. Here we go. Calcium and carbon.
Yeah. Yeah. So there we go. There, there, how about that is our distinct question. How does
calcium relate to carbon and plants? It's a great question. Fantastic question, actually. So
carbon, oh boy, this is going to be fun. This is going to be really fun. I'm going to try to
actually attack this from a slightly different angle. I'm going to look at calcium nitrate first.
I'm going to try to explain to people something that occurs with the use of calcium nitrate,
the over, the excess utilization of calcium nitrate. So if I asked the audience, what are
the functions of calcium? Like what does a plant do with calcium? What does a plant do with calcium?
Chances are that most people would say things like, you know, thickness of cell walls,
stock stems, it kind of contributes to the physical mass of the plants because it makes their
exoskeleton, you know, just like human bones are made up of calcium phosphate plants to their
structure. Their anatomical structures are created through calcium, right? So,
plants to their structure, their anatomical structures are created through calcium,
right? So the idea then basically is that in order to metabolize carbon, I'm sorry, in order
to metabolize calcium effectively, we need to look at what else is a constituent of the cell wall.
As it turns out, there are organic acids like pectic acid residues that will complex calcium
and create the actual glue that holds the cell walls together. These are calcium pectate
residues. Now, to kind of go back to it, the carbon, the CO2 needs to get reduced in order to
make these organic acids. And if that reduction power is flowing away from the biosynthesis of
these organic acids, and instead it's flowing towards the reduction of nitrates, then you
effectively have competition between nitrate reduction and proper calcium assimilation into
the cell walls. Because if you didn't have the nitrate to deal with and only the carbon,
only the calcium to deal with, the reduction power flows to carbon, produces the organic acids,
and can complex the calcium and actually create a piece of the cell wall. Whereas if you don't
have that reduction power available, the plants cannot make the cell walls. This explains pretty
adequately why in situations where you fed too many nitrates to the plants, you have an excess
of calcium nitrate in the plants, that the cell walls actually get thinner, and they actually get
weaker because that reduction power flows away from processing the calcium and converting it into
constituents that might make up a cell wall. As far as feeding calcium carbonate to the plants
goes, I think the limiting factor of calcium nutrition for plants is primarily an issue of
solubility. Calcium in most of its forms is not very soluble. Calcium sulfate, not very soluble.
Calcium phosphate, not very soluble. Even the carbonate forms, they're not very soluble. If it's
not soluble in water, plants won't be able to take it up. The roots don't have teeth. They can't
physically chew through stuff. They actually have to pull it in if it's been solubilized. In that
stream of stuff that is hanging out in the water that's being pulled up through the xylem tissue,
that's where they start to process some of these minerals. What are the-
Just quickly- Well, actually, go on. I'll try to remember my question.
I was just going to say real quick that one of the advantages of calcium nitrate and the reason
that it's so ubiquitous in the industry is because the solubility of calcium nitrate is so high. You
can fit so much calcium into a drop of water using calcium nitrate. You can't even do a tenth of that
if you're using calcium sulfate, which is gypsum, or calcium phosphate, which is a bone meal. That's
why people amend their soils with gypsum and bone meal as a slow-release source of calcium, because
it takes a very long time for it to break down properly, to get metabolized, to become solubilized,
and then work its way up to the plants. Whereas the calcium nitrates, you can shove a lot of
calcium nitrate in even the tiniest drop of water, and then the plants have access to that. Now,
what they do with that is different. My question was just a curiosity of,
you have mobile nutrients in a plant and immobile nutrients, and calcium is an example of an
immobile nutrient. I think, what, boron, and then what is it, molybdenum? What makes one thing
immobile and something else mobile? Is it its size? Is it its ability? You just mentioned that
calcium's not ... You said it's not very water-soluble? Most forms of calcium aren't,
like the forms and flavors that most people are familiar with. The actual metabolism of calcium,
we'll have to do an entire episode on calcium waves. I want to challenge this concept of mobile
versus immobile by pointing out to people that calcium can actually move in waves throughout
plants. Usually, what ends up happening is you've got these distinct organelles within the cells,
like the vacuoles, for example, the endoplasmic reticulum, and then you've got chloroplasts and
mitochondria, primarily, that are known to be major calcium sinks for the plants.
There's this thing that happens called a calcium wave. If you take a pair of scissors and you cut
a leaf off of a plant, what you're doing is initiating the release of calcium from these
stores. It actually gets pushed out into the cytoplasm, and the concentration of calcium can
actually elevate significantly. It can become the most abundant cation present inside of that
cytoplasmic soup. Then, from there, there are these things called gap junctions, which connect
the cytoplasm of neighboring cells to each other. You've also got connective points on the outer
layers of the cell wall, where you have these, consider them like bridges or freeways or highways
that link all of the cells together within a plant. Really, what they're doing is passing a
bunch of stuff around to each other. They're passing hormones like auxin, cytokinins, stress-related
hormones. In some cases, they're even passing ions, and more specifically, cations like potassium
and magnesium. Yes, calcium can actually flow between. Through gap junctions, specifically,
calcium can flow between two cells. Now, when the calcium waves happen, what ends up occurring is
that there's this huge release of calcium that occurs, and a concentration in the cytoplasm
increases. Then, as the wave continues to propagate and move to the next cell, most of the
calcium actually gets pulled back into those stores, the vacuole, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria,
and chloroplast. You do get the forward movement of some calcium ions between neighboring cells.
This fundamentally violates this concept of mobility versus immobility, which I think is
an archaic and outdated way of looking at things anyways. The way that it was determined to be
mobile versus immobile, I think, was back in the 1950s, researchers had noticed that when they
injected calcium, that most of the calcium stayed in pretty close proximity to the site that it was
introduced. They basically said, well, calcium is not really remobilized, and it's not really
repurposed to the same extent that other cations may be. Calcium and potassium are actually really
good to contrast and compare against each other because potassium stays mostly soluble in a
soluble form for the plants. It's never really accumulated. Calcium becomes a constituent of
the cell walls. Plants would rather retain the integrity of the cell walls. As they continue to
pick up this nutrient-rich solution that's coming up through their roots, really what they're doing
is picking that calcium up and trying to shove it into the cell walls as much as they can. If not,
then they'll put it in the mitochondria, they'll put it in the chloroplasts, and also the
endoplasmic reticulum. There's an actual envelope that sits on the outside of the nucleus of the
cells that contains calcium ions that do get released and flood the entire cytoplasm during
these periods of calcium waves. The way that calcium waves move in plant cells is very analogous to the
way that neurons fire in the human brain. You have the spreading of information. These neurons are
firing off each other, and they're spreading an electrical signal out. This is exactly the same
thing that happens with calcium. Calcium moves in waves, just like neuron activity fires in waves,
and as the waves propagate from cell to cell, they actually spread all kinds of messages and
signals. The holy grail of calcium-related research in plant biochemistry is to try to decode
what exactly these signals are, because what ends up happening is, in the presence of a calcium wave
or in the wake of a calcium wave afterwards, you can activate all kinds of secondary metabolic
responses within plants. In other words, the production of terpenes and cannabinoids
is fundamentally linked to calcium metabolism in plants, even though calcium does not actually
become a constituent of a terpene. It is not a constituent of a cannabinoid. It only interacts
by means of spreading a message to the cells, and it activates and it upregulates and it turns stuff
on. There's all kinds of pumps and channels that are sensitive to calcium, so when that calcium
floods the cytoplasm during one of these calcium wave events, you have all these binding... you
have all these enzymes that want to bind to the calcium and take it and do something with it.
The calcium will effectively flip on a light switch, then that light switch effectively is
maybe a gene that gets expressed, and that gene happens to revolve around secondary metabolite
biosynthesis. So yeah, the movement of calcium in plants is actually very, very important,
but it's not the same kind of movement that people think of when we're talking about mobile versus
immobile. That being said, there is still the forward movement of calcium ions between cells,
specifically it's those gap junctions in the plasma of desmata that allow the plants
to move calcium ions, but they don't do it in such a great extent that it sort of suffices
to spread the calcium, like the nutritional requirements of calcium across every cell.
The other thing to consider too is that as the apical meristem is growing, the top part of the
plant's growing, has a very thin cellular structure. And so the goal of the plant is... and it's also
closest to the light, which is going to have the highest light intensity. So there's this thing
going on where the plant's like, okay, I have a really thin structure up here that's really close
to the light, so it's trying to flood that area, that apical area, the meristematic
tissue is trying to flood that with as much calcium as it can, because that calcium can
become deposited into the cell walls. And if you get good thickness to the cell walls in the early
stages of growth, you have better mechanical properties to those cell walls. They can better
resist being dehydrated under high light intensity. They can better resist disease pressures like
fungal pathogens that are floating around looking for those really weak and thin cell walls.
And you can also get better metabolic responses from the plants because those calcium waves, again,
as they move from cell to cell, they spread certain types of information.
Okay. So the concept of mobile versus immobile, in your opinion, is a little bit archaic.
In terms of calcium flowing through a plant, is it kind of like if a cell that's close to that,
I don't want to say injection, like if you foliar on the very top, that new growth,
that new growth, if a cell needs calcium and it's close to where the calcium's coming in,
is it basically going to take it? Whereas maybe other nutrients like cells kind of share,
are more willing to share and let it go by me without me as a cell close to it,
taking it immediately. Yeah. I think it's about
transportation networks. I think it's about xylem tissue and phloem tissue. The xylem
in particular is what's responsible for lifting stuff up from the roots and moving that stuff up
to the top layers of the canopy. And it's all very intricate layers of just like a freeway. You've got
certain parts of the road that may snake and bend and twist and turn, but eventually there's a
connection between what's going on in the top of the canopy versus the bottom. And the more
rapidly you want your plants to grow, the higher your light intensity, the higher the CO2
concentrations, all this stuff ultimately requires a greater supply of calcium to constantly be
coming in. Because again, the plants want to take a majority of that calcium and they want to sink
it into the cell walls. If you can get thicker cell walls, you can get better mechanical and
chemical properties. So the plants are in this sort of state of always trying to sink calcium.
If that kind of makes sense, they pick it up and they sink it into the cell wall.
Now, during these events of the calcium waves, like I was talking about, where you have these
stores, like the vacuoles contain soluble calcium ions, and so does the endoplasmic
reticulum and the mitochondria and the chloroplasts too. When they release that
calcium back into the cytoplasm, one thing that happens is again, there's many, many different
calcium sensitive, calcium binding proteins inside of the plants. They're out there just
looking for calcium. And when that calcium concentration hits a maximum point during
these calcium waves, all of these enzymes and proteins are grabbing the calcium ions that they
can and they're doing stuff with it. One of the things that happens is that there's
the enzymes that are responsible for making cell walls will attach to the calcium because there's
free calcium ions present. And now they can combine that calcium with a pectic acid residue
and actually make a thick cell wall. So you do have the forward movement of calcium as a result
of these calcium waves, but not enough to actually satisfy the nutritional needs in a proper way.
And by proper way, I mean, again, assuming a high intensity grow environment, a lot of light
intensity coming in, a high concentration of carbon in the form of CO2 available to the plants,
and then also a nutrient rich solution. They want to take that calcium, they want to make cell walls.
The cell walls are constantly exposed to oxygen, which wants to oxidize them. There's constantly
disease pressures. There may be mechanical pressures as well. Someone comes up and squeezes
a leaf, that could burst some of the cell walls, particularly if you squeeze down hard enough,
you can actually disintegrate the cell walls, you can break them apart. So plants are always in the
state of wanting to rebuild stuff that's been broken down. And when these calcium waves occur,
they can actually help solidify the cell walls again, because now all these pectic acid residues
can be recombined with calcium ions and make calcium pectate and make the cell walls a little
bit thicker overall. So having the proper amount of calcium constantly flowing into the plants,
I think is what people are really trying to get at. That's the core of what it means to say that
calcium is immobile. And yeah, it is kind of an outdated, archaic way of looking at things. But
the general idea is that calcium will still move between cells in the form of these waves,
although not to a great enough extent to actually properly satisfy the nutritional needs. Because,
again, calcium can get sunk into so many places like the cell walls that it's almost
endless. Potassium on the flip side never really becomes a constituent of the cell wall. It doesn't
really get sunk anywhere. When plants take up potassium, they try to keep that in a soluble
form as much as they can. So they always exchange it, always move it around. They're always processing
it back and forth and pushing it across every single cell and trying to make sure that the
concentration of potassium in particular is more or less equalized and homogenous. There are examples
of calcium and potassium sharing relationships. I think people often look at Mulder's chart,
which is like the antagonism and synergism type of thing. That is also just a little bit outdated
too because of the way that a lot of these elements actually coordinate their activities
with each other. Potassium and calcium both regulate photosynthesis pretty directly. Calcium
waves can actually help increase the stomatal conductance, meaning the opening and the closing
of the stomata as a function of potassium can actually be driven by these calcium waves. It's
very, very interesting stuff. But yeah, calcium has a direct impact on photosynthesis, even though
it's not directly involved in terms of its mechanics and all that stuff. It's just the
movement of calcium and all these calcium sensitive proteins that bind to calcium.
They start to do stuff with it, including the opening and closing of stomata and the building
of new cell walls and things of that nature. I think he is just taking what you said about
calcium's importance in building cell walls and also what we know about silica.
Do you agree with that comment? Yeah. I think they have different properties though. The thing
about silicon is that if you look at a periodic table of elements, silicon is hanging out directly
underneath carbon. That is important. That means that the two have a relationship with each other.
There are similarities. Now, carbon is a little bit smaller than silicon. Silicon is a little
bit larger. The size of silicon prevents it from making the types of double carbon bonds that...
I'm sorry, double bonds that carbon is so good at making with other elements, particularly oxygen.
The benefit associated with silicon revolves around the utilization of silicon in place or
in lieu of the utilization of carbon. Earlier, we had talked about the energy expenditure that's
required. Plants, you have to shine light on them directly. You have to give them nutrient-rich
feed water and you have to make sure the air is flowing. What's all this stuff for? What are we
trying to do? We're trying to convert carbon basically out of the air. This is an energy
intensive process to convert CO2 into a building block for something else. Never mind what that
something else is for now, because the whole point is that there's energy being put into a system.
This is an active process. When plants take up silicon from the soil, it's a passive
process. They get whatever's in the feed water. If you solubilize arsenic and lead and cadmium,
your plants will die. They don't have it. They can't just be like, no, I'm not interested in
that. Just like if I go outside and I'm in the equator in the middle of summertime,
I can't look at the sun and say, no, I don't want to get sunburned. I'm going to get roasted. I'm
going to get fried to a crisp. I have no choice but to deal with that energy. When the energy
becomes too much for my body to deal with, there are burns that start to happen. Same thing is true
for the plants. Now, to bring it back to silicon, when plants are spending energy to create those
flavors of carbon or the species of carbon that can then be used to make cell walls,
this is energy expenditure that the plant has to maintain. Now, imagine silicon comes up
and it looks awfully similar to carbon. It has this weird ability to maybe function in a similar
way. Plants have this choice. Do I pay for the carbon or do I access the silicon for free?
A lot of times when you can get them to properly metabolize silicon, it ends up actually just
taking the place of the carbon. It too becomes a constituent of the cell wall, just like the
carbon would have. The critical difference is that the plant saved energy. This is how,
and this actually explains the mechanics of why when you apply silicon to the plants,
that you get an increase in the expression of secondary metabolites, an increase in the
expression of terpenes and cannabinoids. It has nothing to do with silicon itself interacting
with it. It has everything to do with silicon freeing up the carbon that would have otherwise
gone to the cell wall. If you can free up 10%, 15% of the carbon and prevent it from going to the
walls, you have this pool of carbon that's now available for the plants to deal with stressors.
Inherently to that, when you apply silicon, you do get an increase in the production of secondary
metabolites because again, the plants have more money in that bank account of theirs. They've got
more carbon available that they can use to spend on other things like, hey, I need to push this
bug away. The silicon is going to make the cell wall. The carbon is freed up. Now the carbon can
make a monoterpene. Hopefully that monoterpene is specific enough to the insect or the disease
pressure can repel it and push it away. There's this energy savings dynamic that occurs.
Then the other thing that I said too is silicon exists underneath carbon on the periodic table.
They have similar physical properties. Some of these physical properties are what allow them to
interchange between the use of silicon and the use of carbon, particularly for structural purposes,
not so much for functional purposes. Just in terms of functional chemistry, silicon is
almost always metabolized and sunk somewhere, pretty much cell walls, flowers, things like that.
I hope that answered the question.
All right, Blue. Blue, are you in the shop right now? Hold on. Let me find his first question.
Good God. All right, hold on.
Okay, so this was the first one. The efficacy of amino chelated calcium foliar sprays,
would you maximize uptake of CA with aminos chelated nitrogen before or after the CA spray?
I was going to say, you can loosely bring that, interpret that question anyway. Blue,
maybe you can clarify, but also here's another follow-up. Would using saponins,
that was an autocorrect, would using a saponin foliar preparation help or hinder calcium uptake?
I would assume it would help because it keeps it there so the leaf can't get in.
It would help because it keeps it there so the leaf can have time to absorb it before running off.
Yeah, and it's more a function of solubility. If you can increase the surface area by
incorporating a surfactant, you're going to get good results with it for sure.
The way that the saponins can be broken down, they're tri-terpenoid glycosides,
technically, is what saponins are. Their molecular structure is such that they have,
it's basically like a sugar sandwich. A good way to think about what glycosides or saponins are is
that you've got two halves of a molecule. You've got something that's insoluble at the core,
at the center, this is called the A-glycone portion, and then you've got the glycosidic
portion of it, which is the sugar. Now, sugar is really, really soluble in water. CO2, not so much.
On a hot summer day, if you take a teaspoon of sugar and dissolve it inside of some water,
that sugar is going to stay there, meaning the carbon is going to stay there. But if you open
up a can of soda on a hot summer day, the CO2 wants to escape. It wants to get released from
the water. If you can increase the solubility of something, you can increase
the retention, the delivery. Can you pull up that first question again so I can maybe process it a
little bit? Because I think there was the first half of the question I can definitely answer right
now. And then the second one- You mean the very first question from him?
Yes, something about amino chelate. Yep. Yep. Yeah. So amino acids are a great
form of... If you have amino chelated calcium, it's fantastic for the plants because then what
they can do is they already... The amino acid represents nitrogen that's already been reduced
and carbon that's already been reduced. And the plants will take that amino chelate and break it
down. They'll release the calcium. They may metabolize the amino acid in such a way they can
continue to oxidize it, break it down. Or what they can do is transaminate it, maybe move some
aminoical head groups around. There's all kinds of stuff that they can do with that portion of it.
But the idea is basically that when you deliver calcium amino chelates to the plants, that they
then have the ability to make the thicker cell walls. Because the aminos, again, they can be
broken down into the organic acids that create the actual structure of it. And that organic acid can
be converted to pectic acid, which is what calcium binds with to make thicker cell walls.
So yeah, you can actually see an increase in the overall metabolism of calcium by using something
like an amino chelated calcium. And you also get better thickness to the cell walls if you promote
the biosynthesis of pectic acid, which is a flavor of carbon, basically.
Okay. So let me sequentially give you the rest of Blue's... So he had this.
And then the next... Let me know when you're done with that.
Okay.
And then this. And then...
You know, I think there's a lot of synergy that can happen in real time. You know, again,
the whole thing that's going on here is plants are trying to maintain a balance.
And it's a dynamic... It's a balancing act that they're trying to maintain. So you can actually...
I've seen really good results with using an amino acid, a pure amino acid nitrogen source,
in conjunction with a nitrogen-free calcium source. Like our CalMag Fuel, it's all low
molecular weight. We got calcium fulvate, calcium acetate, a pinch of calcium citrate inside of
there. And it works really, really well to promote the biosynthesis of cell walls. Because again,
there's no nitrogen. It's just organic acid residue. So the plants can recombine that
pretty quickly and pretty efficiently. But I have also seen really, really good
positive results by applying both of them in conjunction with each other. And I think what
it comes down to is that when you're supplementing these forms, like the amino chelates, for example,
really what you're doing is giving energy to the plants. When you're supplementing calcium
nitrate, you're taking energy away from the plants because they have to spend energy to process that.
And that's why there's a detriment at a certain point where you feed too many
nitrates or too much calcium nitrate, that it actually becomes counterproductive
for the purposes of the cell walls. When you feed too many amino acids or amino acid chelates,
you can burn the plants. It's not very easy to do. It's very expensive to do,
actually, because aminos are a lot more expensive than nitrates. But to have the two
applied at the same time can actually be beneficial to the plants as well, because they
can just take the excess nitrogen and make more chlorophyll or make more rubisco pigments,
or chlorophyll pigments or more rubisco enzymes out of it, which then allows them to get more
carbon trapped. And as that carbon gets trapped and fixed more efficiently, the plants can make
thicker cell walls, which means they have outlets for that calcium that could also be applied in
excess. All right. I think my main after two hours or almost two hours takeaway is that I feel
like a deer in headlights now in terms of when I go running outside after we finish this conversation
and look at my garden, I'm like, what did Nick just tell me to do? What should I be doing when
I go out into my garden? I would say if you want to increase the productivity and quality of your
plants, make sure to feed the soil. Take really good care of your soil. Find soluble forms of
carbon. Get diverse with it. I think he also mentioned he likes three or four sources so the
plants can kind of pick and choose. They won't really pick and choose as much as they'll try to
process it all at once. And however they can, they will. It's a huge balancing act. But yeah,
get comfortable with the idea that your plants do have a carbon concentration mechanism inside of
them. This helps explain why the concentration of oxygen is so high outside in the atmosphere,
yet it happens to be so low in the active site of hibiscus. There's something going on. The
plants are concentrating carbon. And if you understand that this process happens inside of
the plant and going out rather than outside in, meaning that it's not just a function of
having huge CO2 supplies and pushing all that CO2 into the plants, it's actually more nuanced
than that. There's a lot of sensitive stuff that happens. And as the plants uptake a variety of
different flavors of soluble carbon, you can actually increase the availability of CO2
to rubisco just by feeding your soil. So take good care of your soil. Make sure that you have
the proper aeration and the hydration capacity. Make sure you've got beneficial microbes,
beneficial fungi in the mix. Make sure you're feeding them a broad spectrum, a variety of
different sources. You can feed molasses. You can feed just regular sugar. You can feed whatever.
As long as you keep feeding the soil and taking care of what's going on in the roots, chances are
you're going to be able to increase the productivity of your plants without ever having to
increase the concentration of CO2 in the air. There's a certain limiting factor, obviously,
just out there in nature. There's competition for carbon as a resource, which is why the microbes
like to get the sugars first. And the plants may just get a smaller portion of whatever is in the
feed water. But carbon is king. Carbon is everything to all of these organisms. And if the plant is
left to its own devices, it's going to pull the CO2 out of there, and it's going to make sugars,
and it's going to feed those microbes. So if you in turn feed those microbes as well and take really
good care of the soil, those microbes will actually in turn convert more for the plants.
And they will feed the plants a little better. And as the plants get healthier and stronger and
more resistant to disease pressures and molds and mildews and high wind and mechanical stressors and
all this stuff, ultimately dovetails right into what everybody wants to see, which is more
productivity, healthier plants, better concentrations of terpenes and cannabinoids,
and all of it revolves around carbon metabolism. So yeah, just try to focus on good soil health,
good soil chemistry. Obviously, you know, we're making here at Rooted Leaf, we make
carbon-based fertilizers, and it's specifically done with the intent of increasing CO2 concentrations
for the plants. The full product line that we make can expose plants to the same amount of
carbon that you would find in about 4,000 ppms of CO2, which again, one thing I've noticed and
one thing I've seen pretty conclusively is that you don't need CO2, and you don't need sealed
flowering rooms. This is very, very expensive stuff to have to build. Just from a design and
engineering perspective, it becomes very expensive once you really start pushing your plants hard. It
gets extremely, extremely expensive, and I think the only goal with having a sealed flowering room,
not the only goal, but like the thing that people are trying to do when they seal a flowering room
ultimately is to increase the CO2. I understand to maintain the temperature and the humidity and
keep VPD in check and all this stuff, but none of that stuff is relevant if you don't increase the
CO2 concentrations. I've been all around the United States, been in this industry for a very
long time, and I have never once in my entire life met someone who spent millions of dollars
on building out sealed flowering rooms with the latest and greatest air conditioners and the best
dehumidifiers and the most powerful lights. No one does that only to maintain ambient CO2
concentrations. All of the stuff that's been done with the light intensity and the watering and the
dehumidification and air conditioning, all of this stuff revolves around giving more CO2 to the plants.
As we've established earlier in this episode, it's not really CO2 that's important, it's the sea
that's important. The O2, the plants could care less about. They don't need it. They don't really
want it. They don't really care for it too much. You know what? If they need it, they'll take it
up from the water because the water is H2O. They can take up a lot of it. They can process it. They
can reduce oxygen or they can oxidize oxygen. Plants are very, very fascinating in their
ability to both reduce and oxidize oxygen. Point being, ultimately, if you want to see better
results, don't just rely on the concept that CO2 is the only way to do it. It's the most expensive
way to do it and it's perhaps the slowest way to do it. Again, rubisco fires once every three
seconds. You will eventually hit a point of maximum benefit. After that, an increase in CO2
concentration actually provides detrimental results or it does not contribute to anything
positive whatsoever. Whereas if you focus on feeding the soil, now all of a sudden you've
got a different dynamic happening. Plants will take up water and process that much faster than
rubisco fires. They're always wet. They always have moisture inside of them. The photon energy
is coming in at the speed of light and plants are using that to split water molecules apart.
All this stuff is being done much faster than rubisco is operating. There's stuff happening
underneath rubisco that is perhaps more important. Ultimately, the goal here is just to produce
building blocks. If you learn what these building blocks are, then you can feed those building
blocks to your plants with things like ferments, the ferments that we're making. Orange peel is a
great example with the calcium. Orange peels are very rich in pectic acid residues because that's
what an orange peel is. It's a really, really, really thick cell wall. It's meant to protect the
juicy, fleshy interior from everything that is happening external to it. It makes this really
thick molecular structure. If we ferment that and we re-complex it with calcium,
we're effectively delivering something to the plants that is a precursor or a building block
for a cell wall. They would have otherwise had to spend energy to build and process and hang
out in the intensity of the sun all day and take up all this water and split it apart,
only to make the exact same thing or to get to the exact same spot. If you focus on good airflow,
you don't need sealed rooms and CO2. You can take good care of your soil. You get plant ferments in
the mix, make sure everything is healthy and alive and active, and you will see an increase
for sure with terpenes, cannabinoids, even the biomass. I know that oftentimes
with living soils, the limiting factors, the biomass, how many grams per watt or how many
grams per square foot can I produce in a living soil system that doesn't have
sealed rooms and doesn't have artificial CO2 injection, that's been an issue in the past.
But again, if you take really good care of the soil and feed carbon to the plants,
they will make that biomass. Just like if you seal the flowering room and feed CO2 to the plants,
they're going to make more biomass. They're going to make more of these carbon-rich molecules. You
can do that with taking really good care of the soil. I think your conclusion made a lot of people
breathe easy, where just keep on doing what you're doing if you're taking care of your soil,
it's always interesting to hear the chemistry and what's actually happening. I know my car's going,
but to understand what's actually happening under the hood is also interesting for those of us who
are precocious and want to hear that stuff. I'm sure like me, there are a lot of glazed eyes and
I'm like, okay, I'm doing right. I can go outside and be like, just keep on doing what I'm doing.
Yeah. The other thing to focus on too is going through wet-dry cycles properly.
The metabolism of water is fundamentally tied to the production of terpenes and cannabinoids
because the hydrogen that comes in those molecular structures, the other 10% of the
monoterpenes, right? Because 90% is carbon and for cannabinoids, it's about 80%. The remaining
percentage of the monoterpenes is hydrogen and that hydrogen can be traced back to a molecule
of water that was split by the plants using the power of the light. What you want to do is maintain
this understanding that the plants, really what you're trying to do is get the plants to drink
fast, to drink effectively, go through those wet-dry cycles really, really rapidly because
the more water transpiration and uptake that you can encourage, the better your results are going
to be. Because again, the metabolism of that carbon, as well as the presence of the hydrogen
that's inside of every single molecule, fundamentally goes back to how is that water
metabolized. You want to try to focus on maintaining the optimum water uptake in the
plants. You don't want to just flood the soil and water only once a week. You're going to get some
problems with that. But if you're in the habit of watering either every day or every other day,
that's kind of the sweet spot. You want to be somewhere in that range where let's say
every other day your plants go through those wet-dry cycles appropriately and within 48 hours,
like clockwork, they're going to take up a certain amount of water. Once you get used to that, try to
experiment with things that would allow those plants to take up more water. So instead of 48 hours
from wet to dry, maybe you can shave off a couple of hours. What that means is that you can add a
pinch of extra water because again, that extra water volume being metabolized more rapidly
will translate to higher yields and higher quality. Got it. Very cool. Well, I think two hours is a good
wrap time. And we can come back with some other... Oh, sorry. So someone asked,
and they asked a couple of times. So let me just get back to it. Your thoughts on biochar?
I like biochar. I think biochar is a structural constituent of the soils. I don't think it's
really functional. I think that the degree of function that it has is going to revolve around
things like nutrient chelation and making minerals available for plants,
kind of to the same extent that humic substances would. Biochar is fantastic, but you need a small
amount of biochar in a large volume of soil. And if you grow with too much biochar, it can actually
be problematic for the plants. I think the way that biochar is made is excellent. I think it's
great. I do think people that are using biochar should trace the supply chain back and see if
they're getting the scraps of GMO corn or GMO soy, because it would be important. I personally
wouldn't want any glyphosate residues to be accumulated. And I don't know if they are or not.
I'm just kind of spitballing here. I'm just thinking out loud. But I know that for the
manufacturing of biochar, because it's all plant biomass input, oftentimes it's the inputs that are
produced in the largest volume that have the lowest value that just get scrapped or composted
into biochar. Obviously, it's a pyrolytic process. It's not the same as compost. But
I'm just saying that they get thrown away and they become biochar. So just make sure that
wherever you're getting the biochar from is not using genetically modified organisms as the input.
Biochar is really good. It also has humectant properties, meaning that it holds onto water
like a sponge in the soil. So if you're dealing with soils that are low in organic matter,
you're also dealing with soils that can't hold onto water, as well as something that's rich and
fertile and has a lot of organic matter. Biochar can help correct those issues that are the result
of not having enough organic matter. Biochar can serve as a stimulant, a biostimulant for certain
microbes and for certain fungi. It can help with the water retention, and it can help with the
mineral availability. Oftentimes on the outside, if we looked under a microscope at this biochar,
we would see a very complex structure. It'd be a very, very complex matrix of active sites and
functional groups and all this stuff that has different shapes. And in reality, these functional
groups or these active sites are the ones that interact with metal ions in the soil. So as these
pieces of magnesium or calcium, iron or copper, whatever cationic element is present,
those have an interaction with the charged groups present in the biochar, the structure of the
biochar. And there's this attraction, electrostatic attraction that can occur, whereas
the minerals are moving through the soil and they move past the biochar. The biochar
attracts the minerals to it and holds onto it. So now you've got a sponge that's very water-rich.
It's got minerals inside of it. It stimulates the growth of beneficial microbes. It's all very,
very good stuff. But you want to make sure that the concentration of biochar isn't too high
in the soil, because otherwise you can get some detrimental effects. You couldn't grow your plants
in just straight biochar. At least I haven't seen it done. I've seen not so good things happen with
excess biochar concentrations. Plants can't just grow out of pure biochars. It's a fully reduced
carbon that's not oxidized at all. The pyrolytic process excludes oxygen from the chamber, so it
doesn't release CO2 during the burning process. Like if you just burned, you started a fire
outside and burned up some wood, the oxygen that's present in there will combine with the carbon
that's been reduced and create CO2. That's why fires release CO2. It's the oxygen that's present
gets recombined once the molecular structure has been broken down, properly pyrolyzed. But
in the case of biochar, again, it's a reductive environment. It's not an oxidative environment.
It's a reductive environment. So what you're doing is creating a flavor of carbon that does
not have oxygen, like CO2 has oxygen inside of it. And this can be very, very good, but it can also
be very detrimental for the plants when applied in excess. So I don't remember the earlier question,
but he said, my question earlier wasn't about calcium, but rather when the carbonates are
absorbed by the roots, how does the plant handle the O3? Yeah, carbonates, when plants take up
excess carbonates, it can actually burn them. There's a pH thing that happens too, but
specifically the mechanics of it, I'd have to look into that a little bit, but I can tell you that
the carbonate form is going to present a problem for the plants because they don't really need to
deal with the O3 as much. There is probably some level of interaction that is maintained
with the bicarbonate residues and this mechanism we talked about earlier, carbonic anhydrase.
It basically keeps things in equilibrium between bicarbonate and water and CO2, basically. So
anything that throws the equilibrium off or prevents the enzyme from maintaining its balance,
such as too high of a bicarbonate load coming in through the xylem tissue, it could be
counterproductive and the plants will try to work around that as much as they can. And I think part
of it just revolves around reduction chemistry and oxidation chemistry. They do want to break
that calcium apart from the bicarbonate and then maybe process that bicarbonate a little bit further.
But it can be difficult for the plants. That's a question I'll have to look into a little bit more,
but it is a good one. I'll step back on the biochar.
So is he talking about releasing biochar into the stream?
Uh-huh. Hold on. We'll wait for Blue to...
Oh, here we go. So would that be like aquatic microbes, I guess?
Yeah. Yeah.
That would jump into the microbe condominium that is biochar.
Yeah. Yeah. And someone said something about some sand further downstream. So you can combine...
You know, sand is obviously not going to be rich and very... Not very rich in carbon. It's
obviously very depleted carbon. And so if you combine sand with biochar, you can effectively
make soil. Obviously, it's very, very rough. You know, soil itself is the result of chemical
weathering that occurs. And it's a lot more complex than just biochar being added to sand.
However, I will say that the structural and functional properties of that mix of the sand
and the biochar could actually go towards producing over a long period of time. It's
not going to happen immediately when you mix the two together. It actually requires the additional
activity of microbes and fungi and the additional growth of plants in that system to further build
it up. But yeah, you can effectively use that as a starting point, I guess you could say,
to make fertile soil using that methodology. And the utilization of microbes that are
present in these aquatic systems is very intelligent too. Very, very smart way of doing it.
So since you talked about oranges, for those of us who live in the belt from Southern California
to Florida, can we make our own orange peel ferments?
Definitely. Throw it in there with some vinegar.
It happens.
Yeah, yeah.
With some what?
Vinegar. Like when you're doing your water-soluble calcium for any of the
natural farming guys, if you're using like brown rice vinegar or something like that.
Definitely throw some orange peels in there too. What I would do is crush them up or grind them up,
powderize them, make a tea out of it, let that tea cool, combine it with a little bit of that
brown rice vinegar, and then use that as the base to create your water-soluble calcium.
So obviously after that, you would take your eggshells, which are calcium carbonate,
and the eggshells themselves will release CO2. So you'll see a bubbling effect happening.
As the calcium becomes solubilized, it will release CO2.
Calcium becomes solubilized and it creates these organic acid fractions of calcium.
That carbonate will actually release the CO2 as a result of the action of the vinegar,
and the action of the organic acids will quite literally break that CO2 off.
So this actually may dovetail into the previous question that was asked about
how plants deal with the carbonate. One of the ways that they could deal with it is exactly
the same way that eggshells are digested in a vinegar solution to create a water-soluble calcium
that's available for the plants. The eggshells themselves, being calcium carbonate, not very
soluble, you can powderize them, grind them up, add water to it, but you're never really going to
hit a true solution. Whereas if you ferment it, if you give it some organic acids, that carbonate
will convert into an acetate or a citrate or some derivative of an organic acid, and then the CO2
from the carbonate gets off-gassed, an acid attack, acid-base chemistry. So hopefully I got
two birds stoned at once with that answer. Yeah, sorry. So someone said, what about the
Eagle 20 on oranges? And I say, I'd use oranges I know, not oranges that I don't know what was
sprayed on them. Someone said dried orange peel or grated? So dry it and then put it in a...
I have a little magic bullet with grain, like a making flour.
It's not like the knife to blend frozen fruit. It's the blade that...
I use it to grind coffee, basically. So that would be kind of...
Yeah, from your backyard, you know that you did not personally spray Eagle 20 on them. Yeah,
the mill blade rather than the other blade. All right. So the very last comment goes to Brian
Dadey. Awesome. I love it. That's right. Drink more tea. That way you can get all the flavonoids,
you can get all the caffeine that you need. Your brain can process this information,
it'll absorb it like your leaves absorb sunlight, and then produce sugars out of it. You'll produce
actionable information, energy rich tidbits of knowledge that will help you in your garden
increase your productivity overall. That's right. So let's release all 200 people watching right now
out into the wild, out into their gardens, out into the sunshine, or the basement tent,
or wherever their garden may be. And yeah, we can come up with the next topic if you're down.
Absolutely. Do a deep dive. And maybe some of these people I offered for people to jump on
with us and maybe next time some people can... I was the least critical part of this conversation,
so I take no pride in being on here alone with Nick. I'd rather have other people who
know most of what he's talking about jamming with him like a jazz trio rather than me who is like
you know, it's like I got my drum kit yesterday and I have Miles Davis up front.
Yeah, I'm open to whatever if people want to hop on, chat about some of this stuff. I'm pretty good
at just going with the flow and maintaining whatever kind of dynamic needed, or we come up
with some topics, maybe do a deep dive into some other elements or some other aspects of biochemistry
that the plants are going through. And ultimately what the goal here is to enable people to be more
inspired when they go to their gardens, be inspired to improve your results and just know how
it's done. A lot of the stuff revolves around really simple concepts, but when you start looking
under the hood, it gets really, really complex. But like I mentioned earlier, just take really
good care of your soil, learn what it means to water properly, and then pay attention,
get really anal about how much water your plants are drinking, because if you can
dial in your system to get your plants to drink more water and more rapidly, you absolutely will
see better results that your plants produce. You'll see better disease resistance, better terpenes,
better expression overall in the plants. And all of this stuff revolves around the technical
details that we just kind of looked at in great detail. You know, don't worry so much about CO2
supplementation in a sealed flowering room. That's a little bit counterproductive at a certain point,
and you do get better results with a different focus of delivering carbon to the plants beyond
just saturating the air and shoving it into the plants. That's not how Robisco works.
I don't know if this was an idea for a future topic, but...
Yeah, yeah, we can get into microorganisms, how some of the enzymatic activities of beneficial
microbes and beneficial fungi are coordinated with the structural and functional constituents
of humic substances. We could look at fulvic acids too. We can look at what are some of the
differences. Do we find more phenolic structures? Do we find more linear structures here and there?
Is there a difference in the ratio of carbon to hydrogen to oxygen? The answer is yes, in short,
but the more extended answer is find out on the next episode.
There we go. Cliffhanger.
That's right. That's right.
All right. With that, let's all get in with our days. That was like getting your brain workout
in early in the morning. Well, not for the East Coast people, but for those of us on the West Coast.
So, Nick, I appreciate it. Everybody in the chat appreciates it, and we'll be back.
Awesome. Thank you, guys. I appreciate it. Looking forward to the next one.
All right. Thanks, everyone.
Take care. Bye.
And I think we havewhoop. All right. We lost. All right. Just me.
Now you guys can listen. So, I have some deep thoughts. No, I'm just joking. We got
Josh from BioAg coming on with Rotten on Friday, 17th, 18th. I think that's Monday,
and I'm totally blanking. There's probably other stuff going on. But anyway,
everyone, have a good rest of your Friday. Later.
