And so that's why we got to, you know, improve our scientific literacy.
We have to seek out people who understand the science.
We have to encourage them to speak in our community, to share their knowledge and to
break it down in ways that are understandable to empower everybody in the community.
Phylos has significantly damaged the trust of our community with genomics labs.
We can't let what Phylos did actually impact the science.
People have to continue to engage in the science, understand it, and deploy it in ways
that are intentional and conscious.
We need to control these technologies and deploy them for our end, not have them deployed
by others against us in ways that make it so that we no longer have any choices.
We need to support people who have the knowledge and expertise within our community.
I've already mentioned that one.
That's really where it's at.
We have to go back to our roots and we have to really focus on these educational opportunities
and understand that what we're doing in these moments and in these spaces is building culture.
And we're building resilience to a culture that we are all, we've inherited and we are
also responsible for taking on into the future.
And so we have to have events like this.
We have to come together.
We have to share this on social media.
We have to get out there so that everybody in our community that decided for whatever
reason from all our different backgrounds to say cannabis, that's my thing.
I'm about it.
We need to be about it now more than ever because if we're not, five, ten years from
now, I mean, according to Mowgli Holmes straight up, their plan is to be at market in nine
months and in two years have all existing cannabis varieties be a thing of the past.
Those are his words.
Now is it hubris?
Is it something that is probably not going to happen?
Certainly.
But, you know, best laid plans often fail.
That said, we have to expect the Monsantos of the world, the Syngentas and anybody who
wants to adopt that model to come into our space and to bring their A game.
And we've seen what they've done to everything else.
And the only way that anything has ever developed along a different trajectory was because people
consciously chose to do so.
And because they organized around things that they valued and their culture in specific
places across time.
And they developed these institutions and they got networked so that they actually could
build a resistance.
The only reason that trend that was, if I had the graphic, I wish I could show it.
But basically, 1903, we had hundreds of varieties of every major crop.
So peas, melons, tomatoes, corns, every single one of them.
There were hundreds of specific varietals being grown across the country.
They were regionally adapted, specific cultivars that were useful in their particular area.
And while they may not have had market share to where they were growing billions of bushels
and making tons of Monsanto-like money, they were actually building and maintaining crop
diversity that had incredible value that we've only now realized what was being lost in the
1980s when they went back and they looked at what was available in the existing crop
germplasm banks.
And it was down to a handful of any one of those crops.
So we went from hundreds to about a dozen, maybe two dozen.
That right there is something that we can't let happen.
Philo says that they have in their catalog 400 varietals.
So if we were to look at and have cannabis in that chart, you would have cannabis with
at least 400 distinct varietals.
And their plan is to take those 400 varietals and turn it into a few dozen and have that
be ubiquitous and be the only thing anybody ever experiences and gets to enjoy.
That's not cannabis.
That's not what we've dedicated our lives to.
That's not why we fought the good fight and kept these plants alive under wartime conditions.
We kept this plant alive and we took all of this genetic resources from all of these different
places that have been developed over millennia.
And we did so not just to hand it over to a bunch of suits and not just to give up when
the going got tough.
The world's been a lot tougher.
They used to show up with helicopters and guns.
It's getting marginally better.
They're showing up with briefcases now.
But we need to stay on it and just stay true to ourselves.
I think just to get into some broader breeding genetics things that need to happen.
Quickly, germplasm maintenance, collecting, storing and preserving genetic diversity of
isolated populations and varietals is key.
You need to take your plants.
You got two seeds of something?
Okay, pop them.
Do a seed increase.
Make thousands.
You got one seed and it's a female?
Okay, do a reversal.
Make thousands out of it.
Because that is a genetic resource and it's something that could otherwise get lost if
we don't make seed increases constantly.
And we don't keep these things isolated and within their own niches.
Because once we start crossing everything together, we have essentially a race to the
bottom and we lose the unique diversity that we have in specific varietals.
Other than that, we need to get into acclimatization and trait improvement.
The traditional land-raised varieties were the result of hundreds and thousands of years
of acclimatization and selection pressures that were exerted on plants by cultural complexes
that valued and cultivated them around the world.
I explained some of these before.
The plant as we know it is the result of the choices made by the different diverse cultures
that interacted with this plant over millennia.
Our task as breeders is to keep in mind that our decisions impact the gene pool of this
plant in ways that have consequences thousands of years into the future.
Since the inception of modern hybrids, there's been an emphasis on primarily trait improvement
for increased yields, reduced flower time, cannabinoids, terpenes, bud structure, morphology,
and appearance.
We've accomplished incredible improvements in the plant over this time period in a very
haphazard manner without the benefits of advanced genomics or public institutions that would
support us in our efforts, literally under siege during a drug war.
The result is that we have lots of varietals that have been significantly improved in a
number of ways.
However, we focus less on acclimatized, stabilized, and isolated populations.
There are relatively few acclimatized heirlooms and pure unhybridized lines, and those that
do exist are incredibly cherished.
We need to get back to that.
We need to get back to staying in our lanes, staying in our communities, growing and developing
varietals and cultivars that are unique to our areas.
And we need to do it on the personal level, personal cultivators growing their six plants
and being heirloom preservationists, creating preservationist societies like the Audubon
Society where we actually really get into this and have just hobbyists who care only
about cannabis and describe in detail and develop their own personal lines.
That is the thing that we need to be encouraging and developing along with all of the commercial
developments that are going on.
And we need for the commercial developments to be developing what's being spoken about
right here.
We need farmers and breeders to develop alliances with distributors and buyers co-ops.
Buyers co-ops is something that we as a community developed in the hippie back to the land movement,
and it made the renewable energy market a thing.
It made the health food market a thing.
We can make heirloom varieties and cannabis a thing that has market share and market space
if we target every single side of the supply chain and don't just look at, you know, here's
commercial, here's that.
We also need buyers co-ops.
Get together buyers, buy that good good.
Yeah, first of all, thank you so much.
A lot of really good content there.
And I think, you know, we've been talking a lot about this all day.
You know, the idea of genetic diversity, the idea of cultural diversity, you know, and
I think you bring up a really good point for people that are just growing for themselves
or just growing their six plants and the responsibility that we have by having these genetics and
carrying on the lineages here.
And for people such as myself that, you know, a lot of us that used to cultivate and now
have found other things to put our energy into but are still in, you know, in the cannabis
industry, still have our love for cannabis, you know, but still grow our six plants, you
know, and it's so much fun to work with that and see all the diversity that we can and
bringing out the genetics from the fridge, you know, and all the old school stuff.
Really grateful that you came out here.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
I'm Jonathan Valdman.
This is the heart of cannabis.
Thanks for coming.
