behind the scenes.
Low budget productions.
Alright, so Tom, we're in the valley right now
and you've been on set to a lot of valley porn shoots.
So I wanted to compare and contrast the production level of the porn shoots
to our home cannabis cultivation shoots.
We're killing it.
You haven't seen this raised bed since...
Round one, yeah, they're beautiful.
Absolutely beautiful.
Look at the green, look at the turgidity.
I love it, you know.
I love the health.
It's growing just like a standard seed stock.
You can already smell.
Yeah, I loved it. Last week I smelled it for the first time.
How does the soil look to you?
The soil looks beautiful.
The canopy now is kind of making some shade for it
so you're probably watering less.
The moisture is perfect.
Look at the roots, wow.
Roots are actually coming to the top.
I don't know if you can get in close there,
but yeah, there's a lot of root growth.
And for this particular one, we didn't add the mycorrhizae at the root zone,
which usually is what you'd want to do.
We didn't have any.
So for that, Tom, where'd it go?
It's in the box right there.
And you guys added some prior, like last week or a couple weeks ago?
About one week ago.
We do have mycorrhizae fungi in there, so that's a good thing.
Okay, so first of all, Tom, you said we planted these exactly a month ago?
I do believe if we look at the tape, it was about June 22nd, something like that.
And this is July 20th?
21st.
So basically exactly a month.
And when I brought them over, they were about a week after popping.
They look beautiful.
So that means that this is, what, like five and a half weeks from seed?
Now we can start to determine a couple factors here.
It's a little early, so I'm not going to jump the gun on it.
Wait a little bit.
But we want to be cognizant of these two here.
Oh, yeah, because we're still looking.
Okay, so let's look at this for a second.
Okay, so even though they're vegging, right, even though they're vegging,
it's just something to look at.
Tom, sadly, probably two of these are going to have to go.
Yeah, I think two, maybe possibly even three.
I know, I know.
Tom, would you be sad or very sad if all four of them were?
It's going to be one giant plant, though.
For boys.
That's for sure.
But look, and this isn't veg, so this is still jumping the gun.
It's just something throughout experience you start to look at it.
You want to try to get the early signals of what could be male,
what could be female.
And you'll see on this one, you just have, you know,
and these could very, very well grow some hair pistols to indicate
that they will be female, but you can kind of already get an indication
from there, on the sides there.
Go real close.
And it's still vegging, so we don't want to jump the gun,
but it's just you look at it and you go, okay,
these are the ones that I may want to look at as we go into transition.
Because you'll see ones that are definitely more dominant on the male side.
Given the structure as well, you see how the nodes are kind of staggered
a little bit, and then we have nodes here that are completely symmetrical.
So these are just some things.
It's not a certain, but it is just something through experience that you look at
and say, oh, wow, the ones that are symmetrical usually, not all the time,
turned out to be male, and the ones that were a little bit more staggered
and such actually were female.
A couple other things, too, just looking at it, you can see some of this inter-node
where you would see male organisms popping out on these corners here.
So we just want to keep our eye on these three.
Are we seeing them popping?
It just looks like they might.
And then given the length, but these could be really nice males, Tom.
And that right there, let's say you wanted to take that smell and apply it to another female
that you also like the smell but needed something extra.
These are the genetic traits that you look for.
So when you look at a male, it's not horrible.
It's like, man, maybe I want to put this aside, or maybe I'll scoop it out, put it in a pot,
move it to another area, and maybe cut off a few of the branches and wrap one,
collect some dust, some pollen, and so you can keep it and carry it and hold it
and maybe apply it to other.
But that's a whole, you'll probably cover that whole segment somewhere.
Yeah, there's a lot of guys that can really help figure all the experts in that thing.
But just looking at overall growing, just you want to look at a couple of those traits in the plant
so that you know, it's like, man, I don't want to mess up the entire crop or my neighbor's crop,
so let me make sure.
Who's the asshole down the street?
You know, so it's just something we want to look at down the line.
But overall, the health is great.
Some people would maybe have grown a couple weeks and then have maybe topped,
so then you can get a bushier plant lower, especially when you have neighbors and stuff,
you don't really know what their thoughts are on it.
Do we want to top them today?
I usually don't top them when they're this big.
You can, though, because you have, like, let's say you were to just go kind of…
If you want, so you could just top that right there.
That whole thing can go, you know.
And so now you have one, two, three, and so you have some staggered here, which is good.
And then that'll start to grow these ones.
And then what's going to happen, too, it's going to be easier for you because this top is off and not in the way.
It's going to be easier for you maybe even put a trellis over this, Tom, and then move these down a little bit.
And then what's going to happen is because it's beautiful sun, this will grow up, this will grow up, this will grow up,
and now you have two, four, six, eight extra arms on one arm.
So now that you've increased your yield, you've increased your own medicine.
You think that's a moth?
Yeah, probably a little moth or something, I'd say.
It's a little aggressive for a leaf miner.
But those are ways you can increase yield, you know, more medicine,
and even just like the plant itself really likes to be trellised.
And then, again, you can keep them bushy away from view.
Tom, I think you should go loud and proud.
Let the neighborhood know.
You know, but I personally, I love seeds.
I love how they grow, and sometimes I just, I'll let them do their thing, you know.
I'll let them do their thing.
Just get wild.
Like wild stallions.
How long will it take before we know for sure what the sex is?
You'll know like probably at the first week of transition.
You'll probably have a pretty good indication.
Okay, so that's a few weeks away.
Probably a couple weeks away.
You know, this year has been, I don't know if you guys have seen it,
but things have been flowering a little earlier this year.
That's what people are saying.
Yeah, it's interesting, yeah.
Global warming.
Yeah, just keep your eye on it.
And, you know, but so far I think the health is great.
You know, you can even cut a couple clones off the bottom here.
You can do a little trimming.
Just kind of eliminate some of the stuff that's being more shaded.
Well, why don't we cut, I mean we could certainly cut one of these.
Do we have anything we could put them into?
I don't know.
You know, what I've done in the past, and it's worked for me, is.
If we put them in a plastic bag, I have root rot, whatever, at home.
You know, and I've actually even put them in a cup with a little FPF,
and you just, if you can get, yeah, get back to the house.
I also have a turbo cloner.
We could do some aeroponics cloning.
We could do some into the, we could clone a bunch of different ways.
Yeah, there's so many ways to do some, you know, it's.
So why don't we cut a couple, and Tom, do you have like a sandwich baggie?
Sure.
Let's do a little clean up, and then we'll cut a couple clones.
Tom, we're just going to leave that for you.
Bring three, three bags.
Yeah.
We're going to start, we're going to get, yeah, we're going to start documenting.
Tom, we're going to label the plants.
Yeah, it's great though.
The health is awesome.
Beautiful sun out here.
I love these leaves.
Well, since we're going to trim a little bit, we could cut a couple clones,
take off a few leaves.
That gives us room to maybe plant some.
I brought some of the cover crops or companion plants too.
Yeah, would those go in there, or would we put them in?
Both.
We could put them in both, yeah.
Okay, great.
So what are each of these?
Is that the, which ones are the auto?
These.
These three.
Plus, wait.
Is this the auto or the full term?
Auto.
Full term.
Full term.
Oh, no, this was in your pot.
Do you remember this was in your small pot?
Oh, that's right, that little one.
Tom, you've got to remember this stuff more.
Wait, Tom, let's start from the top again.
Oh, man.
This brings back memories.
Which ones are the, this is not too much to keep track.
Yeah, and what's that one?
Whoa, where's that one come from?
Is that an auto?
Is that an auto?
Pulling them out from everywhere.
All of these little types that are this big, I saved every single one.
Nothing is gone, nothing is not.
That's awesome.
Good Lord.
This little run, Tom.
These were autos.
We only had four autos.
Right, so if we can figure out the four auto, oh, it's these four?
I do believe so.
Okay, but why is there a, what's this?
I did put that there.
Okay.
Put that next to the clinic.
These are separate.
I think, this is the tomato.
So here are two tomatoes.
So first what we're going to do is I'm just going to get set up with a little bit of condensation
or a little bit of water to create a home for our colognes.
Now, usually we want to have our domes, our trays, but hey, in the world of COVID, sometimes
the stores are closed, so you work with what you got.
And so this is what we got.
And it works really well, actually.
Just goes to show you how resilient these plants really are.
But what we're going to do is we'll just take the FPF, because we're going to cut some clones.
And so we're just going to use a little bit of the FPF as a little bit of a root hormone,
giving it high fulvic content.
Fulvic acid is really good for propagation.
So look at how much I'm taking there.
It really is just a drop.
This is a one milliliter a gallon product, so when we're filling up just our little spray bottle,
you really don't need much.
And so I'm just going to kind of hold that there and rinse off.
So I don't need much.
Just going to give that a little shake.
Perfect.
And we use this, well, actually, once we're done cutting, we're going to use the FPF to do a foliar as well.
So that'll kind of help the areas where we've cut and keep the plant really healthy right after we've created a little bit of stress for it.
At first it might create a little stress, but after a moment, they really thank you for cleaning them up.
You can actually watch them pray once they're done.
But what we have here is we have four different – are these all three the same?
Are all these four the same?
They're all the same.
Okay, so we have a fourth set here.
What we want to do is we want to make sure that we take cuts,
because taking cuts off the seeds is the funnest part,
because if you really, really love one of the seeds, the smells, the tastes, and the medicine it provides,
then you want to make sure you've held on to something that you can grow and continuously grow that.
So this, to me, looks like a really nice cut.
It's not super thick like this, so it's not going to overburden its needs when it's in a cloner.
But this one looks really nice.
So we're going to address the same thing right now.
We're going to take the clones as well as trim the plant back a little bit.
So doing them together just makes sense.
So what we're going to do is just kind of take it from the end.
You can see there's a couple little plants here or little stems here that just aren't getting the light.
They're taking energy more than they're providing.
So what we're going to do, since we're in here, we'll just kind of snip that back.
We'll snip that back.
We'll snip that.
That as well.
And we're going to just take this whole thing here.
You can see it's a nice cut.
And what I'd like to do is usually kind of find an area where you're going to have some nodes
because there's some activity going on there.
And so from here, I'll probably just take the same direction the leaf is spinning and basically take that angle.
I'll trim that off, kind of move that to the top.
And so we just made ourself a little clone.
And what we want to do is just want to make sure we label it so we know which plant we took it off.
Now, Tom, you have not been excelling in the labeling arena.
Yeah, labeling is always the easiest, hardest.
We have the Sharpie.
It's literally true.
I haven't.
I don't have a clue what's here.
That's why.
I wouldn't know what to write.
Grab the Sharpie.
And so where's the Sharpie?
Somewhere.
It's on the table.
You know, that's a nice clone right there.
You can put that in a rapid router.
You can put it in a clone.
But you can see we've taken the 45 mark here.
And what I'll usually do is I'll usually we dip it in some tea, organic saliva tea.
You could do that, but I'll give it just a little bit of moisture.
And I'll even spray the end now.
Is that just water?
Yeah, and we'll get that.
We'll send that video.
You guys can watch the video.
There is a video where we'll actually dunk this in tea.
And that'll help kind of clean up some of the cut areas of disease, pathogens don't breed there.
And then also as a hormone as well, we'll dip it in the microbial solution.
And then we'll dip it in FPF.
And there's a video on that.
But for now, this is another way that's honestly it works.
It works really well.
But just kind of give it some moisture there.
Make sure you get a little bit on there on the cut as a hormone.
And then we're just going to store this.
Now, we're just going to store this.
We're not going to keep them in here to root or clone.
This is actually just storage.
Like if you're at a buddy's house and you go, man, that thing smells great.
Let me get a piece of that.
There's nothing around.
This is what you do.
You just take it.
You cut it.
You place it in a bag where you can get a little bit of humidity and just kind of store it in a cooler place.
Now, this one is going to be a little bit longer than we'd like.
So what usually –
How do you get a bigger bag?
Yeah, we can do that.
This way we can keep the cut where the node was.
Now, you can.
It's not going to hurt it.
Look at it.
This plant is so resilient.
It can really live through almost anything.
You could just take a cut from here as well.
It's going to work just as well.
That's just something we've done through experience and just something that we've been doing forever.
So we tend to – what works for us, we just continue that SOP basically.
And so that's something that works for us.
But Tom's got a bigger bag, so it's perfect.
Get that and then – thanks.
And then also –
Your wife's going to be making sandwiches tomorrow for the family and be like, where are the sandwich bags?
Yeah.
I'll actually just –
Do you use the paper towel?
And why do you cut the edges?
What is the purpose?
What does that involve?
You know, there's so much – there's a lot of growth science, whether it's factual or not factual or experience or just time.
Over the years, we've actually cut the ends off, redirected transpiration.
There's some science to that.
A lot of people don't do it.
Some people do it.
It's just something we've been doing forever.
You know, there's probably some very, very smart people that'll tell you exactly the reason why or why not to do it.
But just for experience, this is something we've done a really long time, and it works.
So I've actually – Tom, I put some FPF, a little bit of FPF in here.
And then we've also put it in the bag.
And then I'll lay that right there.
All right, so let's get that in the shade, and then I'll root it.
And we can label that.
We can label it and just –
Yeah, so this should be plant one.
Plant one off the –
So this is where –
And we could cut another one and put another one in there just to ensure –
How long are these good in here for before you want to –
You know, I've had them mailed to me from across the country.
You know, they're – and as long as you can get them back into an area where they're going to like,
you could probably get a good one day or two days or three days in there.
But generally, if you can get to the hydro store and get the proper materials, that's probably going to be the best bet.
Tom, that thing will be in a plug in two hours.
Yeah, and if it's a plug, that's perfect.
And so what we'll do is since we're – let's just make sure we got enough.
So here's another one, and we're just going to snip it.
And you can see – and while we were discussing earlier, you can see actually a little bit of hair coming out of this one here.
So we're just going to keep our eyes on that.
You know, so you see the hairs, Tom?
Yes.
So there's a little bit of hair, so it's just something we want to keep our eye on and make sure this one doesn't turn female.
Also, seeds sometimes become completely symmetrical, and there's a three-pack on there.
So it's something – that's a trait also to look at.
And then you can almost see a little preliminary male part, but it's not certain yet.
So we're just going to keep our eye on it and see what transpires here.
And Tom, which plant is this?
This is plant number two.
This is plant number – we're still on plant number one.
We're still on plant number one.
Oh, okay.
Because we're – yeah.
Oh, I didn't see where you took it from.
So we're just going to take another 45, clip the ends there, take a snip off the top, just kind of re-examine it.
Maybe take a couple here.
And snipping this also provides a little bit of space too between clones so they're not –
Actually, everybody rotate 90 or 180.
There we go.
That's done.
Tom, always know where your camera is.
Our back to the camera is there.
So here's another one.
We'll throw in that same bag, Tom.
We'll just give it a little rinse.
Perfect.
Give it a little rinse.
Deeper breathing.
Off the ends there.
Perfect.
And I think two for that plant.
Should I put this in?
Yeah, put it in the same bag, plant number one.
And we'll keep these.
I like these.
These are tall.
They're large.
But what we can do is kind of just go in and let's just kind of eliminate some of the burden on the plant.
They take up a lot of energy.
The sun is – the shade is not getting directly to there.
But the tops are still really nice.
So we'll get there.
You know, there's – and then there's all sorts of different ways, Tom.
I mean, if you don't – if you feel like they're getting too tall, you don't necessarily have to top them.
We could have topped them a little earlier.
But, you know, cannabis is so – it's malleable, right?
I mean, everybody can grow so differently and achieve something similar.
So on these, if you'd like, you could really – you can kind of just bend them over.
You know, just take a trellis and begin to kind of bend them over a little bit.
And you could do that after a foliar – after a watering plus a foliar spray and in the morning.
And so if you just – and if you don't mind it coming out here a little bit, then you could just, you know, just bend that over.
Like sometimes in the sun it's a little bit harder for it.
But when you first water, you know, you see that kind of that – they're a little more flexible.
So –
So stick it through the trellis?
Yeah.
So what we'll do is, like, we'll come in.
I don't know if you guys are going to do a trellis segment, but we can come in and trellis it.
I'd probably do it right away before transition because you're going to get a multiply effect on the stretch.
So we definitely want to do that, you know, the next few days or next week.
And just – and you can just bend that over like this a little bit.
And what – oh, I just snapped it.
Got to –
But what we want to do is – see, I didn't snap it all the way.
So there are break methods as well.
So it's – actually, that will probably end up being a very strong part of the plant.
What we could do –
The plant will thank us later.
Yeah, it will, honestly.
Sometimes – yeah, sometimes.
And that's why watering it and do it in the morning.
And so this is kind of just – this is learning.
This is a learning situation for us here.
But you can see just the inside cambium is broken.
There's no tear on the outside.
Right.
So what we can do is if you want to take a little bit of a green strap, you can just kind of miyagi it a little bit.
And kind of keep it tight and make sure we're good.
But that's generally what you want to do is just kind of bend them all over a little bit.
And –
Sort of out, just out this way.
Yeah, just kind of out and underneath.
And then everything is –
Because then all this inside stuff is going to be able to come up and –
So without topping, that's another way you can –
Now I have a – what's going on over here?
So these are just old leaves, you know.
And like we're – and then that's why we're –
This is a second stalk.
Yeah, so these are – so basically right now is a good time.
So these are all – the reason they're just not getting enough sun, you know, they're – everything is trying to reach to new growth, new protein development.
So honestly, we're just – we're going to get rid of all this bottom scruff.
So funny. I could have sworn that this one I didn't think was going to survive.
It was so puny for so long.
And Tom, what plant number are we on now? We were just on number one.
Well, are we going clockwise?
I would say let's go number – let's call this one two, and then we can go three and four.
I could have sworn it was a different strain from the others.
But you're saying everything here is the same?
Peter?
Yes.
Yeah. So there you go.
So now you have a clean – you're real clean here, you know.
Uh-oh.
It's all right. It's honestly – this is going to be a –
Look what I get.
This is actually going to be really cool. We can get a stake, and then we can get like a little green tape.
That would be helpful. But honestly, this may seem like an issue.
But really, it's – the plant will thank us.
Because there are some more intermediate and expert type of grow methods.
One of them being breaking the stem.
Now, again, you don't want to break it too much.
It's more of a turn and snap.
You can even – I mean, if you wanted to get close and try to hear it even.
Come – you can put your finger right here, Tom.
Oh.
That's all right.
Watch this.
Yeah.
You hear that?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay. So the inside – the inside snapped.
Yeah.
Right? So there's – these are all ways that you can –
It does not work?
Yeah. It's a little bit taller.
Oh, we need taller.
Yeah, a little bit taller stake.
But we can get that. We can get that going.
Yeah, but you'll notice that –
Tom, do you have any long pieces of bamboo?
This will callous out and actually become stronger.
These squirrels, I think, are mating.
Where you break the inside stem – not the outside, but the inside – those areas will actually callous up and become strong.
So trellising over or bending arms over is the first stage.
It's not strong enough. It's not going to do it.
It's actually the first stage to – the tricks and tips to increase yield.
Breaking stems – you know, these are old school ways that have been around for a long time that increase the yield.
So we've done a little cleaning. We've taken a lot of clones.
I'm taking a couple clones.
Did we clone – we didn't – did we take a clone from you?
We didn't clone this one.
Leave it like this?
Because there aren't tons of stalks right now.
This one might be a better candidate, number three.
Honestly, I like the way this one – the structure is on this one.
You do?
Yeah, I like this one.
Usually I wouldn't want to take a clone just off of three, but really I want to make sure we do keep this in stock.
So I'll probably end up – I'll just take a little clone off this one.
I thought I had another stake somewhere. I might have used it.
This will be actually a very good part of the segment here.
So we'll keep that going.
But this one actually looks – it looks like something we can – come check this out right here.
Look how thick that stalk is right there, coming up.
It almost looks like it was topped naturally.
That's beautiful. I love growing from seed.
So basically we're just going to kind of get rid of this.
And then from here, take off the rest of those.
There.
There.
And then we'll give it a little rinse here.
Oh yeah, don't hold that up.
Time to stand out here all night.
All night.
So we'll keep this – some moisture on this one as well.
Do you have any string that we could tie it to one of the caddy corner ones?
What's this here?
Well, that's just a – we can use that.
I had that in here actually.
It was going right in there to put my –
Here, why don't you leave it and grab something?
Oh shit, this is not good.
Yeah, just leave it.
It's going to come off.
Here, I'll hold it.
You go grab something.
We'll save it.
All right, this is plant number two.
We can use this.
I have to go find some tape.
You're going to get a little root break in here, but again, these plants are tough.
They're tougher than nails.
This plant was so happy 20 minutes ago.
It's getting beat up, but it's going to love it.
It really is.
This one's going to be the biggest and the yieldiest of them all actually.
So then we'll just strap them together like that.
It'll be like it never happened.
Perfect.
All right, so we got plant number two.
Yeah, you can tell some of these just –
I only have black tape.
Perfect.
Clean these off.
What we'll do is we'll save that for a clone.
Save that for a clone.
And then we'll just put this in here.
Save that for a clone.
Save that for a clone.
And you can take the cannabis leaves and you can just top dress them if you like.
Now, should we be putting some more of your soil in?
Yeah, we could definitely do a top dress.
After we go through all the stress of the plant, of trimming it and cloning it, breaking it –
I think that one would appreciate it.
Yeah, breaking it.
We can definitely add some beneficial biology.
Yeah, they'll thank us.
That's plant number three.
Yep.
Cut that.
Cut that back.
Can you cut a piece for me here?
Now, will this impede our trellising?
At this point, this one will probably impede a little bit of the trellising.
The rest of them you can bend over.
This one, honestly, you could take the stake off and trellis it.
I gotcha.
But we might do that as another segment.
Mend it.
So we have a couple more clones.
So the size of trellis I would want to get would be just like a little one?
Yeah, they make 4x4s.
We have the trellising for these, but we would need to –
Change the elbow.
Yeah, we need to add a top one.
Actually, we could just stick a stake on the inside.
Yeah, simple stake.
Just tie it in.
It's really easy.
Anything to keep them –
Bent.
Yeah, keep them from –
Keeping them bent, keeping them –
We're getting all these ones that aren't really getting any sun.
Kind of redirect and transfer that energy to the ones that are.
Now, so the preferable topping would be done in like two, three weeks?
Yeah, you would gauge the plant, but generally like the first –
Like this, after the seventh node would be a good time to top.
Just kind of giving the formation of the plant as well.
So that's a good indication.
And then from the seventh, then you can start to kind of arm out a little bit.
And then easier to trellis and top out.
Again, especially with seeds, you know, they just grow real straight and tall.
Clones sometimes, depending on the genetics, sometimes clones don't even need to be topped or trellis.
It just depends on the genetics.
There's some really indica that are really bushy and short to begin with.
A lot of the – anything kind of crossed with the OGKB is going to be definitely bushy.
And then things like – some things like a Tahoe OG or OGs, you definitely want to trellis.
Any kind of GGs, they definitely want to be trellised.
Can you tell that from the distance between the nodes?
Is that indication of what the size or the type of the bushiness of the plant?
Yeah, exactly. Like you'll see that sativas, they stretch.
They stretch big.
So definitely when they're growing tall like that, sativas will definitely need to be trellised.
Because they're not only are they tall, but they're heavy yielders.
And so the second they start to get big, they'll start to – you know, they'll start toppling over.
And so they'll want something to hold them up.
What about those round things?
Those tomato things? Yeah, I used to use those.
Those are okay.
The only thing with those is just depending on how you cure,
you're going to have to do it two different ways.
One is you're going to have to snip it and kind of pull that thing out.
And if your nugs are too big, then they're going to be trapped.
So there's – yeah, but there's also other circular ones that don't have the grate.
They're just the circle.
And then those you can actually put in and kind of tie to it.
So those are really good.
But these, you'll notice your trellis is probably going to be multi-level as they grow.
So depending on, you know, how you want them to grow, that'll be determined on your trellising too.
So trellising, you can bend them over really, really well.
With those tomato ones, those are almost made really to actually hold up stems.
Where trellis, you can actually train the stems.
So a couple different ways.
Yeah.
So these look pretty clean.
You know, generally I don't like to go too far up.
But again, a lot of people have different ways of doing things.
You know, this is – you can tell just from the – from sun down, it's clean.
And so now you're not going to really get, you know, you're not going to get a lot of wasted energy and or disease.
You know, because there's places that don't get a lot of sun, you could possibly get a little bit of disease.
So I'm just going to go in and give everybody a little spray.
Spray number three.
Where I cut.
And talk to Tom about spraying water onto the leaves at high noon.
Yeah. So right now, you know, the segment was – it was good for a foliar.
But what we want to do is we want to always foliar first thing in the – if you're outdoor, you want to foliar in the mornings.
Definitely.
High noon, a little tougher for the plant.
If it's windy, you can get away with it.
You know, but generally, the rule is that the little balls of water magnify the sun and kind of give a little bit of a burn.
So usually mornings is going to be the best time to foliar.
And you can foliar all over the top of the leaves and underneath.
And I'm foliaring these because one, they're not really – these are all still in the shade.
You know, and we just made some cuts.
And I like to just – I always like to just add a little bit of nutrients where the cuts are.
Again, this is just – there's so many ways to do things, you know.
And these are just ways that we've realized.
We're doing this, the organics, a lot.
Yeah. I mean, these are ways we've realized that work for us.
And so this is one of them.
So now you have some clean plants, ready to be trellised, clean.
Yeah. They look good. They look really good.
I'm interested to see what that one does.
All right. So let's bag up three.
So this is number three.
So – and already you can see how fast, once they're cut, how fast they –
remember that one we were just doing?
And this was maybe – that one we snipped, went straight to the bag.
This one we waited like five minutes.
Yeah.
With that, you know.
And you can see the water's already starting to drain out.
So this is definitely a sensitive situation.
We want to make sure that we're not over-draining.
We want to make sure we get them where they need to be as soon as possible.
Because they will perk up. They will perk back up.
But you can see already the leaves are beginning to curl out, losing water.
So we'll want to – still have a little SPF left in here.
This is where we need the intense, dramatic music.
I know. It's a race for time right now.
A race to save this plant.
You know, what we're going to do is just kind of dip that bottom into that SPF.
There we go.
Move that back up.
Put her out of the sun.
Cool her down right away.
Oh, we don't know. It could be a hem.
And then this one I think can go –
Or a Hermie.
Yeah, or a –
Hermie.
Yeah, Hermies definitely is not what you want.
Because sometimes when you look at the top and you're going,
Oh, right, I got a female.
Top one number is at five.
Yeah, so even though the plant is starting to flower,
you still want to look at the lower parts of the plant.
Because that's really where you're going to see hermaphrodite traits.
And that's one of the reasons why we cleaned.
Yeah, so where are we looking?
When you're trying to look for males or hermaphrodites,
don't start at the top, start at the bottom.
And so because that's really where –
the shaded area is really where hermaphrodites grow.
That's where their traits are.
And when you're walking and you just kind of look to the top,
you go, Oh, wow, it's flowering. I have no seeds, no male traits,
or anything like that. You walk away.
You think you've done an inspection.
But really, you've got to get low
and you've got to just kind of look at all your corners really carefully.
I mean, it is something that you really have to be aware of,
especially growing from seed, because you could ruin –
And what are the signs of a hermaphrodite?
A hermaphrodite, it's almost like a flower,
but then there's male parts,
essentially balls coming out from that.
And if those pop, then your whole crop will become seeded.
And so it essentially ruins the entire crop.
So hermaphrodites are –
I mean, if you've got a male and that pops,
well, then it could possibly be a fun experiment for next round.
But hermaphrodites are something you do not want.
Breeders and growers should definitely be –
Wait, is that three as well?
Yeah, that's three as well. Two on each.
What was this in the little one?
That was this one here.
Two?
The single, number two.
Yeah, so herms are a no-no.
Breeders should really –
And then are there seeds more likely to have hermaphroditic traits as well?
Definitely.
Like if a hermie pollinates a bunch of other plants
versus a male pollinating a bunch of females?
You're going to get herms.
So those seeds will also – so you're going to be propagating –
You're herming after herming, yeah.
It's really – I mean, some will tell you different, but –
So that would be worse.
That's why herms are worse.
Because if you have a male and you don't see it,
which they're really easy to tell, herms sneak up on you.
Yeah, and I had one in Sopango.
That's very sad.
What is that?
This is number four.
Four?
Yeah, number four. Last one.
Oh, let me get a bigger bag.
Yeah, herms are really a –
They're definitely problem causers.
This one's just going to be a little shorter.
I like, but sometimes you just got to work with the plant.
Sorry, I got to use these big bags for taking clones off.
Yeah, so growing from seed is definitely –
You got to just kind of be on top of the garden.
You got to walk the garden, inspect the garden.
But I think it's a lot of fun because you get to see
and you can discover things.
Well, at a home-grow scale, it's totally manageable and fun.
It's easy to do, exactly. It's really fun.
With times.
Four plants.
Right, four and then –
And if you're growing with seed, I like to grow kind of
at least 25, sometimes 50% more plants
because it sets you up for if you have males,
you still have the plant count that you need.
I just put number four in this one.
Oh, it fit?
Well, I'll just – what I'll do is I'll –
I got a bigger one here if you want.
We'll just put them both in one bag.
So yeah, we definitely want to get these to where they're going.
You want to put a little of that in here too?
Yep, right away.
But, you know, the ways we're doing it right here are –
Oh, number four.
Number four.
Look at that.
Perfect.
This is a professional backyard outfit.
We run a tight ship back here.
It's like Windex for plants.
Tom actually controls six houses on this block
and he's running indoor grows in all six.
That's right.
And alternating porn shoots.
Yeah, so there you go.
You got a couple of cleaned up plants.
Wow, look at this.
You got some cleaned up plants.
You got one that's going to be pretty awesome.
No, I didn't water.
I haven't watered for two days knowing you were coming.
Your watering is fine.
Again, these beds are so –
they're really nice because you just don't need to water them.
They retain so well.
And that's why we have the granular in there.
So you're always going to get some sort of nitrogen to plants.
You know what I noticed after we've put some other smaller beds together
was this one is like really aerated.
I can tell when I go down.
It's like it's looser.
There's just more room.
It's denser.
And I assumed it was the soil that we –
The castings are dense.
Yeah, you really don't need more than 10% or so.
The castings are super dense.
But I think it was your premium that we didn't have.
Can you tell me, was it your premium soil that adds the air, the room?
That's actually –
the premium is vegetable compost and worm castings and minerals.
Well, what is it that makes this lighter than –
I believe –
Yeah, on this one we had the Berger, which was a peat.
It was fluffed it up.
And then the fox farm we used on this one was the ocean forest.
The happy frog is a little bit more dense, a little more rich.
It has more animal byproduct in it where the ocean forest is more –
But I went and bought some ocean forest and we used that in some of these other ones.
But it must have been the –
Berger, yeah, Berger.
You can do that with a lot of different things too.
Like you can blend a fox farm with a basement mix or something just to fluff it up.
Just that's all?
Yeah, you know, I blend – sometimes I blend a 707 with the OG planting mix.
You know, the other day we needed something on the fly,
really couldn't wait for HydroStore.
So the nursery down the line sent us SunPro and Happy Frog.
So if you go into HydroStore, what's a good aerating brand?
I like to use Root707.
I like that one a lot.
And what's the percentage?
Is that like a 20% that you add that?
With the Root707, I like to add about 10 to 15% of the premium mix in there.
And that'll just add your biology, add your carbon-nitrogen ratio 30 to 1.
And then just make it – some minerals make it really, really healthy.
Again, with the biology.
But that 707 I think has a really good aeration blend that goes well with castings and vegetable compost.
Because if you start off with something like a fox farm and you don't have a Berger or another peat source or a royal source or something to kind of make that, as you were saying, fluffier,
then it's actually going to go more dense.
And so you'll water less.
But again, in sun like this, either one should be okay.
You know what I mean?
Again, there's different ways to do everything.
But generally that's our – the fluffiness is so you can water a little bit more as well.
Well, then the Royal Gold, I brought the Tupper because it's – basically I told them we wanted to build our own soil.
So we just wanted something that is aerated.
Yeah, and that Tupper is really nice to do that.
Okay, so we got our – so first of all, with these plants, what do you like about each one?
Like start with plant number one.
Well, I like the health.
I definitely like the health.
That's one thing.
Except for after we were done.
Yeah, after we tore this one up.
But I like the health.
I really like the turgidity.
I like the way the plants are – I like the color.
You can see the color's really nice.
What does the color tell us that it's – about these plants?
Well, the color indicates a lot because if you had any discoloration, you have deficiencies straight off the bat.
So right now, these being such a thick –
Is it the nutrients?
Yeah, nutrients, the soil, the sun, the water, everything being done right now from when we started until this point has been done really well.
So this way, you know, you have – you know, the bend there is really nice.
You'll see like if you grow with – sometimes if you grow with just synthetics with not a nutrient-rich soil, you actually get flatter, less turgid leaves.
You'll still get good nugs, but these will give you turgidity.
Now, when we had the triple digits like a week ago, I got these little spots down here.
They went away.
Not on these, down here.
And contrary to rumor, I haven't been watering them during midday sun.
So – but what is this?
You did that one day.
Remember, I came over and you're like –
It was earlier than that.
But what is this?
The discoloring on the leaf.
That's – it's not any bug.
You know, I don't think it's a leaf minor.
This is the only plant here that it happened to, but it also – the autos, and it was the same thing, the triple digit days.
Then subsequent outgrowths improved.
Could have just been a really hot day.
Yeah, okay.
But I don't see any indication of bugs or, you know, any kind of minors.
Maybe you have a little something there.
But again, you're outdoors, so there's always going to be something.
But good biology will keep the – keep the – keep it – keep that infection low.
Yeah.
You know, there's a – so I think the color's looking good.
I think the structure on this one is actually looking really good.
I like this one a lot.
I think that the nodes are a little bit tighter than the other seeds.
And seeds generally –
Sorry, number two?
Uh-oh.
Oh, Jesus, Tom.
Can you turn those off?
Uh-oh.
Does that turn off at all?
Yeah, you got to time these things to not be at one in the afternoon either.
Yeah, so we're getting a good foliar spray there.
All right.
It cooled it down a little bit.
Yeah, yeah.
I have no idea when they're coming on.
Let's bring that back.
Perfect.
Yeah, so a couple things I would have done maybe in the beginning was maybe top a little bit sooner.
And then – and then the power, the energy would focus on these a little bit, probably tightening up the nodes.
But generally from here up, it looks really nice.
And that's why I say if you get into the trellis, everything will kind of – everything will like not slow down,
but stop its vertical growth and kind of start to go horizontal a little bit.
And then if you trellis them, all these interspacing nodes are going to start growing.
And so you're going to give yourself 20 to 30, 40 more arms per plant.
That's what we want.
We got a trellis.
So should we do a trellis segment?
Is that something you wanted to –
Well, I just –
I can go get trellises easily.
But anyway, that's –
I really just need to stick them in here and just kind of –
Because it would basically be the training segment.
So it's really like 45 degrees?
To a point just before you break it.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
So they like to be a little stressed, but a little bit.
Yeah, stress on the – on cannabis plants, a certain type of stress.
And if you can –
I did something with this guy who actually has a trellis system that I'll bring over.
But he was like a professional bonsai competition contestant.
And he was like with bonsai, it's like you're getting medieval on them.
And you're bringing them just before death on like all these like vicious –
Stunt to grow.
Honestly, cannabis plants like –
You'll see a little one growing amongst them and like you'll treat her, you know,
a little bit less than this one that's just so beautiful.
But you know what?
That little runty one usually is going to turn out because it's just been –
That's right.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, the adversity.
Every time you walk by, you smack them around.
Well, amongst these, that's this one.
This one?
That's the – I really like the formation of this one.
I really like the formation of this one.
This is the runt.
It was the runt, yeah.
I think these two are going to be your winners.
This one's always been –
But we'll get to that point again.
I could totally be wrong.
Yeah, this has more females.
More females.
But they're healthy.
They're great.
And then, Tom, if you didn't want to trellis them, I would just get a couple more sticks and tie them up.
So this way, they can – when they do, they know they're getting some support.
So they'll grow bigger buds.
And then it'll just kind of hold everything in place.
Okay, so they're starting to get heavier.
So one way or another, you need to sort of give them some support structure.
Yeah, give them some training.
Tom, we can do that next week.
Yeah, so we have a week.
We'll film that one next week.
But say we kept it with this, with no trellis.
Would that mean a taller –
It would just go taller, yeah.
You'd probably end up with probably plants about this big.
Which is not bad.
About seven feet?
Yeah, so they're flowering.
About that big.
But that's all right. It's still below the fence.
And I like it. It's fun to kind of see them like that.
Well, I just downloaded all the regs. This is actually –
Tom, are you excited?
Perfect. There's only one thing, actually.
And we have some otters that'll be ready.
And actually, let's look at the otters.
Yeah, let's look at these.
Because they'll start flowering.
And they're in a different environment.
I've been following all the same feeding regimen with these.
Yeah, these look great. The structure's great.
I like how they're stout.
They probably have a little more indica in them,
given that stoutness.
But yeah, the color's looking great.
You've done a great job, Tom.
They're really looking good.
Now, in terms of stunting, cutting, trimming back –
And then these ones over there.
On the otters, honestly, I would leave –
Like on the otters, I would probably just do very, very minor –
Maybe some down below.
Yeah, just with the hands.
Some of these little ones.
But with things with otters is,
otters really need to remain stress-free.
They're really designed to be stress-free,
at least in my experience.
Now, is this its final home?
This should be.
Because again, the stress –
I've seen people purchase thousands of otters
from a greenhouse.
Everything's fine.
They bring them to a place.
They give it just a little bit of stress,
and then they go into flower.
And I know from there, that's like –
Prematurely.
Yeah, well, you'd like to at least get as much veg out of them as possible,
because they tend to flower a little bit early.
But from seed, once that seed is planted,
it's a home,
and you want to keep the otters stress-free.
I'm trying.
That's why I put them on these little things,
so I wouldn't pick this up,
and I don't want to get dirt.
So now, none of the dirt shifts.
Because they're on their little –
Tommy, you are so delicate and gentle.
I'm really trying to be.
Tom's a gentle lover.
Great job.
Great job, Tom.
Looking really healthy.
Now, by the way, with the amount of porn you've watched,
is your wife like, oh, Thomas.
You'd be surprised how –
Thomas, where'd that move come from?
No, I have watched a lot.
Should we throw this thing together real quick?
Grassroots.
I was always loyal.
Beds.
I always like these beds here.
Okay.
