All right, we are live on YouTube. Thanks for joining us everybody for our morning garden tour.
What day is today? Wednesday, August 19th. It is 8am on the west coast. It is 11am on the east coast where I think everybody else is right now.
So we got going down the line we got Jacob Johnson. Jacob, you're with, let me unmute you, Shenandoah Valley.
Yes, sir. Yep. And then we got Matt, who is going to be starting the tour and we're freestyling so basically we're going to start on on Matt's farm but
if other people want to jump in and show stuff we can we can go all over the place. So that's, sorry, that's so Matt let me unmute you.
If you're tired and if you're talking right now.
Welcome Matt.
Hey, thanks Peter for having me and having all these Virginia farmers on in North Carolina as well so. Yeah, we got the, what would you I was trying to think like, you know, I'm from Boston so it's like the northeast, would you guys call yourselves the southeast?
Or is that insulting?
Yeah, I'm actually like I'm in northern Virginia so I'm kind of on the border and yeah like North Carolina is definitely the south.
Yeah, I'd say we're a border state you know right in there in between. We're close to West Virginia, Pennsylvania.
Got it. And we got Micah and Micah what's your farm called?
What's that?
I said I'm down further in southern Virginia so it's more like the southeast I guess down here.
What's your farm called?
Jolly Pond.
Got it.
And then Curtis.
I just tried to.
So you're in Asheville.
Yeah, we're in Asheville, I'd certainly consider us in the south, southeast.
All right, so we got all hemp farmers in the conversation so Matt why don't you take it away and give us a little tour.
Sure. So this is my second season growing in this greenhouse with hemp.
Before I was just doing vegetables and then Virginia started allowing hemp farmers to apply so this is my second season.
And it's just been a lot of fun to learn and source genetics from around the country and out of the country as well and and see what everyone's working with and how everything's different so on the right side I have.
I was gifted some lifter clones. I was gifted two tiny lifter clones that are like in four inch rockwool cubes this winter and so I just clone them and just, they got pretty big.
In the center I have some CBG that I'm trying out a couple different varieties of CBG.
And then on the back side of the middle is like CBD dominant stuff.
And then on this left side is Sour Space Candy clones.
At the same time, just like two small four inch rockwool cubes and and it's amazing what what you can do over six months of cloning or a couple months of cloning so I do hugelkultur.
So when this greenhouse was put in.
I had these hugelkultur mounds in there and and they were like pretty upset at me because it was so tough to put the ladders on here and they're sinking and whatnot but I knew that that's the best way to have a good hugelkultur garden is to build it first and then put the, the roof on top.
And I think it worked out really well so we I'm on a horse farm and so I'm able to source aged horse manure throughout the winter and that's usually what I am in my soils with and then I just do I'm really into permaculture so we have a bunch of woods and so I gather leaf mulch and I compost that into it and I'm really about like gathering anything that's free so I go to town and I get bamboo from from wild bamboo patches and I'm laying that in the ground.
And sticking that in so for silica and I'm just having a lot of fun just building up this soil so
the lifter. This is actually before you go into that.
One of the interesting things you told me was that you got like funding right like you got a grant.
Yeah, this was, um, yeah, this was a grant through a like the it's called the equip program. So I think all 50 states has like a, you have like a natural resource soil conservation program that they can help farmers, get a high tunnel so this is technically a high tunnel.
And it's a 30 by 72, and I was able to get a team from Maryland to come down and help me build it up and we were able to do it in about a week.
And it is about 13 feet tall in the middle, I believe.
But the raised beds are like two feet tall so I lose some space by the by the large mounds, but I think it's okay. But yeah, this was, um, you know, it's an it's a way to do.
You know, gardening or high tunnel program for low cost. So I recommend it to any farmers to reach out to their, their natural resource conservation and see what programs they have.
Even, you know, they have fencing program so if you have livestock they'll help you get fencing. If you're on a creek to keep the animals out of the creek so there's lots of cool stuff and they also have like cover cropping if you're wanting to cover cropping big fields, they'll help you get the seeds.
So they really want to do help farmers and I'm actually trying to get a second tunnel I've talked to them. I'm trying to get a smaller tunnel, like a 20 by 50 in this area to hopefully do some light depth.
So that'd be kind of fun to see if that that works out.
We do have bees. So I've got a new friend and he brought over two bees. So we'll have some local honey and we're just curious to see like what what that will be if we think the propolis will have that and the bee wax. We don't think the bee honey will be have it.
But we never know. So we're thinking it'll have probably like a hemp aroma to it.
So, this year I tried to really get into like companion planting and so I did a lot of flowers and basil. I've always had like rosemary so I put rosemary in the corners.
So when you're walking around here you just get all these all these aromas you're stepping on rosemary and you're stepping on mint and lemon balm and basil and I have this other I've sage right here and I have this other thing that's most like licorice.
So it's this whole, you know, I like to think that all these terpenes are mingling together and creating this stew of potential, potential flavors.
Here's the lifter. And so it's not going to like flower as quickly as the Sour Space Candy but definitely getting there.
Everything's real happy.
We got a lot of rain last night so it's pretty humid here. These are CBG's that my friend gave me.
You can tell that they were stressed and I got them in July, and they were like very nutrient lacking and needing some love so I was curious to how they would do in soil. So,
they had never touched soil. They were just clones in an aero cloner that were super stressed so it's cool to see them kind of rebounding but compared to things that I've had in here all season, no comparison really.
So these are the some of the big CBG's that are doing well.
And I'm curious if anyone knows like what happens when you when you cross a CBG plant with CBD. So that's kind of what I'm interested in finding out is how those ratios play out and if anyone has any information. I think this is one is Apollo.
It's cool.
Zinnia's.
And so one of the things you were talking about the other day is that kind of your goal right now is is I mean you you I think said in the past you had flowered stuff out but now you're focused on breeding and and breeding for you know cultivars that that grow well and kind of the southeast.
Yeah. Starting with Virginia.
Yeah. So like last year I just sourced from any kind of farm that seemed cool like there's farms in Colorado and Oregon and Vermont, and I wanted to, you know, get all kinds of cool flavors and so this year I'm really trying to learn about like what works here and and can I acclimate things to work here.
So these I've got four Terra Italias and there's two short phenos. This is a short pheno and then a tall pheno and then a short pheno on this other side. And so I'm just trying to see like these are these have been seeded like they're getting seeds on them.
And so I find that like right now the hemp market is so saturated with flowers that I want to make genetics that work well in Virginia and that I can supply seeds to Virginians and or at least East Coast people and have them know that they're getting quality because I've had times where I bought seeds and the seeds don't sprout or they're really tiny and they just don't look good and and they don't like have any carbohydrates in them so they're not really good.
So they just they don't really do much and or they're just not that vigorous.
And so I'm really into like I if I'm going to produce something I want. I want it to be like the best seed ever. I want it to be. I want to work in many climates. I have a farmer that's like half an hour from here and he says like the seeds that I gave from from last year.
I had some like cross pollination from a male that let loose. I got a little loose and he says like those plants were just the best and they and they're doing amazing. They're overhead right now. And so I want every farmer to get that result.
Yeah, these are the sour space candies.
So, yeah, Megan.
And I, I don't see many like breeders or seed producers, talk about like a living soil and I really think that like you're, if you're feeding bottled nutrients like what kind of nutrition is that plant really getting and are they going to put it into their seed.
I want that seed to be full of energy so they can crack and and have a taproot and and really want to like do its best and give it, you know, its full potential.
Curtis, you mind if I ask a question.
Go for it, Curtis.
Matt, I'm really curious about your propagation sort of situation and speaking of living soil. I'm very interested in the type of inoculants you use or the probably more appropriately the inoculants that you cultivate on your farm like I, you know, we do largely hydroponic production indoors, but it's not a sterile grow, you know, we take different microbials, different beneficial microbes and we use them.
We don't take them to our officials and put them into our system. But, you know, as I've been reading up more and more on K&F and JADM, you know, preps and ways of approaching agriculture in general, I really do think that there's room there to integrate, you know, probiotic farming and hydroponics, but I'm always interested in how things are looking on the living soil side for people that cultivate, and especially like cologne in greenhouses or indoors and living soil.
Yeah, so, um, you know, there's so many good products on the market and I really just try to like keep it as simple as I can. So in my soil, I don't inoculate with anything.
I just keep it like I just feed it like good things. And so I feed it, you know, flax seeds and I feed it banana peels and avocados and apples and rotting, you know, there's tons of, tons of, you know, roly polies and they've been shown to clean up toxic waste and heavy metal from soil.
And so I really focus on like creating a fungal rich soil. And I think that just creates a healthy plant. Hemp's been shown to like enjoy a fungally dominant soil and
And so I really just focus on like warm castings and creating an environment for worms. I haven't put any worms in here, but they're just, you know, they love horse manure. And so when I think that's my inoculation is like aged horse manure and aged compost and
I just provide a good environment and then they just, they're here and they want to stay and they want to repopulate
And that's just what I, you know, I focus on. I like to use alfalfa as well. So that's something that
You know, bugs love, but, you know, for me to be like just reach in here and grab super good soil and it just feels like it's just all warm castings.
And I recently learned that like insect frass, like all that, that's a even better source of microbes for the plants, but worm castings is definitely the best thing. So I
If I could just grow in straight worm poop. I think that's what I would do, but
Yeah, I know. I certainly hear you on, you know, naturalizing and acclimating these genetics for industry on the East Coast, especially in the southeast, because so
So many of those genetics were bred and created for markets in different climates. You know, you've got everything on Oregon, as well as everything out in Colorado, you know, far
drier, different, you know, amount of full sun days, etc, etc. And it occurs to me that maybe one of the ways to really speed along that
naturalization process and be able to find the phenos that we're really hunting for that have the resistances and
You know, the sort of awarenesses of the territory that they're going into is by really just taking every bit of biological information that's present in that environment, you know, be it
crop residues,
You know, soil microbes, microbes in the air, as well as stuff like insect frass and whatever basically just nature kind of feeding on itself processing itself.
You make all that available to these plants generation over generation and they start forming those strategies and resistances because to some degree, they kind of know what's coming. Know what to expect.
Yeah, I agree. I mean, I think
I see like sometimes people will brag and say like it was bred indoors and I understand that like they don't want cross pollination.
But if those parents were never rained on or they never had a cold temperature under 50 or maybe an over on over 100
I just don't think genetically that those seeds will have information and they will definitely acclimate. I think they'll do great. But I just think it's just that 10% better.
It's kind of like if your grandparents were wrestlers and and then you started, you know, like your parents were wrestlers and then you were a wrestler. Like, I think genetically, you would just have that in your mind that you become a good wrestler or a good traveler.
My grandmother was an airplane pilot and I am fascinated with flying airplanes. I've never flown one, but I would love to fly one. And I think that's just something that she instilled into my brain in a way.
Yeah, I mean, it sort of seems like so many of the products from, you know, cannabis, be they cannabinoids terpenes, whatever, you know, so many of them are kind of, you can view them as
you know, defense mechanisms.
And so, you know, like in reading the sort of philosophy behind JADAM and KNF, it sort of seems like you're really able to broaden the diversity of your microbial, you know, food web and whatnot. Because of those stresses and because of the new
You know, day to day fluctuations, week to week, seasonal. And the sort of function of the soil in that regard is a buffer or a battery, you know.
enabling these greater populations to withstand these different stresses and fluctuations. So out of that, you get a really nice kind of, you know, a buffer.
So, you know, like in reading the philosophy behind JADAM and KNF, it sort of seems like you're really able to broaden the diversity of your microbial, you know, food web and whatnot. Because of those stresses and fluctuations.
And so, you know, like in reading the philosophy behind JADAM and KNF, it sort of seems like you're really able to broaden the diversity of your microbial, you know, food web and whatnot.
that is going to be more resilient in the face of, you know, different disruptions or fluctuations. Whereas if you run a completely sterile grow,
you know, it might do really well indoors, but when presented with a threat, especially one that's unanticipated, the plant's going to go into, you know, overdrive and may wind up failing because of that.
Yeah, Micah knows a lot about, he's doing a lot of ferments. And so if I have any questions about ferments, he's the guy. So,
Curtis, how long have you been growing hemp?
You know, I've got a long relationship with the cannabis plant in general, as far as cultivation.
I don't know. I mean, I kind of dilly-dallied with like bag seed and stuff like that in high school. And then, you know, I studied abroad in New Zealand and was really in a position to be able to grow there, like out in the woods, which was a lot of fun.
But I would say with hemp, it's been, let's see, since 2016, when I was in Columbia, Tennessee, working in a large scale indoor like food web, food hub project that unfortunately failed. But that's when I was really first starting to work within the, you know, 2014 Farm Bill legal hemp framework.
Cool, cool, cool. This is an ACDC male that I'm keeping right now and I might clone him to see if I can run, you know, keep him. I like his structure. He reminds me of what I want a female plant to look like. He has really beautiful, you know, thin leaves.
Definitely a big producer of pollen.
And so I am, you know, I am right now a pollen chucker. I'm just kind of letting nature do it. And I'm really excited to like to try all these seeds because it's going to be such a mystery. And I'm willing to try that. You know, I know these seeds will probably last me for three or five years.
As long as I store them correctly, but that's what I want is I want to be able to run these seeds and find those outliners and outliers.
Have some fun with it. So right now, like right now I'm not chasing like having to produce all the flower.
Because there's just so much flower. Oh, there's a little bee on this one. So the bees are going to be liking
those little video on my story too.
About bees.
So yeah, it's one thing I say, and maybe this is just me fantasizing, but I don't really see farmers talking about selective open breeding. Like I almost think that because this male is out here, he's going to just be
acclimating himself and possibly his pollen to this environment and then spreading it to a female that's been acclimated. So I just think that that's just, that's the best. I think you can make seeds indoors perfectly.
But I just think that this is the best outcome. If I have a male that I love and I want him to give, I want, you know, him to pollinate females. So this is just ACDCs. Got some morning glory because
I've been a little lazy about pulling it. There's just so much. But that's, you know, last year ACDC was my favorite one. And, and that's been a lot of backbone of a lot of hemp varieties I've seen
is ACDC. So, and a lot of even like people mix it in with THC varieties of cannabis. So
I think that's, you know, find a good male and I'm happy with him. So
I also have a twin of him too that I'm keeping as well. So this section's direct seeded. And so next year I even want to try some direct seeding. I think
this year I did a lot of pot, you know, putting it in pots and a lot of starting everything indoors, but I want to do direct seeding and see if I can get better results because those plants are
getting their tap roots directly into the ground. I just think it's that little extra bit that'll just make it so that my job's easier and the plants do better.
So some cool stuff. Just a lot of the, you know, I have cobbler and super cherry. And then I do have
Micah gave me some wolf seeds that he got from
I think Miles Philippi in North Carolina. And I've got this interesting thing going on this one.
And I don't know what it's called, but it's when the
stem gets like all flat.
And it creates, it's like hollow and it's not normal, but it's kind of squishy. It's really cool. I don't know if I want to keep it or not. But it's interesting to see. I don't, I'm not super attracted to it, but maybe some people really want that in their garden.
And then this is the other male that looks just like the one I'm keeping as well. So I think if I'm, if I can find two males that are very similar.
And that's what I like. Like, that's a good sign that I'm hopefully able to like, not necessarily. I want to call it stabilizing, but
I'm following like I'm seeing consistencies and so very similar like narrow leaf.
Big and and very like I thought this was a female and I was and then when it started showing sacks. I was like, bombed, but also I love it because this year I'm dedicating my garden to making seed for for the next continual years. I won't have to worry about making seed.
So, because I don't know buying seeds. Sometimes it's such a hit or miss. I, you know, sometimes you get stuff and you're really excited and you're paying good money and then you get it and you're like, this is doesn't like this is tan. It's white. It doesn't look good. Like, I don't want this. So
These are ACDCs and in pots as well. So I'm just, I never really grow in pots. I'm a soil guy, but I want to see how do they do if I if I put some good amendments in here and they seem to be enjoying it. So
I'm also interested in like I know Shenandoah Valley. They've been trying some fiber and some seed.
And so I'm interested in talking more and learning more from Shenandoah about how their fiber went and what they're trying to experiment with.
Yeah, Matt. I'm gonna tune in real quick.
Yeah, we grew 15 acres of hemp fiber couple different varieties, you know, using traditional farm equipment and seed.
And so, you know, we're trying to do a lot of different things. We're trying to do a lot of different things. We're trying to do a lot of different things. We're trying to do a lot of different things.
I'm gonna tune in real quick. I love your garden, man. Love what you're doing. Things come along really, really nicely.
To touch on what you're talking about. Yeah, we grew 15 acres of hemp fiber couple different varieties, you know, using traditional farm equipment and see how that went for us.
Right now we're in the process of getting everything baled up. We're going to send it down to a decorticator in Withfield, Virginia, Appalachian biomass.
And, you know, we're gonna kind of see what we get out of that. I think we're expecting around 15 to 20 total hemp bales. We had some fescue grass coming kind of like up underneath everything.
So, you know, some learning curves, but some good experiments with couple different varieties. And Ukrainian H51. I don't know how to say the full name. The H51 did really, really well for us in the field.
Hey, Jacob, I'm really curious what your plant spacing and row spacing looks like on your fiber fields. If you've done some like a trial.
Yes, we planted with a no-till drill, you know, so everything is like a row crop like the corn or the soy.
And so that we planted at about a 70 pound per acre increment. And, you know, the things that came up, came up really, really nicely.
Yeah, I'm sort of finding a disconnect within the, at least the local hemp community here.
Not necessarily with the kind of old school, you know, cannabis heads, but people that are maybe getting into this for the first time or kind of approaching it from the outside on the government side where there is this presumption that, you know, the waste stream from cannabinoid hemp farming can just, you know, easily plug into the hemp field.
And so I'm really getting into this, you know, nascent fiber industry. And what I've been trying to tell people is that, you know, look, not only is it genetics, but it's the way in which you grow it.
Like there is a premium placed on the long straight fibers of that like, you know, solid six to eight foot tall stock.
It's not the same as like the real knobbly, you know, sort of growing pattern for cannabinoid farming.
I know that some of that's due to genetics and some of that's due to, you know, the way in which you grow it. But I'm curious if you are finding that in your conversations with people in your slice of the industry, as well as all the sort of stakeholders that are looking at developing the hemp industry for fiber.
Yeah. So, you know, talking with VDACS, I think 98% of the farmers here in Virginia are growing for cannabinoid production, hardly, you know, any fiber production.
And, you know, it's a huge learning curve for me. You know, all my experience in growing, you know, I hear you guys talk, I'm taking notes. You guys are awesome at what you guys are doing.
All my experience comes from cannabis, and I got thrown into an indoor grow operation in Portland, and they were just doing everything right, you know. Now taking my experience and putting it to an outdoor plot, and then into the fiber side of things for a more traditional farming technique.
You know, there's been a lot of learning, but I know a lot of farmers in this area, rich, rich soil, are trying to get into a different way of farming. And, you know, and hemp being one of those things that's going to be coming in the future.
But with how close we grew everything, like you said, there's not knobby at all. It was straight thin stalks all the way up.
You know, that we would cut down with a disc bind or disc mower and then bale that up.
Did you try growing the fiber hemp, like, by itself to see if it would branch out more?
I'm very curious on that too. We didn't do that. You know, in some sections it wasn't as prolific and it didn't grow up right next to each other. The fescue grass kind of blocked it. I'd say those plants stretched a little bit more, but out of the characteristics that I saw was very tall stalks and, you know, the seed production right on top.
Cool.
The Terra Italia I was showing before, that's a compulti times lemon cush that was bred in Italy, I mean, or like Switzerland, one of those. So I have some original compulti seeds. So I'm interested to run those next year and see what they are because they're supposed to be a fiber variety.
So I still haven't tapped into the fiber varieties yet to see if I can make it dual purpose. Can it be fiber and have some good, you know, production for later or something. So that's what I'm feeling now is with this creating seeds now it's like, oh, I'm feeling that dual purpose happened because I'm getting seeds.
And I can turn this into like maybe rosin or some kind of sift or just infuse it into olive oil and coconut oils for cream. So that's kind of how I'm trying to branch off on instead of just having smokable flower.
It's fun, but it's not, I don't think my long term is just going to be only a smokable flower farmer, unless the market is super demanding for it.
So yeah, to touch on this a little bit, you know, I was watching a video the other day where it seemed like they were doing a dual crop variety where they had everything growing really close like a fiber crop would be, but had a, you know, dual headed combine that were harvesting the top of the plant for the cannabinoid content and then the long thin stems, the combine was cutting down and, you know, putting behind it to be able to build up to be sent to hemp fiber.
And, you know, a lot of people are growing the smokable flower. We saw last season in our testing that our greenhouse stuff stayed a little bit lower numbers and cannabinoid content total, which made it a little bit easier to stay compliant than our outdoor stuff.
So our outdoor crop, we have three acres going and that's going straight to extracts for our CO2 extractor and then our greenhouse stuff will be going towards our smokable flower.
That's real interesting.
What cool varieties are you growing this year in your greenhouse?
So last season, we only grew one variety and we sourced it from Boring Organ. They call it the Grand. It was a T2, but they renamed it. This season, you know, we've really stepped it up and we've sourced genetics from a company called Northern Roots Nursery out of Vermont.
So we're growing a Aceba, Aceba Sister, Suzie's Gift, Hemp Kush, Jet Fuel, Tangy, Spectrum. And then another couple varieties that we got from Boring were a C2, a cherry wine times cherry wine, and then an auto flower that we're, you know, experimenting with.
So from growing with the one variety last season to, you know, now 10 varieties, it's a big step up and we're, you know, growing through that.
Is that Northern Roots?
Yeah, Northern Roots Nursery right there. I believe that's them. Yes, sir.
You know, and how I kind of find genetics is I was looking for different stuff because we do grow for a smokable flower. So I'm looking for that visual appealing, high terpene profile, you know, super smelly and kind of give our customers, our end consumers, a wide variety of, you know,
lifters, downers, mercine levels, you know.
So wanted to have a whole wide variety that we're testing out. You know, I'm not sure how they're going to test or how they're even going to look or how they're going to yield.
But, you know, we're going to take a lot of notes, do a lot of testing and kind of figure out, you know, which direction we want to go with, which ones are we going to nix and which ones are we going to keep around.
Yep.
That's the fun part.
How about going down the line? What are what are the rest of you guys growing right now?
Micah and Curtis.
Like, what are you focused on genetically?
I can I can speak to that a little bit. So we started off a company in high culture as kind of a strictly B2B propagation genetics company.
And that's kind of to some degree what led us down the road of being an all indoor operation.
But it was also just that made a lot of sense, especially in a developing market and, you know, with limited access to genetics, especially, you know, two years ago.
That's how we started off. So, you know, kind of fast forward to now.
We've got probably got 14 strains in rotation that we've got planned for our flower rooms that we've already done the due diligence and research and development, multiple generations of growing it so we can both pheno hunt and also just trying to find those traits that we're looking for and that we presume our customers will be looking for both growers and consumers and users.
So, I mean, we've right out the gate. What we're putting out on the market are the Oregon CBD genetics in large part because there is that brand and name recognition, but it also really serves as a good contrast for, you know, how other people have been growing and realizing the potential of these genetics and what we're capable of doing.
And that's going to be a lot of fun to put that on the market because right now what we're putting in front of people, you know, they're saying, wait, this is Lifter or like, wow, I've never smelled Sour Space candy quite like this before.
So that's really exciting. And then we can establish that and kind of move into our more exotic genetics from there on.
But we've got, I think we've got a bank of about 40 or 50 genetics that we've at least done one run on just to get a sense of it. And we're going to kind of put a pause on going through due diligence and really doing R&D just because we've kind of turned on our flower production machine.
And it's taking a lot from us and it's really what we want to focus on. But I would imagine that more towards the winter leading into spring, we'll reapportion some of our, you know, grow space and some of our operational bandwidth to, you know, be looking at those genetics again and then also be looking at whatever new genetics we've acquired and getting ready to have more genetics on offer for, you know, the traditional spring outdoor growing season.
And also to be sure that those genetics are stable and are going to be of commercial value.
And where do you, you know, I'm just curious, like, are you, are you just, do you just like sell these all in shops and are doing online sales or?
The genetics themselves?
No, like the flower production.
Oh, yeah. So flower, it's a, it's kind of a, it's a diverse strategy and thankfully we're in the position that we can adjust it and be flexible in light of, you know, feedback that we're getting from the market.
But I would say that a good portion of our flower is going to move through our website e-commerce portal.
But we're also selling flower to brick and mortar retailers and to try to keep things fair because we've got a lot of demand and not enough supply to meet that demand.
We've got people that, you know, been on the wait list for nine months and they, you know, to some degree feel as though, hey, you know, I put my neck out there first, I should get first crack at this.
And even though we really appreciate and appreciate that interest and support, the fairest way that we've come up with dulling that product out is that those retailers that are already supporting us or want to support us and putting our other products in their stores.
Those are the people that are going to get the first crack at getting flower. They'll move to the top of the list. It's kind of like, you know, you stick your neck out, you're willing to carry some of our products.
Sometimes, you know, these are retailers that white label and have house brands, but they've been willing to allow our products to sit alongside them.
Sometimes they're the only other products that are in their stores, not only because they want our flower, but because we've made the pricing very attractive and they also know that it's going to move.
So it's kind of like, it's not that big of a hoop to jump through. Slow money down and it's a pretty winning return on investment.
But they know that they're at the front of the line for getting the flower so they may be able to beat out some of their competitors or, you know, really begin to establish themselves in that territory for high end hemp flower.
We've definitely had people that have approached us being like, yo, can I pick up a thousand pounds?
You know, we don't have a thousand pounds. And the assumption is, you know, there's a lot of brokers that are out there that will do this, that and the other with the flower.
But we certainly know that there's a push to take our flower and flower that looks like ours and blend it into the black market and try to double or triple up on weight.
That's definitely going on.
What's that?
Have you, Peter, tried any hemp flower?
I have.
And now I, my friend Jesse gave me some. He grows hemp up in the high country of kind of the mountains of Riverside County. And then, yeah, I mean, I haven't tried a lot.
I mean, what shocked me, I think, with hemp was the first time I smelled it in a field and I was like, this stuff is just terpene rich, which was, you know, just, I don't know why it was unexpected, but I think most people are surprised at just how, just the terpene expression of hemp.
Yeah.
Yeah, I wish everyone could smell this.
And actually, interestingly, it did get me high. Like that was the other thing where I was like, definitely felt like I got a head high going on right now. And then kind of the light bulb went off of like, wow, like this stuff sold in like, you know, gas stations and, you know, and I don't think the government really knows that or understands that.
You know, Virginia has a really good program and I, and they're actually really trying to help farmers. So I feel really lucky that we're in Virginia.
That we have a good program that they, they allow, they like pass it so that as long as you're 21 you can buy smokable hemp. So they're actually like coming out and being okay with it. So there's some cool things.
I suck at math on that. You know, Virginia is doing a great job of promoting the hemp industry and we have a great program here allowing the farmers to kind of find their way.
We have a smokable hemp flower in 14 different locations, you know, and always being an avid cannabis user on the THC side of things, then kind of getting into the CBD and people like you mentioned kind of have like a little head buzz there from smoking some of the flower.
Yeah, it's kind of crazy and each flower will, you know, affect someone uniquely, you know, so just learning this part of the cannabis plan. I mean, it's extremely awesome and so much information to be processed and, you know, it's a blessing to be part of this and kind of, kind of see what CBD does.
So I want to come back to kind of, you know, hemp regulations and policy but let's, let's throw it to Micah to talk a little bit about what's going on at his farm.
What's up guys. So, to go with the, the genetic stuff I, we made our own seed last year out of a box and cherry blossom, and then I was given a lot of seed also so I went into this year just trying to grow everything out and just kind of see what would acclimate to my climate best solely to be more self sustaining.
With what I'm doing.
The hemp's kind of just something to make a little bit of money to eat off of but mainly I'm trying to just grow all of my own food crops, alongside all of the hemp. And then with the.
What was that, what did we do, was that zucchini or squash that we just walked by.
So, this was originally my vineyard I had.
I was gonna say it looked like grapes but then I was like it can't be grapes.
Yeah, well, it's grapes up top. And then we have pear melon and tigger melons down below. And then over here is a cucumber row Chicago pickling cucumbers which is kind of on its way out.
And there's a couple.
Yeah, China Jade cucumbers in there also, but this was all a vineyard at one point I had about 250 grapevines.
And I've started to pull it out.
And I'm going to pull more of it out this year.
So,
and we're just kind of convert everything more into like a market garden based style of beds. So we can rotate just all sorts of stuff in and out of this area.
But for the genetics this clone of the box very blossom, and I planted over 100 plants in the greenhouse in February, and one plant survived, never flowered never revenge just kept on veggie and the whole entire time.
And that's it right there it just started flowering.
About two or three days ago.
And then I was given wolf, which is by far my favorite strain that I've got so far it's just absolutely incredible vigor and miles bread it to the style that I'm growing, which is probiotic.
I do a lot of permits I started out with KNF. And this year I've been more focused on just to Dom only mainly because of the simplicity of it. And I just want to use the lowest costs with the lowest effort to give the maximum yield and you Dom's been proving that along with a lot of other permits that I do I do do a yucca ferment.
You have yucca plants that grow out here, and lactose, the three things, along with the job. So, this is just a big mix of all regular seed over here, wolf.
I was like five different females a wolf from job works farm, and I can't even remember the other stuff out here. And then you get into clones clones mixed with my random vegetable crops and this kind of an area I got Brussels, as green beans and red malabar spinach.
And then I try to let the camera meal grow up to a certain degree throughout the year and let it take over and then I start chopping it down to get clean wines we have pretty bad ticks out here so I like to keep it pretty clean, if I can.
And I grow a lot. So I actually so speaking of ticks just because I've been talking a lot with Nick rise and do you have animals on the on the property and are, what are you doing to combat the ticks.
Um, well the ticks really are, they're just bad early in the spring on, especially if we don't have a cold winter. I really haven't done anything about them I just got chickens like three days ago, so I'm really excited about that.
And I'm sure that chickens are excited to.
Oh yeah yeah they're they're pretty pumped and we're gonna put them to work out here and I'm going to follow Joe Salatin model.
Eventually and try to get some meat birds off on top of just the layers. So, but yeah I don't really do anything else we do release this year I've released an insane amount of beneficial insects.
I've been pretty much no spray this whole entire year. And I mean I could go into all sorts of detail about that but we did releases for about a solid week.
I'm really heavily, and they've just kind of take over the gardens.
And which insects, this is my whole vegetable production with some happening in there. And back there.
Was that which and which beneficials.
So we did try to gamma to go after the caterpillars, I would do either one to two card releases every week. I did lay swings 5000 at a time.
Oh in the larva stage, and then I also did the lace wing cards. And then we did the pirate bug.
And the Oreos and a 50s Cole money and Irvine parasitic was to go after the eighth is also.
And then there was some other random stuff that we mixed in there also, which I can't remember off the top of my head right now.
And then I try to keep a lot of flowers out here.
So, but about multiple perennial rose.
Some really cool flower from Baker Creek.
And, you know, I put comfrey all over the place this year just randomly planted it so I'm going to have a lot of comfrey in different areas. You got jokes tears.
Creates like a bead pretty cool.
And cucumbers. And then this is just some more random hemp thrown in.
Micah do you think you'll do all the same about 200 tomatoes.
Do do all the same of what you think you'll do the same predator bugs next year, or is there one that you really are just going to focus on next year.
No, I'll absolutely do the same exact thing basically that we did try to build the population up. And I've really, I've seen the.
I've just, yeah, I mean we're gonna do the same exact thing basically.
It works.
I mean, I don't have any pest issues right now. And I don't spray anything.
It's been amazing.
This is Tara Italia.
Same seed that Matt got.
Yeah, we split a 10 pack.
We got them from seeds men, and so it's funny how like, that's what we're trying to do is we just try to keep things low cost and and learn so.
And I've really liked that I've, I just love this so far we'll see how it flowers out, and then this is my.
This is the box clone which is, I'll take it inside this greenhouse.
This is a beast mode plant, it's survived. It's about to go downhill because southern blight is my biggest problem.
But planted in February, and it survived everything except southern blight.
And the Bokashi was fighting the southern blight for a while creating streptomyces but it's just too much for the plant to handle.
It's just a ghost. It sucks. I've tried all sorts of stuff with southern blight but it just takes down random stuff.
And this is my vegetable greenhouse that just got planted peas spinach Brussels sprouts beets.
So yeah, that's what I got going on out here.
You guys, both of you are doing a lot of, we're actually Can you all talk about kind of the, you know, popping seeds versus clones and then feminized versus regular seeds and auto flower like are you doing any autos as well.
So, I've done a little bit of everything and production wise I like the clones right now just because I can get a more uniform form grow out of it. And I like planting late and growing shorter plants because they're not as susceptible to the weather and they just seem to stand up stronger, but as a year by year type of thing.
I'm going to really enjoy growing fairly large plots of regular seed and just vino hunting through it. And then keeping one male and open pollinating the whole entire field which I have one wolf male, it's going to open pollinate this whole entire field right now.
And, and then I say, my car.
And I might use.
Sorry, that that last part cut out.
Oh, um, shoot, I don't even know what I said now.
But, uh, them and I seed I have. I've used a couple of and don't care much for right now more into the regular seed and just you know, everything.
So, and then keeping clones for production, just for uniformity.
What about the rest of you.
Curtis you want you want to mention what you do. Yeah, sure I can come in there.
I mean all of our products are clones we don't we don't really put any seed out there for for customers or anything like that we do pop seed in hunting for genetics.
It doesn't really matter, you know, it really just depends on the provenance and the quality of the of the seed and what what might be there.
So, you know, we usually pop a bunch of seed will let it grow out in the first generation, you know, start to pull the males and any, you know, mutants or anything like that and start to prioritize the structure that we're looking for.
And kind of just like go down the line and little them down. And then, you know, this is all in a contained R&D room.
And then, you know, we'll flip.
And then we'll see, you know how they stretch and how they start to form and everything like that.
And then, you know, in the state of North Carolina our compliance measure is that we get tested by the Department of Ag around week four of flowers usually notify them like week three, they come out they take their samples.
They send it off to Ava's I'm we get our compliance COA, which is essentially just a redacted potency report that only shows you your THC numbers.
They basically run like a full cannabinoid potency test but then they only give you that one little layer of information, which is fine. That's all I really need.
And then, you know, everything that we've had thus far has done really well in terms of meeting compliance at week four.
And then we kind of decide at that point, you know, which ones we want to take to harvest.
And then we'll start to make some clones based upon those compliance numbers and we'll start throwing those phenos out and just like start the whole process over again.
And that's how we just kind of pipeline genetics.
As far as finding those cuts that we want.
But in terms of what we deal to the market it's all, you know, feminized clones.
We have a mixture of, you know, kind of like a soil mom. And then, depending on the customer, you know, we can put them into rooted plugs we can do slips we can do hydro clones really just depends on what they're looking for and then we offer our customers the option of, you know, we'll send it to you in the mail, we'll drive it out using a courier service or if it makes more sense to you, you're welcome to come out and visit us at our facility and pick them up.
In fact, I've got a customer that is driving from Memphis, Tennessee right now he's going to spend the night in Boone and tomorrow morning he's going to meet me and pick up his trays so actually right now and partly why I don't have anybody on video is that I'm doing this while I'm like auditing my trays and consolidating them to make sure that he's got the best the best clones that we could give them.
Nice.
Well, I mean some of the, I like to do seeds I just think it's like such a mystery and, you know, I have super cherry and so this whole row is super cherry. And so last year I had some that were.
They're not auto flower, but they're very photosensitive. And so, these are all planted at the same time and so I see three of them are already farther into flower and they're just, they're like, I don't know if there's a term for it.
But, and this is the same this is its sister and not not flowered at all. And so when I, you know, these have some seeds that I see are in the production so I'm going to like when I cut these plants I'll just cut the whole plant, and then put a label on it saying that this is like slightly auto flower but are sensitive auto sensitive maybe or because I think if I kept vegging it, it would have gotten bigger, but because they're just like slightly sensitive to the light so they just got small.
But other ones, you know, here's its sister and still hasn't triggered yet really slightly.
So,
but I like I like seeds I think I think it's just that taproot I think is just the most important part if it can tap into the soil and they're just sturdier I think I think the clones, since we're just outdoor they just get
they do wider roots but not necessarily deep and I think that just kind of
it just holds them in place better I think with that taproot so.
So Matt just quickly two people Yuri 45 and the major general 420 army said asked about neighbors and pollen considerations are there farms are there hemp farms like half a mile down the road.
There's nothing that I know there's something that's about like five or six miles but I've heard through like Josh and Kelly at dragonfly that like trees are a great way to stop pollen.
And so I'm just surrounded by all these trees and he's about five or six miles as the crow flies that way.
So yeah, there is a concern I am sorry if I do cross pollinate some some some flowers so.
And I and I'm I'm thinking like how can I you know what is what can I get a good happy medium so one of the ideas was like well if I have my mail, maybe if I'm early enough, I can maybe.
trim him all down and take all this pollen sacks and dry the pollen or place them on the female so that'll help let the pollen not just fly.
And that's a thought that I thought about doing so I also just know myself and I go I don't want to mess it up and he's so beautiful so this year I am kind of i'm being loose with the pollen and i'm.
But I don't know any of farms around me it's all we're in horse country so it's all horses over here and horses over there so.
there's no one else really near me.
At the time, but it's all I mean these are huge farms like the farm around here that surrounds us is like 700 acres, so I have a good chunk of open space that I don't think I ever pollinate someone else accidentally.
i'm also planning on like next year.
You know i've got 60 acres of woods and so i'm thinking like maybe try a couple patches of of a couple seed runs in the woods if I spread them out I don't think that pollen will necessarily travel that far if it's um you know if you have like an acre of woods between it, I impossibly but.
that's just my thought i'm curious i'm wondering if you could like.
track the pollen somehow or you know, maybe that's that's part of the genetics is like if I have something that I know will.
show up in an unknown you know place but yeah.
A little bit on that you know I think those are all really good ideas on how to you know prevent against the pollen spread you know we grew the 15 acres.
Our greenhouse for CBD production was less than a mile or outdoor lot was about a mile and what what we did was a schedule we cut down our male plants before our females were in flower didn't we did have some auto flowers that were in the greenhouse.
But we were even considering you know, putting auto flowers lining for I don't know how long to kind of see where they're getting touched or if they're catching pollen a certain time.
But again it's gonna be a lot of mother nature and how the winds blowing if it's been rainy when you're cutting it down, so you know some some tough things to compete against but um you had some really good ideas on how to prevent some of that.
Yeah, I'm curious like what if there was like a screen tent, you know what if I just did my pollination in just a small greenhouse that and I know Oregon CBD they have like their greenhouses like the everything sealed and like it's like a vacuum so that no pollen gets out, but I'm curious like what is a what can I do that simpler and and doesn't require electricity almost.
So we'll see.
So, with your your hugel beds what what year are they are they is this like year one or are they like year three in and.
Yeah, it's about the outside or on year four and then this one is your two. So when I got the greenhouse so two and a half. This one was just open space because I used to like, I just had those two and I used to drive my tractor through this area to like help off like offload the dirt and manure and set it up and then before I got the greenhouse about the month beforehand I, I just built that center one because I know once I got the greenhouse I was like, oh, I'm going to have to do this.
I just got the greenhouse about the month beforehand I, I just built that center one because I know once I got the greenhouse and I was not going to get the tractor in here. So, these are, you know, you're two and a half.
And then year four for the big sides and so I collect rotting logs from my woods and it's just
They just become like really soft and this one, it hasn't been under the water, but they just become like spongy and it's really cool because you can see like no wonder this is holding water really well and the bugs love it. The worms just crawl right into it and
And then just covering it with good dirt.
And have you noticed kind of anything about how you know essentially how fertile it is and how plants are growing from year one to two to three to four.
You know, definitely. I mean, it's quality in kind of quality out so if if you're using high carbon stuff like I get a lot of wood chips from the tree trimmers, they used to just bring a truck pretty much every day and dump it and so when I'm using those fresh chips, it takes a while, but
You know, there's, there's definitely a it takes probably I would say two years for it to like really, you know, I'd recommend two years kind of to know that everything's
Like the symbiosis is now together like there's there's worms and there's bugs and I like that as that would becomes like hotels for little microbes. So just take some time for everything to to populate and
You know, if you grab really rotten stuff. It just falls apart in your hand. And that's kind of what I grab is like stuff that's just, it's already pretty much soil so
But I do have, you know, I've stuff that's greener and and I'm always kind of setting up new new beginning so near the bees.
I'm trying to expand and I'm just doing whatever is like free. And so I've got some cardboard and I've got some old kale that grew. And so that went to seed and I'm just kind of laying that down. It's a very lasagna style. So just laying down anything that's good.
Here's another peek in. So here's like a sunflower, you know, all kinds of good stuff. I'm just tossing in there that sunflowers have potassium and
Their seeds have protein.
Yeah, so, so that was kind of my next question is, you know, the bed and, you know, over time, like, are you amending it with anything and it seemed, I mean, you just mentioned like the sunflowers bringing the potassium. Are you doing, you know,
Compost teas. Are you doing foliar sprays
Um, you know, last year I tried compost teas and I think there is a place and time for them. And I guess this year I learned that
Like the compost extract is better. Like, it's better just to do like a quick like 15 minute like soak with like a good quality compost and I guess that's what I've heard is that it's better that way versus doing like an overnight brew
But I'm not educated enough to defend that. That's just what I've heard. But this year I'm just doing water.
And I just amended. So when I planted everything I had a lot of leftover hemp from last year that I just knew I didn't want to sell. It just wasn't good enough quality.
It just wasn't, it looked, I didn't dry it properly or whatnot. And so at each plant, you know, I put in like two handfuls of hemp. So there's hemp flowers in there. So you know that there's potassium in there.
And minerals and things that grew, you know, that's hemp feeding hemp. So, and the same next year, like when I harvest this, you know, when I'm trimming and stuff, anything will just go back into the soil.
I am planning on getting a soil test this year just to like do it properly and see what I can amend and and I know I need to add calcium. That's what I've heard is something super, you know, every garden is probably lacking in calcium. So
So what are your thoughts for your own operation in terms of adding calcium? Like what are you thinking of as the source of calcium?
I mean, I'll have to source that off the farm. I'll have to go and get oyster shells. And, you know, ideally, if I had chickens, then you could get like chicken eggs or like, you know, eggshells. But, and, you know, I do think that like if you just keep adding calcium, you can get a lot of calcium.
But if you just keep adding on plant matter, I think, you know, I add in my fruit and vegetable scraps, and you know that there's good vitamins and minerals in there. So I think that's how I find that happy medium of keeping it low cost is that, you know, I'm always adding in, you know, in the wintertime, I'll
dig a hole because I kind of plant at every post. So just to kind of keep it simple for myself. And so I'll just kind of like line up, dig a hole and dump my compost bucket of banana peels and all kinds of coffee grounds and fruit scraps and put that in. And I know that there's so much good stuff in there. So, but I haven't done a soil test yet.
But this, you know, after the soil test, I'll probably reamend everything and not dig. I'll just reamend with like alfalfa and flax seeds and sunflower seeds and probably do some cover cropping. I heard, you know, buckwheat and oats and barley and, you know, keeping roots in and then cut it down. So
So I want to throw it to Micah because it seems like he just walked through what seemed like his fermenting.
I see the bees, his fermenting operations. So Micah, you want to talk about what we're seeing?
And let me unmute you.
Wait, wait, wait, you're still muted.
Okay, bye. All right. Thanks so much. Thanks, Curtis. Nice meeting you. Yeah, nice meeting y'all.
Take care. Take it easy.
All right. So Micah, what are we seeing?
All right. So this is a Jadon bucket, which I started last year, but I've been heavily feeding it fruits, more towards like a flower dominant nutrient makeup. And what started this bucket was a curly dock, which Matt helped me figure out earlier this year.
And it's just so active right now that it blows the top off on it. And then like a couple times a day, I'll come out here maybe once a day and just kind of start pushing it all back down in there.
But Jadon liquid fertilizer is the main thing that I'm using.
liquid fertilizer is the main thing I'm making right now. And I have different buckets set up right here and then all down the greenhouse on the side over here.
And then I mix the Jadon with lactobacillus, which I do five gallon baskets at a time and make it a barrier.
And then I mix the Jadon with lactobacillus, which I do five gallon baskets at a time and make it a barrier.
on the side over here.
And then I mix the Jadam with Lactobacillus,
which I do five gallon batches at a time,
and then Yucca, which I also do five gallon batches
at a time, and then I put it in a 250 gallon tote
and mix it up.
And some of these have, this particular bucket has,
I mean, everything in it, like even meat.
And by bringing in the meat,
I'm starting to get maggots in it.
And from what I read last year,
they bring in chitin or, so I feel that's good.
And the plants love it so far.
So it's just been amazing.
And it's so easy to make.
I've even started writing down what I put in it sometimes.
And my hot nitrogen, I pee in five gallon buckets
in the winter and save them for a little while.
And then I can use them all summer long in the ferments.
And that is what I've switched to over KNF.
I did, I mean, every single KNF ferment you can name,
but after the amount of time it takes,
I found that Jadam just was a little bit easier to go about.
So I've switched to that.
And this is my tote.
I just fill it up.
I got a pretty heavy duty sub pump
and I just connect it to my drip lines.
And I got two zones.
I got one zone for drip in here
and I feed it through a hundred mesh filter,
which is in the Jadam book that they recommend.
And it works real well.
Sometimes it'll get clogged.
It takes 30 seconds to pull the filter apart and clean it.
So no big deal.
And I put it back on there
and it's been working great so far.
And the other ferments I have inside,
which are just in five gallon buckets,
but I'm gonna be stepping up my Yucca game
into these totes over here this coming year,
which are 40 gallons, 55 gallons or so.
And can you talk about what Yucca has
that you're trying to kind of tease out of it or extract?
The sapawine, I can't pronounce it,
but mainly I'm just using it as a surfactant
to just kind of evenly mix the totes.
So everything just floats better through the soil.
And yeah, just as a surfactant, that's the only reason.
And I found some over on my tree line
out there in the woods and I just figured why not?
And yeah.
Yeah, I'm sure there's amino acids in there.
I mean, people will buy bottles of amino acids,
but you might as well just ferment some food.
And so, go ahead.
I was curious what Jacob feeds his acreage.
Like what do you feed the fiber?
Nothing, didn't touch it.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah, we drilled it, then came back 70 days later
and brought everything down.
They're carrying out a dead bee.
I've never seen that before.
And they're just, I don't know what they're gonna do.
It's like a funeral.
Yeah.
Getting them out of there.
Yeah, compost.
I'm taking a lot of notes
on what you guys are talking about.
I got a couple of buddies that have done some K&F stuff.
Just mixed up my first batch of LAB the other day.
So starting to familiarize myself a little bit more
with these techniques.
And I'm gonna start composting and doing some stuff.
Our production jumped up a lot.
So just keeping on pace and getting everything out
has been enough of farm work for me.
And getting the weeds out of the field.
But I keep looking forward to honing in
and getting better and better and using natural practices.
That 55 gallon drum right there, Michael, looks crazy.
It is so active.
It's absolutely insane.
That's awesome.
Do you think you'll ever empty it, Michael?
No, that's the cool thing about this.
This is infinite.
You just keep adding to it, taking out the nutrients.
So this is how I take out the nutrients.
I'll push it down like I was,
and I use a paint strainer bag.
And I throw it over a stainless steel thing.
This is basically just to hold the bag.
And then I sit that in a five gallon bucket
and dip a pitcher in the ferment, pour it in there,
fill it up about halfway.
And then I'll just dump the five gallon tote in there.
And I use about eight gallons per tote.
You can go one to 30 to one to 100 ratio.
And I think I lean more on the one to 30 side of it.
And then when I use this, say it goes down a few inches,
I'll just keep throwing in more substance.
And then I'll fill it back up with water
within a few inches of the top.
And this is so active, it'll blow the top off.
It'll raise six inches within a 12 hour period or less.
So yeah, just for adding.
You just keep using it.
And I have now one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight buckets.
And I could say that probably do an acre, no problem.
And I could rotate through different barrels
and only use them once a season.
So what was that strainer you used
on the spaghetti last night?
And then you brought it out here
and then you handed it back to bring it back inside.
That's the difference between K&F.
I'll eat and drink K&F stuff all day long.
The Judam stuff, no, that's strictly for the plants.
Yeah, it seems like Judam's kind of more
like the everyman solution.
It's like the more practical, less expensive.
I mean, can you kind of talk for you about the,
I mean, it seems like the practicality
was one of your issues, right?
Oh, I think we, oh, there you are.
Wait, we can't hear you.
Yeah, I'm on the, yeah.
Oh, there you, yep, you're coming back in.
And I'm gonna cut to Matt's ladybugs, yeah.
So go ahead, Micah.
What were you trying to ask?
I'm sorry.
Oh, just the, you know, what's your decision-making
between Judam and K&F?
It seems like it was a practicality issue, right?
100%, it's just basically simplicity
and the least amount of effort
with the most amount of results.
And, you know, I didn't know much about Judam last year
and I jumped straight into K&F and it was awesome
and it worked and I still use some K&F stuff,
but I got the Judam book this year,
started reading through it and it was just so simple
and it cost nothing.
And I don't know why this isn't done
on a large scale around the world.
It's just baffling.
It's just, it's that easy.
It's just water and weeds in a bucket
and your stuff flourishes.
I don't know.
So that's what, it's just simplicity
more than anything else.
Can I ask you what book you were reading?
The Judam Low to No Cost Farming.
It should pop up on a Google search really fast.
And even in the COVID crisis,
like it wasn't available on Amazon
and it wasn't available a lot of places,
but I guess the publisher,
whoever has it out of Hawaii, they had it.
I was, you know, it took a little more searching
than just going on Amazon,
but it's like 40 bucks or 50 bucks
and it's worth every penny.
It's just amazing.
Awesome. Thank you.
I'm gonna source that book.
Yeah, and it's got recipes in there to do.
I mean, everything you wanna do
and it'll tell you the correct filters and yeah.
There's also a PDF of it online too,
that's easy to find if you just Google search Judam PDF.
Oh, sweet. Even better.
But if you wanna support the company.
Are we talking this one?
Yeah.
Yeah, there you go.
That's the book.
This is Master Cho's Son, right?
Correct. I remember correctly.
Yes. Yeah.
And I mean, and he really goes into the philosophy
and like, you know,
how he chose to continue his father's teachings.
And I think it's just more practical.
Not that his dad has awesome stuff,
but man, it's so practical.
So Jacob, you were gonna give us a quick tour of the,
cause you're in your extraction facility, right?
Correct. Yeah.
We have a 10,000 square foot building
that we've been renovating.
Actually just got fully operational.
You know, just had the last couple of inspections.
I'd be glad to take you guys through that
if you guys are interested.
Yeah. Let's go.
Let's check it out.
Flip that phone.
Yes, sir. Give me one sec.
I think it's how we flip it.
All right. So this is the office social media area.
We'll step into the sanitization room.
Should have a lab coat on.
I should step on this little,
the mat for the rubber thing,
but I'm not going to.
So, you know, this is where we check in.
You'll wash your hands,
get all cleaned up before entering the formulating kitchen.
You know, so we just got done with all this stuff.
Carbon filters in here to help with the smell.
We source these windows from Duke University,
which is pretty cool.
So this isn't an extraction,
but this is formulating where we can, you know,
do some tincture production, topicals.
This is our flower trimming room.
So we got some,
looks like quarters that are going to be going out to
King's market here shortly.
It's a market in Harrisonburg.
You know, another carbon filter in here.
They're doing some vacuuming.
So it's going to get a little bit loud.
We're actually emptying the extractor right now.
Is that our calf model?
I can't hear much.
Let me step back out of here real quick.
Yeah, no, don't worry about me.
I'd rather you just talk and narrate and we'll just watch.
Okay, yeah.
So right now what he's doing is he's vacuuming out
the vessel of post extract.
So we'll give him a second to finish that up
and then we'll kind of step back in there.
That was my brother Abner,
who's working through some of that.
This is our biochem major Grant.
Here you can see some of our oils,
you know, some of the labels.
You know, I'm the farmer stuff.
They do all the extraction and I'm not too familiar.
You know, I know crude,
I know winterized crude and I know distillate.
Let me see here if I can find some of our top of line.
And just quickly, you said you're doing CO2 extraction,
right?
Correct, correct.
So here's some of our distillate.
So we tested that 93% CBD content
and 96 total cannabinoid content.
So that's pretty cool.
We have MRX equipment.
They're out of Canby, Oregon.
Some top-notch stuff, fully closed loop system.
It's super sweet.
So at the 20 LE,
we fit about eight pounds of material in the vessel.
You know, then we do a couple hour runs
and then we pull from right here.
And maybe I can ask one of these guys
kind of what we are averaging on some of our yields
and these varieties are different.
Grant, can you say anything about what our yields are like?
Yes, so for about two and a half hour runs,
we generally get anywhere from like 10 to-
Can you guys hear okay?
Yeah, have him come a little closer to the mic.
Yeah, so for our two and a half hour runs,
we range in the part of 10 to 15% oil
out of our total input.
So the average actually about six pound runs,
but yeah, we'll get back like 300 grams.
So anywhere around, yeah, that 10 to 15% yield.
And then from there,
we have a lot of other post-processing steps
to get to where we're at today,
which is the fractional distillation.
This is short path from Lab Society.
So we're actually gonna do a run
with just over nine pounds of refined full spectrum oil.
So taking our crude oil from the extractor.
So we'll get back to the extractor
kind of walking through the process.
You know, this is a decarb oven.
Some of our products that get loaded into here,
we'll go through the decarb oven.
We'll load it into the vessel about six, seven pounds.
And then from there we can winterize it.
So we got a nice little fridge
that gets to negative 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
And then from there, we can load it
into our roto evaporator.
Here's my brother, Abner, with some crude oil.
Some good looking stuff.
I think we're right around 40 to 60%
of where we at with our crude oil.
Yeah, our crude oil is tested at 58%
is what some of it's tested at.
And then the refined full spectrum
after we've taken the ethanol.
Just quickly, have him come closer to the mic.
Yep.
Yeah, so we get about up to 60% CBD content in the crude.
And then after that, when we take it
to the refined full spectrum oil,
we can range anywhere from 70 to 80 plus percent there.
And that's what's about to go through our short pass system
which should put us in the nineties.
We'll be excited if we saw like 93, 94,
maybe around there, higher.
So did you guys catch that pretty good?
Yep, that was perfect.
Cool.
Yeah, so this system's pretty wicked.
There's some spikes in the boiling temperature
and how we kind of know when to pull it.
This man right here knows a lot more than I do.
So I'm kind of just spitting words out there.
Yeah, it's a good science machine.
There's a lot of different differences
in boiling temperatures.
This is your whole mantle that heats up
your 12 liter boiling flask
that has the nine pounds of refined full spectrum oil in it.
So you'll see your temperature monitor down here
that's your boiling temperature.
And there's actually a probe that's stuck in the solution
that is telling you that boiling temperature.
And then there's another probe in this distillation column
that is telling you the vapor temperature.
So you can see there's a difference
between this temperature here and this boiling temperature.
And when you start to see a drastic peak
in your vapor temperatures,
that means that you're collecting a fraction.
And that will go through your LiBec condenser,
which is actually a heated condenser
compared to our Rotovap condensers, which are cooling.
But in this case, it just helps
with the travel of your fraction.
So like all these cannabinoids are very sticky
and hard to flow.
So the increased heat helps it flow a little bit better.
And we have two different collection flasks.
One's gonna be for our main fraction, the CBD fraction.
And then this other big collection flask
is for our head fraction and our tail fraction
that will collect together.
And then we can build up a stockpile
of that head and tail fraction
to then run again for another main body fraction.
But yeah, and then at the end of the system,
we have a big old cold trap to trap any of the volatiles,
any contaminants that might end up trying to sneak its way
into your vacuum pump right here.
So it's basically just a way to filter out anything
that you don't want to contaminate your vacuum pump
and lessen its lifetime there.
So yeah, so a whole bunch of science.
These guys do a great job in here.
Again, we just recently got this set up.
So super excited.
We're running our material from last season.
And it's been really, really cool to start to get into
the making of products rather than just the smokable hemp.
We've had a lot of good results.
We've been spending a lot of time formulating.
And just quickly with the products,
are these gonna all be kind of host brand?
Are you gonna white label for other people
or sell it off or mix all of those?
We're trying to figure out our way.
Yeah, we would try to be pivotal
and make money however we can.
So we will white label
and we'll also have our own brand coming out.
So we're super excited on that.
A lot of it will go to wholesale.
We got a couple of pharmacies that are interested.
And so super exciting stuff on that.
And so for them, would you make the,
I'm sorry, so wholesale meaning with your brand on it?
Correct, yeah.
So we'll wholesale to markets and brick and mortar shops.
And then we'll also are updating our website.
We use Square and then we can capture some sales
on our website as well.
So do you know what the capital expenditure was
for kind of all the kind of CO2 extraction process equipment?
Yeah, so we're right in around like 700,000 for everything.
We bought the building.
We bought this building.
It's actually 1920s, a little town of Elkton.
And we put in a lot of elbow grease
to get it to where it is now.
It's actually the old Wrangler Jean building
where they've been manufacturing jeans.
We found a few pockets that we've kept
that was under some stairs,
which has been really, really cool.
So it's been a long process to get us here.
We have spent a good amount of money
and we're just now starting to formulate products.
Well, not, sorry, not formulate,
but make products and get them into stores.
Sorry, when you said the 700,000,
was that for the CO2 extraction equipment
or including the cost of the building?
The cost of the building as well.
And just the renovations that got us there.
So probably right around a half a million
for all the extraction equipment.
Okay, and then was this like,
did you guys pony up all the money?
I mean, are you sweating bullets right now
or did you bring in investors?
We're sweating bullets like crazy.
We were actually able to go to a bank
and get funding for, it was a manufacturing loan.
So we were able to get a loan on the equipment.
They covered 70% of it.
And then we had to come up with the other 30%
as well as then getting the down payment for the building
and then renovating the building.
God, I think every cannabis grower is jealous of you guys.
I mean, Matt, you got the farm loan.
You guys got the bank loan.
Yeah, I mean, we're very, very fortunate,
and it's been a long battle in the cannabis industry.
And we're kind of just taking the torch and running with it,
trying to make the best products we can
do our due diligence on making great tasting,
great working products that are highly tested.
The stuff at the end of the day is a medicine
and we try to get the best stuff out there
to our end consumers.
So here's some packs of our tens.
So four pack of pre-rolls in there.
I know Matt does some pre-rolls as well.
Some of our smokeable flower that's trimmed up.
Everything came from our farm last season.
So we've stored it with humidity packs,
vac sealed it and getting it out there the best we can.
And then Mike, so you're a farmer.
What are you gonna do with your finished
kind of either flower or biomass?
And wait, let's unmute you.
Okay.
So going into last year, the ultimate goal
was to never actually sell any of the material
just as a farmer.
It was to somewhat be fully integrated,
but use the resources of somebody else that set up a lab
and it's professional at that.
And I found two great ones in Virginia already.
They've ran my material to raw crude through CO2
to decarb crude through CO2.
And I also had ethanol extraction on.
And currently I'm making tinctures
and that's available in Lynchburg,
which is one of the closest towns at Victorian Hempy.
And we got a couple more stores
that are about to start carrying the tinctures.
And then also I've been making salves with the crude
and growing the wild flowers within the hemp itself
and then doing olive oil extraction
and then using that in with the salve.
And that's the whole thing.
So you have your own brand.
You don't just wanna sell it kind of in bulk
to somebody else who, you don't wanna be a commodity.
You wanna be a brand.
Yes, 100% brand.
Do you have anything within reach
that has the branding on it?
Yeah.
Hold on one second.
Keep holding it.
There we go.
Back it up a little bit.
And so the name is it, what's the brand name?
It's Jolly Pond Hemp.
Okay.
Oh, there we go.
So this is a new, this is a CO2 line.
I've just got a full panel test on
and I'm about to get the labels printed today
with 3000 milligram.
It's a one-to-one CBD to CBDA
and it's got all natural terpenes in it
with nothing added from the raw extraction on the CO2.
And then we'll be using that
and then this is our ethanol line
which is flavored in peppermint and lemon.
So, and then I have a salve too,
but I don't think I have that handy.
Got it.
And then what's that?
I said that was the whole goal was just to brand it
and create products
because it's been helping my friends and family.
And yeah, we just want to extend that a little bit more.
And so what's the harvest going to be this year?
Well, we did so well last year with the crude.
There's no point in growing stuff that I can't sell.
And I have a stockpile
that we can make products with right now.
So this year was completely focused on making seed
to dual crop for grain to eat
because everything we're growing out there
is also for like more of a homestead
and just feed ourselves.
And then, and yeah, so the crop this year
really isn't going to be too much focused on extracting.
I'll probably go back to that next year
and then start splitting it.
So how big was last year's harvest?
Only 400 plants, a few hundred pounds, nothing too serious
but it's been enough to sell in one store
for six months now and expand a little bit more.
So we've just been slowly paying everything with cash
and building our way up a little bit.
So.
Cool.
And Matt, it seems like your main focus
is more on building up a brand of,
we're just looking at Micah's branding.
Yeah, very cool.
I've used Micah's Tincture before.
It's definitely like he did,
he knocked it out with the lemon flavor.
And so Matt with you,
is your lane kind of your vision
that you wanna be a breeder and supplying seeds
to kind of starting regionally,
but obviously if someone wanted to buy them somewhere else
you'd be happy to ship out of state?
I think so.
I think I'm really interested.
Like I love myself having great flower
but I think if I can like produce seeds
that people really like will help their farms,
I think that that sounds more fulfilling to me.
I'll always be making products for my families and friends
but I don't have the desire to have
like a Tincture line or a cream right now.
I'm really interested in like having a good genetic,
you know, that I can rely on
and that I know is like this, that I'm really craving
because I grew a lot of stuff last year
that I just didn't even wanna harvest
because I just wasn't interested in it.
But I knew I needed to because, you know,
I might extract it or whatever.
So that's kind of what my interest is,
is just sourcing stuff and making it, you know,
good for Virginia.
And also like there's friends in Maryland
and all kinds of places around here
that we're just have, we're very humid here.
I mean, it'll be 90% at night
and then 60% or 70% during the day.
And that's different than Colorado.
It's only like 20% of humidity there.
So that's kind of what my idea is,
is just the long-term create genetics.
So actually that gets us to one of the view,
we have like almost 300 people watching right now.
So one of the, I guess, what are the issues you deal with,
all of you deal with in that kind of humidity,
you know, whether it's pests, pathogens,
I mean, bud rot, Micah, you mentioned caterpillars
and Coyote said, I'd like to know what Jolly Pond
is doing for caterpillars this year.
Last year, he was in a jam having pest solutions.
I'm curious if he's using it and if it's working.
So for what I've been doing this year
to control the caterpillars has been first,
the Tricho-Gamma parasitic wasp releases,
just one to two cards a week, which is 100,000.
And then I've set up dynatraps around the property,
which is a black light with a fan that catches the moss.
And that thing is absolutely incredible.
And then I just created a environment
that invited birds in and the bird population
has been explosive this year.
And they're just eating their weight in bugs
every single day.
And we have a whole entire, pretty much an acre
surrounding the fenced in acre.
It's nothing but sunflowers and zinnias
and just a habitat for the birds.
And the collection of those things together
has done the trick so far, we'll see.
And just generally between all of you,
what kind of, what, so I think someone earlier
when I was like, are you guys Southeast?
Someone said, would you guys call yourself Mid-Atlantic?
But anyway, Virginia,
because you guys, we don't have North Carolina anymore.
What are kind of like the pests
that are endemic to Virginia?
So the three pests that I deal with are the corn earworm,
the pea aphid, not the cannabis aphid,
and the Western flower thrip, and then Southern blight.
Those are the four issues for us in my area.
Does everyone else concur?
Yeah, corn earworms are a big one for us.
But then a little bit of powder mildew PM,
and our outdoor lot has been raining a lot recently.
That's why I'm mixing up that batch of LAB
to spot spray that stuff.
Yeah, the greenhouse gets PM.
Outdoors, I'm fine, but the greenhouse,
it's just like, it's just a different environment.
And also they're not getting rained on
and the sun kind of can kill PM or help it not spread.
So having that covering between definitely,
it's a different environment.
So I think things that work well in the greenhouse
might work really well outdoors.
And so I want things that work well both.
And then maybe if someone wants to do it indoors too.
I mean, last year I had russet mites too,
and that really sucked.
And also to side note, I bought clones from a guy last year,
and he sells beneficial bugs,
and he was trying to sell me beneficial bugs,
but those clones all had like thrips and PM
and all like everything,
like way more stuff than I've ever had.
And so make sure if you ever source clones from someone-
Quarantine.
Yeah, quarantine or like trust,
know that they're in a decent environment.
I don't know, he just wasn't that trustworthy.
So it's funny how someone will sell you clones
and then be like,
hey, you want these bugs to fix the bugs
that I'm selling you?
So yeah.
And over time, have you all kind of,
I mean, are there cultivars that are more resistant
to some of the stuff you're dealing with?
I'm personally, I think young in that adventure.
And then, you know, the pests really attack certain plants,
especially in the polyculture system that I got right now,
you can see where certain pests gravitate
towards certain plants.
So which plants do, and I forget what you call those,
like in the banker plant system,
they're like the plant that gets attacked first
by a certain pest.
Yeah, I listened to...
Go ahead, Micah.
Oh, I was just gonna say,
I listened to you talk about the banker plants
with Susan the other day.
And, you know, I try to set up banker plants,
but after listening to that,
it's just more or less, I mow my paths
and I leave everything else wild.
And you can see in areas where they act as banker plants.
And then you can see where the natural milkweed
is a big banker plant for aphids.
And then you got my brassicas are big banker plants
for pests that don't even attack the hemp.
So it really doesn't even matter.
So, yeah.
So one of the things I wanted to touch on,
and I guess this is two parts,
but they're kind of interrelated.
So kind of, and we touched on it a little bit earlier,
but I wanted to push it to later,
which was kind of hemp regulations and policy.
I guess there's federal, but like each state
kind of has their own.
And that plays into one issue that I think
a lot of people in the hemp world are dealing with,
which is you grow something out
and you have that 0.3% threshold
and kind of where in the process
is that tested and regulated
and does it provide flexibility for you
as either a farmer or a processor?
And this is what Jacob,
Jacob, why don't you start?
Cause you know what I'm talking about.
Can you just kind of set the table?
Yeah, we were kind of talking about this stuff early
and here in the state of Virginia,
we're governed by VDACs.
And I was telling you about the risk
and random testing that they do.
There are 1600 farmers.
I think about 400 were tested last season.
I was not one of them.
Micah, Matt, were you guys tested by the VDACs last season?
No, Matt was.
I was tested, yeah.
They came 9-11 last year.
They came at 11-11?
No, 9-11.
9-11, oh wow.
She was really nice though.
It went really smoothly, but you can keep talking, sorry.
Yeah, so I wasn't tested by the state of Virginia.
We actually partnered up with a local university,
James Madison University, and they have a lab
and we are sending them some of the first hemp samples
that they were testing.
There are kind of some mixed results there.
So we ended up sending them out to Canalysis
and then as well as some of these East Coast Analytics
and Delta 9, some of the testing facilities here in Virginia.
And we did a lot of testing throughout
and then a lot of testing post.
And right now there's no window of 15 days
or 30 days before harvest.
That's kind of where the USDA regulations
are gonna kind of hone in on everything.
Right now on our planting report,
all I do is just put a pretty early harvest time
because if they're gonna come test,
I would like them to come test earlier rather than later
when some of these can have annoyed contents
are at their threshold.
So just what I find interesting about this,
Matt, when you were tested on 9-11,
were there other people who were tested like August 11th
and other people tested like October 1st?
I mean, cause the THC is growing in, you know, from,
like if they came to your farm in June,
they'd be like, you're clean and clear.
And you're like, thank God you came to my farm in June.
I did see one farm.
He was tested like late August.
I think it was like, or September, I mean,
September like 29th.
So he was like 10 days after me.
And so I think most of his varieties tested above.
I had one variety test at a 0.31.
And so, you know, 0.01 over.
And so I paid the $200 to have it retested
and it came back as 0.29 so that they,
I didn't have to destroy it.
But that's kind of their protocol is that if you test over,
then you have the right to pay for a retest.
And if it fails again, then you have to destroy it.
And I think Virginia, I haven't heard of them,
like having police come and check if you're destroying,
but that's kind of part of it is like,
they have the right to tell local law enforcement
if you have a crop above the threshold.
Hey Matt, on your referee test,
did you take your own samples and send it in
or did they come back and do the samples?
No, they just, I guess,
so they take four cuttings of each variety.
So they took four tops, like the top five inches.
And I think, and so they put it on a paper bag
and they label it.
And then it goes to, it's stored in her freezer
for like a week until she can drive it to Richmond
or send it to Richmond.
And so I think they just either pick one of those tops
and test it or they grind it all together and test that.
So I'm not quite sure on the particulars,
but they had enough to retest.
Yeah, so it's very interesting
that we test on a pre-harvest basis
and then they come and do a top note.
That's where a lot of the energy is gonna be focused
and that's where our highest content is.
And I'd like to see a full profile plant test.
Let's take the average of the top, middle and bottom
because that's what we're getting out of the whole thing.
Definitely some updates that need to be done,
but Virginia is doing a great job
and we're proud to be part of this industry.
So, I mean, to me,
there are a couple of interesting things here.
One is just the luck of the draw
of when they come to your individual farm
as they kind of rotate around.
And then part two, if it's cleared at the farm level,
it seems like nobody else is bothered by the state
in terms of being too hot.
So at the, for example, your CO2 extraction facility,
as long as you're bringing in stuff that's below 0.3%,
you're not gonna ever really have to be bothered
by the regulators from a, is it above 0.3%.
I mean, obviously maybe your finished product
has to have a COA, but, and then do you know if like,
do any of you have any insight,
and this is why I wish Curtis was still on
because he's in a different state
and it's kind of like, when does that state test?
Like my assumption is each state
has a different testing system and methodology
of who, where and when they're gonna test.
Yeah, and that's why I think, you know,
a lot of states are pushing for the USDA regulations
so that we can all be on the same playing field, you know,
and how each state does it.
It's like, and the THC market, you know,
I was living out in Portland, Oregon for a little bit.
They had a medical program and went fully recreational THC,
and they have the hemp program.
The ODA oversees their hemp program.
The OLCC oversees their cannabis THC production, you know?
So those two different programs
and how they kind of work with each other
or don't work with each other, you know,
there's gotta be something kind of uniform adopted,
or I mean, it's kind of whatever your opinion on it is,
you know, with how this Virginia tests us right now,
it's very beneficial for us farmers
and processors here in Virginia.
Yeah, they didn't test any processors last year.
No, yeah, and so what we have to do is we have to send in,
you know, we do batching.
The guys in the extraction room
can talk about this a little bit more.
And then we do batching,
and then we send the oils to be tested
and then the final product to be tested.
That way we can kind of ensure
that nothing's leaving out of our facility
that's above the 0.3 total THC mark.
Well, how about your jars of flour?
Do those need to be tested,
even though they were theoretically tested
at the farm level and passed?
Yeah, so it's also pretty interesting, you know,
in your interpretation of the law.
And so last season, under my understanding,
we were at delta nine THC state.
So we were not a total THC state.
So we just had to be under delta 9.3.
And then, you know, there's a conversion from the THCA,
and there's some mathematics behind it
to get where you're at total THC.
And I think our total THC numbers are sometimes at 0.5,
you know, to maybe 0.6.
But again, this is a post-harvest.
All of our numbers and all of our samples
that we did pre-harvest when the VDACs would have come
are under 0.3 total THC.
So, you know, we did our due diligence
and I don't see a problem with flour
leaving a little bit over 0.3 total THC
because it's post-harvest numbers that we're dealing with.
So all three of you are generally, I mean,
obviously it's like pulling together regulations on the fly,
but the regulatory structure in Virginia
with kind of expected hiccups,
it's not crippling for you guys.
You can kind of do what you want.
Like you can have your vision and execute on it
without kind of crippling over-regulation right now.
I'd say yeah, for sure.
Pretty much.
Yeah, I mean, I've seen Virginia's even trying
to be proactive about like starting a 1% total THC.
So that's pretty progressive.
A lot of other states aren't doing that
as well as they're also trying to do like a remediation.
So meaning that like if farmers test above,
they're willing to let you know that like,
okay, if you're gonna have it processed into something
or you can turn it into fiber or something else.
So I think that's pretty, you know,
it's smart for them to recognize that,
that like, because I remember reading long ago
that like one farmer in Colorado,
that he had to like cut all of his like acreage of hemp down
because it tested above
and they didn't have like a remediation kind of process
to help them make something of it.
Because we're, you know, we're using so much time.
I mean, this is almost a year for me to plan
just to harvest.
That's a long year for me to like not make any money
or any potential.
So if Virginia were, I mean,
I think the 1% would be a godsend, but so-
I think that went through.
I think that 1% went through not too long ago.
And I think that's only with like negligence.
So if your farm did test over that 0.3,
as long as it's not over that 1%,
then yeah, you can like remediate it
and do some stuff with it.
But does that imply that the final product
brought on to market still needs to be below 0.3%?
Yeah, in my understanding, it's still,
the products have to be under a total 0.3%.
Okay, so basically they're just saying,
remediate that back down to 0.3%,
but we're not gonna bug you in the meantime.
As long as it's below 0.1% or sorry, 1%.
Correct, and that's my interpretation of it.
There's a lot that goes into it
and I'm learning stuff every day
and trying to stay on top with everything.
My brother Tanner does a good job with compliance as well.
On the farm side, I make sure to send in our planting reports
do our due diligence testing and throughout weeks of
flowering to test where our flower is
in hopes to find a variety that will always stay compliant
with these rules and regulations.
And that's gonna be a great yield for us
to put through our extraction,
to our smokable hemp flower, whatever it may be.
So for me, we had talked about like the fiber and stuff
and I think it's such a nascent market where like,
the petroleum industry has had a hundred and something years
to build out the supply chain
for infrastructure and processing.
So you take that crude petroleum
and you can turn it into everything from plastics to gas
to everything in between.
I feel like there's been a fixation in the hemp world
for kind of CBD.
Do you see anybody saying like,
I'm gonna build a process,
like a fiber processing facility
or something that's not related to CBD extracts?
And then someone else has to be growing stuff that,
those plants express those attributes more.
So like it's a fibrous plant,
it's for like hemp seed oil extraction,
just different use cases.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm pretty curious.
You go ahead, Jacob.
Okay, thanks Matt.
Yeah, so we are looking into other ways of processing
for the fiber to decorticate,
separate the herd from the bass fibers.
And then as well as getting to seed production
where you can press the hemp seed into a hemp seed oil,
that's a carrier oil,
as well as just having the hemp seed
as well as just having the hemp seed
and baking it so you can eat it as a consumable.
There's tons of different things that we're looking into
and trying to find our way in the industry,
because a lot of people are doing cannabinoid production.
So I'm trying to figure our way through the market
and figuring out what some of these big industries
are gonna be.
And I definitely seeing fiber as one of those.
I mean, just the endless uses of it.
You can make the plastics,
you can make, I'm actually wearing a hemp shirt
and a hemp hat right now.
So from every use that you can use,
the fiber stuff is really cool.
Yeah, to add to that,
I think there was a big grant to get a fiber processing down
in like Southern Virginia area.
And I don't think they're going yet,
but I think Virginia is trying to get something,
at least one processor here.
So, I mean, it's several hours for me,
but at least that's a start.
Yeah, and so Appalachian Biomass
actually was granted AFID grant
and they're out of Whitfield, Virginia.
That's who we send our fiber down to be processed by.
It's about 180 miles.
So overall we're gonna lose money on our fiber plot,
but just learning how to grow it
and figuring out some things about it,
which variety we wanna use,
that information is way more valuable
than what we put into it.
So then having a decorticator
within 40 miles of the hemp crops,
the hemp fiber crops will be very beneficial
to a lot of these traditional farmers who can do hay,
but now switch over to hemp and then,
fetch a little bit different price for it.
Sorry, I'm looking, I'm tuning back into the chat.
Yeah, I mean, hemp concrete.
Yeah, people are, someone has to go back to,
get back to work.
Is there anybody, I mean, who you guys are,
you're trying to build stuff out and learn.
And so where are you learning from?
Like, are there any research papers
that you've been consuming?
Are there any experts that you look up to?
What have you read or watched recently
that's been informative or educational?
Yeah, real quick, I'll talk about how I kinda learned.
I was living out in Portland, Oregon.
So I reach out to my buddies
who have been doing outdoor operations.
It's kinda hard to find someone who's doing fiber,
but I literally just try to reach out to anybody
that's willing to talk.
And I try to do the same for when people reach out to us.
I wanna see the industry just move forward.
As far as just like other books,
like Cannabis Grow Bible,
following VDAC's regulations very closely,
so we're staying compliant.
And just anybody who's doing something
that I think is right, I'll listen.
I've taken a lot of good notes from you guys today.
I mean, we will be applying that to our girls as well.
I mean, I just watched all of like
everything you're putting out, Peter,
and everything from like Shingalos
and all those regenerative conferences
and Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
And my practice follows a lot of permaculture.
So it's just plant management.
In 2015, I worked at a farm in Colorado for a season.
That was when they began.
But it's a totally different thing
than doing everything from seed to sale
than versus just being labor.
So, I mean, there's tons of information,
but with being hemp,
I think that's like,
there's no pesticides for that are like hemp regulated
or like cannabis regulated.
So I was watching a podcast yesterday and they're like,
well, hemp will probably be the beginning of like,
I'm not using pesticides,
but that kind of research is like large scale.
I don't know.
There's tons of stuff though.
Anything about living soil, really.
But also like, I was gonna add like Mean Jeans and Bodhi
and those are like breeders.
Also through all this,
I've learned that like Virginia
has like five big cannabis breeders,
like not huge big, but like that came from here.
Equilibrium Seeds and Duke Diamond,
I mean, and Mr. Soul, I think he's from Virginia.
And even Kelly from Dragonfly, she's from Virginia.
And so it's cool that like Virginia has all these people
and they've spread out across the world.
And I hope that we can like bring some of that energy back.
Micah.
So I got my start by joining the Probiotic Farmers Alliance
on Facebook group and just started using the search engine.
And-
Wait, that's Alan's group?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I wasn't really active in it,
but I used it as a search tool
and just gleaned all the information out of there.
And that got me started in the KNF
and the ferments and the living soil.
And then I just branched off to, you know,
watching your thing and Tad Hussey and the regenerative stuff
and just started gleaning more and more
and then put it to a practical use.
And then recently I got the Jadam book,
which has just been, you know, a game changer on simplicity.
And then combining my skills as working
with the nonprofit urban farm for years
and combining that market garden mentality,
just, and then throwing in the hemp with it.
And it's just been a learning process.
Cool.
Well, let me see if there are any,
cause I gotta get to my,
I gotta pick up my five-year-old school supplies
for the online learning kindergarten starts tomorrow.
But, well, no, this was great.
And I'm psyched to hopefully smoke some of your hemp flower.
Can do a product review.
I love that.
If you send me an address, I can definitely,
you know, send you out some of ours.
Sure, you know, I'm, Michael, what's the dog's name?
This is Snarf.
She's the barn ball.
Snarf looks very chill.
Snarf looks like she's chillaxing.
Like she's out of the hospital.
It's couch time and air conditioned time after that.
Yeah.
So, by the way, I told, I think Jacob this before,
but I do these from the garage
with like the garage door open.
And there's no, it's like horse flies and no AC.
So I'm ready to hit the air conditioning.
But let me see if there are any last questions.
But otherwise that was awesome.
Much appreciated.
We see the Joy.
So is that an old sign, the Joy Food Store?
Or what is that?
Yeah, so before I got back into farming,
I was big into vintage collectibles
and buying and selling stuff from auction.
And I'm like big into signs.
Yeah, so can you show us some of the signs?
Can you flip the camera?
Yeah.
So it's facing forward.
So this is a plastic pop sign.
I think it's from like the eighties or something.
It's nothing too special, but it's large.
And then this is from Allen Morrison,
this sign and this sign,
which Allen Morrison was a sign company
in Lynchburg, Virginia,
that had the exclusive rights to the Coca-Cola
for 50 plus years.
And so I got these straight out of the factory.
When I was volunteering at Lynchburg Groves,
this urban nonprofit urban farm there,
we were given permission by the city manager
to go in there and just spelunk and take stuff.
And then years later,
I bought this stuff back from Lynchburg Groves.
And then this was pulled from the Long Island Sound.
One of my neighbors pulled it out of the sound,
put it on a boat and drove it back down here.
And this is a porcelain sign.
And yeah, and that's the signs.
That's a few that I have.
The other ones were, I got little ones hanging up.
And then these are also from Allen Morrison
and we pulled probably a thousand of these
out of the building originally
with 10 different designs on them.
These are pump toppers.
What used to go on the top of gas pumps
back in like the late eighties, mid nineties, I think.
So I'm into antiques and stuff.
Very cool.
So we'll end the conversation with some learnings
about signs and sign collecting.
But no, that was awesome.
I appreciate it.
And I'm psyched to see,
you guys are scratching and clawing
and trying to build small.
Like, as I said, Jacob, before, I love mom and pops
and anything I can do to help support.
And anyone watching, reach out.
For me, the farm tours are like,
is your connectivity good enough in the middle of nowhere?
And you guys, it was.
We're also learning the limits of each of your Wi-Fi's.
On the fly.
But so the other thing is,
you all voted.
And so this Saturday at 3 p.m.,
we have Breeder Steve and Kevin Jodry.
The Canadians are crossing the border.
We got some stuff between now and then,
but I need to,
I'm always behind the eight ball
and I need to get ahead of things.
But we have some other stuff coming up.
There's some, let me, yeah.
So what are these signs?
Okay, so this one's really cool.
This is actually Alan Morrison,
the sign company I was talking about.
And we found that, we only found two of these
in the whole entire site.
And it was a 50 acre site that we spelunked through.
So this was a logo they designed and made,
but actually never used.
But yeah, and they screen printed everything.
So, you know, sure people understand
what screen printing is.
And they had screen printing machines that would do,
I mean, they were the size of houses.
It was absolutely insane.
So yeah, just more Alan Morrison signs.
So Micah DK asked,
which herbs you use to make your Jadam?
Like, are there specific things you're putting in
and other things you avoid?
I don't avoid anything.
I actually did a barrel that has meat scraps.
It literally has anything and everything at every stage.
And I dedicated one barrel to that
just to see what would happen.
And the only thing that happened is the maggots come in
and they help break it down further.
And then I specialize certain barrels
will be more high in nitrogen.
And I'll just use Google to look up,
you know, what's inside that plant.
And I'll identify the plant
and then I'll put those certain plants into certain barrels
or I'll take fruit, you know, all the scrap fruit.
We do a lot of canning.
So all that kind of scrap fruit,
I'll stick in other certain barrels to be more dominant
in your flower nutrients.
And then I'll have more that are on your nitrogen rich side
of things like your grasses and pea.
So that's about all I do to separate it.
And then you had mentioned maggots.
And I think Matt, was that a black soldier fly
that you zoomed in on earlier?
Hmm, it might've been.
I mean, I see a lot of like wasps around here.
So might've been like a black wasp.
Yeah, I think, what are they called?
Like a mud dauber, I think.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
They're like shiny and.
Got it, I'm seeing a...
Gage Oakley asked,
how much does a bale of hemp go for?
Round or square bales?
I can talk on that.
Yeah, so we have round bales.
They're about half ton each.
We still have yet to send ours down to with fill
to be processed,
but market average right now is about $200 per bale,
which you can usually fetch around 45 bucks for a hay bale,
around the same size.
So definitely have some more money in it
than the traditional hay stuff.
What did the seed cost?
What did 75 pounds of seed cost?
Actually, if I flip this right,
or I just show you guys right here,
here's a couple of bags that have leftover.
I think they're around, this is 77 pounds
and they cost around 350 to 400 bucks,
maybe a little bit more than that per bag.
Cool.
Got it.
All right, well, it's 10.15.
Is this a good time to wrap up?
You guys have any parting words?
Hey, Peter, thanks for having me.
Matt, thanks for the invite as well.
Micah, it was a pleasure.
It's a great opportunity and thanks so much.
All right, and with that,
yeah, so I'm gonna kill the live stream,
but also, so some of the other stuff I've been working on
is getting some DJs to do some nighttime stuff.
And surprisingly, it's been harder to herd those cats
than I had expected, which is why I DJed a couple times.
But I don't wanna be the one man marching band
and doing everything, so I'm trying to get other DJs.
So if anybody watching DJs and wants to come on,
even if you're a bedroom warrior,
and if anyone has ideas of other,
I don't have pride of authorship of topics and people
and ideas or I don't like,
if one of the three guys on with me would wanna MC
or moderate an upcoming conversation,
I could just sit back or let's get,
wait, go back to that.
Oh, wait, I know, you were spotlighted.
Sorry, I forgot that I had you up, you're muted.
Let me unmute you.
Yeah, I saw that I was spotlighted
and so I was just throwing up some SVH stuff.
So again, these are both made out of hemp,
which is pretty cool.
Oh, cool.
So the shirt is 100% hemp?
55% and then 45% organic cotton and same for the hat.
Got it, cool.
All right, well, with that, we will wrap it up.
Thanks to everybody for watching.
So with the morning garden tours,
I'm gonna line a couple up probably
in the next couple of days.
But if anybody has a garden that they'd like to show
and they can confirm that they have good wifi
and what I did with these guys is,
Matt and I actually did a test.
So if you wanna show off, it doesn't have to be big.
I mean, I don't wanna do canna cribs.
I don't wanna be like, we're in Candescence Mega Grow
and we're being pimped by Hawthorne Supply
and I'd rather show off.
And it could be indoor hydro.
I had someone ask me if we're gonna do any hydro stuff.
Just anybody and everybody who wants to just kind of
give a tour and have other people
like the Peanut Gallery watch and comment,
just hit me up.
And with that, we'll kill it live stream
and have a good rest of your day.
