I'm gonna introduce Eleanor and let her give her a little background. She's gonna get into some ethics and genetics
And kind of take it from there, but why don't you say a few things?
Hi, it's really awesome to be in such an amazing group and get to talk about one of my most
Passionate subjects which is genetics. So so just to give you a background of who I am
I am a population geneticist
My specialty is in the intersection between
Agriculture and wild plants and how those groups talk to each other. So that's what I did my dissertation in
I'm also a trained herbalist and I went to herbalism school not because I like sick people
I I went because I love those plants and I really wanted to understand how
The usage of those plants impacts the populations from which we're drawing in particular our wild crafted local native
Endemic plants. I'm from the south
So ginseng, golden zeal, cohosh a lot of plants that we all love and use and how do those plant populations?
React to our usage of them. So that's a little bit about where I come from
And so with that background, I've done a lot of work in compliance and best agricultural practices working for a lot of bigger
Natural products companies to look at how they grow their plants and how those growing
Methodologies affect the quality of those plants
And so when I was in that world, it became very clear that the largest issue in the botanical trade globally is plant identity
So fraud is rampant
Everywhere and we see this within our own community just with a naming issue, right?
so one of the reasons we have a naming issue is because we have a
Corporate structure whether we want to see it as that or not that the name of that
plant drives value and so there's incentive to
rename plants to gain value and
this is deeply problematic, especially if you're dealing with a
Community that is utilizing those plants for medicine where you don't have consistency
So, how do you know if something works if we're we're not calling the same thing the same thing
And then if you go and you expand out into the agricultural setting, how do you know how your environment we're talking about appellations?
And I'm so on board. I'm really involved in this conversation
But how do you move that direction if you're not holding those plants constant?
right and so
With all of this background. I started a company called leaf works with my co-founder Karen
I affectionately call her my work wife, which is how I'll reference her normally and
Our goal was to develop genetic tools that can identify plants ginkgo, cohosh
Cannabis varietals. Well that becomes deeply problematic because the community itself is
The group that needs to do that work
Right, it's not my job to define those plants
right, and so this
You know comes to the ethics of genetics and really understanding
What what are those plants who are those plants what holds them constant and so
When doing any kind of good science, especially in the botanical world
One of the most critical resources you have to do that good science is an herbarium
So an herbarium is a physical repository where you take physical plants
You take cuttings of them you press them and you define them
So if you go out and you find a new species, this is the first thing you do first
And then you write your description of what that new species is if it's an insect
It's an insect area and we've got all these fancy words for basically the same thing, which is a physical encyclopedia
and
So because this resource wasn't available
We didn't have the resources to do that good work of ID'ing which plants were which cultivars or varietals
And so we started an herbarium
This is very much a community run
process
You're defining your material, you know, these plants I know the few plants that I've grown but that's you know
It's small little drop in the bucket compared to the diversity that's out there
and so it's really I want to charge this group to to get involved with that project because it's
It's important for this community to do those definitions
I can't say that enough like no outside group should come in and tell you what you have. That's ass backwards
It's not how it's ever worked in cultivars
It's not how it works in domestication in general
And so we need to remember that like we have the power and that also moves into this
You know when you're talking about corporatization and what's happening within the that world, you know, you can see kind of this
narrowing down of the things that are available and
Talking about ethics. I mean my big stick is diversity
And if you're only growing those things that are gonna get you the most money which is completely understandable
What happens to all those other plants that are so important to the diversity in the fabric of not only the cultural history that we have
together
but also moving forward to have those resources to be able to leverage and grow with as
We need I'm in particular this, you know
Land races and very unique medicinal plants that have specific purposes that aren't gonna drive a big dollar in a dispensary
But are really important to a group of people for their health and well-being and so that's another ethical thing
I think we all collectively have to grapple with it's how to
Maintain those plants in community setting. I mean, I don't have the answers. It's like this group
Together can figure a lot of this stuff out. But how do you keep those plants going as well? Is it seed banks?
is it
Everyone growing two or three things that aren't commercially viable but are important culturally. I
Don't know and there's you know many ways to approach this and so I know there's a lot of questions people have about genetics and
genetics companies, especially in the light I
Rarely say this out loud and in the wake of the phyllis ordeal and that idea that you need to pay to play you need
To give me your samples. I'm gonna sequence them and now you own them. It's like mm-hmm
That's wrong, it's completely wrong and it's
Inaccurate it's
Completely inaccurate. That's like saying if I go to the grocery store and buy a gala apple and sequence it I own it. I
Have no connection to that plant, right?
And so that's why the herbarium is so important because it's a physical tangible record that is free
That you can then link yourself to and reference and then when we go to the PTO or we go somewhere we have
Evidence that we can all then collectively reference as the community say
Nah, that patent doesn't hold up because look at all these other plants that fit that bill, you know, we have arguments
What is this plant? You know name X who cares what it is?
we have a reference to go back to to have a constructive argument because two people yelling across the room is
Not gonna do anything to move those conversations forward
So many COAs
certificate of analysis so many of
So much of what I've been working with like I know that's got to be somewhat of a valuable thing in a potential
Weird scenario future, but how much weight are these COAs carrying in any kind of?
law
Yeah, I'm gonna avoid the legal questions and punt them to Dale but I know
In case you ever have to deal with somebody saying anything to you you could be like I've been growing this for so long
Here's a certificate of analysis from
2014 and
Keeping references of batch samples because a piece of paper without a reference to the batch is meaningless, right?
so every like so I do a lot of work for traditional medicinals and every time they make a batch of tea they save a
Certain number of boxes of that tea, right?
So it's kind of the same thing like it's just good manufacturing practices that every time you make a batch every time you have a
Particular plant that you're growing in a season save some of it that then links to your COA
So then you have a chemistry aspect and you can reference back to the material. That's powerful
And that's very helpful. And it just told me that all my stuff is meaningless. I
Mean we start somewhere
It really can be anything
Curing it or is there
In natural products the company itself does that work
Yeah, so the what a pressing is okay wait
So the way that we operate is very much in the same light that you would for other
Botanicals, right? So we're not reinventing the wheel
We're just applying the wheel to this plant
And so you take generally speaking a vegetative pressing to get the structure there and you take an early flower
I wish we could take the glorious final cola, but no one wants to give them up
Understandably, and they're really unwieldy to press in a press, right?
so then you get those two stages and then you fill out a form and that form is evolving and we're really open to
any kind of
additional information we've taken the
IUCN's hemp
Form for their cultivar registration and added things that apply to
Cannabis, which include chemistry
flowering time other aspects that aren't necessarily included in that hemp form and
Just start taking that data. It's linked to you
It can be linked to a pseudonym if you don't want it to be linked to you and you can
Have that connection that you can then reference and that physical sample the herbarium keeps one and then you keep one
So you keep each other accountable?
In that way and very low cost compared to a senior
Yes, so we are a nonprofit
So it's been bootstrappy bootstrappy as we all know and the more we grow and the more momentum the easier it'll get
So we've been having press parties this year
It's been a little bit difficult to facilitate a lot of those things since I'm running two organizations
But in different areas we come together you bring those plants at that time. I have presses there. It's free
You just have to show up
We have volunteers that mount things afterwards at the end of season we give you your
pressed
Replicate back so that then we each have one of those
Pressings
It's really fun. There's herbariums everywhere. So I have a really large network in Vermont and New England also in the south in North Carolina
South Carolina some of the more like
Illegal all over California up into Oregon. So but in the the plants are held locally
Right. So the plants from Vermont are held at a herbarium in Vermont. And so that's one thing
we're also looking for organizations that would be willing to hold the material as
Public service, right?
So it is much like a library
And so the bigger the herbarium gets the more locations there should be because it you know, Northern, California
Okay
now we're going into county and then hopefully we have more than one location because we have so many people that are involved it can
become more of more of a local resource and
It really should grow into a resource that everyone can utilize and you know
If the Appalachians projects wants to reference it for certain things then all of a sudden you have a resource where you can reference those
to do other kinds of good projects or if you have a
Project looking at PTSD or sleep and you want to reference samples and you could have a medical
Group that's doing research reference it so that's you know
It should be a resource that's utilized for those different projects and the way we utilize it for full
Transparency is if you so whenever we take in clients for leaf works and we do genetic work for them
We mandate that they press plants and give it to her the herbarium because it's what makes their genetics worth something
without a physical sample
It's just data I can go and pull it from a joint I can go and take us
You know, it's not reference to anything tangible
So our clients we mandate that they do that good work because it validates the work they're doing with us
And then other people give to their barium and one have nothing to do with genetics. That's fine
other individuals want to join we have a cultivar identification program going on right now and so if you
Donate and you opt in to that program
We may or may not utilize those to then make markers for different cultivars, which is important
Just like we do for our ginkgo test or a black cohosh test so that we're referencing material that is correctly named and has
History and traceability attached to it and it adds value to that farm
Do you also like to get terpene tested with that and then
So if I had seeds and you have seeds of the same pheno, I grow them here
You grow them in southern LA, you know, the genetics can be slightly different
There you know the value of that healing property will be different depending on where it's from
So do we do you keep?
Samples of those and keep that listed
You know like cinnamon if we source cinnamon from specific spots to get the strength and potency of the medicinal
Strain is it is this geared to that as well?
Absolutely, so we don't make any requirements of individuals
This community doesn't like to be told what to do
Right, and we're not here to mandate. We're here to really serve as a container
But if you have
Coas from labs if you've done sequencing with another lab if you've done
Chemical testing you can link all of that stuff to your samples. There's no requirement
But that is something that you can absolutely do it and adds value especially as a farmer
I have a couple farmers that have
different locations and they're growing like six things and all of their locations and so they're really seeing it as a
Tool and a utility to their own process to understand how do those different locations affect the quality of
Those plants so you can start to get at that G by E that genetics by environment
Which is what we're all a product of right genetics is just the back backbone the environment is you know the?
Nurturing that gets us to our true phenotype our true outward expression
regardless if we're a plant or an animal and
So we do do that, but it's not mandatory
And I I just want to I guess also open it up and say I know in these situations
when it comes to genetics and ethics and like what are people doing with my data and
What kind of data?
Do I not want to share and what kind of data is really in our best interest to share?
I think it's a really good opportunity to have some of those conversations and be really open about it
Because there's a lot of fear
Understandably there's a lot of fear of thievery. There's a lot of fear of ownership and who owns what and
I don't
Know exactly where everyone sits, but that's a conversation. I would love to have with people
this is something that I'm very passionate about and
You know I'm here with the plants and so it's really about
Stewarding them and then taking care of those individuals and humans that are taking care of those plants
Yeah
So right now we're
Fundraising to
digitize the samples that we have and
It wouldn't be public it would be if you contribute to the herbarium you have access to those resources
and
That's the way and and we made we too may change and grow so you but it's really to stop
outside entities that are really that just there to pull data and
Not support the mission of the organization
So that's that's why we made that decision and we're of course open to discussion, but that's why we stand there at the moment
Yeah, and your data is your data right so you pull that data whenever like you're if you're contributing plants
The pressings are really beautiful to look at
Nice art
And if you're going to the Emerald Cup both leaf works and candor will have separate booths
And you can see some of these pressings and we've made some
Posters of some of them wait one of Wade's plants is one of those posters you can check out
Also Dale
Yeah
Want to talk about by protecting
Data and genetic material sort of ethical business strategies that would help that to help us
So I
Thought it was really graceful how Eleanor kind of avoided talking about phyllis
and I want to make sure that we're not going to get stuck on rehashing or complaining, but it is it's like the
Asteroid impact that changed
life after that it changed our industry and it's important to take that into account and
Some lessons and I some of us got very burned by phyllis and others just watched it, but we're all here
so what matters is
do we take any lessons from that and I think a couple of things that
That we can take from it I
Wrote a blog post called demand this and all your business relationships
Transparency accountability and trustworthiness and
if you think about the problems that we learned from hopefully that we the lessons we learned are
Was there transparency
Was there accountability and
Did that lead us to did it did it create the appearance of trustworthiness or actual trustworthiness?
and so
Much more important is going forward. Do we do that in our own in our own activities in our own businesses and
as we look at groups that are offering to
receive and store data or handle your data or
We'll look at groups that are offering to receive and store genetic material like seeds
You need to understand
Their
Trustworthiness well their accountability and their transparency and that means you need to ask hard questions
and I think one of the fundamentals is that
If you put in data you still own the data, right? That's that's really fundamental. So
Eleanor Eleanor and I
Yeah, Eleanor
Eleanor and I are both
Involved in something called the ethical data Alliance
It's an open group. We have calls every Wednesday morning at 8 except this week. It's Thursday morning
It's essentially trying to
achieve something that the open cannabis project was trying to do until
We just kind of closed the doors and walked away because of the the situation with phyllis
It's
The goal is one of the goals is to have a genuinely
Ethical
Opportunity to receive and relay data to other people. This is an organization that won't do any of its own breeding
There's one. There's one important point. It's an also an organization that
If you submit data, it's still your data
This is something right now. We're just talking about we're talking about
Forming the right way of organizing it with the right ground rules the right statement of ethics the right
Operational procedures and then once we get all that in place and we think that people will want to take advantage of it
then we will
Have to get to the infrastructure the IT capabilities of handling those data and everything
but one of the I think one of our key principles is you put in your data on whatever terms you
you wish so it might be I
Don't want this to be used for any commercial purpose or I want it to only be used by members in good standing of this
Organization or I just want this out there and this is a convenient way to put it out and I put no restrictions on it
It might be you can use this for a commercial purpose
But then I want a certain defined royalty from anything you get and I think
Different people who own data and have different reasons for sharing it can have
Can be ethical and still have any one of those approaches to how their data are used in a similar way for a while
We were looking at doing the having the same organization handle seeds because a lot of people have have come to me and told me
Look, I've got these legacy collections of seeds rare seeds land races
What is something somebody gave me whatever and I want to make sure that they are
That they're going to ultimately contribute to the genetic diversity this plant
we all know that
There's vast diversity in cannabis genetics, but most of what people are working with right now
Suffers from something called the founder effect. You've all heard of the founder effect
It's basically if you have okay, let's say people got stuck on Gilligan's Island forever and they had babies
Well, everybody would either have mr. Howell's DNA or the professors or Gilligan's or the skippers, right?
No Gilligan's well, he got around, you know Gilligan got around
Everybody got Gilligan's DNA at one point or another point is there would be a limited diversity
No matter how many people ended up on that island
And if let's say the island was huge you could have a billion people on that island
but they would have gone through a genetic bottleneck where there were only a small number of
Possible parents and all the rest of the genetic there were everybody would have been white by the way
There would there wouldn't be there be vastly limited diversity and that's what's happened with cannabis the cannabis that has been bred
for the last couple of generations to maximize THC and do this and that it has
disproportionately been selected from a certain
collection of original parents instead of sampling from the whole wide diversity, so I'm telling you what you already know, but our goal with the
with this group and this this project is
to have a way that people can
Can trust
Putting their seeds in for safekeeping or for whatever else for what other?
Geez, I didn't even smoke very much. I
Need to smoke more and more often the the goal is that
What at first we were thinking of doing this all in one organization and then we realized okay genetic material. That's really
Important first of all, you don't want to have it all in one place. You don't want to have something bad happen and everything die
you also
You can as much as you can abuse data. You can abuse genetic information even more you can you you know, it's it's got to be
Really trustworthy. You can't have one. Let's say you have one aggregator. Let's say I'm the aggregator and I tell you trust me
I just want all your seeds, but you can trust me there
Maybe you can but you don't know that and so what we've decided to do instead is a
Kind of like a library system of
Local seed banks that all agree to play by certain principles. It'll you know, it'll give people who put their seeds in there
Some options about what they want the use to be or they want it just for safekeeping
Do they want it again same same list of options?
Share it non commercially share it commercially but with a royalty share it commercially without a whatever and
so the person who puts the seeds in should still own the seeds and
they should have be able to have their rules for putting that in govern the rules for taking it out and
We're thinking that if we can come up with a coherent set of rules that aren't too
Rules II they don't alienate everybody
We can actually have a bunch of independent
Seed libraries sign on to this and then it would almost it would really be like a library system
We if we can if we can actually create corresponding information, then it could be okay. I'm a breeder
I want to bring in some
some southern African whatever and and
What are my choices and who's offering it for for no royalty or for a modest royalty?
And you can really start we will see a huge
Increase in the diversity of the genetics of commercial cannabis, which would be really cool
So that we did decide to do that differently from the ethical data Alliance
So we really are creating two separate structures and right now it is we're just a lot of people with good intentions
Talking every Wednesday morning. We do intend to take it to
Actual fruition we've got we've all got better things to do than just talk on the phone once a week
So we are gonna make it happen. We'd love the support of this group or anybody else if you're interested
Send me an email and I'll get you on the on the call-in list. I mean, it's just
We'll send you the the dial-in information. There's no it's an open group
