Alright, welcome back to Heart Rock Mountain Farm.
Here we are in our male garden and we've only planted one, two, three, four, five, four
and a few rows of what has had 13 or 14 rows planted.
And they're deep rows.
I mean each row has 13 or 14 holes in there, but it's kind of nice having a small, relaxing
male garden this year.
We're kind of tucked away in here and behind us is a big cattle ranch and the national
forest so the wind currents take any stray pollen far away from here.
And this is where we'll do our final selection.
Usually I only will flower out no more than 10 males per variety and that's just something
if I'm really trying to narrow something down.
And I've already selected for structure and nose and now we get a look at the bud structure
and we get these bocayed up and into our pollen boxes.
And then I'll make my final notes on the cultivars.
Here we have our Love Laughter and I notice that this one has the more sweet pheno versus
like the eucalyptus pine.
And I really like the strong nose on this one.
So I'll go ahead and give this one a star and let myself, my future self know later
that this was a sweet pheno.
And then we upgraded the hanging tags this year because every year you'd always lose
a tag in the male garden.
You'd be like, okay, whoops.
So the hanging tags is a good way to go and we drop that in our jar of water.
Falco number two, brand new one because I lost mine hiking.
Here we go.
You can prune away extra leaves and then we'll end up with a nice little bouquet of male
flowers.
So when you're done there, did you just kill it off?
Yeah, I really don't need it.
It's our CBD one.
I really don't need a lot of pollen from that.
Although I think people always hit me up in the past to buy pollen and it's just so much
work to collect it that it's not worth it, but it might be a good year to do it.
And then this male is the eucalyptus pheno of the love laughter and I'm definitely running
low on love laughter seeds and hope to do a couple generations of work here with them.
It's kind of like you're taking a cutting, a very long cutting.
This method, we just kind of developed this out of necessity.
Growing from keeping less than a dozen males to 25 males to 75 males to our biggest year,
which I believe we had 150 varieties of males.
The main farm did not get seeded, but I spent a lot of nights that year up to two or three
in the morning, working on processing pollen and spraying down the garden afterwards.
How much pollen can you collect from a bouquet like this?
A couple grams, which is a lot of pollen.
If you were to cut it, you'd have to make tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands
of seeds, especially in the pollen boxes.
It's a way that you can do this on a smaller scale to really get a lot of pollen and a
lot of diversity.
Because we're collecting pollen and we're breeding outdoors, we're not breeding in indoor
under lights or in greenhouses or anything.
And that's probably enough pollen for that one.
And then I like to very slowly bend the rest of the male over to the ground and cut it.
And then I'll come through and spray this pollen off.
Because if I were to let this male just dry here on the ground and the wind could come
pick it up and take it off.
The key of the game is to get the males just as they're opening into the pollen.
We're kind of in a unique environment for location to do this type of outdoor pollen
collection and it's not recommended for everyone to do it this way.
But the pollen boxes, we're going to go walk these two love laughter males upstairs and
show you the pollen boxes.
You know, someday I would love a little cotton barn for pollen collection.
Here we go, into the boxes.
When you're doing pollen collection, you need water and a spray bottle.
So I will mist off my arms and hands after there.
And if I were to go out into the main farm and I didn't, I would definitely prefer to
change clothes, but you could just mist your whole body off to kill the pollen.
So then we're going to take a look at these pollen boxes here.
My first prototype was a cardboard box, but after a season of cleaning them in between
each use, they were done for.
The wardrobe boxes were pretty expensive.
And what I did with the wardrobe boxes, I would pre-slit the sides, tape them back up,
had an extra square of cardboard at the bottom for the plate.
But this is a much better technique.
So we have a sliding drawer at the bottom with a plexiglass sheet.
And they're numbered.
This one here is 33.
And then they'll sit in the jar of water there for a couple of days to a week.
Sometimes if I don't have a lot of males to move through, I'll let them just get completely
dry, let them suck up all the water.
And sometimes if you'll notice a male will be really thirsty and it hasn't dropped its
pollen, you might have to refill that jar of water a couple times.
You can do a light nutrient solution in your jar of water to give them a little extra.
And this room's well lit, which is helpful.
I haven't tried.
Maybe David with Silver Dragon Farms, he adopted this tech.
I think he does it in the dark.
And then we have a lid with a hole in the middle and we stir up some pollen, which we'll
show you later.
This is a nice, nice looking male.
So this is, zoom in on the flowers here, this is like the ideal time to cut a male.
Like there's, per bud, you see like one pollen sack opening.
If you were concerned about it, you wouldn't let one open.
You would let it get chunky, start to open, cut it, jar it.
And a male like that, you might need to refill the jar a couple of times for the nutrient
solution to finish, but you know, they will drop pollen in a jar of water.
And if you don't need a box, you can just put that jar of water over, you know, parchment
paper on a counter, you know, and one male, you know, just move them around your house,
make sure they're not getting wind.
And you can collect pollen.
Lemonhead F3.
This is that Tahoe Kim from Willets that my buddy made.
This is a really nice one.
And at least the F1, really hard to collect pollen from, which is interesting.
A lot of times the male buds match the female buds.
Not the case with that F1 where it had nice, you know, chunky, dense buds, very sparse
pollen.
But this F3 now, that's going to get some pollen.
And you know, we're hitting about 3% terpenes in our no-till living soil with it.
You know, 25 to 30% total cannabinoids, mostly THC.
Nice relaxing Indica body high.
Actually, you know, for me it was nice because it wasn't like psychoactive.
A lot of ganjas are so psychoactive for me, it's not a relaxing body high.
But this one, Lemonhead, was really nice and relaxing.
I'm actually looking forward to smoking some of the fresh stuff.
Are you filming?
Yeah.
This right here, this is, and you get to look at the structure.
This is out of all the Lemonhead males we're keeping, which is maybe 10 of them because
I have different lines.
This is a beautiful bud.
And that's one thing you really want to look for.
That's why you want to keep more than one male per variety so you can see them flower,
you can see their full expression.
And this is a gorgeous male flower.
And yeah, they're edible too.
It's a very light stimulant.
Pollen.
Oh yeah, that is a beautiful bouquet of Lemonhead flowers.
You want to try?
It's like the newest delicacy.
Again, in between males, you know, you just mist yourself off.
Mist off your tools.
That way you're reducing cross pollination, which you know, will happen, you know, on
a craft farm like this.
Like it's really easy to tell when you see, when you get a purple plant where you shouldn't
have one, but it's usually just, you know, one pollen grain, either making it in the
field or collecting it in the field.
I mean, you definitely got to, you got to look for herms in your males.
I find keeping large populations of males, the past couple of years, I find more hermaphrodites
in the male garden than you do in the females.
And they're sneaky and it's just some hairs on it.
So that's really one good thing to look out for.
And, you know, you can see which ones are having more or less pest damage.
It's always good to take notes on, but definitely look out for hermaphrodites in your males,
almost more than your females, from my experience.
And because if you keep that pollen.
Yeah, it'll have that trait.
You know, we don't want to breed purposefully if we're intersex.
The main reason I strip away the leaves is you just fit more bouquets, more stems in
the jar that way.
But when I go to dump these out of the jar, like it's molded and rotted out in the jar
by the time, if I let them go long enough.
And yeah, and as you know, sometimes you'll find that little sneaky hermaphrodite as you're
like harvesting the male.
So it's definitely good to pay attention to.
And it's something that I've just discovered keeping large populations of males.
I haven't come across any this year.
And that's another reason to keep more than one male per variety.
There's always a bump because sometimes the pollen doesn't keep collect.
And with the onset of the hemp aphids, it's even good to spray your male garden, your
male plants, because too many aphids can ruin the pollen in your collection boxes.
And so just like, just a soap is good enough preventative to knock back the aphids because
they will destroy trays of pollen.
Just what do they do in the pollen?
It's like they're shedding.
It just cakes it up and maybe they're like excretion.
And you see, we do have like a light wind blowing this way.
So I also see which way the wind's blowing and kind of do my harvest that day.
I think with the empty boxes we have upstairs, we're going to be able to clear out the majority
of this male garden today.
All right, we'll run these up.
Open a little pollen box because we just want to prevent the wind from hitting these, even
a slight breeze, so that when the pollen drop, it just falls to the bottom of the box.
When I take the male flowers out of the pollen box, this is, I dip them in water.
So it's like definitely a jedom.
Bubbling up real quick.
I just filled this up last night.
This area here doesn't get harvested.
It's a crossover branch and anything that's touched.
Thank God pollen's not in metric, you know, imagine having to track and trace.
There would be no way.
And there's really no, you know, psychoactive use for pollen.
This is like basically hemp.
What do you mean me and Max have been smoking these?
Huh?
We've been smoking these.
The males?
Yeah.
Just for fun?
Yeah.
Is it working?
I'm just kidding.
Okay.
Well, someone told me that they've smoked pollen on Instagram.
Now I already harvested the Lemonhead Skittles males.
So these are all just different Lemonhead feeders?
So this is those three different seed lots of Lemonhead F3s.
You know, and it's also important to take your seed lots down different lines because
you might, it's a lot of work to take a line down the road.
And if you go different forks, you have more of a chance of that.
If you made a mistake with one, you didn't make it with the other.
And then when you get several lines way down the road to like your F8 generation,
then you can cross those with each other and easily exchange traits.
You know, like, oh, this one's got the nose and the smell, but this one has the pest resistance.
So you cross them together.
And that's, that new, it can transfer those traits.
Welcome to Dude Bros Farms.
All right.
So now we have a male bouquet that's been in our pollen boxes for several days.
And this one, actually, the flowers are starting to dry.
And we have this high tech device here.
And we have a Plexiglas lid.
And we're going to shake this baby up and send that pollen down to our Plexiglas sheet in the bottom.
You ready?
Oh yeah, he's a duster.
We'll give it a few minutes to settle.
Always sterilizing your instruments in between use.
Now we're going to remove this old bouquet here.
Take it over to our disposal tub.
Which, you know, if you're into the natural farming, you know, this is just your da-dom here.
And I'm going to mist it as I put it in there because there's pollen on the jar.
Give it a little rinse.
See, and I was right. That was a coffee seedbot.
Those coffees just dump pollen.
And then this coffee, F6 seedlot B.
Now we're going to remove our tray very carefully.
Always take a big breath in and hold it.
That is caked.
And before I touch anything, I get out my jar.
Check it out.
Silica packet. Don't skip on your silica packets.
You know, make sure you get a good one because that's going to protect your pollen and your harvest and prevent it from caking.
Coffee, F6 seedlot B.
And then...
And, you know, some people would run this thing in a jar and then put it in a container.
But I don't do that.
I just put it in a container and then I just let it sit there.
And then I just let it sit there for a couple of days.
And, you know, some people would run this through a sift.
I just use a couple cards to very carefully remove the plant material.
Just because they're easy to clean and dry in between uses.
Because, you know, I'll do 10 boxes in a row or 15 boxes in a row.
So I'm just at very light pressure here in my hand.
And it's just removing the plant material.
Now I'll bring the plant material over the area that I scraped.
And this is a lot of pollen.
And yeah, I mean, if you wanted to, you could run this material through a sieve.
But, I mean, this is going to be more pollen than you're going to need.
Or you could even take this material, put it into a bag or a pollen sleeve.
And put that around a plant and use that dry material that we're scraping off the table there to make a branch of seeds.
I know I've seen some people do that tech.
I know Forrest with Sunroots uses that tech.
Where they put the bag over the plant.
It's definitely a safe way to make seeds in your flower garden.
And then I usually store this pollen, you know, in a cool, dry, dark room.
While I'm using it for the pollination season.
And then I put it into single-use jars and into the freezer.
For long-term use.
Because pollen is only viable for about 20 minutes after it thaws.
Also, if your plant material was totally dry, you wouldn't need to separate it from your pollen.
You know, just in case there's any moisture in here.
And just for, you know, for long-term storage.
And then when I do my single-use jars for the freezer,
I do take apart a silica packet and I put silica packets in the little jars with the pollen.
And in the vacuum seal.
The jars into a vacuum seal bag with more moisture protectors.
You know, because of the work involved in pollen collection and preservation,
you really want to make sure that you're going to be able to use that pollen again.
And a lot of that work is the risk involved.
Because most people are also growing flowers.
Okay. It's looking pretty clean.
Now we're going to get the money shot here.
So we can get this in the jar.
That is a lot of yellow cake.
But no, not actual radioactive material. Pollen.
Yeah. It's my current one and an old one.
They're nice, like the thin card on that, you know.
And then I got a very wet rag here.
And I do the same thing to the pollen boxes.
Spray and wipe.
There is a lot of pollen in this material left on the table.
So really get it wet.
Sometimes when you even stream it, like pollen will come up.
So it's nice to have a mister and a little stream.
Yeah. You see that? There's still some dust still kicking up.
It's hot too, so you know.
You know, trade seekers here.
You know, part of the regenerative agriculture is community and sharing of information.
It's like saving trade secret tech is part of the problem in the world.
Yeah. I mean, it's basically like, you know.
Jadon, let's see what this is.
Oh yeah. Cherry Lotus.
We need better lighting. We could plug in a light there.
No, it's all good.
Tape too.
Yeah, it's fucking gnarly.
That's not up to a film makers union code.
This wire should be taped down.
Oh yeah. Cherry Lotus.
