Do any of you have any questions?
High THC is not, except for pain, isn't really needed.
And I'd like to have you guys comment on what you see in terms of CBN, CBG, THCA, the whole
host of things which we know have medical value.
I didn't hear you talk much about that.
And I would like to have, you know, Swami is talking about spiritual and recreational,
Mr. Rader is talking about medical, and I think those are two somewhat different things.
I'd like to hear what you have to say about that.
Sure, great.
I mean, I'll jump right into it.
I mean, I think that one of the things we are going to see with regulation is increased
availability of some of the cannabinoids we currently don't have access to.
There's a huge CBD bubble in the world right now.
I've been told there's as much as 50,000 kilos of CBD basically sitting around the
world right now going nowhere just because everybody decided, oh, we're going to be in
the CBD business.
But what I want to see is I want to see THC-V. I want to see CBD-V. I want to see some of
these really weird breakdown products.
I mean, there are only really, everybody always says, there's 120 cannabinoids.
No, there aren't.
There are four cannabinoids, okay?
And then there are their breakdown products, okay?
And there are their propyl variants, and that's it, all right?
But some of these breakdown products, these are metabolized, and they have different effects.
And we've only started to explore them.
And so I think that exploring from a medicinal standpoint, the incredible utility of this
plant is amazing.
And I think we're going to be doing it for decades, which is really cool.
One of the coolest parts about legalization and recreational marijuana, or recreational
marijuana becoming illegal, is our Cannabis Act, is that the medical side of things can
concentrate on what's best for them.
The recreational side of things can concentrate on what's best for them.
But there's somewhere in the middle that's your maybe nutraceutical, you know, take your
daily cannabis supplement for general health.
Maybe I don't have a specific...
Wellness.
Wellness.
Wellness.
Exactly.
And so I don't necessarily see them as having to be completely different things.
I think it's a spectrum.
I think it's more of a bell curve than necessarily a black and white issue.
My question is about testing.
Josh, you mentioned that...
You mentioned that somebody asked you to retest it again.
That is the problem that I have with testing labs.
Because I'm knowing, I understand that, I'm in the edible business, and I want to be exact
by my standards.
And my standards are very severe.
And yet when I test it, it comes back, how could that be?
And they test it again, and okay, now it's accurate.
And they just send it back to you to retest it again, and you retested it and found out
in their favor.
So how can anybody, me, feel comfortable and secure in paying for a testing lab, and it's
not accurate?
Okay, well, so there's a lot of issues with that.
And with edibles, it gets to be this whole kind of conflated issue.
So first of all, with edibles, I have this presentation I do about stratified sampling,
and testing multiple samples through a production run, and having some sort of idea of the variance.
So it's a number of things.
First, edibles are extremely hard to test.
To bring a sample into a testing lab that sees a cookie, a gummy bear, a piece of beef
jerky, and all these things as edibles, they're all completely different tests and really
need their own validated tests for each one of those types of samples.
Because you're testing completely different products.
When I test a gummy bear versus a brownie, it's a completely different extraction process,
a completely different test.
So the testing lab needs to have different procedures for the different types of edibles.
And I think, again, we're really glad to see people with budgets get into this, because
a lot of your edible producers don't want to spend the money they really should be spending
to make a proper product.
If I was producing, say, omega-3 infused gummies, each production run, I'd be doing dozens of
tests throughout that production run.
Now, do I run hot at the very beginning of the run, and then about 10 units in, all of
a sudden it starts to level off and I get homogeneity?
There's also the issue with edibles.
Is one side of the cookie completely different than the other side of the cookie?
How many chocolate chips did you put in the cookie?
Are the chocolate chips infused?
And so I think what we get is we get edible makers that bring in one cookie from one batch,
and then the next batch...
And these are the ones that are doing a lot of testing.
And then the next batch, they bring in one cookie, and they're like, well, last batch
was 30% higher.
What's going on here?
It's like, well, the next cookie off the line would have been 50% higher.
Do you know that?
Do you have an idea of what your production process is doing?
And then...
And I could go on and on about all the problems with edible standardization.
Let me jump into one thing on that, which is the idea is that in every other industry,
a winemaker doesn't go down always to the wine testing lab.
The winemaker has a lab.
And I think that what you're gonna see is that you're gonna see a lot more companies
take this in and then go to somebody who's an expert and say, test my testing.
All right?
And then I think that's gonna become a lot more prevalent.
I wanna...
And when you hear...
Yeah.
When you hear a retest, I mean, that's most often because they didn't believe the value.
It wasn't because the lab's trying to give them what they wanna hear.
That's a very important distinction.
No, I agree.
Thank you for...
Yeah.
So, the top of the plant can be twice as much as the bottom.
So how do I homogenize my entire batch so that I can get a good, accurate value across
the entire picture?
That's really the goal of testing.
And we'll see this whole standardization effort be forced upon us with regulations.
So you're going to be required to do statistically valid testing, not just one sample, not just
a sample, but across your batch, and make sure that that distributor actually really
knows what's on the label of their product.
And also, when you look at the composition of, let's say, alcoholic beverages, okay,
like wine, you don't go in and pick up a bottle of wine and go, oh, I wonder what the expression
of terpeneline is in this Cabernet.
All right?
The reason is, is that you're buying the wine, you're buying the kind of totality, the gestalt
of it.
And so now I think we're getting a little too granular sometimes in our look at this
product.
All right?
It may not be as easily sliced and diced as everybody wants it.
We just need to have a well-characterized, safe, pure product.
My question was kind of a little obscure on the future of pot, but how much in the past
and the traditions of the past have had some type of possibly biological relevant or pharmacologically
relevant benefits.
The thing that's coming to mind is, if any of you have ever tried the Malawi cobs, and
my question's kind of to, what could have happened there to where you take a fresh cola
and you wrap it in a certain type of leaf, you bury it in the ground, and there's this
decomposing process.
And so I'm wondering what kind of degradative terpenes, unique kind of degradative cannabinoids
come about, because it's like this whole legend of this process, and is there anything relevant
to that?
What's the hive from aflatoxin?
Yeah.
I mean, honestly, because I remember there was a whole phase in Mendo, you'll remember
this, Swami.
There was a whole phase for a while where people were burying their weed and pulling
it out of the ground and saying, man, this mold gets you.
That's really interesting.
All the guys who are promoting that died relatively young.
It's like, oh yeah, Fred, he checked out at about 47.
But I think that there are indigenous techniques that we're going to learn from.
And I think Malawi is a great place where there's a whole tradition of these gold lighter
strains.
In Colombia, the Colombian golds were often created by breaking the primary stem on the
plant and bleaching it out right before it was finally harvested.
Well, there's a whole tradition of stressing the plant in many ways.
Some people used to drive a spike right through the base of the stalk and so on.
I just want to put a shout out for Panama Red.
Anybody remember Panama Red?
Psychedelic, man, absolutely.
So high carry offling strain, okay?
Strains that smell like pepper, like cannabis, are basically high-bending carry offling strains.
And what's funny is the closest thing out there are some of the cookies variants now
that are super, super high in carry offling and relatively low in myrcene.
I want some opinion.
I have a question here that I've been listening to some of the panels over the last few days
and I've heard a lot of lawyers speak, tell us about how you can't patent strains and
you're not going to be able to do these things.
But I didn't hear anybody talk about the future of how a breeder such as ourselves
are going to go into the future and other than the old term hoarding strains, I'd like
to know if anybody up here can give us any practical advice on how we're going to go
into the future creating this intellectual property and identifying it and owning it.
Well, oops, wrong one again.
Speaking with I think Andrea Brooks yesterday, one of the panelists, I spoke to her afterwards
about the idea of patenting these different strains that are cultivars I should say that
you people are getting just from crossing, endlessly crossing these hybrids.
And even if you come up with something unique, once you put it out in the public domain,
you sell clones of it or you sell seeds of it or whatever, it's gone in terms of your
patent, right?
You have to patent it first before it is ever commercialized.
But I think that really the patents besides that, the patents that will really make a
big difference are the ones that are about disease control, about having resistance to
botrytis and PM and that sort of thing.
And I think that somebody who finds those genes and incorporates them into strains,
that's really going to be something.
So I can address a little bit of this.
So plant variety rights, okay, that's one kind of plant patent, all right?
And that is a clone, okay?
It's not seed.
And you can't prevent somebody from breeding with your plant, which is great.
That means innovation.
So you can have your version of strawberry cough, okay?
And if there's no prior art out there that precludes that or nobody can say, he's actually
growing my plant.
If you can prove it to the satisfaction of the patent office that you're novel and meet
all the requirements for that particular kind of plant, as long as it's clonally propagated
or probably tissue propagated, you're cool.
Seed, you're not cool at all, okay?
And a deposit actually has to be that plant, okay?
Now a utility patent, which I got, okay, a utility patent on cannabis is that you have
a class that is novel, okay?
We bred a group of cannabis plants and man, I'll tell you, the patent office, because
we were the first application, they are really trying to bust us.
They were sending us results from Analytical 360 in Washington about a CBD crew variety
from the south of Spain.
And I had to drive all over the west coast getting samples of these varieties and test
them with a validated method and submit them to the patent office for every rejection letter
we got.
And that went on for months and months and months until finally they said, okay, you
win, here's the patent.
And we have a patent on a very narrow range of type 2s, CBD and THC together, that don't
produce myrcene, okay?
And that's the key.
This is a, because finding high myrcene plants with CBD in them, that's super easy.
Finding CBD plants that don't have myrcene in them, that's really hard.
And that's what we did.
And we did that for three years breeding it.
So.
Two more questions.
You can get a patent.
Two comments.
Everybody said that here is cannabis, medical cannabis.
Here is medicine.
Here's the FDA, here's all this stuff.
And no one talked about integrating all that stuff.
The problem with medicine, as far as I'm concerned, and I've been in it for my entire life, is
that we have so siloed every specialty, every new thing that's come along.
And the worst thing we want is to be siloed as a different, alternative, oppositional
type of therapy.
And the real success is going to be if we follow the biopsychosocial model, all chronic
disease involves all those aspects.
And what kind of combination of specific cannabinoids, or specific cannabinoid plants, with other
types of traditional and medical treatments is going to really help that particular patient
in front of you.
And all the rest, I think, is just going to drive a wedge in us that the AMA and FDA and
pharma just are very happy to see happen.
I can talk to that.
I just met Dave at lunch the other day.
We had a wonderful little conversation.
So I thank you for that question because I actually, I don't think there's a difference
between what's called recreational and medicinal use.
I really don't think that's the case at all.
And there are people who say, well, I want to just have fun.
Well, how many medicines are out there for mood alteration?
Right?
How many medicines are out there with unbelievable side effects?
Right?
So I think that the spiritual aspect of cannabis is essentially why it heals.
In all the different specific ways that it heals, we're going to have Jeff and various
people pinpoint that for us when you need it for that.
But I think it's, they did tests with CBD.
You know about the, they repressed CBD and these people got suicidal when they had a
drug that repressed.
We have CBD, we need CBD as our basic health wellness in our body.
So I don't think there's really a difference.
We use this cannabis to alter our consciousness and to elevate us, and that's part of the
healing process.
And yeah, I find it a false dichotomy.
And I also think that we do want to have, we do want all the muggles to be here.
We want it to be mainstream because it's really an essential part of really coming alive.
Yeah.
That's good.
That's good.
Great.
Thank you.
I write books on efficient cannabis use and my specialty is low dose cannabis.
Unless you're a grower like Kyle Cushman or Swami, these two are brothers from another
mother to me.
Smoking a joint is the least efficient way to use cannabis.
For the average user, they're wasting their money.
And the cannabis strains that are available today, one hit is enough to get you completely
high and then you put your joint out and when you light it again, you just get a massive
dose of hydrocarbons.
Any comments, Swami, Kyle Cushman, the board?
Well, one of the things that I think is wrong, well, I'll give you an example.
I was on a team that was consulting with a group from Vegas who wanted to build a grow
and so forth.
And the investors were absolutely fascinated by how strong the cultivars that we had and
we had to offer.
And at a certain point, I said, you know, you're really looking at this the wrong way.
I said, most of your people are not going to be native Las Vegas.
They're going to be tourists coming in here and they're going to get their medical thing
here, which they thought at the time that that would happen, and then go in and they're
going to buy something.
So I said, you're going to sell them joints that have 20% THC in them?
They're going to have a bad experience.
They're naive, right?
They're going to smoke that joint and they're going to say, oh, I forgot how to breathe.
My heart is exploding.
You know, this sort of thing.
They're going to end up in the emergency ward.
I said, you don't want that experience.
I said, you could much more easily just roll up leaves from this stuff and have 5% THC
joint as their first experience.
I mean, we were smoking stuff back in the 60s and 70s that was like 2% to 3% THC.
I mean, really.
And had a great time with it.
Exactly.
I mean, so the idea of having these massive amounts, to me, you know, I mean, the idea
that you're wasting this, the point is this stuff is not going to be that expensive.
And especially if you're growing it yourself.
I mean, I throw away when I'm finished with that joint probably what most people start
their joints with.
You know, it's just.
Let me jump in.
So one thing that we didn't talk about in the evolution of cannabis is the evolution
of dose.
Okay.
And that's a whole other panel.
And I hope we have it someday because the future of this is understanding that a lot
of the constituents of cannabis exhibit biphasic dose.
In other words, it does one thing at one dose and one thing at another.
And there's this whole interesting concept.
And there's a bunch of really cool papers by GW Guy, who founded GW Pharmaceuticals,
about hormesis.
And hormesis is this idea of a very, very, very small dose actually causing a profound
change in an organism.
And it's, it has, it works on scientific levels.
It works on spiritual levels.
It's a fascinating, fascinating topic.
And there's a scientist in Israel who's been doing research on showing that your first
dose of THC is neurotoxic.
And it works almost like an inoculant, like a vaccine.
All right.
To adjust how you will respond to a phyto cannabinoid from that point forward.
This guy's published like six or seven really good papers.
And he's from a really prestigious university in Israel.
And what it is, is that we don't know.
And I'll tell you one thing that I do know is we don't have a good conception of cannabis
dose today.
And that part of the evolution of our discussion about cannabis will take that focus towards
dose.
Because there's room in this tent for somebody who wants to smoke a joint.
And there's room in this tent for somebody who wants to take a hit.
Okay.
So the micro dose, people are talking about micro dosing quite a bit.
We're done.
We're done.
I don't micro dose.
