It's Wednesday. Happy Wednesday to you, Living Soil nerds. We've had a lot of guests over
the years on our show. Johnny was one of the first people that we reached out to. I think
we even had you in November. I think it was around 2021. So just when I felt like future
cannabis projects started to get its stride after COVID. When we first were doing this,
there's maybe like 35,000 subscribers and that doubled over COVID because of the work
that Peter's been putting in. And then obviously letting everybody be a part of this platform,
it's taken off tremendously. I remember when we were interviewing you last time, Johnny,
you were out in Humboldt, you were doing your thing, hemp farming to the hilt, man. I'm
super impressed with your photos back then. And we discussed that on the show. So if you
guys want to check the first edition, a lot of fantastic information that was passed on
through then. Now bringing Marco on board as well to kind of interview Johnny on a whole
nother level with the KNF stuff, as well as kind of understanding dry front farming. I
think there's some misconceptions and a lot of individuals have learned a lot since last
time Johnny was talking about that. So again, shout out to London behind the scenes. I'm
always putting this stuff together, teaching us how to do this. We appreciate you, sir,
to give it off to Marco and then Johnny will get into a lot of these ideas and questions
that I think the community has for you.
Yes, sir. Thank you, Brian. Appreciate you, London. Thanks for joining us, Johnny. Good
to see you, man. I haven't seen this guy since my little Instagram hiatus. So it's always
good to see a friend and someone that practices those natural methods and techniques. And
yeah, man, I know we got a lot to talk about. I know you recently have come on over to the
East Coast. So we want to talk a little bit about that. So, you know, a little bit of
everything, man. What are your plans now that you're here? You know, how are you going to
grow? What are you going to do? All that kind of stuff. And I was getting prepared for the
show and I said, damn, that's right. Johnny sent me some of these fire genetics. So I
got some nice genetics from you that we can talk about and just a little bit of everything,
man. So this is going to be a great show, guys. It's one of those ones everybody's
always like, are we going to talk about growing or we're going to talk about the soil? Well,
yeah, we're definitely going to be hitting on all that kind of stuff today. So, Johnny,
I know everybody probably knows you. Why don't you just give a little intro of kind of what
you want them to know about yourself? And let's just dive on into this conversation.
For sure. And thank you guys for having me on the show again. You know, Brian and Marco
show and Future Cannabis Project is such an asset to the community. Getting this information
out there and it really brings a lot of people together. So it's really nice to be a part
of this community. So, yeah, I just like you said, Marco, I just made the migration back
to upstate New York after being away for the last 14 years or so, 10 of which I spent in
Humboldt County. And yeah, you know, just it's a changing, changing world in the cannabis
sector. A lot of things changing really fast. A lot of good, a lot of bad, a lot of uncertainty.
So, yeah, with just the way things were going and we touched upon this when I talked,
you know, when I was on the show with you, Brian and Leighton, we talked about how it was just the
market was really at, you know, kind of like an all time low. And it's very hard to sustain
an operation, even if you're doing everything, even if you're checking all the boxes. So,
you know, I just with the way things were going in Humboldt County and New York,
just coming online and having an opportunity to be the director of cultivation at a facility
outside of the city where I grew up, it seemed like the time to make the jump back. You know,
like I said, it's been about 14 years since I've been in this area and it feels good to be back in
my old stomping grounds and be around family and old friends and to be able to do what I do,
you know, legally. The last time I was back in New York really was six years ago and I got a
cannabis felony and ended up doing seven months in jail. And now I'm back here and it's, you know,
it's a whole different landscape. Damn, yeah. Okay. We won't dwell on the jail. We're glad
you moved past that. Everything else sounds good though, man. Yeah. I didn't realize you had roots
back here from that long ago. That's pretty interesting stuff. Yep. Yep. I was born and
raised and spent most of my life in the state of New York. And it's crazy to look at it now,
though. I'm like, wow, I spent a decade, like over or almost a third of my life, you know,
out in California. And I really, I went out there with the intention of getting into the cannabis
industry without much, you know, without much at all, know how connections. And I just kind of,
you know, I wanted to do it and I kept getting blessed with opportunities and things kept
falling into place. And, you know, I knew, you know, that, that I just said that was,
that was it. This was the path that started to be laid out for me. And, you know, it's,
I feel blessed. I really do. Man, that's crazy. So literally you were one of those guys or kids,
we could say at that young age, you were a kid that said, I'm going to pack up my shit
and move to Humboldt and start learning this cannabis and how to grow on a deeper level.
When you went out there, what was kind of your first step? Like when you do a move like that,
did you already have connections? Were you already like in place with other people that
were kind of, you know, kind of support you along that journey or did you just go out there?
So the first time I ever really remember hearing about people working in the cannabis industry was,
was actually my half sister. And she was, you know, went out to California, was trimming. And
I remember I reached out to her. I'm like, Hey, you know, hook me up with a job or something.
She's like, eh, it doesn't really work like that. So she's like, you just got to come out here.
And I'm like, yeah, right. So I kind of put it on the back burner for, for like a year or two.
And then I had a friend who, who recently he moved to California and, and he kind of,
me and him were really tight when he was on the East coast and he reached out to me and he's like,
Hey, I might have some work for you, you know, get out here. And you know, I'm like, you might
have some, you might have some work for me. I'm like, you want me to drive across the country
and you might. And, you know, I was like, you know what? I had $3,000 to my name. I had my car
and I'm just like, I'm, I'm going for it. I was like, worst case scenario is like, I get out there
and I get stranded out there and have to, you know, beg family to help me out and get home or
whatever. And I'm like, I, I'm going to take that leap of faith. And, and I almost turned around
when I was driving in Ohio. I was like, what am I doing? This is crazy. You know, I'm going to,
going to such a crazy unknown you know, new experience. And, and yeah, I just remember,
I'm like, no, I'm, I'm going, I'm keeping the drive, but yeah. So I got out to California and
he ended up linking me up with like a week or two worth of work helping harvest and do some big
leafing and, and prepping for the trimmers. And then the work kind of dried up. It was a small
operation and that was in Mendocino County. And then you know, at that point I'm like, well,
I'm here. I I'm not about to drive back to New York right now. It's, you know, it's beautiful
out here. I got to at least, you know, see what's, you know, see what's what. And I, I drove down to
the Bay area and was living in my car for, for a couple of weeks and reached out to a buddy. I went
to high school with and ended up staying with him. And he just kinda, he made some connections
with some of his friends and I was able to find work helping out this dude in San Jose with his
indoor grow and, and he'd bring herb over for me to trim and I'd go down there to help him.
But yeah, just things kept falling into my lap. Like, you know, I'm like, I shouldn't have these
many, you know, this much opportunity. And yeah, just, I was like, all right, well, I guess I'm
supposed to be doing this. Yeah, that's pretty wild, man. Well, not only should you be doing
this, but the community as a whole, man, before we came on here, Marco and I were kind of teasing
him that there's just a lot of love for Johnny as a human being. And I think a lot of people
respect that. And when we were first interviewing you, you know, you were out in Humboldt, it seemed
like you had your hemp farms dialed in. You go out there and I think probably like a lot of things,
you're getting a lot of experience. But then to take it back to New York, I would imagine,
you know, I haven't been to New York in a long time, but I would imagine dry farming, some of
those skillsets you learned out there wouldn't necessarily be at the forefront of thinking
for the farms that are in New York. So I was wondering if you could kind of teach us a little
bit about how the thinking is for the large farming in New York. Are they thinking long-term
or is it mostly kind of just salt-based? Let's get as much money in, you know, Ferraris and Maseratis.
It's like kind of a mixed bag. I'm seeing a lot of people who are, you know, on the sustainable
regenerative kick. And then I'm also seeing a lot of, you know, facilities jump on and they're
doing, you know, they got the Dosatrons hooked up with, you know, the state-of-the-art cannabis,
you know, synthetic nutrients. And they're, you know, just really going for that kind of
assembly line, you know, mass produced, just generic, you know, cannabis that's, you know,
grown indoors or under supplemental lights. I will say that it's difficult in New York with
the climate here. It's very humid. And we have a shorter grow season than California, but
it's really, really humid here throughout the whole summer. You know, it's raining, you know,
usually every week, you know, thunderstorms, you know, pretty frequently. So it's a whole different
scenario where it's hard to have a commercial operation and be like completely outside.
It's a big gamble. So what I'm seeing is a lot of people are doing mixed light greenhouses
and they're trying to be as, you know, as, I guess, frugal as possible because they're really
using it for the, you know, the supplemental sunlight, you know, they're like, we don't have
to spend as much money. So yeah, that's, it's going to be pretty common. I don't think that
the outdoor scene is going to be super big. I think there are going to be people who go for it,
but it's so high stakes, you know, it's like every year you got to flip a coin.
If you're going to get an early frost, if you're going to have, you know,
botrytis issues, powdery mildew. And I think that out here, it's, people don't really have the,
the newer cultivators don't have that understanding that you can't grow every single plant
out here in New York. You're going to have to grow like what grows well here.
What has mold and mildew resistance? What finishes early? And people really, they're kind of focused
on, you know, what's the hype stuff for California. And it's going to be interesting to see
how that unfolds because yeah, it's a new industry here. There's some people cultivating, but it's
not like, it's not like it is in California where it's so deeply rooted into that culture out there.
Yeah. New York culture is more like, you know, the packs are received, they find ways to hustle it.
The two veins on the East coast is obviously New York and Miami specifically, because the money
seems like it's always there if you're willing to take the risk. So now that you have that
opportunity, do you think that the, you know, the commercial farming and the way that you're at,
that community as a whole seems like money isn't necessarily the first objection for people that
are able to live, you know, in the city and that kind of thing. I mean, money is probably always
at the forefront of people's minds, but quality, it seems what it matters in New York and a variety
of, you know, pick your, pick your pleasure. But cannabis as a whole seems like it demands a higher
price point because the market there knows the difference between subpar stuff, good cannabis
compared to great elite cannabis and the market will pay. Have you kind of been playing around
networking, trying to see that stuff for yourself in the commercial space?
Well, I mean, right now, God, the commercial sector in New York, it's, it's really, it's amazing
because they do so many things, right. So many proposed regulations are like, really, you know,
I'm like, yeah, that's great. They're putting sustainable farms on the kind of top of the list.
But then at the same time, they're botching it because right now in the state of New York,
there's two dispensaries, I believe, open. So it's like, there's two dispensaries open for the
whole state of New York and for every single farmer who is permitted, which was most, it was,
it's all hemp farmers who were able to make that transition and to be the first wave of Cal,
or of New York legal cultivators. So they have all these people who, you know, they're growing
their product and this was all, all outdoor. And, you know, they harvest it, they're ready for the
legal market. And then they kind of botched the layout of the dispensary. So now it's this like,
you know, it's this crazy New York. I mean, I'm far from the city, but New York city was wild. I
mean, there's pop-up stores, trucks driving around, ice cream trucks driving around selling herb.
Really like, you know, just people got bold because they're like, we've been doing this for
a long time. And now we kind of like the enforcement kind of has their, their balls chopped off on this
one. Like they can't really do too much. So for, for a while, it was just really crazy where there's
these stores, these really legit looking storefronts selling cannabis. And it was, you know,
illicit. But, you know, it's just the, it's kind of the New York state of mind, I guess, you know,
people are like, Hey, we don't have to worry about things and we can be out in the open.
Let's do it. You know, let's, let's get it while the getting's good.
Normalize it, you know, pop-ups are huge now. Like people hit those pop-ups and then, you know,
in and out before anybody authorities or anybody even can get onto it. So like pop-ups are huge,
but yeah, I did. I did notice like prices are way down. Like, I mean, low because everybody
is getting the shit in the mail. Like people are getting all the rejected shit from out West out
here on the East coast. That's the big thing. Everybody's running it in through the mail and
getting all these pounds for, you know, 1200, 1400. And that's kind of just, you know, that's
kind of running the price way down. Quality though, you can tell the difference, you know what I mean?
There's a difference in that quality of that mail in, you know, reject shit that you're getting
from out West versus that home grown, you know, local, you know, quality grown craft on cannabis.
So just to tag onto that, Brian, I feel like it's like hit and miss, man. Like, it seems like
that's how it is down here. I'm not exactly sure about New York, but it's probably about, you know,
the same, you know what I mean? Yeah, you're right, Marco. I mean, the people are so desperate in
California because even if it is of quality, you know, it's like people are begging to take like
$300 a pound, which it's like, they're begging for that. And sometimes they can't, you know,
people they're like, Hey, it's 300 bucks. And people are still like, nah, like, because there's
so much available. And the way that the whole, I mean, the cannabis industry is changing so rapidly
with, I mean, look at, you know, California was such a big distributor for the longest time,
it still is. But now Oklahoma's online. And, you know, and it's like a lot of people from Texas,
they're not going to California anymore. You know, New York is online now. So it's like, there's,
there's like, you know, more abundance here. Maine is online, Vermont. So all these places
are kind of popping up all over the place. And it's like, those kind of glory days of just
people in California being like, Hey, like, you know, we can just float everything out there.
And we're going to have that ace in the hole. It's kind of those days are numbered, you know,
as they're coming to a close, I feel like there's always going to be some sort of market like that.
But, you know, there's not much space anymore because it's just kind of being normalized.
The risk isn't as steep. So people are, you know, they're like more and more people are
trying to distribute. I said the same thing earlier.
It must be that beard oil I put in there today.
It's like a lion's mane, dude, full of wisdom, you know, authority.
That A's, those grades don't stop, man. They just, they just keep coming.
Shout out, Chris. I see you out there. Chris is somebody up in upstate NY.
Great resource at Arundak Cannabis. He knows the stuff. Shout out to him on here. Thank you,
DP. Appreciate you out there. Yeah. Chris, he's a really, he's amazing.
As far as the information that he shares, he's really kind of a whistleblower and a lot of
the shit that's going on with the legal market in New York. He's really on it. And he's like,
it's like reading the news anytime I'm on his page. So he's a good dude. I'm looking forward
to meeting him this weekend. Definitely. Yeah. Good dude. Yeah. We need that. You know,
you need somebody to kind of keep the plan field level. Like, you know what I mean?
Keep that score. We like that. That's what I was going to say is that we kind of police
ourselves. Like if some shit gets out that seems suspect or really we call it going south,
it doesn't make sense to people. And then they want to bring it to light. I think there needs
to be more of that because there's not enough individuals being called out for some of that
stuff. And not like it needs to be highlighted all the time, just when it's a major kind of
thing moving forward. The best part about the living soil stuff is for the most part,
everybody's looking out for each other. You know, last time you were here, you're saying that you
were really focused, Johnny, on like certain genetics. You were only running Humboldt genetics.
You were excited for like their blueberry muffin, you know, growing up in Atlanta, Georgia,
that Humboldt, that was like the primo. If somebody could, I guess in a way trick you or
prove to you that that was California weed, you know, that commanded a heavier price just because
you were, you know, calling it Humboldt, whatever. So moving forward, you know, the blueberry muffin
was stuffed out in Atlanta. That was definitely at the top of the list. So do you continue kind
of moving that forward thinking like, hey, I'm going to bring a ton of West Coast genetics East,
or are you kind of now dabbing around with some of more of like the East Coast stuff,
maybe even more of the Florida stuff, the creepy, some of the well-known stuff that's kind of moved
through the ranks in that world. So for the commercial operation,
shout out to Pure New York Cannabis. Those guys are a big, big reason why I'm back here.
It took me a lot of time to get to move back and pull the trigger and venture back this way.
And it probably wouldn't have happened without those guys. So for them, you know, we're going to
be really trying to figure out what grows well. It's going to be, it's a mixed light operation.
So we're going to have some climate control, but it's like, we're going to have to be really
selective and figure out what works well. And there's definitely, there's some Humboldt
Seed Company genetics that I, that have piqued my interest. And I feel like those guys are just,
they are, they're constantly stepping their game up. They're, they're really, you know,
putting out some super dank genetics these days. But, you know, honestly, being back here and
having my little, you know, six plant allotment for my, for a medical patient, I'm really going
for like, I mean, I have the Alder Point Sour Diesel that I, that I have back here and I'm,
I'm trying to be, you know, strategic about what I'm growing because in the year 2023,
there's so many options. There is like, it's just, you know, every, you can get runs everywhere.
You can get all these things. And I'm like, all right, what's going to set me apart? You know,
I need to have something that's going to set me apart. So I'm really exploring new genetics
and growing what I think the market is just kind of always hungry for.
It's hard to stay on top of the industry with how fast everything changes. There's a, you know,
flavor of the week. So it's like, how do you pick and how do you know what the flavor of the week
is? You, you can't, you can guess, you might be right every now and then, but I feel like having
these like, like these classic varieties and these classic cultivars like, you know, Sour Diesel
or Silver Pearl was a big one in this particular area where I grew up. And I actually had a, a
buddy send me some, some S1 Silver Pearls from, from the Netherlands. And I'm really stoked on
those because I know it's something that has that nostalgic value and no matter what people are
going to be excited for it. So I think that that, you know, having something that distinguishes what
you have as a cultivator, it's, it really is important now. And it's more important now than
ever because there's, you know, everybody's doing it. So that's really, I mean, going with the good
genetics and the different genetics and trying to be sustainable and focused on being as
regenerative as possible and minimizing my impact as a cultivator. Yeah, man, you made some good
points. I know like everyone's going to tell you sour, they're going to love that sour up there
and haze. They love sours and hazes. And it was funny because there was like a video
a few years back, it was Jada Kiss and Stiles P. They were like arguing like,
haze, not sour, haze, not sour. Like it was like, that was a, so it was like, so New York that they
were arguing about that. And it seems like everybody I talked to, those are kind of the
predominant kind of flavors up there. You know, they love that sour and they love their hazes.
And I know down here, man, well, everywhere, everybody's trying to find the skunks now and
everybody's trying to find all these kinds of old school flavors now. So anything you got from that
old school stuff will probably, you know, most likely be a hit. I think a lot of the East Coast
stuff with the sours is because you can put that in what's known as an Optimo blunt. And then you
could have seven dudes that puff tough and that thing will go around for like 15, 20, 30 minutes,
depending on how many are in the group. And it would have that flavor. I remember it was like
NYC, New York, sour diesel or Durban poison. You could put that in those Optimo blunts and
they would still have that pungent smell. So I think that might've been also part of that is
back then everybody was smoking blunts. And then when you were outside and your stuff smelled just
so much different and better than the other, everybody else smoking their blunts, you know,
that I think that's what really led that to be. And then of course, everybody wants the stuff that
just smells and tastes the best. True New York, sour diesel, true Durban poison. That stuff is
nostalgic. Like it will take you back. Like if you've had that before.
Oh yeah. I haven't heard, haven't had that all their point, man. I heard a lot of people talking
about it. I got blessed with a 96 sour from my mother's back, Mile High Gardener. And I grew
it out in it, but it's not that super that the sour Brian was just talking about. It's not that
exact old sour, you know what I mean? How's that all the point hitting man? Pretty strong.
It's good. It's got, it's, you know, it's hard to get that because it's such a, you know,
the cuts that were around back in the day, some people have them, but a lot of things just get
lost. So when I saw these, these seeds drop, I remember I actually, I was, I tried to scoop them
and they sold out in the first like five minutes. And I was like, so bummed. I was like, Oh my God,
I missed this, the opportunity. And then like, I saw that he was going to do another release of
them and I'm like, all right, I got it. So I'm watching, you know, a Fissionado, a States
Instagram, like a fricking Hawk, like waiting for him to drop the sour because
the way I see it is even if the F ones came out and they were, you know, however, that I could
expand the population, make some F2s and have like a solid, solid population to hunt through.
And with the pedigree behind it, I was like, you know, it was just a bunch of legendary sour cuts
that were floating around Humboldt. So I'm like, okay, you know, I feel like it's going to be good
either way. And then the F2s that I make, it's going to, you're going to see kind of a little
bit of everything from, from all of those that went into it. So for me, it's like got that classic
sour smell, but there's a little bit, there's something extra to it. There's like, almost like
a, not like Skittles, like the cultivar, but like, like a bag of Skittles, like mixed with that old
school sour smell. So it's, it's nice, but I have a bunch of F2s that I'm really looking forward to,
you know, popping, you know, a few hundred and running through them and looking for that, you
know, the gem, you know, the real winner. Cause I'm sure there's going to be one that just,
it presents itself. Yeah. Well, that's cool. You said that was a Fischionado,
will be dropping some, some sour stuff. Fischionado seed?
He did. And I don't know if he still has any in stock, but he, the last few years,
he's been kind of on like a, he's been releasing some different, different sour renditions that,
that he's, you know, had different cuts in the archive for a while. So, yeah, that's, you know,
I'm really happy with it. It's something that when I, you know, it was a small pack of seeds,
but I had a hard time picking a winner, you know, it was all, they were all really good,
slightly different. And, and the, the winner that I went with was, it just was just a very,
very hardy, resistant, well-structured plant. There was, I had a plant that had powdery mildew.
It was, you know, very, very dank weed, but very susceptible, very weak, you know. And that plant
was just riddled with powdery mildew. It just did, it wanted to have it. And I had that sour
right next to it. You know, I'd be touching it sometimes, never, never manifested at all. So,
I'm like, you know, me going back to the East coast with the humidity, the way it is, I'm like,
that's gotta be the one, that's gotta be the cut that I'm saving because, you know, it's,
it, yeah, it has that hardiness, which is going to be essential.
Yeah, that's key. That's a, that's a great point. People don't realize, like, and we talk about it
all the time. Look, you can grow a plant right next to another plant with issues and let this
plant be strong and healthy. You know, every cultivar is different. And those are the ones
I look for. Like, I hate to sacrifice just, all right, all I got was this one sour, this one plant,
I'm gonna ride with it, even though it's weak. I don't like to sacrifice and do that. You know
what I mean? I don't want to keep it around if it's going to be the weak link out of the group.
I mean, I guess there's exceptions to that if it's just ridiculously terpy and different and unique.
But with all things being equal, you know, if I got a choice, and you said this at the beginning,
grow what wants to grow for you. You know what I mean? That's always key. And that's with any plant,
cannabis or whatever. If it doesn't want to grow for you, you'll know. And if it does,
you guys will have a great relationship and that you and that plant will do some really nice things.
So yeah, definitely key points. Somebody said in the chat, I just wanted to go back. They said,
the real sour is a massive yielder, takes 11 to 12 weeks to fully express. Very finicky. Most
people pulled her early back in the day or gave too much in. Yeah, I mean, I guess that could be
true. I guess the real sour is that one you have is that sour. If you pop a pack of seeds and you
find a sour in that bitch, that's now the real sour. You know what I mean? I don't know that
there's if you want to say the real maybe the original East Coast sourdews or something. That's
one thing. I don't know that anybody still has those kind of cuts. If they do, they're lucky.
Yeah, the legendary for sure. It's never going to go out of style.
No doubt. Yeah, man, I like that man popping seeds. I feel like that's key. I'm looking for
distinct blueberry from 2000s and you don't know it until you taste it and see it and smell it,
and that's from popping seeds. So I'm going to be popping some blueberry stuff. That blunt
berry I got from you, it sounds like I got that obviously blueberry lineage in there.
What is that? What's the kind of the story on that? Those blackberries?
So that was that was like the first cross that I ever made and for a long, long time.
I thought about that when I was in college still and hadn't even grown a cannabis plant. I was like,
thinking about my two favorite favorite genetics at the time, blueberry and Durban poison.
And I'm like, I got to do that at some point in time. DJ short released some blueberry F5 a few
years ago, and I had a really good Durban cut and I'm like, you know what, like, I got to do it.
I got to make that that cross. And yeah, for me, those were just very two special, special genetics,
you know, I'm like, these are some of the my favorite, some of the most flavorful,
and really would bring me back some like, mashing those two up. However, you know,
whatever way it leans, I, you know, people who like blueberry or Durban aren't going to be
disappointed. And they're both really strong genetics to in the F5. I was stoked to get those
because they had been worked and they were really stable. So, you know, as for selecting a male,
I'm like, okay, like, you know, I'm going to pick the hardiest one, the one that has the most kind
of blueberry stem rub. But, you know, they were very homogenous. I feel like you'd have to pop a
lot of seeds to get some, some variants because they had been worked to an F5 at that point
already. Damn, I'm excited about these now man. F5, DJ short, blueberry cross with Durban. I'm
gonna get some goodies out of that. Those were the ones that kind of looked like a like a baseball
card, right? It had like a protector on it with a hologram. It did. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It had like the
exactly what you said. And there was a little disclaimer on the seed pack that said like,
basically with DJ short saying don't, don't breed with this. Don't get, you know, have clones of it
and give them out. But it for me, like once you put something out there in the plant world,
it's kind of like it's, it's not yours. It's really nature's. And if you don't want it to be
out there, don't put it out there. Yeah, keep it. You know, there's some cuts that I, I'm, you know,
really selective about who I'll give them out to. But at the same time, it's like a secret. As soon
as you let it out, it's like it's out there and it could, you know, could end up everywhere. So I,
you know, I felt a little bad, but at the same time, like, no, I got to do this. And it's
at what point does it stop being his work? And it's like mine. Cause I had to, you know, have the,
make the selections and do the whole pollination and chuck the seeds and get them all separated.
So all of that, I'm like, all right, well, I did work and I put time and energy and money into this.
So, you know, where, where does that transfer of ownership come in? It comes in when you pay them
that 99.99. That's when the best, when they became yours. Right. And I don't care. You don't get the
chance to, you did the work, DJ Short. You don't get to make all the money off the seeds and then
tell people they can't rework the seeds. Like it's a wrap. Once you sell that shit, it's a wrap.
If you got something, you want to keep tight, keep it in your friend group, keep it close. But
with cannabis, like we all know that shit is meant to share, you know, DJ Short knows,
he knows people are going to work that, but it's meant to share. And he, and that's why he did it.
So if you didn't want the money, keep your shit and then you don't have to worry about nobody
running it. But if you start selling it, then now that becomes us, that's no longer yours.
You're not naming it for yourself and acting like you created the line, you know, that's,
that'd be different. You're just taking what he did and worked with it. And I don't see anything
wrong with that. I think the community as a whole pretty much feels that way. Like once you decide
to put it out there, it's like music or something. There's going to be people that do nefarious
things thing with it. And then people that probably like give you a collab and a shout
out. And that's, that's the way it should be. Right. Almost just, Hey, I got this work. Then
I did some shit and then, Hey, check this out. I think running different lines from Humboldt and
from DJ Short also allows you, if you're newer to this to see like, okay, this blueberry is different
than this blueberry. And, you know, and what is whoever, whatever person is breeding that out,
you know, what is their vision, their view on that? I think that's insightful. If you're a
beginner farmer and you want to get into breeding is to kind of start from day one, just starting
to understand that stuff. Cause it's going to take a long time, obviously to get to that point,
to have the eye and all that. So why not start off, understand these genetics and maybe not start
off with $500 genetics, but, you know, run, run genetics that are like a hundred dollars or less
and start to build up that skillset from day one. Yeah. And I like to ask the breeder, like kind of
what, what am I looking for here? Like, what's the kind of ideal typical look that I'm looking for?
Because if he's already put in work and the plants he's looking for are kind of, they,
they fit this description. Then I kind of want to take that and run farther with it instead of
kind of looking for a different pheno and kind of going back in time. If he's got something
that's been working with and it, and it kind of, that gives you that eye, what to look for,
kind of what smells to smell for. You know, a lot of times they'll be very specific. Well,
one look for the one that smells like lavender or it's got, you know, it smells like this,
or it's got this leaf structure. And to me, when you do that, you kind of, you're taking it
a step farther and just kind of continuing to work with what the guy did. I took the night,
I mean, this is just for my personal use, but I took genomes fucking Fantasia and I hit that with
some King J and delicious pollen. You know what I mean? So right now I got these seeds inside the
Fantasia, you know what I mean? And I'm going to pop them bitches and I'm going to go through them
and I'm going to find me something nice. But you know, that's when I'll always give credit to where
they came from. You know what I mean? I'll tell that lineage, but when I find something that's
unique, you know, I found that, you know what I mean? And I appreciate y'all putting in that work,
get blessed with those genetics. But part of it is also the seed is just a seed until you pop that
seed, grow it out and get something nice out of it. You know, you really just have a seed.
Yep. Nothing but potential at that point. And I totally agree, Marco. Like I feel like the paying,
you know, giving credit where credit's due is important. And that's just the way it's like,
we have this like rich, you know, lineage of cannabis. And I think that telling the story
behind it, it's important. And, you know, just at least, you know, that's the thing I'm like,
yeah, I got a shout out DJ Short for that. And it's not like, oh, it was my blueberry.
It's a gives it, you know, kind of some legitimacy when you're like, hey, I got this cup from this
person. And this is the mail that I use. And there's transparency as well. So, you know,
I think that there's a lot of it that goes both ways. There's a lot of people who hold things
close and don't really want to tell rename cuts that they have. And basically, you know, they're
like, oh, this is mine now. There's tons of that that goes on in the industry. And I think that's
important for people who put genetics out that like, it's a risk that you take by putting it
out there. It's, you know, anything goes at that point, you hope that people are, you know,
being legit and paying, you know, paying that mind to give you credit. But at the same time,
it's like you might not. And that's something you got to kind of accept. Like you're saying,
if you start, you know, selling things, that's the trade off, you know, you're selling it and
you're selling the genetics and the story behind it. So what are you asking? What's kind of your
plans? Are you going outdoors? You say you're going indoor with your outdoor setup? What kind
of style if you if you are going to do that and grow monsters? How are you going to grow? You
know, what are you kind of planning as far as your setup? So for my personal growth, and just being
where I'm at, it's going to be indoor. But that's just for my little, you know, hobby, you know,
side thing. But for the company I'm working for Pure New York Cannabis, we're going to be doing
mixed light and it's going to be light depth. So just something that I would big plants,
I love to grow them and I can't wait until I have some real estate to be able to put out some big
plants and to do it. But it's risky on a commercial endeavor. And, you know, I'm not seeing a lot of
people who are like being like, we're just going to be straight outdoor. That is our business model.
And as much as I love, you know, I would, that's where I want to be. I want to be in
outside under the sun, no covers, no greenhouse, no fan. But it's one of those things where it's
like, you know, I don't want to die on the hill of idealism. I want to be as trying to find balance
between what's going to work and what's going to be able to keep these, to keep every, this business
afloat and be successful. And then I also want to, you know, be as sustainable as possible and find
that middle ground where it's like, Hey, we're going to be, you know, we're going to be rocking
solar panels after the first year for most of our energy. And we're really going to be, you know,
mindful and be trying to source inputs locally, make a lot of inputs on site and kind of run with
that. And, but also be mindful that it's like, Hey, this is, you know, this is a business and it
needs to, you know, be a, if, if everybody wants to keep doing it, it has to be successful. And,
and we're trying to take the steps to ensure that. So yeah, we're going to be doing the mixed light
with, you know, some climate control action going on and really be trying to deliver as
as good of a product or as great as a product as we can. And at the same time, really be trying
to be mindful of our carbon footprint. Of course. I love it, man. That's good. And all those things,
you know, how it is you, they, them, they hired you because whatever you bring to the table,
you're going to save them whatever you're they're paying you. You're going to save them
at least that much with your knowledge of inputs, how to grow, know how, you know,
environment, all that stuff. So whatever they're paying you, you're worth it. You know what I mean?
And that's key. I'm glad you got a nice opportunity to come back, man. I tell people that all the time.
I'm like, you know, young folks, don't be afraid to move on. Right. Don't go away. Chase a dream.
Your hometown is going to be there when you get back. I mean, this man went away 15 years. He's
back. You know, the shit don't change, you know, changes a little bit, but you're not going to miss
anything, man. I just think had you sat there for 15 years, Johnny, right now, you probably,
who knows, man, you might just be old factory worker doing some boring meaning, you know what
I'm saying? You never know where your life would have went. So obviously you made the right choice,
man, making that leap early, going out there to the, you know, the Mecca of, you know, cannabis
and putting in your work and learning. And now you come on back home and the guys are paying you to
live at home and do the same thing that you love to do. So that's a great full story, kind of full
circle story, man. It feels really good. It really does. You know, it was, like I said,
I had the whole legal thing and I basically told myself I'm not coming back here until cannabis is
legal. And it literally, yeah, that's the next time I made it back. Cannabis is legal and it
really does. It feels so good to come full circle and to take what I learned out in Humboldt and to
experience that. It was such a special, special place and still is. But just that things are
changed now. It's not what it was when I went out there 10 years ago. Things are really, really
different. The kind of magic is, I'm not going to say it's gone, but it's definitely limited.
And seeing that and seeing how things are changing, I'm like, that's the only thing
that's really constant in life has changed. I'm like, you know, the writing was on the wall for
me. I'm like, okay, things are really hitting the fan here. California, it's just really an
expensive place to be. Everything is going up in price except for cannabis. And I'm like,
man, it's like hard living right here. I'm like, it's going to be kind of a struggle.
So I feel blessed that I have this opportunity and that these guys, you know, so close that
literally the operation is, it's like 15 minutes out of the city where I grew up. And those guys
had this mindset before I even came into the picture at all. They already wanted to be,
you know, regenerative and using natural farming techniques and it just all meshed together
perfectly. So where do you guys think you're going to be moving forward? Are they going to
let you like play around with genetics? I would imagine you got to get your numbers up and then
maybe have that discussion or... So the regs are still like kind of up in the air. They haven't
finalized. So we're seeing how it's written, if there's like an R&D section that's permitted.
But no, these guys are really, you know, we want to do what works, but they're really open to
finding something that sets us apart. And it's really nice to have people who are like, yeah,
they're realistic, you know, and they don't have this idea how they need it to be or want it to be.
Yeah, they're like props to, you know, the owners. They're really, they know, they're like,
hey, we're going to plug you in here and you're going to do what works. So I think that eventually
we're going to start playing with some genetics and try to do some in-house genetics, you know,
that we're breeding and cultivating on site. And it's really, New York State is giving a lot of,
they're giving a lot of power to smaller growers. There's micro business licenses,
which are pretty obtainable. And with that micro business, you're allowed to have a storefront,
you're allowed to process on site, and you're allowed to have your own storefront.
So, you know, we're going to be able to have a shop, you know, once we're up and operational,
and we're going to be able to have our own product at our shop, you know, in the,
you know, outside of the cultivation zone, but, you know, right down the hill. So it's really
cool because it's like we can cater to a local market here and give those things that people
really want and just have our own distribution channel, which is something that California is
starting to do. But the hurdles involved, they're really, they're fucking difficult. It's really,
it's not easy to get a micro business license and really put that into practice. And here,
it seems like they New York State kind of wants smaller operations to be
sustainably like financially, because in California, having a small operation right now,
it's not really you got to be ready to take some losses and to have some hard years before it's
going to bounce back. So seeing that I'm like, Oh, it gives me some hope that the New York market's
going to be a little, you know, more forgiving than it was in California.
Well, and nothing's really happening, right? Like you said, there's two dispensaries
at this point. So do you think this is going to be years or potentially?
There, there's, I think like 32 dispensaries approved, but it's just been a really slow
rollout and, you know, bureaucracy. It's like, there's so many, you know, so many channels to
go through. And so like, it, it just looks, it's a, it's a mess. It's organized chaos. And like I
said, New York is doing some things, right. They botched the, the job of having the outlets for
these farmers. Like there's going to be so much herb that just sits around because there's,
there's nowhere to put it. And it really gives the dispensary owner. I mean, imagine that you're the
only two dispensaries in the state and you have like a hundred cultivators. You're like, all right,
well, who wants the product on our shelves? Like, all right, well, this is what we're paying.
It's not really setting things off on the right foot. And a lot of people are going to take some
hits this year. And for me, I'm kind of like grateful that, you know, we weren't able to get
our license this first round because of how chaotic it is. And so I guess we missed out on a whole
bunch of headaches. I like that storefront option, man. That'll be key to making sure your shit
moves. You know, I feel, damn. Yeah. So I've been re I was reading some of Chris's stuff, man. Yeah.
He was saying the same thing. Like, there's going to be a huge like backlog, like so much cannabis
that can't move this year. So I think as a business owner, people need to really be mindful of things
like that and, you know, prepare yourself for, you know, kind of get set up for that next year
when hopefully things can move. I know Virginia is kind of, they've went a step backward as well.
You know, we're legal now, but we're kind of went a step away from being able to go rec where it's
where, where can you buy it? Right. No, there's still not that option right now for where you
can buy things. So I don't know, man, a lot of these a lot of these, you know, it's a blessing.
I'm glad things are getting approved and moving in the right direction, but a lot of the
infrastructure that has to go with it. And the forethought of that, you can tell these states
and these folks aren't really talking to cannabis people per se, you know what I mean? They're
talking to more like talking heads, people that are hearing things and then repeat it because we
know we can tell you right now what, what will get the market moving, you know, what will get
things flowing, what to get prices up to an acceptable level. You know, we know those things,
but it just seems like that bureaucracy, man, it always gets, puts these layers in the way.
And it just makes it that much harder to kind of even do something that's legal.
Yeah. The suits, the suits always called that a vertically integrated. And in a way they taught
us that that is the way to obviously make it is to be in control of both sides. So when Colorado
first started popping off, people had a lot of money, but they didn't have enough money
to do both sides. So unless they were a huge corporation, they didn't get to do that. And there
are very few mom and pops left because of that reason. You know, if they were eventually able
to go vertically integrated, they're able to then control that market. Otherwise you're constantly
relying on the middleman. And in the commercial days in that, in that world, they're always trying
to peddle you some, especially if you're a newer client to them, they're not peddling you the best
stuff at scale, maybe, maybe for a few, few packs. So there's a lot of like, oh, we have this product,
but is it necessarily that product? So when you're vertically integrated, you get to,
again, be controlled on both, have control on both sides. Do you have any idea how much that's
going to cost in New York to have like a micro business like that? I mean, to me, that doesn't
sound like micro, you can have a storefront and you can have a grow. That's all, you know, it'd
be great if you could, you know, put a storefront in your front, in front of your house, but you
obviously can't do that. This would obviously be the next best thing. So I don't know off the top
of my head what the cost of licenses are, but the, you know, the micro business, it's, it really is
like, it's a small, modest canopy size. I believe like six and some change for mixed light, maybe
10,000 for outdoor, like full sun. And then like, oh God, what was it? It's like a couple thousand
for indoor. So it's like, you know, it's going to, if you're going to have that option, you're
kind of limited as far as to what you can actually produce, which, you know, that definitely,
it's going to keep, I feel like there's always loopholes. So I'm like, okay, we got to watch
and see how this is going to go. Cause how is some corporation going to find out a way
where they can get a bunch of micro businesses and break things up?
Where, but right now it's like, if everything goes according to plan with that, it's like,
it's seemingly a pretty righteous, you know, cultivation tier license where it puts people
in the position where they can survive. Because yeah, I mean, as you said,
Would you say it's like a legal home grow at the commercial level?
I mean, it's small 6,000 square feet for me, which is about the operation size that we're
going to be, you know, having to me, that's, you know, that's definitely, you know, some plants
and it's some work, but, you know, after doing larger canopy sizes, 6,000 square feet is really
like achievable. You know, it's like with a small team of people, you can run that and you could
produce craft and something that you said, Brian was, was, yeah, you, you know, if you have kind of
the chain of custody throughout the plant's whole life, like you're growing it, you're processing it
and trimming it, and then you're able to package, which I'm not a hundred percent that the packaging
is able to be done, but basically you have control of your product from the beginning until the very
end, from when you're growing it to when you're selling it, which, you know, think about how many
things can happen to cannabis. Like if, okay, we got to send our stuff to a processor. We got to,
we got to send our stuff to a trimming facility, you know, who, I know I've seen trimmers trim some
of my bud and I've been like appalled where I've been like, you know, I'm like literally jaw dropped.
I'm like, like, don't like stop doing that. And, you know, so it's like, when it's not even, you
don't even have the ability to see what's going on there. Like you can really fuck product up big time,
even how it's, yeah, how it's stored. It's a hot barn that your product's sitting in, or it's in like a,
you know, humid room or like, there's so many points of error. And if you have shade of custody,
it's like, you have a little bit more, I mean, you have a lot more say in what's, you know, what's what
and no one else is going to fuck it up for you with that, which is something that happened.
I know people in California who sent out products to be trimmed and sold, but it took them like six
or seven months to pay them if they got paid. And then it's like, they're getting, they're getting
prices from, say, say they did, they give their product to these facilities in June, then they get
their money in December or January of the next year. They're getting those prices from December,
January. They're not getting the prices where they stole like, here, we're giving this to you in June.
You're not getting June prices. You're getting fucking, you know, when they can sell it and make
as much. And yeah, there's a lot of people in the middle that want a piece of it. And it kind of
like, it's putting a lot of people to work, but at the same time, it's like, it's coming down on the
farmer really hard.
Yeah, because in a way, there's, it's kind of like, they're your agent, and not everybody's a good agent.
So if you're an actor and you got a shitty agent, you're probably not getting a lot of gigs.
But the flip side of this is, the entire time that you have this shitty agent for you representing
your stuff, your stuff could be getting degraded. A lot of times they're asking for that product,
and they're holding on to it. They're not being transparent about kind of the way that they manage
things. And then they come back at you and say, oh, we weren't able to sell anything. So here,
take that shit back. I think that is a disservice to everybody involved in the way that it's kind of
like the middleman gets to dictate if the farmer finds success or not. And that is brutal.
That's why you got to end his job.
And it's sad too, because it's not like the consumers, I mean, getting low deal prices either.
A lot of times they're paying the same price for something. And it's like, okay, so what happened
from farmer or grower to consumer, where it's like, they're paying the same, they're getting
paid less than ever, like at all time lows. So it's like, you know, it'd be one thing, it's like,
oh yeah, $300 pounds. Okay. Is the customer paying, you know, $10 an eighth and it's like
Primo products, like and everyone's smoking lovely. And are they doing that? No, it's not how it goes.
So it's like, it would be one thing if the prices were low and it was this kind of cannabis utopia
where everyone gets to, you know, roll up ounces and there's trade buds and not have it be this
crazy thing. Because the culture, it's so crazy, like wild, the culture in California, like I was
in Humboldt and I've had a homeless person pull out a bag of weed that, you know, it was like a
pound of weed and it was a homeless guy. And I remember being in New York and like scraping
resin from bowls and fricking smoking seedy shit weed and conserving, like, you know, and I was
paying a bunch of money for it. I'm like, the culture is so different where people are just
giving you, trading you weed, you know, giving you handfuls of herb if you don't have any smoke.
And out here, it's like, that's a lot of money. Or it was, now things are a little different, but
it's a trip to see that. Yeah, it's crazy too. I mean, to me, it's about when those prices are
low like that, you got to just wonder how it was grown. You know what I mean? Like what was the
full process? What did that cannabis go through to end up being that price? You know what I mean?
And I get it that there is some good stuff being grown and the market just won't allow it to go for
a respectable price. I get that. And I hear that's how it is in Cali, which is pretty horrible.
But on the same note, you know, like you kind of get what you pay for, you know what I mean?
And that doesn't mean you can keep that, you know, $400 an ounce price, you know, like it used to be
back many years ago. You can't do that, but there still has to be a low grade and a high grade.
There's always going to be a lower grade price and a higher grade price. The difference is now
you just don't see no more of the brick weed, you know, the old brick. It used to be the old brick
was your regular. Then you got some good meds, which would be some decently grown stuff, but
it would be usually harvested early, cured fast, dried fast, and wouldn't really give you nothing.
Then you'd have that upper tier, which was kind of, they did it the right way. It all kind of
worked out nicely. That was really hard to come by. And even now it seems like it's becoming more
and more of that middle zone, you know, even though you don't really have the brick with all
the seeds, some people probably don't even know what that is. Yeah, no one wants that.
Right. That's not even on the shelf. So now your low grade shit actually
looks like something when you see it, but it just doesn't have all the, you know,
attributes as that high grade does. So I don't know. It's weird, man. And the problem is the
education, the average person doesn't get that when they hold those two bags, there's a huge
difference, right? We know like we start digging into it. Yeah, I want this one. Oh yeah, this is
how it's grown. Yeah, definitely. Whereas the average guy might just say, fuck it. They both
look good. This one's $10 less or 50 less. Sure. Boom. Go with that. So that's where the education
has to come into play because although you saved on the dollars to buy the bag,
what is it doing to your health? What are your long-term health risks? What happened now that
you've been smoking this poison ridden bud for year after year that you didn't know where it
came from? You know, so those are where you pay in the long run, you know? So obviously I'm a
proponent that the high grade should command a higher price and as all good growers and cultivators
are, you know what I mean? That's how it should be. But you know, right now it's tough, man,
when the dispensaries don't really help us and push it and they just want to, you know what I
mean? They don't, we don't get it. They're in it for the money. Yeah, they're in it for the money
and good enough. You know, good enough is good enough for a lot of these guys because it's like
an asset. You know, it's like if it's going to the consumer, I feel like a connoisseur, they're
going to pay top dollar or understand quality and be like, fuck yeah. But the thing is like
those people a lot of times aren't reached. It's this whole crazy market where there's, you know,
you got the bulk, like it goes down the chain and it's people want good enough. They want it to be
passable versus a connoisseur wants the finest and the best. And there's a lot of people out
there like that. But then there's, you got to think the majority of the bud that's being bought is,
it's not going, it's being traded. It's going through 10 hands before it goes to the consumer
versus someone who's like, oh, I want to buy like a pound or a quarter pound of this because it's
super dank and it's going right to the person consuming it. So I think that's like, that's
something on the illicit, like, or the traditional market that I feel like is kind of a fundamental
principle. People will pay that top dollar, but if they have to be serious about it,
the average person, yeah, like you said, they're going to be like, oh, 50 bucks cheaper,
like good enough. Okay. I can make more money on this. My people are going to be fine. That's fine.
They don't even know the difference. And, and yeah, so it's like this commodity type of thing
where it's like, really like, as far as like a cultivator, I don't, I've never wanted my herb to
be like this thing that's, you know, solely to be making money and price so low and, and like,
whatever, I want it to go right to the consumer and I want the consumer to smoke it and, and,
you know, be able to give me feedback and tell it like, you know, tell me, you know, what they think
and it's, it's, there's like kind of two different ways to go about it. And a lot of people
were in cannabis and they're cultivating cannabis because it was, it was easy money.
And because it was kind of, it was easy, you know, at a certain time where it was like, okay,
it could be good enough and it'll sell. And there are people are hungry for it. Now it's like people
aren't making money really. So it's like the, the people who are left in it are like the people who
really love it. And then the big corporations who are like, you know, kind of ready to
price themselves so, so low that they're losing money just to have, you know, quarter the market.
Yeah. Put you out of business. And then now they raise back up.
What do you think about, you know, some of the far farmers here in Colorado have started to
strategically, we call them the hype boys. So they got a Supreme t-shirt on, they got Gucci shoes on,
they got the fanny pack on this way. Now it seems like those are individuals are all about that
something has to cost a lot of money for it to be quality. And that's what a lot of the higher end
living soil farmers are going after because in that world, you know, they're buying $2,000 sneakers.
So buying, you know, paying you an extra $500 for your work, if they're able to show up
because they want their cannabis to also have status. And that's something else that I think
some of the more successful people here in Colorado in the last few years, that's what
they focused on is that they've got to now get their cannabis in the hands of people that,
you know, just have so much ridiculous, or at least have a viewpoint of, you know, a $500 t-shirt
because it has red lettering on it. You know, that's worth it to them. That's a different market
than what I feel like a lot of farmers are used to speaking on. So your networking might need to
change a little bit there where, you know, you're starting to talk to individuals that
maybe necessarily are looking for that stuff. They just might not have the right connections
to get that because those individuals don't even shop for the most part anymore at the
dispensaries here in Colorado. They don't shop there anymore. They're just...
No, man, the legal market here is whack. The underground market thriving, especially if you
can get it east. People want Colorado, people want California, but it has to smell and look
the whole part and have the shimmer and shine. But when you do have that and you can get it
into the individual's hands, like I said, that they just view money and view things differently.
They're not batting an eye right now because it's harder to get. So if you have a skill set,
maybe you just got to get up on the networking. It's almost like people never have both, right?
Someone's either such an introvert that their shit is fire, but they never talk to anybody,
or somebody is fantastic at networking, but maybe not just the deep level thinking farmer breeder
that might need to be there. That was like the humble classic kind of setup where it was like,
you're out in the hills. It's like you're out there, if you're growing it and you're the owner
of the facility, you're doing it. And it's like, where do you find the time to meet people?
Sometimes people just kind of fall in your lap, but it's hard to do both. A lot of people that I
used to work with, the old guy, the first dude I ever worked for in Humble, he was always on the
hill. He was never in LA and networking and doing these things. He was just like a hill person. And
literally it was a different time where people were just coming, they'd come to you. Nowadays,
you kind of got to work for it. That's a whole other side of the thing where it's new.
Especially on the East Coast, where it's like, I remember there was times where if we had two
options, that was amazing. Because sometimes we didn't have one, I couldn't find any herb to
smoke. I'm like, well, I don't know anybody who has anything right now. And it's just going to
be dry for a week. And so it's like, nowadays, I don't know, people have all these choices and
it's interesting to watch as someone who, it was so scarce, so freaking scarce.
Nowadays, everybody has herb and everybody has, there's a lot of pretty decent herb around.
It's a different world and it's a double-edged sword because with that, more access, it's just
like it's hard. It's a hard time to be a part of the industry, but at the same time, seeing
this abundance, people having more herb than ever, having access to it, having options of
safer, cleaner medicine, and people not getting locked up. It's seeing that it's like,
they're totally worth it, but it's hard and turbulent times right now.
Man, I'll tell you what, right now, man, these days, you won't believe it, but the Mylar bags
hold almost as much weight as the cannabis that are inside of them. I was talking to some young
ones out there and the Mylars, they want us, it's crazy. I'm like, so the bag is like, yes,
the bag is very important. And I said, well, what if you put this in the bag? Oh yeah, oh yeah,
then you're good. But what about like this in a jar? Nah, ain't that crazy about it in a jar.
It's just a weird game out there, man. People collect the Mylars and I think that's more the
young ones, but young ones are spending a lot of money out there. So y'all got to understand what
they want and what they like. You know what I mean? Maybe you do offer-
That's that hype that you were talking about.
Yeah, the hype.
Yeah, that's the hype. It's like, I want the Mylar bag, I want the Runtz bag. It is, it's
crazy. My buddy told me, he's like, it's like overnight, it was just a packaging war. It
didn't matter what you had, it was how you presented it. And that's an important tidbit
because sometimes you got to bend or break and it's like, do I have to do that to be relevant?
Maybe.
I think if you're trying to sell something expensive, you had mentioned Leo from
Aficionado. I think it was one of the first ones where I was like, wow, that guy gets his market.
He was using the stamps with the fancy-
The wax.
Yeah, I mean that's like-
That's tight.
Yeah, nice Tepler style. So understanding marketing, but that's only going to get you
so far. And obviously his genetics are backed up in the fancy packaging. So you can get both
of those things. I think that's where people, unless you're trying to true out there, it's
going to be hard to get individuals to want to spend more than a hundred, maybe $200 with you
because there's just so many choices out there. And I don't know what it is, man, but they almost
need to feel that fancier box because if you're asking for more money, then I just want to feel
the, it makes me feel warm. It makes me think of Tommy boy, it makes me feel warm and fuzzy inside.
So then they're going to give you that 250.
Yeah.
The wax stamp, man. It really is. And that's a way to do it and not have it be this gimmicky
thing where it's like a Mylar bag with Obama on it or something. It's like, no, you have this
nice, classy, sophisticated thing. It's a fine cognac or something like that. And yeah, having
the product in it to back it up, it's definitely, that's the cool way to go where it's like,
all right, this actually is a beautiful presentation and a piece of art, a collector's
item on top of it being, having its value from whatever it is.
Yeah. The crazy thing is like, we think as a grower, the pristine and untouched,
but like the less is touched, like this was not touched, dropped it, every trichome in place,
gently placed in a jar for us. That's the, that's the primo, right? But for them,
take that and throw it in a bag. You know what I mean? So it's to each his own, man. And I don't
know, I'm like, well, do what you want with it after you buy it. Put it in a bag, put it in a bag.
Sure. I remember a long time ago, we would do the paper mache around the ball glass jars.
And then for that customer, it'd be like, what's your favorite sports team, whatever. Right. And
then we'd wrap the jar with that, explain to the customer that this is the Mayfield milk, right?
We're going out of our way to protect this for you. And then if you come back with this jar,
instead of us doing all this waste, plus, secretly, it gets them to come back to you all the time.
You know, that we always joke, the only business is repeat business. This is another way that,
that is, you know, kind of creating that, that bond between the farmer and the customer.
And then once they had their favorite sports team or their favorite butterfly or whatever it was,
and they were coming back, we would fill that jar for them. And I felt like that was another way
where you could bypass a lot of this, where people didn't necessarily even want to go to
the dispensary because you're just going out of your way to kind of like, customize things.
And for a lot of us on the East coast, that's why I'm bringing this up. I know a lot of you
individuals are doing this to kind of feed your families, not necessarily, you know,
you're very quiet with that kind of stuff. So that's another way I think to brand without
branding where it's like going to get yourself in trouble because they're the ones picking
out that stuff. It's not necessarily like you've got some kind of logo and that is going to go a
long way with just, I guess, allowing your customer to see quality. Like when you go out of your way
to do that, to do the paper mache things that takes like five, 10 minutes. And then you got
customers for life, man. I think. Yep. The mason jar is king. Like for any, like it just is.
Like, you know, it's, you got to, it's one of those things. It's like,
it, I even poopy weed when I was a kid, throwing that in a mason jar. I,
it felt like a better experience because people do, they, I don't know, they have this thing.
I was listening to this, this research that was done on like the restaurant industry and
the heavier, the silverware, the, the higher rank, the food was. And a lot of like, there was a
correlation with, you know, how heavy the silverware was. If you have some like plastic,
you know, super lightweight silverware and you're eating this fine, you know, gourmet meal,
it's not going to be rated as high as if you have some like, you know, real,
a real silverware and that right there having like the mason jar, it has some weight to it.
It gives it this, it's like this, some like psychological happening is going on that make
it more, more enjoyable for a lot of people having that kind of more like official sturdy
type of silverware or jar, but not the kids. Apparently that's all hype driven and, and mylar.
Yeah. That's fads, man. The trends and fads, I guess they changed with the times, but man,
you, bro, you know, I was like that old bag, man. It'd be coated all your, all your track.
It'd be clouding the chance of sadness really. Cause all, all your, all the money you spent is
on that bag. So what are you going to do? Oh, and then you, then you, uh, numb it out.
It don't work like that. No, you know, like, yeah. Like you take your time,
gently rolls a bag, lick it and then seal the bag. Gently. You thought you were a hot shit,
you know, girl be checking you out. You're like, yeah, that's right. Boom.
But I remember the days, man, if you knew how to smoke a blunt, that was almost like,
you know, people at the party thought you were the coolest kid ever. You could crack that shit open
up, uh, or roll an Optimo. I mean, those were kind of tough with like, you basically roll a
blunt like a swisher and then you have a leaf that goes over the top of it. Uh, fantastic.
Back in the day. Now I think everybody would call that trash because it's got tobacco in it and all
that, but we didn't have, nobody had Puffco's and nobody probably, I bet, I guarantee we were
smoking a lot of like russet mites, spider mites. I mean, there was a lot of that going on too.
So putting it in a blunt probably helped out. Well, yeah. And the quality of a lot of stuff.
I remember, yeah. Like we were smoking it when I was a kid, like grape Dutch's,
you know, grape Dutch master. What the fuck? I can't even imagine doing that shit nowadays.
But the thing is the weed was so bad that like, you know, the grape Dutch, it,
it really kind of helped things out. It helped you, right? Helped your situation.
That almost shows like where you're from too. Cause in Atlanta, it was peach, peach white house,
outcasts would sing about it. So everybody had this ride around their little hot car,
smoking blunts, you know, listen to that stuff. And when I moved to Colorado, my business partner
and I, at the time we were paying attention to that kind of stuff. Like what is little
Wayne talking about? All right. He's talking about cushions. All right. Maybe we should be
growing some of these because that's what people are after. And I think when you dial in as best
you can to that kind of stuff, like where the trends going to be you know, some of the other
stuff is coming back because some of the rappers are talking about golden goat gorilla glue and
all this that you know, peaks and then kind of valleys down and seems to come back up.
So as long as you can kind of stay with those trends, I think you'll be at the forefront of
this stuff. And if you, if you're able to have some, some variety in your garden,
you'll always have something new. And that's something else that I learned when the people
do have the income, you got to come correct with other things. Like they might want something
always like for one, this one lawyer, he always wanted San Fernando Valley. But he, every other,
every, every other kind of time that I would link up with him, he would want something new.
So you got to remember that half of that garden was almost for him directly. And then I was trying
to grow new stuff that, that other people wanted because people lose interest real quick in you as
a producer. If you always have the same. Yeah. You need to switch it up a little bit,
at least some one thing that's rotating. Cause yeah, it's like people could love your staples,
but they want something new sometimes. And if you're not giving them it, they're going to go
elsewhere. And like you said, a repeat repeat business is the only business. So you're trying
to keep that, you know, brand loyalty going. So yeah, it makes a lot of sense. Yeah, man. Oh yeah.
So I was, I was saying like when, when cannabis was first getting forward with this stuff,
there was like people like you had mentioned were coming out with Hedy and then Body Highs. And then
it seemed like individuals that were able to kind of create that, that Sativa, Indica, you know,
there's a lot, obviously controversy even to this day about all this stuff. But if you are able to
to produce a product where the average individual feels, Oh, this one feels different than the other
one. I think that goes a long way too. We've mentioned on the show a few times, Johnny, when,
when I was in Oklahoma, I was able to be part of a dispensary that had a well-funded dispensary.
And they're doing a lot of this like market research for their area. And what they found
out was that most of the households that were coming through when they were brand new to
cannabis, it was the wife that was making the purchase because the husband was at work or
doing something else. And so when they started to cater away from what you would think that the
normal cannabis community would want you know, straight gas stuff that probably smells, you know,
some people even like the cat piss and just funky cheeses. They moved away from that and they set
up their dispensary in a certain way where they catered kind of to the soccer mom, if you will,
the lacrosse moms kind of stuff. And they have been killing it ever since. So I think there's
something to that as well, where it's like, Hey, I personally like these things, but where,
where am I located? What is my market? And if you are going after that high dollar,
it does seem like they don't necessarily always want to smell like cannabis. So if you can have
some stuff that's a little bit fruitier, or you go for the vape pens and all that kind of the,
I know we, the hot dog waters and there's a market for that still. So when you, when you're a
dispensary owner, you kind of have to understand that stuff. And like Johnny said, you can't
necessarily be a purist about everything to where you're not profitable. So, you know, that the
average person probably kind of wants to hit the pan outside when they're walking into their little
office building. And they don't necessarily understand all of the bullshit that's in that
pen, but they're still going to buy. Yeah. You got to grow some variety,
man. People, I mean, even for yourself, like I get bored. Like I'm like, damn,
that's all I don't have no more of that. Like, shit, you know, I need to grow some more,
you know, like, and kind of like you said, Brian, I repeat business. It's nothing worse than
somebody says, Oh, that's all you got. You still got that. You know what I mean? Or that same,
you know, whatever. And that's where you got to have a variety of strains to me. And another thing,
like things that you think smell good may not smell good to others or might not be, you know,
because there's some things that are real chemical and lemony and harsh. It's like,
I don't care for, I mean, I like, excuse me, my wife would be like, Oh no, that's too,
I don't like the chemical. So it's like weird like that, man. And that's where I feel like
you got to have that diversity. You got to, you can't be like so closed minded or you're like,
I'm only going to grow Johnny's, you know, this, that's all I'm going to grow. That's my best
shit. And that's everybody's going to like it. Well, what will happen is you'll know that
after a while, nobody's going to keep coming back. You know what I mean? It may be great,
but it's just that variety. People like that variety, you know, and I feel like you got to
build a tolerance to, you know, same thing over and over too. You know what I mean? Switch it up.
Yeah. People expect if you're a quality producer, whether you're in the gray market or the legal,
you got to come correct with different things over, over months and years. And so that takes
obviously quite the planning to be able to have that as a perpetual thing, even,
and it can be achieved, but again, this is a proactive, you got to really be thinking these
things through to find success like that. And if you're watching this show, then obviously,
you know, the environment is going to be, that needs to be dialed in before you're really focused
on it, on anything else. And then once you're providing quality cannabis, where people are
driving back, going past other people to come to you, that's when it's time. All right. I need to
put the cherry, the sprinkles on top of this grow and figure out how to take myself to the next
level. But before that, I don't think you even have the skill sets to get there. So why, why even
put all that pressure on yourself to get, you know, just, just grow, grow, great cannabis,
get to elite cannabis, and then you can get to the upper echelon stuff by finding the genetics that,
John, I feel like you're tapped into a lot of us are tapped into because of the, you had mentioned
some of these larger expos and conferences around the country. It seems like you, you know, you put
your work, you put your money where your mouth is, you put, you put in the work. I've seen you at
almost every conference. I think I've, I know you were with Joey Berger, was it maybe two months ago
or something? He's actually our guest next week as well. So shout out to Joey. Yeah. And I thought
this would be cool to kind of like have you two guys, because the community, the peer of, you know,
your peer group in the community is the one that I think matters the most for individuals, or maybe
in my opinion should matter the most. And you guys have that in spades, man, where people want to
listen to what you have to say. They were going to take notes and kind of figure things out. So
it seems like you've been bouncing around and found your home, man. You have a skill set that
most people would, you know, do a lot of things to probably be able to achieve, especially being
in Humboldt. And now you're bringing it to East coast. So in my opinion, you might have a, you
know, a little bit of an edge here for a few years, by being able to get your brand out there and hit
the ground running and kind of take off. Cause the East coast, I'm talking about this cause I'm from
Georgia, at least down in Georgia, away from Atlanta, it's almost all garbage. It's, it's, we
never got anything good. And then once 9, 11 happened and everything got shut down, it took
years for us to be able to kind of get contacts again, that were steady. So there's, there's just
a lot of nuances, the further away you go, it seems like from the West coast.
It's, it's so wild how things have changed, like from those times where there's just nothing good
around. It's, it really is. For me, it's exciting, you know, even though there's a lot of like,
you know, not so great shit going on, just watching how things are unfolding. I'm like,
whoa, okay. Like, and yeah, I'm coming back to my home state after, you know, being out in Humboldt
and, you know, there was a couple of years I didn't get paid. I was living out in the middle
of the woods, you know, like roughing it, like me and my dog had a jar of peanut butter for like
two days. That was our food. I was like, all right, it should all be like, we're doing this.
And you know, so I really, there are so many times where I'm like, what the fuck am I doing?
Like, I got to get out of here. Like I didn't get paid last season. This guy still owes me money.
And like, I'm sitting here working. I'm like, no, no, no. Can't, you can't jump up out of here yet.
And there's a lot of bullshit involved and it just feels good coming back here. And, you know,
it being a whole new world where it's like, yeah, I could walk down this, anywhere someone could
smoke a cigarette besides a vehicle, I could smoke a joint. I could smoke a bong, you know,
not in front of buildings, you know, it's like a law, but like, if you could smoke a cigarette,
no, you might get a weird look, but it's so crazy to be able to walk around and smoke herb. Like,
I'm like, I'm back and like, I can, I can live like kind of a little bit more freely.
So it's a trip to see, you know, I never thought, you know, as a kid, freaking going out in the
woods, like freezing cold snow, like, they were all huddled up, me and my homies in a circle,
like trying to block the wind. We can barely move our hands and we're trying to smoke like a bull.
You know, we used to have to do shit like that. Like, cause that's like, you know, and now I'm
like, wow, kids are just, you know, smoking a fucking, a distillate cartridge in Walmart right
now. Like it's yeah, it's just crazy to see. Yeah. It's good to see that kind of stuff,
you know, normalize it. What, so let's go back to drag tech a little bit. Is that something that
you can use in New York and what exactly, give me the breakdown of kind of what is drag tech.
So everybody can be on the same page as we're talking about. You're talking about,
dry farming tech. Yeah. And let's, let's put a caveat on that. Cause it is a little like
misunderstanding for people that never heard that before. Cause it's not like you're not,
you're using water. So I think that's a little misleading there. Yeah. The plants,
the plants are getting water. It's just, you're not giving it to them. The kind of geodynamics
are giving it to them and they are giving it to themselves because of just the way the soil
structure is in particular areas. You know, out here in New York, it rains so much in the
summertime that I feel like you could put most crops out and they're going to do fine. You know,
they're probably not going to die. They might not have optimal yields, but at the same time,
you know, you could probably get away with just letting nature run its course.
So like, you know, dry farming, it's, you know, a whole thing where it's like, there is no rain,
you know, where I was at in California and I was growing that acre. It, it didn't rain that
summer until maybe, maybe late summer. But you know, they got watered. I watered them in for a
week or two so they can establish themselves. And then after that I cut off the water completely.
And just the, the way the soil is in that particular environment, and it's not everywhere,
not everywhere in Humboldt, it's really, you know, there's little nooks of these pockets
where you can dry farm. And by the Eel River, there's like several places that, that you're
able to do this. You're able to put your crops in. Some people don't even water them in. They'll just
put them in the ground and let them fight it out. And they, they go through hell to get there. But
once they tap into that, that water that's, that's coming from below, it's, it's really amazing to
watch a plant that's literally it's being grown organically. And then it's also, you're allowing
it to pick and choose what it wants to take from the soil with that complex relationship with the
microbial community. And then you're also letting the plant kind of like, if the water's there,
you know, it's just deep down. But it moves up the soil in such like a, it has amazing wicking
action. So you dig a foot down into the soil and there's moisture where you can hold a ball of this,
this soil together and not have irrigated for a long, long time.
So then it must be like you said, it's so it's kind of sitting on the old riverbed type soil,
and it's probably a layer of clay down there somewhere that's keeping a certain amount of
water in that soil to begin with. Is that how I'm understanding it?
You know, the clay was, or the soil was, I'm pretty sure like a, like a loam clay mixture.
And it's in that particular area, it was really unique because in the sixties, there was this,
this flooding event that happened. It really was, you know, the National Guard had to come in,
Humboldt County was pretty much cut off from the world. People were taking boats around in the
Redwoods, literally just boating around in the Redwoods. I had a pleasure of talking to a guy
who lived through that. And yeah, he was like, yeah, we went down in the Redwoods and we're
boating around. Houses were going down the river, you know, livestock, lumber. It was basically this,
you know, heavy rainfall event. And then there was issues with some of the lumber yards that had this,
they have this kind of depositing of all this stuff, all these lumber, all this lumber,
you know, all this silt that's coming from the river. And it just, there was like
several dams that got plugged up, like along the way, where it was like the lumber would go and
plug up the dam and then build up and then fucking-
And then break again.
Yeah, dude. So really like horrible chain of events. And it led to these kind of,
these kind of pockets in, in Humboldt County where you're able to dry farm like really, really well.
That's pretty cool. Now, so I would imagine it has something to do also, I know that some chat
members, people were saying like it's a necessity in the desert, obviously, but you know, probably
goes along the lines of where I'm, I go into kind of a little bit of plant stress. And so I imagine
that that lack of water, you know, where that plant really has to work probably is going to
really increase turps. Have you noticed that? Is that kind of really the benefit you're getting
out of that type of farming?
So, yeah. And actually I saw a study that was, that addressed that, that was talking about
drought stress and its effect on yield and then on, you know, terpene content, or maybe it was
cannabinoid. I don't remember. I think it was terpenes though, where there was like a core,
like the more you drought stress the plant, the higher you would have your terpene content,
but also the lower your yield would be. And really like the middle ground was like, yeah,
you drought stress the last few weeks and then, you know, you're not missing out on a ton of yield.
It's not optimal, but you're also getting a superior product at the end. So the study was
really neat. And with that, yeah, the dry farm herb, it was, I mean, it was the easiest crop,
you know, I've ever grown in my life. It literally, I put the plants in the ground
and there was a lot of hard work involved, but at the same time, the plants just, they took
charge, you know, the plants and nature and the end product is still like, you know, I still have
a little, some bud and it's like two years old at this point. It smells so dank, you know, it's
oxidized and it doesn't look good anymore, but it's still amazing smoke. And it's something that
like I personally, like, I doesn't have to be like, you know, as a smoker, like, yeah, like
looks are cool or whatever, but how does it smoke? And that stuff still smoke really good, gets me
really stoned. And it's still like, smells like the day, you know, that I harvested it. So yeah,
it was, I feel like that just those conditions led to this bud being like some of the best I've ever,
ever consumed. Okay. And then now just on the same lines, where the plants easier,
did they have more tensile strength or meaning where they like, did you have to like not stake
them as much? Cause they were naturally just tough and stronger. They were ridiculously robust and
hardy. The strongest plants I've ever, I've ever seen. And I'm, you know, to be like honest,
that was the first time I had ever planted in native soil. Whereas before I was using a potting
mix, I was using, you know, working, you know, using cocoa core at nurseries that I've worked at.
So to see how strong these plants were from being in, in that native soil in that particular region,
they were so hardy and strong. The person who, you know, my kind of superior there,
he was like, we're doing trellis, but a lot of people in that region, they don't even,
they don't trowel their, their plants because they're so like naturally strong, you know,
from, from just being in that soil. It was a really special place to cultivate, like probably
like my favorite area that I've ever gotten to farm. And it was, it was a trip cause it was in
a cornfield. I was surrounded by three sides of a cornfield and a Mennonite dude was, was growing
corn next to it, you know, right on the eel river, you have redwoods around me. It was really a
beautiful spot. Yeah. Before we move on to the next topic, we we've been having a break kind of
like midway, Johnny, and trying to always make it. So we're going to have a smoke break. We're
going to bring London on here for a minute. Marco, if you want to smoke with us, buddy,
I got mine. Oh wait, I already hit that one. So load up real quick.
And London, if you're there, bud.
I gotta do the mic on. I'm right here. I'm going to have a chat
talk with you and we'll be right back after these messages.
So
awesome London. Well for the, for our audience that doesn't know, London's moving his family
to Italy next month. So there's a lot of love that's going to come from this community. I think
by going out of your way to, I mean, talk about being an entrepreneur and taking it to the next
level, buddy. I mean, that's a risk that's calculated. And I think that's what life is about.
Not necessarily gambling, but taking calculated risk. So hats off to you. If there's anything
else you want to say about that, go ahead, sir. No, other than you guys have a dope show. I
appreciate you and happy, happy going. I gotta go pick up my, my, my eldest from school now.
Brian, you're killing it with the DJ work. It looks really great. Great conversation in general,
really positive stuff too. Hey, y'all got all those graphics and we didn't even charge you shit.
So you get that part of the experience. I think, you know, seeing people try to improve the craft
and teaching us in a way, just continuing to improve the show and have it also have it where
you guys can like smoke midway. I like that. You know, you can use the restroom three hours is a
long time. So let's get, let's kind of get back into it. I do this. I did one of the three things
you mentioned. So Johnny, you know, last time I was just amazed by your ability and you had just
rows of cannabis hemp, actually not cannabis. No, it was cannabis. Oh, that was that photo.
That yeah. Okay. Yeah. That's well, then that, that is the dry farm that takes it even to the
next level with this kind of stuff is my skillset was more like at that level was more of like
a homegrown to be able to get all the plants to do that in a commercial setting. It's a lot harder
to be able to just have that, that beautiful symmetry not only with the canopy, but just kind
of like with the rows themselves, no, no buds falling on the ground. I mean, there's just,
there's just a lot to this. So I was wondering if you could kind of, I know you're saying,
I think his name was Preston. Is it Preston Smith? It was kind of like one of your OGs teaching you
IMOs. Are you in the camp of, if you're going to go more of a natural farming, you need to
understand IMOs as kind of like that blueprint before you start messing around with, with other
aspects of that, that style. So for me, it's not even, it's more of the principles of Korean natural
farming and JADAM where it's like very focused on incorporating biology and incorporating biology
with your nutrition. It's pretty much on the same, it's on par like in how important they are
having these robust microbial communities and facilitating those,
however you're doing it. I think it's, depends on your context, what works for you.
You know, IMO is an amazing tool. So is lactobacillus. If you're growing inside,
like, you know, how much diversity do you need to go? How much extra work, you know, do you need
to put in? And for me in that, the dry farming situation, it was a humbling experience because
it was like the least amount of work and tinkering I did. And it was like the best product,
you know, the best crop I've ever grown. Some of that herb was fantastic. And it was like,
I barely did anything. So like, really, like it kind of inspired me to go on this, like,
you know, search to be like, all right, I want to cut the fat and I want to be able to let the plant
have what it needs and let it do its thing and make it as streamlined as possible and,
and kind of minimalize what I'm incorporating. And so, yeah, that really was like a pivotal
point in my life where, you know, I'll always love that field and what it taught me too.
Because that really was, I was like, I didn't even, these plants just did what they wanted to do.
You know, they, they had been, the field had been top dressed once, I believe. And, you know,
watered for a couple of weeks. And then after that, it was like, all right, there you go.
And yeah, it was an awesome lesson right there. So however you're doing it, whether it's IMO,
but it is, it's very, very important. And I've heard, you know, people much smarter than I am,
John Kemp talking about how, you know, even in situations where your, your nutrition isn't
optimal, if you have a robust microbial community, you will have some of that offset. So it's like,
you want to be incorporating that, you know, you want to be giving your plants like the best chance
out of the gate they can. And I truly believe that there's, you know, the biology and having
that robust biology is like a, it transfers down into the end product. I think there really is
something to that. Yeah. I mean, you can see it for yourself with the genetics, right, Marco?
I mean, you put it in the work. Yeah, definitely. Man, you can't beat the microbes in your soil,
because if you think about it, if you have a soil without, without a lot, huge microbial,
you know, population, it's only going to go so far. You know what I mean? Like the microbes
are what's going to take, like, if you look at my backdrop, that's just a picture of the ground,
but the microbes are what's going to eventually take those leaves and take those things you see
and break them down and give the plants, you know, nutrition. If I didn't have that microbial
diversity and even the soil shredders, those larger pieces of organic material would never
really get broken down to a point where the plants could use them, you know? So, I mean,
that's, that's a great way to think about it, you know, is like work on the microbes and kind of,
you're always going to have organic material in the soil because the soil pretty much is going to
always, you know, contain that. So if you can increase your microbes, you can make a bad soil
better. You know, that's why I always say like, how can you improve a soil? Well, this bag of soil
is the best soil on the market. That's the best thing you can buy. Okay, well now I just threw
some IMO that I made into it. Now it's better than what was on the market, right? So you can
always improve is kind of how I look at it. Yeah, there's an organic cultivator. I mean,
it's just one of those things. Do you want to sit and wait for that to happen? Kind of like,
you know, on like a slow reduced level when you can have a major impact and be like, hey,
I'm going to be able to deliver these, you know, whatever the nutritional input is,
whether it's a top dress of some sort or like a liquid, you know, liquid fertilizer,
fermented plant extract, you're always going to have, you know, the ability to kind of put those
in and you're kind of speeding up the process. You know, it's one of those things, like you
can just leave it as is, but why wouldn't you want to throw some liquid IMO on that or JMS on it
to help make those available, you know, at a more rapid rate? And it really,
there's not this like sacrifice of yield or quality if it's organic and it's done right.
You know, that's something I think a lot, there's a misconception that people are like,
I'm not going to be able to yield well because I'm switching to organic. And it's like, if you're
doing things like you got things dialed, that is not the case. You know, or it's, if anything,
it would be so minimal, but I truly believe that you can have, you know, an optimized soil,
an optimized nutritional regimen, however that is from soil or some kind of synthetic
kind of regime. However, you're optimizing things. I just, I mean, honestly, I mean,
organic, I think is going to have things beat on lots of levels with terpenes and cannabinoids
yield. I think it's going to be comparable and there's no reason why optimal nutrition won't
be the same, whether you're growing with synthetics or organic. So yeah, I think people,
if they can get that out of their heads, it's like, Hey, we can, we can be pumping out organic
products. It's, you know, natural and not be reducing yields and have it be potentially cheaper
than, than doing synthetic. You know, I was, I was probably spending, you know, $20 for my indoor,
maybe $20 a cycle on nutritional things, $20 or all organic. And, you know, I had a buddy who was,
you know, spending, you know, hundreds, hundreds and hundreds of dollars on his things. And it was
like, at the end of the day, it kind of came out where it was like, you know, did that make a
difference? Was it worth spending those hundreds of extra dollars when it was like, you know,
the yields are the same and like the quality of, you know, organic bud is almost always going to be,
always going to be superior if it's done right. If it's done right.
Yeah. I think the learning curve might even be just to learn to be patient and realize that
maybe the first flip, if worst case scenario, isn't exactly the way that you want it to be,
but the quality is going to be there where you're not going to want to deviate from
the road that you're down. So I forget how it was basically like, would you always want your
customers back in the day, you know, when we were trying to build up our peer group, would you
always want them willing to prepay you for two pounds or you're, they're always trying to hustle
you for three, you know, and I think there's a big difference in the whole way that you can kind
of carry yourself as a farmer, but people are willing to prepay for it. And the only time I
ever saw that was from farmers that had it dialed in using the microbial world and dialing in their
genetics and their environment, all of the variables. But it was when they switched over
to understanding more of the natural farming stuff and understanding IMOs. And that was like,
especially back then I was barely at the tip of it. So what Marco has been giving you guys for
years now is way better information than most of the community had. And they were starting to find
success in that way. So, you know, the community as a whole should be able to find immense success
from a lot of the videos that everybody puts out from the Future Cannabis Project. There's just so
many bright minded people that are willing to come on camera now that it makes a dramatic difference
over the years when you can hear from so many different people. For the most part, you're going
to kind of hear the same things in the living soil aspects of, you know, you're managing the
system instead of constantly worried about pH and PPM. And that may sound foreign to you, you know,
if you're growing up growing salts, it almost sounds like too good to be true in a way, because
they are so dependent on you and mastering how to get the pH in to get those three light yields and
all that. I mean, that's an artwork. But pumped up cannabis doesn't have, it loses other attributes
to it. And I think now moving forward, more people would want to grow for washing, for smell,
for terpenes. Yes, everybody has pretty cannabis, but you know, the smell's got to be there too. And
it has to be there for a while, meaning like, if you know, if it's aging, if it's curing, it still
needs to have that, you know, that loudness to it is what people always kind of called that.
When the ball jar is cracked, you know, people from the other side of the room should be able
to smell that. And that's what you're after. And I think you're going to be able to achieve
that a lot easier with a microbial minded viewpoint.
Yeah, so there's no better compliment in a hotel room than your friend says, did you smoke in here?
Yeah.
All the deals rolled up.
That happened to me in a bar. I was going to see a jazz show with my pops and my wife, and
I rolled up a joint and the people went up to the bartender like, Hey, that dude's in there. I
think he's in here vaporizing or something. And you know, nothing came of it at all. But you know,
I was, I just rolled up a joint. It is, it's a good feeling.
Definitely. So like, let's see, you grew that great cannabis out there. So
was that for like resin production or what would y'all grow that for? Flower?
So the dry farm field that was, I mean, honestly, the fate of that crop is really sad,
because it's probably still sitting in a warehouse, potentially, you know, and this is two
years ago, or, you know, gone. Some of it was was washed and then pressed into rosin, which was
really amazing. That was that jelly rancher slab that I had the last time when I was talking to
you, Brian. So we ran some of it, but it was just such a clusterfuck. And the dynamic between the
two like partners, you know, I was the guy on the ground. And everybody, the other two dudes were
kind of the money supply guys. And they just were not really seeing eye to eye. And it just became
this thing where it was like one dude abandoned ship completely. And the other guy was just like,
not prepared to deal with, you know, what was to come. So it was really sad to see as a cultivator,
we almost didn't harvest that field. The one partner was like, we're just going to till it
in the ground. And I'm like, there's like some amazing herb in there. And, you know, unfortunately,
just the circumstance and the market the way it was, they were just like, well, we're done with
it. But I managed, you know, I planted the seeds, I harvested the plants, you know, I smoked some of
the, I bunched of the herb. And I had some. So, you know, at the end of the day, it's like, it was
really a bummer because those guys could have, you know, if they kind of hustled a little bit and
were on it, they could have made some moves and turn that into a win. But, you know, I'm like,
well, you guys, you know, thankfully, my percentage, I didn't get a percentage on it,
because there was, you know, 0% of zero or 10% of zero is zero. But, you know, I was getting paid
along the way. So I'm like, well, that's cool. I mean, yeah, it was a bummer, though, because they
could have, you know, they could have at least, you know, moved some product in recoup some expenses,
but they were just like, so disillusioned with the market the way it was. But they were like,
in the partnership, it was just they were butting heads on top of the market being,
you know, rock bottom. So it was just like, yeah, people were like, yep, abandon ship.
So you say it all the time, Brian, like, man, you don't really have control when you roll into
somebody's facility, and there's suits that own the joint. Look at that situation. That's probably
a lot to do with egos or whatever. Maybe a little bit one guy was too lazy to do the work to do
what he wanted to do. He's like, it's easier to till it under had plenty of money, who knows,
those are all variables that play into your existence. When you don't have that ownership,
you know, luckily, smart move getting paid along the way, key, you know, as a farmer, you never
really necessarily want to hedge on that final bet, you know, because it's never really a harvest
till it goes all the way to the end, you know, a lot of bad shit can happen along the way.
But man, just another kind of reason and example of why it is kind of better to have your own,
or at least working for people who have their shit together. And you know,
if times get difficult, y'all can weather that storm and you can continue that growing.
And I would, if you have the ability, I would structure your deal where they're offering you
percentages. That's usually, to be honest, bullshit. They know that they're just not
telling you that. So when they offer you a 10% or whatever that is, and then they say,
all right, we're going to pay you $40,000. Do not accept that. Flip that on them. Make them pay you
like 80,000 or whatever, whatever you think, wherever your market is, whatever. And then
have it structured out almost like a rookie NFL, like, all right, and if I'm performing,
then I want to get these kinds of things. And maybe after year three, year four, whatever that
is, I want to get a 10% stake in this company. And you'll see if people are really thinking that
way with you when you start to talk about those things. And most people, when they're young and
kind of like, oh man, this is the opportunity. They're not even thinking like that. So that's,
I hope that people kind of take that for what it is and see long-term, if that's what you're
thinking about working with somebody, you want to make sure that the leverage is always fair.
Otherwise, if you're taking a low salary in this percentage, they can just fire you a year from now.
And then they're going to tell you, okay, well, sue us. And if you're not financially,
have the ability to go up, again, most of these corporations that do that kind of stuff are
well-funded, then most of us kind of kick the can down the road and move on. And for a lot of us,
don't even really talk about it anymore. So minimize all that from day one, knowing that,
and if there's red flags, it's much better to just walk away and do your own thing and be
known as like a small time, even a basement farmer to me is like a stripe, if you will.
That's a badge that's now honor. And I think that most people kind of cringe or maybe feels
silly that, oh man, all I do is just grow a few plants in my basement. But for me, that is kind
of like the ultimate goal. And then if you can own property, then you're being able to go outside and
do that. So if you're able to do both things on your property, that's kind of the last little like
fuck you to the man and to everybody else is when you have that skillset, so you can grow food,
so you can educate your kids on that. And there's a whole nother generation type stuff that you can
change. It doesn't necessarily always have to be like street type knowledge. I think that OG
mindset can be also passed down where it's like, these are the books we read. These are the videos
we watch so that you can get up to speed and then take it to the next level. And you had mentioned
that King Jay and there's other ones out there where it's like, man, this young cat's going to
have, by the time he becomes a middle-aged man, he's going to have quite the skillset.
No doubt. All these guys, man, everybody's putting in that work. I like to see the education part.
I like to see the people learning and teaching each other. You're going to the JDOM this weekend
in New York. I'll be hitting the one in two weeks in Maryland. And it just goes to show,
man, no matter what your skillset is, keep getting that education. And I think you're,
what are you doing, John? Are you doing some presenting there too?
Yeah. On the third day, I'm going to be co-presenting with this other amazing natural
farmer, Aaron. And it's actually, me and him have kind of been bullshitting online buddies for a
while now. And it's going to be the first time we link. And yeah, so we're going to kind of co-team
teach on the last day. I'm going to go over how to make some JWA, homemade soap. That right there,
for me, and people don't want to believe it. I feel like when I tell them like, that's what I
use for pest. I'm like, that's what I use right there. And I'm like, I use that and only that.
And it works for fucking everything that I need it to. And it's so cheap, but people,
they fall kind of prey to that. Oh, I got to buy it. It's got to be expensive if it's going to be
good. It has to be in a high times magazine. And I feel like, so that right there, I really like
getting that knowledge out there and being like, Hey, this can save you tons of money on pesticides.
You've learned this one time and it's going to change your life. You're not, you'd never have
to buy a pesticide again. We're going to go over all the, the K and F inputs and making
Jadon microbial solution. I actually was playing around with the storage Jadon microbial solution,
which was basically treating the contents of what would be an IMO pile, like a carbohydrate
source and a carbon source, treating that like it was an IMO pile, but I was using JMS as an
inoculant. And then I was keeping it a hundred mesophilic. I was making sure that it was getting
turned when it was hitting that critical 120 mark. And what I ended up with was like a really
amazing looking, smelling product that, for me, I'm like looking for ways to optimize and do
things like smart and I'm not super caught up in the dogma of things. So I like experimenting.
And that's something I want to share with people because it's a really like, it has amazing results
and it can save some people some time if going out and setting IMO collection boxes, isn't their
thing. Cause there's some people who will just never do, they'll be like, yeah, that's cool.
And then they'll just never do it. But it's like, if you can give them a ways to kind of,
to make that a little bit easier on them and have that tool, it's something that I feel like it's
pretty valid to bring out. So I'm looking forward to sharing that with people. And yeah, it's
I'm really great. Yeah. The JADAM conference, it's like, special, it doesn't happen every day.
It's, I feel like the first, it is the first kind of cross country JADAM tour that they're doing.
And really the principles used in JADAM, I want to talk about saving money. Like if you want to
save money for your operation, crop specific JMS, like whatever your crop is, JMS, put it right back
into your soil system. And if you're a hash production facility or like, you know, grow,
then you can literally just put everything back. Everything you could wash everything,
get all the hash and then put that material right back onto your field and think about how
sustainable and regenerative that is. Yeah. You're growing trichomes pretty much. And the only thing
you're not putting back into the system is trichomes. And that's, you know, you look at
places in the middle East and I feel like they could probably do what they do and go out and
collect charas like that. In like India, I feel like they could probably do that for millennia
and never really have like this significant, like, you know, loss in crop production because
they're almost, they're leaving everything there besides, you know, a small fraction of a plant.
Yeah. Damn. Yeah. That's a bar right there, man. Just everything you said,
keys putting it back in. I like that. Yeah, man, I'm excited about the JADAM like, damn,
it's kind of like a little, you know, a little Superbowl or something, you know what I mean?
For a certain group of folks, you know what I mean? The dirt dorks, soil nerds, you know,
all that kind of stuff. I think if I only had one, you know, kind of practice I could do,
I'd probably say JADAM, man, because it's the easiest. It's the one that's always kind of
working for you even when you're not there, especially with the JLFs, you know what I mean?
The kind of the diversity you can have in those and putting back into the soil and improving, man.
So yeah, good stuff, man. Anybody that can go, hopefully y'all go check that out and see what
Johnny and them got going on because to me, it's like that JMS, that's how you improve what we're
doing. You inoculated a pile with JMS. Now you have a JMS that you can put on a shelf and store,
you know, those are all key things. Those are to me where like the experiments are like,
are coming to play when you use the right principles, you know what I mean?
You're not going outside of the principles, you know, you're not mixing weird things that,
you know, together that really don't go together, but microbes and inoculating something,
that always goes together, you know what I mean? So inoculating with JMS, that's really cool. And
one thing, I said one that I was telling people about before, you don't realize it that if you
know anybody with eczema, have them put that inoculated JMS on their eczema and let me know
if that works because I had one guy that when I made that a while back, he swore by it. He's like,
my partner puts it on her elbows and it's made the psoriasis go down. And yeah, and I was amazed.
And I thought, you know, it kind of made sense if you're talking about the skin with JMS being so
kind of microbial balanced, you know what I mean? Like with a good balance to it, it kind of makes
sense that it would kind of, you know, be able to get into the skin and be beneficial that way too.
So I thought that was pretty cool. Nice. I like to hear it. And I definitely have some sort of JMS
and I think I have a few friends who, especially in New York in the wintertime, it's like drier
inside. Lots of people have like, they'll have eczema pop up. So I'm actually going to give that
a shot here. And once I get back from the conference, I'm going to hook my buddy up and
be like, here, just try this. Yeah, I might have accidentally said psoriasis. It was eczema that
they had. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Young Sung Cho eats capsules of leaf mold, you know, for just for his
gut biology, he'll fill up a little capsule and put some like leaf, you know, material in there,
grind it up, put it in there and eat it. And yeah, he swears by it. He swears by it, which is,
it's really, you know, you got to be careful with some of this stuff. Like you can, like some,
especially, you know, a lot of JADAM inputs you don't want to have splashing around in your eyes
or mouth or could, you know, potentially be pretty hazardous. But at the same time, you know, these,
you know, like I was, I was in the IMO, or the store JMS pile, you know, in there barefoot
walking around. You know, I feel it feels good. And it did feel really like therapeutic,
you know, just like being an IMO pile, it felt super therapeutic having that kind of,
you know, microbial activity going on. And afterwards, my skin felt like amazing,
you know, I'm not gonna lie, it felt super good, soft. So yeah, I mean, these things, I mean,
lactobacillus has so many uses, where that is just like an amazing thing to have around.
If you garden or not, you can make, you know, make your own nutrient inputs with it, you can use it
as like a, you know, for your gut health for your animals. I've heard that that works really well
for like itchy dogs sometimes, like having some, giving them a lacto bath. If you have like a
smelly, whatever, lactobacillus works great. If you have chickens or whatever, and you don't want
to make liquid IMO or IMO, you could spray some lactobacillus on and it will cover up the smell.
And, and lactobacillus, it's a really amazing tool that I feel like, you know, if your context,
you know, only allows for it to be used, I feel like that's, that's a great thing to have around,
you know, if you can even have lactobacillus for root drenches and for foliar sprays to kind of
fend off pathogens, that's, that's pretty amazing stuff. You know, it's a really good tool and it,
it checks a lot of boxes and it's cheap, you know, so it's like, stuff like that, I think it's
important to get out there. Do you feel like you can overlap? You can do a little heavy on the lab?
Have you ever experienced with that at all? I have, I've gone really heavy with foliar sprays
with it and not had any significant issues. And I'm talking like real heavy, like a one to like
fricking 50, you know, like way more than the prescribed one to a thousand. And it might've
even been lower where I was going hard. I was just, you know, I've probably done like a, a one
to one. It's not even, I've really gone excessive and I'm like, huh, no issues. So, I mean, the one
thing I will say is they're very acidic. So, you know, it's like that could cause, you know, there's
room for some issues I feel. But I've definitely experimented going past that one to a thousand,
which is, you know, typically prescribed in, in KNF and, you know, one to a hundred, you know,
when I have like severe, you know, like an issue that I need to address, I'll use lab at like a
higher, you got someone saying six to one with no adverse effects. Yeah. So, it's pretty safe. You
know, I feel like you could pour it straight on your plant and probably not have, not have any
issues really. Yeah. I think my, my concern is more the frequency of use with LAB. Like I agree.
Yeah, sure. You could pour it probably straight in and not hurt a plant, but I wouldn't do the,
I wouldn't use it very frequently. Like I wouldn't use LAB every week as a soil drench. You know what
I mean? What do you think about that? I mean, at what point does it become redundant? You know,
lab is pretty pervasive and it's around. And once you inoculate, you know, it's like how often,
even with some IMOs in, in JMSs, it's like, there's probably like a sweet spot, you know,
where it's like, there's probably an optimal, you know, population and adding a little bit more
might not be the best thing. I feel like it's probably, it's hard to overdo it and have,
you know, adverse results, especially with IMO or whatever. With, with JMS, you know,
you, if you don't dilute it properly, you can have issues. But yeah, I mean, I feel like there's a
point where it becomes maybe just redundant and lab is very pervasive and it's going to kind of
dominate that soil system too. And it might not be what you want to, you know, always be having
and only have lactobacillus as your main, you know, main inoculant. I like it for gut too.
You know what I mean? I do like to, for myself, it seems to always kind of give me a low,
give me back in balance. Right. And skateboards, I only foliar and spray top of soil with LAB.
You don't use it as a drench. Yeah. I'm kind of on those along those lines, Rodney, but I think
with LAB, it's kind of one of those things, it's kind of, you do it this way or you do it that way,
or you're, you know, use a little more, use it a little less. As we can see though, I think it's
the consensus is that it it's beneficial. And I think it's even more so when you have a large
volume of soil as opposed to smaller pots, then maybe you make, you can throw your microbial life
in the soil, you know, out of balance a lot quicker. Probably be my only cautions with using,
you know, LAB, but yeah, it's definitely great. I like, I just made some not too long ago.
Wifey bought the wrong almond milk. So I made a LAB and, you know, like I'll do something with
this. Yeah. I ain't wasting that $2.99 or whatever. So yeah, I made a LAB and got a little input out
of it. Definitely.
So Johnny, like moving forward, if someone's new to this, they're watching you show that
they want to get into a state kind of like New York, where it's a newer thing, whether it's
however they want to enter the market. You know, you kind of, well, you're not going to be able to
obviously farm commercially anyway. So you got to enter the market in the tent grower basement grow
anyway, to get your own experience. Nobody's going to give you experience if you've never done
it before. So you got to go out there and get your own experience from all of the things that
you've gone, all the expos and stuff. It doesn't necessarily have to be like people's names,
but what do you think is the best style for somebody brand new to this when they want to
go a little bit above just like living soil? Is it to move towards natural farming, to dumb,
understanding biodynamic farming, you know, things on the fringe, where do you, where does
your mind go for somebody that's newer to this? You know, K and F is, I feel like it is a great
kind of transition. Like even if someone's cultivated before using other methods, it's a,
it's a really like, it shows you that these inputs you can make and be, they can be cheap.
They can be pretty readily available. And that, you know, the principle is like with the,
the microbes really, IMO is so quintessential. And I feel like if someone's already growing
organically and they're not incorporating biology or they're incorporating biology that they're
buying in a store, you know, like mammoth pee or there's, you know, tons and tons of products that
are available and they're expensive. It's like some people, they want to have that bottle and
it makes them feel good. But at the same time, if, yeah, if you want to step up your game,
start incorporating biology and making more inputs from locally sourced things, make input,
like recycle material back into your system, you know, do things like kind of like in as much as
you can in house. And that's really, you know, it's adding that extra craft value to your product.
So it's like, as you're kind of like, I feel like it's a good, you might as well just get
going the right way if you're just starting off. It's like, why not?
Why not just go for it right from the jump? But yeah, people are, they're, you know,
easily kind of fooled with just the gimmicky, yeah, the bottle, the store going into,
going into like a hydro store. And it's like, they have all these bottles of stuff and it all looks,
you know, to the new kind of, you know, novice, it all looks amazing. And you're like, oh,
I just need to have all this and I can grow something amazing. Where in reality, it's,
you know, you could be doing this stuff, a lot of it just right in your backyard or,
you know, in a 20 mile radius from your spot, collecting microbes and bringing them and
introducing them into your system. You know, making your own soap. It's like,
the things like that, I feel like it gives, I mean, the product still has to be good.
But once you start doing that kind of stuff, it really elevates your product and it sets it apart
in a world of just, you know, it's flooded. It's a flooded cannabis realm. And having something
that sets you apart, you know, could be, yeah, it's, you know, sustainable. It's closed loop
as I can make it. And I think that's a really a great way to elevate your product.
Yeah, I think I agree with you, John. It goes beyond kind of just, it takes the hobby to another
step. You know what I mean? If this is our, you know, you said that at the beginning,
you know, hobby, you know what I mean? A hobby grows, if you boil it down,
that's really what this is, you know, if you're making income that's different.
But as a hobby, man, I feel like it does kind of make you kind of slow down. It gives you,
more emphasis on the soil, on just kind of building that population. And the thing about it,
man, this stuff is so like cheap, like it'll save you money. You know what I mean? Going to a course,
like if anyone could make it to this to Dom course, you know, I'm not affiliated with it at
all. I paid my 300 bucks. But think about that. That's 300 bucks. You could easily spend that in
a grow shop, like just going in there. If you think you need to buy, you know, eight bottle kit
of whatever and get you a pH tool and, you know, some pH up and down along with it, 300 bucks is
gone in a rip. You know what I mean? So this is- That's a small bottle of mammoth pee.
Thank you. Right. I don't even know the prices now. Like what are bottles?
Remember they used to be like 29, 39, 49, something like that. But yeah, like bottles,
man, like spending 300 here, you know, you're going to make your fertilizer from now on. You're
going to make your inputs from now on. So now you're just paying yourself. And that's what
we talk about a lot of times. Like, what do you mean pay myself? Well, paying 300 for a good course
or some good education is paying yourself because that's something that's going to earn you that
money back. You know what I mean? And just making a soap, you know, that's key. I love my, you know,
my soap for like pesticide, like you said. I can combine it with, you know, FAA if I want to,
just to get a little extra coating. You know, like there's a lot of options with it, but just that
alone, that soap alone, you could wash your ass with it, you know, is one thing. You can learn
how to kind of make soaps from that process. And a lot of people make soaps. So I think, you know,
just paying for this class, man, it's three days. Like that's going to be great, man. Listening
from, listening to the guy, you know, the master chose son, you know, basically is who we're going
to be hearing from. And, you know, I think that's valuable. You know, you can never really,
you know, put a price on something like that. Yeah. I mean, I just want to show, you know,
go ahead, go ahead, Brian. I just want to add a caveat to that because to some people, 300 bucks
is a lot of money. So if you're going to watch, if you're going to watch or put all the money,
get the hotel and all that, and you've never really experienced anything like that, watch as
many videos as you can in the next days or weeks so that you have a better understanding of things
so that you can get more out of it because the classes go by quick when you're through a lot,
even a week long class. I mean, I don't know how, but it just seems like the days go by quick. You
have a little dinner and then the next day comes and then, you know, you're onto another topic. So
just watch as many videos as you can and try to write down as many things as you can so that
you're getting the most money out of that. Because there's, anytime I've been to those,
man, there's just as many bright minded people in the room as there are people teaching the classes.
And so that is something special that doesn't happen every day. And this is like on the top
tier of that of never happening. So just wanted to put that part out there so you guys don't,
you get the most out of taking your time to experience something like that.
Yes. I mean, it's going to be good for so many, just the community building,
you know, a learning experience. There's going to be questions and like, you know, every question
just furthers our understanding as like a community. So it's like, we're going to be able
to ask the man himself and Young Sung Cho has spent a lot of his life giving this stuff out for,
you know, ridiculously cheap, you know, his book, even buying the book. It's like, that is like $40
well spent. And I'll tell you right now, if there was some kind of apocalyptic event that happened,
the Jadam book is a book that it would come in handy. It's a really and just knowing those
principles. And so I mean, he just he really cares about the small farmer, you know, he's in Korea,
so he's not growing cannabis. He cares about the small farmer. And he's really like a revolutionary
dude. Definitely like the type of person who, you know, deserves this opportunity to come over
here and to make this happen and get his style of agriculture out there. And I'm really excited for
this tour. It's a special thing for sure. Yeah, definitely, man. I was like, shit, let me get I
gotta get I gotta make it there. Like, I can't make it to anything else. I want to hear that man
speak and ask her ball. No doubt. Bring your questions, you know, like the stuff that you're
thinking about when you're out there on your farm or your property, working with your job, you know,
jail lefts and whatnot. Have a good question. And not even if you can't maybe can ask the big man
himself, but there'll be so many minds there that you can bump that off of people and you guys,
you know, you want to have a little conversation that has something to do with, you know,
what we're doing. So that's why Brian saying, you know, watching some videos,
understanding the basics, and that'll kind of get you right on the same page with everybody.
Yep. Otherwise, you go into the Super Bowl, you don't even know the place,
you know, you get to experience is like, what the hell's going on? You don't want you don't
want to ask. You don't want to be in front of those kind of minds and be asking very basic
questions. That's not the time for that. That's what I mean. You want to be prepared so that you
can get lifelong answers from somebody that's probably been doing it for and not just like
the community as a whole, they haven't done it, somebody else usually has. And it's very rare
to have that many kind of bright minded people so willing and freely giving everything to one
another. Luckily, like with with Peters projects and stuff and other platforms that's starting to
become the norm. But it definitely wasn't the norm for decades. And now things have changed,
which is fantastic. This is again, just on a whole nother level with kind of seeing
who kind of invented the book, who invented the movement, you know, his family.
Oh, yeah.
All right, you guys want to get into ask if you guys want to get your questions in.
Again, I think you also Johnny back in the day, you were a salt farmer as well. So you have,
you know, an eye for both sides of things. So I think that goes a long way to from experience and
why you're choosing to farm the styles that you are. Man, it was I got bored. I'm not gonna lie.
I was like, Okay, this is okay, cannabis. You know, but I got I'm like, Okay, read the label
for you know what it says on there, mix it up, pour it down. And it's just like, for me, I wanted
to really take things to the next level and step my game up as a cultivator. I'm like,
anybody could frickin do this. You know, it's like, whether there's there to that there's not
much to it. And it's Yeah, I wanted to start being able to cultivate a better product. And I knew,
you know, I knew I'm like, Well, how do I do that? Oh, learn how to do it organically.
And try to be sustainable about that and eco friendly. And that actually, when I started
growing organically was the first time I ever grew indoor as well. I was like, All right, I'm
gonna I have my own little spot, I can do something, I can't be outside. I'm gonna do my
little my little thing and just learn both systems at the same time. And no, I mean, I can see how it
could it's it's, to me, it's a there's a, you know, huge difference in like how the ease of use.
It's there's a lot of ways to fuck up, you know, growing things organically,
whereas like synthetic growing synthetically, it's like, okay, you add too much, or you didn't add
enough. You know, it's like there, there's still there's always room for error. But I feel like
there's so many points of failure for organic, you know, cultivation, that I had to relearn a whole
bunch of things. Which it was, it was humbling, because I had grown 1000s of pounds of weed. And
I'm like, I'm trying to do this organically. And I'm having, you know, I'm having some,
some roadblocks and some issues. So it was, it was cool, because it kept me humble. And it kept
me like, you know, reminded me that I'll always be a student to, you know, the plant and, and,
you know, no matter how much experience that I get in my lifetime, I still like it's still there's
more and that's exciting. So it was really I was getting bored and not turned off. But it was like,
I was like, where's the craft in this shit? Like, and like people like think of this as beautiful
process. And here I'm like, you know, it's very, like, you know, robotic and just not, not.
I mean, there's little techniques and things you can do to step your game up. But yeah,
it was like, like I said, anybody can mix, you know, some salt based fertilizer in a water tank,
and then, you know, water the plants with it. So yeah, that's kind of, kind of my, my spiel.
Yeah, that's what they that's what they want you to think is easy.
Man, to pass that knowledge on to somebody, even when you're like,
all right, mix it this way, make sure you don't use too much. These are the extra,
you know, boosters and stuff. This raises this, this lowers that. And a week could go by where
that's being followed. And then it won't be known to the head grower that, you know, things have
changed a little bit. Oh, we should add, we should add more silica or whatever, you know, whatever,
whoever's trying to change things. And then the project derails. So there's a lot of trust,
and a lot of mistrust because of those things. Yeah, working in a commercial nursery, it was,
it was really wild. Because it seemed like some of the choices were being made, like,
very arbitrarily, like, like, why, why are you deciding to use these things? I don't know. It was
like, I mean, we had four or five people on this irrigating plant. And it was like, you know,
everybody's mixing their own tank, people are smoking wheat, like, there's room for air. And
it's also, you know, people give the hand watering thing kind of a bad name. But that's like one of
the more nuanced positions in a whole facility. If you have people who are water, like actually
watering, watering a plant is like an art form. And it's usually where a lot of like the new,
the new people get stuck, like here, go take the hose, you know, water the plants. And it's like,
there's so many issues that can come from watering practices, that can really in a big commercial
environment, it was so wild to see like four or five different areas, and everyone's supposed to
be doing the same thing. And just very different results. And because, you know, this guy frickin
double mix this and, and he watered for, you know, to you underwater, he over watered. So there was
this huge variance. And yeah, I mean, that's just a whole nother beast of its own just running that
commercial, you know, MIT clone operation where it's, you know, million, a million clones a year
are coming out of there are close to it. So it's like, it's, yeah, it's, there's still lots of ways
to fuck up. And I've had so many issues in the past where, like you said, it's a trust thing.
And I stopped trusting my friends, like I'd go for two days, I take two days off every couple weeks.
And I would go into town, and I would come back and I'd have plants that were fried,
I'd have fucking like, and I'd be like, what, what happened? I don't know. I'm like,
like, that's why I don't go anywhere. Because I go in it's Yeah, there's a lot of trust in it.
Do or die. I eventually got told by my boss at the one spot. He's like anything that could kill a
plant, like spraying, fertilizing, you need to be either doing it or supervising the people who are
doing it. Because, yeah, it's a I mean, they're living things.
Yeah, man, I hand water man, that's, that is a that is a talent. And I learned that,
like kind of the hard way. We got a batch of cocoa, the plants with the shit,
all of a sudden, you know, it's supposed to be living soil, whatever ended up being cocoa.
It wasn't me. Got this batch of cocoa in at 400 plants. And the plant started looking like shit.
Immediately. So they call in the consultant, you know, the consultants come in there,
checking shit. Well, the runoff, the cocoa was salty, it was supposed to be clean cocoa,
salty, so far. So now you got to go in and water 400 plants to leach it like run it out to
leachate runs clear. So meanwhile, it's a new facility to our system ain't all the way cranked
up. So it ain't kicking out them gallons like you want. So you end up sitting there watering
these 400 plants like all night long till you could finally get them all watered in. But like
things like that, man, that's just like, that's what the commercial thing ends up being. Even if
you're on a high level, you know, going in, I was right there knowing the owners who whatever,
whatever, next down on the totem pole, but still, you end up doing a lot of just meaningless dumb
shit when you don't have control over the whole row, you know, so you're like, damn, well,
fuck if you're doing living, whatever would have been in a situation in the first place,
you know, those are the things that Brian always talks about that the suits, you know, they fuck
it up. You know what I mean? Yeah, it's cheaper. The cocoa is cheaper. So we're doing that it's
easier. And cocoa core was a fucking struggle, like because it it defied everything I had already
known to about, you know, like I you said how the implants started instantly going to shit.
Like, you know, I'm used to transplanting a plant that needs to be transplanted and having it
bounce back and look very, very pleased almost immediately. Yeah. Yeah. And they're about you're
like, oh, they're getting better. The cocoa you're literally like, all right, no, anytime now,
like anytime. And like, no, and they the cocoa core doesn't want to dry out all the way you want
to keep it like, you know, saturated. And it's like, there. It's, it's a very different style
of things. And it, you know, in that big nursery status, our setup, it made kind of sense to do it.
But we learned things the hard way. We're like, oh, you got to charge the cocoa first, you have
to, you know, leach out the salts, and you need to charge it with kale mag. And it was all these
things where I was like, damn, like this was, you know, they just threw this fucking cocoa core at
us like, you know, that was what we're using now. And we had to learn all that on the fly as we're
like, well, let's let them dry out. And then we're letting the plants dry out. And they just
start looking like shit. We're like, ah, like, what do we do? And like, you know, they're like,
all right, well, we're gonna keep going. You know, what we would consider typically overwatering and
cocoa core kind of lends itself to that it has a good like water to air ratio. It wants that
it does. That's like the optimal place. But it's, you know, like you were saying, kind of having to
deal with some of these decisions where it's not yours. And it's like, we, I worked there for eight
months. And we had like three different mediums in that eight month time. And one of them was,
you know, went from soil to cocoa. And it was this we switched nutrient lines multiple times.
When I first got there, it was wild, the list of nutrients, you know, it looked like it reminded me
of, you know, that like, high time special, like, if I wish list, like, if I could get all these
things that had all the bells and whistles, all 50 of them. And I'm like, what is all like,
why are we doing all this? But you know, it was, you know, I'm paid help. So I'm like,
all right, like, here we go. But yeah, it's an interesting is kind of facepalm moment sometimes,
you know, working at these large, you know, even if the ownership is cool, it's just that's kind of
that that structure of big business and mass production. It's kind of kind of whack.
I think working with people and trying to see it through their eyes, like you'd mentioned watering,
that's a huge problem with especially the larger the facility, the more issues with that. When we
would have like a fresh group of people coming in for watering, usually like, you know, they'd
earn their way through trimming that kind of stuff. Like there is a hierarchy usually with
this in a corporation. But we would ask them to fill up the same jug to a gallon of water. And
that looks dramatically different to so many different people. So, you know, having them see
that in real time, pouring it out and letting them see the differences and everybody's cup and all
that kind of stuff, I think it allows the team to see, all right, well, we need to have some kind
of like dialed in system. And that's why before that, you know, now everybody kind of has SOPs.
But before that, that was eye opening to a lot of teams. It's like, wow, you've been watering heavy.
I'm watering light. No wonder the plants are all fucked up. We thought we were doing the same thing
and we're not. There's a lot to the artwork like you had mentioned. I don't think a lot of people
have used that verbiage before. So I wanted to highlight that from John.
Definitely. He's on that. But man, even like from the top down, like even, you know, I had,
you know, mixing all these, you know, 12 different ingredients, right. And doing a batch 200 gallons
per room, 12 or so different ingredients. Right. So I mix them the right way. One, one, one. Well,
you know, the owner's like, man, that takes a long time. So he's like, well, I'm gonna do the next
batch. So he starts putting all this shit in one gallon jar. They use these glass gallon jars when
we mix stuff. All the fucking shit in one jar and start shaking it up right before he starts to put
it into the 200 gallon. It blows up all over, shit everywhere. Like that's the kind of shit I'm
talking about. Like there's reasons you've got to do certain things a certain way, but that's where
the suits will come in there. You think they know better and kind of fuck it up.
You know, not if you're hooked up with the right people. Sure. If you don't know anybody,
be cautious, you know, and use things to protect yourself going in, you know, for sure.
You know, front, if you can do if you can't, then don't do the work, you know, do things that work
for you. Do the do things that are valuable to you. If you think it's worth it, then it is.
But you're always going to have some shit to deal with. It's never going to be like
it ain't a it ain't a high times magazine picture where you see the guy in the all white suit and
they just stand in there just tending, you know, just looking over the you know, most of it is
grinding. It's like you had to go through four or five hundred hundreds and hundreds of plants,
trimming hundreds and hundreds of plants, you know, just pruning, just visualizing, looking at
if you're using drippers, hundreds and hundreds of drippers you're doing for per pot, like if
you're doing drip lines like that's the kind of that's the kind of shit it is. It's like it's
hands on work. And once you get it up and running, usually, you know, there is a little bit of
break, but it's short because you're running that next flip. You're doing taking all the drippers
out. You clean them off. You got to do whatever the style is. It just magnify the amount of work.
And you're always going to deal with people that are a little bit on the cheap side, thinking they
can get less people to do more work. So it's just always going to be something to go into with
caution, go into it as a young man, you know, if you're going to do it, you know what I mean? But
don't go into it as like a desperate, you know, because then you may end up in a situation worse
than than you're at. You know, I mean. Yeah, it's a it's a lot of people. It's not what it's cut out
to be, really. I mean, it's not for everyone, even if you like smoke and herb, even if you think
it's interesting. Like you said, I mean, there's a lot of tedious, monotonous things. You know,
I've spent like eight hours before just freaking punching like hose, like like holes and hoes for
drippers. And it's like, you know, hurts your hand, you know, working a hot day is freaking
getting wet, you know, having to spray pesticides like, you know, like having an eight hour day and
then gearing up and being like, oh, now I have to, you know, in the state licensed facility,
put on my PPE, which you should be doing anyways. It's super important. And a lot of people kind of
kind of get the overlook, you know, but there's you know, I was always after a certain time,
I was always wearing gloves, you know, making sure to not, you know, inhale like there's
dust from fertilizers and sprays and stuff. That's really toxic. And it's just yeah, like,
I mean, it's God, I mean, some people in that nursery, they cut clones for eight hours a day,
they just sat there and they cut clones. And that's like a really, you know, it's a numbers
game. If you start slacking off, or whatever, or you're not hitting your quota, you know,
they're like, hey, what's going on? So it's like, it's not this like thing where you get to chill
out and smoke doobies all day and laugh around the ganja plants. It's like you're cutting freaking
clones. And, you know, it's, it's, it's work, you know, especially in those, those more
industrialized settings where it's like a lot more assembly line, like your position is you cut
clones, there was a person who literally all they did was run and grab clones from the people who
were cutting them and then bring them to people who were plugging the clone. So all day, they were
just walking back and forth. And it's like, that's not like glorious work. I mean, there's times
where it can be pretty cool, especially if you're on a smaller operation, and you're doing more,
you're involved for the whole process. But at those larger facilities, it's still cool. I enjoyed that
the time I spent there and they treated me well. But at the same time, I was like,
man, like that day to day, like it was like that movie Groundhog Day, it's like, all right,
go in, you mix the fertilizer tank, okay, you go your water, you check on the plants, you scout for
pests, you, you know, go home. And it's like, especially in a nursery, they're always vegging,
too. So it's like, that's, you know, it's still you're working with plants, that's cool. But
who doesn't want to see these plants, like go to like, you know, do what they're supposed to do.
It's a weird environment, just being in this room of constant, you know,
thousands of mother plants that are never going to flower ever. And yeah, it's, like you said,
yeah, protect yourself and be aware that it's like not a not just sitting around smoking weed.
I've had some cool spots where it was pretty chill, though, I'm not gonna lie. That field,
you know, it was like part of my job once it was once the plants were in the ground was just to go
and you know, check, make sure everything was good. No weird shit was going on. And there was
a bunch of blackberries on the side of the fence, lining the field and I would just go pick a bunch
of blackberries and just cruise the road, you know, the acre literally like smelling the flowers
and being like, okay, everything's good. Good, good. But there's a lot of spots. It's like,
yeah, you're just your clone cutter. You're a trimmer. You're you know, you're the guy running
clones back and you're not even touching the plants. You ain't nowhere near you're not even
in the same building with the plants, man. Not for long. If you don't look at them, don't look
at plants. It takes a strong mindset to go through that. And if you view it as well, at least you're
getting paid to learn this skill set because if you are cutting clones for hours a day, you're
gonna get pretty fucking good at that. And then if your skill set is is at that point where you're
hitting the upper 90 98 99% of everything that you're doing is rooting out. Not many people can
achieve that in the basic commercial sense. So there's a lot of skill sets you can pick up
going through the grind. You get a lot of repetition. You're just sitting there all day.
Or cutting the clones and then like there's a lot of back work with that. You usually are if
they're nice, they give you a chair that with wheels sometimes not so you're constantly bending
over. I mean, it's the glory days of growing that was when you would keep it to yourself and had it
in your own thing. Didn't tell anybody and had a little money in the pocket. For the most part,
that's over with. So the people that are into this now, it's they love cannabis. They love
growing, taking care of someone with medicine. And then they make a small little profit for
doing it. But it's nothing like it used to be. So understanding these concepts are how you're
going to be able to find extra money, you know, extra profitability in those skill sets when you're
farming cannabis, where things are getting better over time, you're proving when you're using salts,
that's all based on your skill set. So if you're starting out with this, growing in that style,
you're going to have a huge learning curve and you might grow cannabis that nobody wants
because it's not going to be up to par if you're, you know, you went cheap on a lot of the
ways to build your environment. Yeah. Yeah. You can learn a lot. I will say,
man, I learned a lot about lighting. You know what I mean? Like there's some really at the time,
some high tech lighting and the consultants would come in and learn a lot about that.
But I did learn from, you know, the consultants, they hit everybody. You know, the consultants
are at all the grills around. And I used to ask him, I talked to the guy like, yo, man,
like who's doing that living soil, man? I thought we were going to be doing, you know,
we're supposed to be doing living soil and shit. And he always say, man, green light productions
right over there in Pahrump. He's like, that guy's doing it right. He's like, if you ever
get a chance and that's why I Vegas, that's all to this day. I don't mess with anybody's stuff.
Go straight to Vegas, GLP where you're at. And that's where I start because I think they're
doing shit the right way. And I heard it and this was years ago. I remember the guy was like, yeah,
he's done like 12 different flips on the same soil. And that was back then. So now I think
it's like the numbers up to 40 something, you know? Yeah. It's up there. Yeah. It's up there.
And this and I seen it back then. I'm like, you know, so shit like that, looking, looking for,
you know, kind of somebody is doing it the right way. But I feel like, Brian, like that still can
be achieved. You know, if you if you want, it just depends on how big you want to go. You know,
I mean, it's tough, scalable. The keys are if you want to if you want to be a commercial facility,
you've got to have the money to play big boy ball. You know what I mean? If that's a goal of yours,
you know, you can be just as fulfilled in a small grow, enjoy your plants, enjoy being in control
of all your own shit, then have a damn book of regs to tell you what to do every second of every
day and always in fear that something might go down. You know what I mean? So, you know,
there's different different levels to it, man. So, you know, think close if you are thinking
about getting a career, you know, doing, you know, kind of working for somebody else.
I would not work for somebody else. You have the means, even if it takes you years to build
your brain, you're going to be so far ahead in the race of life that it's going to be worth it
than trying to build up stuff. The days of a corporation like taking care of you and your
family and giving you like a pension and all that stuff doesn't exist anymore. You got to go out
and get it anyway. So you might as well do it on an entrepreneur mindset,
because once you've built that, then the money starts to snowball for you. The work is,
you want to wake up in the morning because the work isn't necessarily always a,
oh man, I got to go here. It's like, man, this is profitability, baby. You know, the more people
that find out about this, the more profitable we can be. And that's with cannabis, flowers,
soil, whatever, teapots, you know, profitability.
Yep. So just commenting on like a reason why someone would want to be, you know, think about
growing organically and reusing their soil. And I saw this here and I'm like, thank God I reused my
soil. The cost on the East coast after living right across the, you know, the Bay from where
they made ocean for our Fox farms and where, you know roots organic is up in Oregon. Those soils
here are like three, four times as much money which, you know, makes sense because of just
the distance involved. But that right there for me, it's like a commercial facility and you're,
you know, not reusing things. It's a hard fucking time. If you have to buy fresh freaking soil every
single time in the market today, it's like, that's going to really put a hurting on your
bottom line. Like big time. I couldn't imagine if I had to spend $750 in soil every run. And people
are still doing that. I met a guy in Humboldt who was literally, he was growing in pots and then he
was taking a soil, using it once, dumping it out. And then this guy literally would go out at night
and just dump piles of soil around, you know, potting soil, which is like there's perlite in
it. There's, you know, he'd been using synthetic nutrients. I'm like, dude, you're like, how the
fuck are you going to like make it right now? Do you see what's happening with the market? And
you're like, you're throwing your soil out every single run. And little things like that. It's just
crazy to see and working for other people. You see a lot of that. And I will say I'm grateful that
I've been in some of these, these wild, you know, bigger situations because I've learned a lot of
what not to do. I'm like, oh fuck, like all of these mistakes I'm watching these guys making,
I don't have to do it and learn the hard way. I can kind of take some lessons from these fuck
ups that I'm watching. So that's something I'm like super grateful for. The nursery,
I, it was short lived. I couldn't do it anymore. I decided I wanted to, I'd rather freelance and be
open to other opportunities than be stuck at a nine to five doing that stuff. It was a good
experience and they treated me good, but you know, I'm like, I'm like, this isn't good work. This is
hard to wake up for, you know, it was easy work, but at the end of the day, I was exhausted because
I was just going through the motions and I'm like, all right, I got to get back outside.
I got to be, you know, focusing on, you know, cultivating organically. You know, I went to work
at this spot and they're, you know, growing cocoa coir. And, you know, so it was exactly what I was
trying to step away from. And I'm like, I'm just, you know, over it, I put in my two weeks and,
and just found, you know, it was floated around for a while. And it felt so much better. Like,
yeah, that it's not for everyone. And it was a good experience, but damn,
fucking, that's a few plants in your closet. So much more fun than that.
Right. Less stress, you know, less issues. Any idea when the website's going to be restocked?
It's been out for a minute. Let me see here, King Dolo. I ain't sure, man. I'll have to,
I'll have to get back to you, man. Keep checking, bro. It was only out since yesterday.
I sold my last bag yesterday. So, you know, the website is what it is, man. Like that's something
if I got extra, I put it out there. You know, that's not like something that this is a hobby
for me. You know what I mean? That's not like a long-term business plan necessarily for me.
You know what I mean? If I got a few bags, I put them on the site, you know, pay some things for
my hobby, but I'm not looking to necessarily, you know, take that to like a level of like,
you know, tractor trailer loads at this time. You know what I mean? So just keep checking back with
me, bro. And if you see anything you want to grab support. I think that next question is for you,
Johnny. See the questions. Yeah. Oh, yep. I'm looking at it. So, you know, it really depends
if you have a clean mom stock that, you know, there's no byroid viruses, infections, whatever.
I mean, you can keep a mom plant around with no, you know, no loss in vigor or anything like that.
If things are optimal, but the longer they're around, the more shit can happen. You know,
if you say they could get fusarium over time, you can infect them with hoplate and byroid.
They could just, you know, be not nutritionally optimal. And it's just the vigor can slowly over
time really reduce. So for me personally, like the more you can cycle them out, the better,
but it's a catch 22 because, you know, if you have a one plant and it's this tall, you can cut it
once. You can get to a point where you get a plant and you're getting like 30, 40, 50 cuttings
off of it. That's nice. Cause you're getting your numbers. But at the same time, you don't want to
keep them around forever because it's just more opportunity for shit to be wrong with that plant.
So, you know, if you have a perfect world, if you can cycle your clones out every month or two,
that's, that's prime for me. But at the same time, I've kept moms around for,
you know, a long time, like, you know, a year. And I will say though, the pest problems, like
you have a big fucking mom that's giving you like a hundred cuts. It is so hard to get full spray
coverage. And it's so, it's like a liability having them around because if pests get in to
your fucking, you know, massive six foot tall mother plant, it's like so hard to deal with that.
And like, it gets to a point where it's like the pest can win, you know, it's just like, you might
as well have just, you know, cut clones, make sure they're clean and start fresh. So that's like
another reason why, you know, cycling them faster is a kind of a good idea.
Chris You want to add to any of that, Marco?
I think he basically kind of described it like the perpetual, the perpetual harvest is usually
more successful, you know, but again, you, you get to be the chef. So understand a variety of
different ways on how to do it, understand how much space you have to farm in and then dial out
your plan so that you can make money with this, you know, cause you are going to have to squeak
this out. Like everybody's saying, it's not, it's not easy to make money doing this.
Yeah, man, the moms that's, that's tough keeping them like that, but everybody in my experience,
I just cloned of clones, you know, man, I might keep a plant for a while and then I'll clone off
over and restart. Cause it seems like you get more vigor off that restarted clone.
Yeah. Fresh, fresh clone for sure. I mean, I've totally, you know, success rates, you know, after,
you know, a certain time they just really plummet and there's just so much that can happen in that
time, you know, it's very like, you know, if you have optimal nutrition, how long is that going to
last? And that affects your, your clone success. If you have an unhealthy mother plant or it's not
quite, you know, you can still get them to root, but it'll take longer. It'll be slower growing.
It's just, you kind of, you can lose, you know, some vigor over time. Especially with infections,
you know, that's, that's like a big one. You know, you get your, your mom's stock infected
with something and it's like, you go, you can go out of business pretty fast. So I think cycling is
like the way to go. If you can just cut everything once and then put it in production, that's pretty,
you know, that's like ideal. I feel if you just have the space and then you could do that
turnaround where it's like, all right, I'll cut it once and then I'll put it in and I'll flower that
plant instead of keeping a speck, like a mom specifically. Cause yeah, the longer you have them,
yeah. So many spider mite infestations that I just was suiting up and like going to war. And I'm like,
if we just didn't have these things that were four foot around and six foot tall, like, you know,
you would be able to deal with them. With a stem with the has bark on it.
Yeah, dude. Yeah. It's like a tree. Yeah. Hey, if people want to reach out to Marco,
I was saying Instagram, you know, if you're on hiatus with that, how do people reach to
reach you now? You can hit me on, shit man, hit me on my, on my email. I got an email address.
Okay. I can put that up there. What do you want? What do you want to say? Who's who got something
to say who wants to reach me? I'm right here. People that want to reach me. Got my number,
bro. Like check the site. If you every now and then I'll be putting things on there as, as I,
as I can. And as I have them, but don't ever, don't ever count your grow. Like all shit. My
girl ain't going to work if I don't have Marco shit, like Marco tries to show you how to make
your own stuff. So you also have to go out and kind of, and Marco sites down. I'm not going to
just sit there and wait. I'm gonna go out there and make my own shit. You know what I mean? So
that's what I'm on. That next question is for you too. Okay. Thanks for the suggestion of dig up
worms in the garden. What was it early last summer? No more light ones, man. That's a,
that's tough. What is this in your worm bin? I guess I'd say when the time to get worms is,
is, is when you can, like when it warms up right now, I was looking, I've moved some barrels.
I saw some worms under there. So there are some kind of up by the surface, but it's a little bit
warmer here. So I'm not a hundred on that question, but definitely, Oh, getting them
indigenous worms. Yeah. Yeah, definitely to get your worms from your own local yard, your own
soil. If you got, if you can, that's what this is for Johnny. Yeah. I mean, you're good. Those
are kind of bonus the IMO and OHN. It's, it's not essential. You know, if you want to add some
biology, you can add some leaf mold, you know, just a little pinch of leaf mold, but yeah,
you can totally just use fish and sugar. Just the main thing. It's like, if you're,
you gotta just smell it, smell it for a couple of weeks. If it goes a couple of weeks and it
doesn't fucking smell like rancid death, then you're pretty sure that your ratios are right.
If it's, you get a short window, but if it starts to smell like a little off, you can save it with
some sugar. But really that one-to-one ratio is like essential. You want to hit it. And
I wouldn't be too worried about not having OHN, you know, it'll be fine. But yeah, if you grab a
pinch of leaf mold, throw it in there and you're good. You can probably compost, you know, the idea
is starting the process, like, you know, giving it like a jumpstart because either way you're
going to have yeast and bacteria come in and start working that material. But if you put in IMO or
leaf mold or, you know, even like a splash of, like a, I mean, a splash of lab where it's not
going to wet the solution down, you know, or compost or a stored JMS, any of those things
will work as that inoculant. So yeah, I'd say go for it. If you don't have it, like you're good to
make it without. Good point. The only thing I'd say is, yeah, I like to save my OHN to add
whenever I'm doing my nutrient solution or whatever. I don't like to have it preloaded in the
FAA. Johnny? JMS is like a really, it's a great inoculant. I believe people have had success
treating Septoria or mitigating it or, you know, just kind of preventing it. I know that once
Septoria is, you have it, I'm pretty sure you have it, but you can slow it down. And really,
it's about preventing it in the first place. But if you're using JMS on your soil, if you're,
you know, you have a mulch layer, so stuff's not splashing up onto your plants and you're
treating with JMS regularly, and you could foliar JMS as well if you wanted, but those things right
there, if you have your soil health, like as above, so below, a lot of these things are taking up
residence in the soil. So if your soil is healthy and your plants are healthy, you're going to have
a lot of like pathogens are going to have a lot harder time taking hold. And a lot of the research
on endophytes and rhizophagy cycles, like if you're inoculating your root zone, a lot of microbes have
the capacity to be in, like to be internalized by the plant. And they're, you know, able to provide
benefit nutrients to the plant. So using JMS as like a kind of preventative is definitely like a
route that you can go.
Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. I agree. 100%.
You know, if I honestly would prefer no aeration in native soil, but I don't know,
I've never used vermiculite. I've used pumice and perlite. I prefer pumice because it's,
you know, more natural. It's more expensive too. But I've never used vermiculite. So I don't know.
How about you, Marco? Yeah, man, I'll go pumice. I can't stand perlite. And I'm not crazy about
vermiculite. Pumice is to me more natural. It's got more pockets in it, more of a microbial hotel
for me. For most of us, the perlite always floated to the top anyway. So what was the point?
Yep. Got one for you, Johnny.
I mean, you want to have like something that's sufficient. Like you don't want to be doing this
and like a thing, something smaller than even a five gallon, even that's going to have, you're
going to have challenges. You know, I use a four by eight bed primarily for my own little thing,
or just a bed in general, having that extra root space, it makes a big difference. Whereas a small
pot, in my experience, if I'm not really on, you know, hitting it with nutrition, like weekly,
if I slack for a day, it's like, they're just so, if you're growing organically, there's only so
much that your roots can do and they'll run out of things very fast and it goes downhill quickly.
So you're going to, I mean, I would say at least a 10 gallon pot and you have to remember
that, you know, they're going to, yeah, using your inputs and everything, but in a not natural
soil system, there's a little bit of like, you got to kind of play God a little bit and it's not
easy to be God. So to have things optimized, it's going to, you know, require some intuition and
some know-how. And usually when I was growing in pots with KNF protocol, I was also using like a
weekly top dress where I would top dress IMO and I would top dress, you know, a dry amendment.
And that way I'm giving the biology with the nutrition, kind of like a lazy man's IMO,
you know, five, putting it on the soil, putting the IMO three and the nutrition there
and letting that ferment on the spot and then supplementing with the KNF foliar sprays.
But you got to remember, you know, natural farming and we're, you know, even in a potting
soil outside, that's, you can do it naturally, but that's still not, it's not like a natural
setting. So it really like, if you could be in the ground and using KNF, you're going to
have amazing results, but you can also have amazing results in these artificial settings.
It's just, there's a little bit more nuance to it.
Damn, my man knows his shit. Good shit, Johnny. I love when I got guests, I'm like a hundred with
everything you say. Only thing I say is I like, if someone says, Hey Marco, what should I use?
I just always go thirties now. That's kind of my little recommendation.
Yeah, no, for sure. A 30, like that's, it's going to make your life so much easier. You don't want
to fight, you don't want to fight this and like use, you know, five gallon pots and, you know,
I've done it, you know, I've been like, all right, I've got to move these things around a bunch.
And it's, there's a lot more, it's trickier. Have given yourself an inherent advantage from
the beginning with a proper size container, like 30s are the, yeah, 30 on a minimum.
I can't miss growers, hire consultants or it's a little of both. They wing it until
they fuck up and they're like, Oh, we better, we better get someone on this right away.
I feel like that's usually the route that I see.
We'll get them there. It's just to put out the fire rather than the, to prevent it.
Yeah. I mean, the problem I see, man, is, is if you take a person such as myself, a grower,
and then you take a suit or owner, what happens is the owner, there's a lot of times is there's,
they don't have that trust with their grower. So they have to get that third piece of a triangle,
which is the consultant. And a lot of times what happens is the consultant comes in
and this is in construction or anything happens on big, on the high rises. I do as well.
When they come into a cannabis grow, a consultant comes in and creates a little bit of discord. You
know, they create a little issues. They create, they find shit because if they don't find shit,
it's like, well, owner's like, well, what are you? I'm like, you're not doing your job. So they look
for little nitpicky shit sometimes with the grower, things that grower may have been doing for
a long time for successfully. And that can just cause a little bit of issues. And a lot of times
what will happen is the, then the, then the owner kind of used that, you know, it, to me, the
intention is for the owner to be covered. But what happens is that that creates a triangle of
the owner, the grower, and the consultant. And a lot of times the grower may lose out in that
situation. Ultimately the owner loses out because he ended up paying that consultant. And sometimes
the consultants aren't even right. So yeah, they do get consultants, man, the ones that got that
extra paper to hedge their bets so, so-called, but a lot of times I don't think it works out that
great. Yeah. It's, it's a lot of what you said. There's that like, you know, triangle and it's
like, I've seen it so many times and there's a, you know, a pissed off cultivator who starts to
feel undermined and, and the only, yeah, yeah, it's, it's pretty classic dynamic there, what
you just mentioned. They call them seagulls. They say swoop in and shit on everything and then
they're like, yeah, I'm going to go.
You know, you know, I really don't know with, I haven't heard of any like issues, like, yeah,
too much CO2 can totally, you don't want to be in a room, but I've, I've been under the assumption
that most levels that would be used in like agriculture are pretty safe. But, you know,
what you're saying, and I'm not sure, so don't quote me on that, but I believe that you're like,
you know, at 1500 parts per million, you're like, you're good. You know, it's probably not,
some people are probably have sensitivities compared to other people and it's, but I've
read that it's relatively, you know, harmless. But, you know, cigarettes used to be harmless
and a few decades ago. LED lights, any grill lights, I feel like, you know, we should be,
as cultivators be mindful of this stuff, like protect yourself, you know, maybe get some,
if they're bothering your eyes and you're in the grow room a lot, get some shades. You know,
I know they have like spectrum specific shades. So, you know, you go into a high pressure sodium
room and it looks like you're looking in the, you know, the light is an orange and it kind of
saves your eyes. And I've definitely heard a lot of old timers be like, yeah, working in indoor
grow rooms for 30 years, it fucked my vision up a little bit. So yeah, protect yourself. I mean,
this is, those are emulating the sun, those lights, and you're giving, you know, you're
working with various inputs that may or may not be like, you know, kosher to have on your skin
or be breathing in. So be mindful, you know, take care of yourself. A lot of times people won't even
say anything if you're working there or there won't be warnings on things, or you won't read
the warning where it's like, hey, wear a mask when you're applying this. And yeah, I mean, if it seems
like it could be putting you in harm's way, you know, the grow lights, that's huge. Your vision,
that's so important. You don't want to lose one of your senses growing a plant that you love to
cultivate. So yeah, I would say, you know, take that precaution, get some glasses if you feel the
urge. And even if you don't, I need to get some glasses. Like I should listen to my own advice
because I thought that I'm like, damn, these things are bright. And like, I'll leave the
room sometimes and I'll be, you know, seeing stars. So it's like, yeah, I mean, maybe it's a good idea
to do it. Yeah, definitely protect those eyes. I remember Method Sevens were like this shit at that
time. I was like, yeah, you got the Method Seven. But I wouldn't go in there without them, like
Method Sevens, bucket, you know, hat, full coverage, full sleeves, everything, man, because
that fucking light ain't no joke, man. I'm looming, especially those DEs.
I'm not with the DEs, boy. They can break that room up.
Yeah, bulb is a million degrees. Like, there's no joke.
Yeah, exactly. So yeah, protect your eyes, man. That's key. You don't realize that even as a
homegrower, think about it. I know when the newer it seems like you are growing, the more you spend
time in your room, you know what I mean? But even spending an hour a day, man, you're talking about
hundreds of hours in a year, you know, that could be exposure to your eyes. I always even wear a
brim. You know, I feel like these brims we wear, you know, it's cool. But I mean, the way you go
is you wear that brim low. So that light's not hitting your eyes. You know what I mean? You don't
want that light directly going into your eyes, you know. So even if it's off to the side,
if you if it's in your vision, that light is going in your eyes still.
So that's why, you know, you do things like that, where you're brim low, you know, protect that.
So you substitute time. Now you could just not include them. But yeah, any micro like,
I'm not sure if it was the same person, but any. Yeah, any anything you can use finished compost
from your Johnson Zoo bioreactor, you can do your, you know, cold compost pile worm casting.
It's the idea with the IMO is to increase, like to inoculate that material and to jumpstart the
process. The OHN is just like a, you know, it's like a little like sprinkles on top. But there's,
you know, there's really in KNF protocol, there's really no substitute for OHN or any of the inputs,
you know, besides the vinegar thing. But there's no substitute for OHN really. And if you don't
have it, you could just omit it. And if you really do want to include it, which in my experience,
it's not necessary. But if you really want to include it, there's lots of people, you know,
there's lots of OHN, you know, available online, there's lots of cool people who could use some
support. And, you know, I'm sure that, you know, you probably already are following some of them.
But yeah, you could also totally omit it. It's not going to make or break it.
And you can make your own because it's not that difficult.
Yep, just takes a little bit of time.
Little time.
All right. On the dot pretty much here, Marco, at the three hour mark, I want to give you guys
kind of like the last shout outs where people can find you again, where you're going to be
in the next few weeks. Because again, if you know, there's bright minded people all over that room.
Now might be a chance, you know, now maybe you're thinking, oh, I might want to
go for this. And there's just so much information that can also be shared after those kind of
conferences that that $300 like Marco was saying, it's money well spent, man.
Yeah, definitely.
To Johnny real quick.
Yeah, Johnny, what you got coming up, buddy?
I mean, this the JDAM conference in Queensbury, New York this weekend. That's going to be,
you know, amazing. And I believe next week, is it next week or in two weeks, Marco, where the
Maryland is? Two weeks. I think they're they're going to be down in Austin.
Or no, not not all Houston. I'm sorry.
So I'm pretty sure it's Houston. And there's going to be yeah, three more events. The one in New York
is this weekend. And that's going to be kind of where I'm at. And then, you know, just be on the
lookout for pure New York cannabis when it when it hits the shelves when that whenever that is,
because that's, you know, going to be a labor of love. And, you know, it's really
it's like I'm looking at the team and everything like that and how things are progressing. And it's
going to be, you know, I can tell you right now, it's going to be a magical place to cultivate.
And it's going to be, you know, we're going to be able to put out some really finely tended to
small batch, you know, mixed light for the market.
That sounds good. That sounds damn good. Yeah, I know you're gonna do it, man. Much. Yeah,
100 percent. You're gonna do it. And I can't wait. We're gonna come up there and catch you
once you get up and running. Do an on site visit and check out your facility, man.
I got man, I got something kind of cool coming up here. It's called the great grow along
it's called the great grow along. And it's some national thing. And this is my second year doing
it. But last year, they tried to record my own bit and I had a little bit of technical issues.
So we this year they're going to we're going to sit down, they're going to record it.
And so, yeah, I'm doing that Saturday. And then I'm not sure when it's going to air,
but it should be pretty neat. And then that next weekend, I'm at the Jadam
event in Beltsville, Maryland. So all those people that want to see me come see me there.
Let's talk about it. You know, that's about all I got coming up, man. I'm just kind of
doing me taking care of my land. I got some other projects I'm working on with my land. It really
is kind of outside of gardening and things which are going to kind of set help me in my long term
you know, financial status, my wife and I. So that's taking a lot of my time, man,
doing stuff like that. And I will be as soon as I can get some stuff on the website. I got like
FAA man, it's like five years old now. I got some real heat that I know a lot of people will be
interested in getting their hands on. So hopefully soon we can get some stuff out there for the folks.
Yeah, man, it's nice again, when people are waiting for it, you know, in a way they would
almost prepay you for it. That's kind of what we were getting at when you're, you know, an
underground cannabis farmers, people are willing to wait, people are willing to prepay, people are
willing to kind of communicate with you on a whole nother level, so that they can make money off of
that as well. So quality products, quality in quality out. That's the sounds cliche and all
that stuff, but it's tried and true. I mean, there's really no way around that, especially
when it comes to farming and when you're getting to the end point of washing. Johnny, I wanted to
thank you again, sir, for coming on. I spoke to you basically like two years, two months or
something like that, man. So it's cool to see you developing on the other side of the country.
You never know where life's going to take you, but we wish you much success. And I know when
you're getting dialed in and you have the suits listening to you, you know, there's potential to
be there. And since you're able to kind of just do your own thing and manage stuff, I know you'll
find success. For me personally, just doing the reptile shows coming up, guys. So I know some of
you guys, especially in Kansas City and that kind of stuff, we link up a lot. I'm going to be doing
those every other month. So excited to continue to build that network. No matter what we're doing,
you know, it's all about building that network. So whether you're getting into cannabis or you're
getting into reptiles and building up soil systems, you know, it's going to the expos and
kind of shaking hands and finding out what the market is telling you. And you're only going to
find that by going to a lot of these and being educated. And Johnny is a spitting image of that.
I'm going to all of these, even though he has a, you know, this position, he's going to continue
to educate himself because that's how he got the position in the first place. I look forward to
seeing you guys all next week as well. I've enjoyed the show and appreciate these
outros and all that from London. See you guys next week.
Peace.
Peace, everybody.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
