But you know, like, it'll be good smoke, dude.
I guarantee you'll burn real nice.
You know?
Yeah.
They don't need, they don't need all that nitrogen now anyway, but I was just
worried about fattening up and girth and all that stuff and you know, Hey, it's
there, they're doing their thing.
So.
Dude, they're looking fat, man.
All right.
And we are live on YouTube.
So welcome.
Good early afternoon to the both of you.
Top of the morning to everyone in, uh, on the West coast.
And, uh, let's see, do we have any South Africa or Australia in the house today?
Shout out to South Africa.
Got a lot of, uh, avocado tech folks.
All right.
What's up everybody.
So it's interesting cause each of you started, uh, you both popped, it seems
like you both popped your steeds at different times, right?
Uh, as far as the max go.
Yeah, we were about a, I tried, he, he, he beat me to the punch and
then I was trying to play catch up.
So I threw him in water just as soon as I saw he had seedlings.
I was like, damn, so we're about, I don't know what it was a week and yeah.
Something apart.
Of course.
Yeah.
He's more in the driver's seat than I am on this one.
Cause he's like, I don't know about that.
And Derek, you're in day.
What a flower.
You said 65.
Yep.
Day 65.
And today is harvest day, right?
Definitely.
Yeah.
I got, I'm going to go visit some families, so they definitely have to come down.
I would probably let them go like 70 probably, but, uh, they're
looking pretty good right now.
And, and how many plants, uh, so you each had how many seeds?
We just got a pack basically is what happened.
So, uh, I'm on a, on bean basement, which is a cap or calculator.
I'll probably refer him to, to as cat mostly, but, um, you know, that's what
his design site for cultivators to kind of go and, uh, share knowledge.
And, uh, it just so happened that he posted a thread looking
for testers for the V two.
Um, and I was right there on it and said, I'd love to be a part of it.
But then I got to thinking timing wise, I was going to want to run mine in a
greenhouse and cap was really looking for information as soon as possible.
Cause I believe he just released them for the first time.
Um, and so he was looking for as much information as possible, as soon as possible.
So in knowing that I called my man green D and, uh, he said, I got space.
And so we split the pack and cap was really into it because he wanted
to see the different expressions.
You know, we grow in, in slightly different styles for sure.
And, uh, one was going to be indoor versus outdoor.
So yeah, that's how it all came to, came to fruition.
So we split just a pack.
So we're each looking at essentially five.
And sorry.
So, so like how many males and females did you each, uh, end up having?
I'll let you feel that one day.
Well, we were always like kind of jiving each other about it as far as like,
uh, who's got the males, you know?
And then Tyler one day he's like, God, mine are all female.
And I was like, what?
So you got lucky.
And I had, I had two males, but, uh, it was okay.
They were, they were good looking plants.
All of them were, you know, but, uh, that's just the, how it goes.
I love regular seeds and I'll definitely risk having males anytime.
One.
I asked, so that's what I was going to ask.
So you, cause you could pollinate with them, right?
Like they could be keepers.
It's not like you have to pull them.
And, uh, so, so what, what's kind of your plan?
Like, is it just like, are any of the females, uh, seeded or, or did you pull
the males and keep them in a separate?
No, I mean, I, I, I did take a male and put him in the flower for a bit just
to get him going and then put him outside to see what he looked like.
And he looked really good.
Like, um, you'll see the smallest of my three max, the male looked like that
very same structure, real short squat.
Smell like, uh, feet or something, a stem rub on it.
It was really interesting.
But, uh, yeah.
So I'm not familiar with flip terpenes personally.
Odorous, you know, that real funky, like you can't put a really name on it, but
it does smell kind of like weird BO or something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Totally like a little skunky, but not, not too much.
Delicious body odor.
Yeah, I know.
Right.
So funny how we describe, you know, terpenes and cannabis.
Interesting.
What, what, so, so, and have you both grown Mac?
Like, do you have something to compare it to?
Uh,
I've experienced with Mac.
I, um, went to great lengths actually to hunt down a pack of it.
I mean, out here in the East, it's not easy to, to get West coast genetics,
especially, you know, if you want exotic, exotic genetic, whatever you
want to call it hard to find genetics.
And I had this, the homie, a guy that I had just been speaking with on Instagram.
Um, he stood in line for me for like hours and got me, um, a pack.
Um, he got himself some seeds as well, but was, was super gracious and saying,
I see your cultivation style.
I like what you do.
And I want you to grow this cultivar, see what you can do with it.
And so that's how I originally got my first pack.
And, um, and there was a bunch of really promising plants in there.
Three Finos that I really like.
And I, I dug, but unfortunately didn't save cuttings of, um, for,
for reasons I won't go into.
But, um, then I went to pop the rest of the pack and excitement and I
did not have a good germination rate.
And cap was a super standup guy and he sent me, and I'm not saying this
is the requisite, the regular, but we have a pretty good dialogue these days.
And so he sent me a fresh pack, which I haven't popped.
So I've got Mac one in the chamber as, excuse me, not Mac one, but original
Mac and, uh, and these guys now too.
So really going to be really cool to compare those two side by side,
which will happen in the future.
And so, but in terms of, you know, growing are like, can you talk about them?
So I, there are a bunch of things popping into my head.
Like last night, some people were like, ah, the Mac's mediocre, blah, blah, blah.
Um, can, can you talk about just Mac in general and kind of why it's just, I
mean, caps crushing it in terms of, of seed sales, like there, there are lines
around the corner every time, uh, you know, they're at an event.
Yeah.
I mean, I'll grab that one real quick.
I think that, you know, the big allure to it, um, is, is the resin coverage.
I mean, the resin coverage is impressive and not in like a purple punch way,
which I kind of knocked purple punch from time because it has, you
know, a longer, uh, Tricone stock.
And I think that once that Tricone stock lays down, uh, it, there's more
coverage on the bud, but there's not more head coverage per se.
It's just.
Coverage of Tricone material.
And so it looks great in a bag, but, um, with the Macs, I find a shorter stock
and just an insane similar coverage as well.
Um, and I think that's the allure is that people are just seeing
real frosty, uh, phenos come out of here.
And so, um, you know, I would say that, you know, you've got to hunt, you've
got to look for the ones that have that special little extra smell, which, um,
you know, I'm a, I'm always looking for, for strong turps.
And so, um, I think you just got to find the one.
I think maybe some Mac could not be impressive.
I had one that I thought was a little bit less impressive than the rest, but I had
one that I thought was really aromatic and really strong and, you know, had a
great, um, can have no profile to go with it because it just made you feel good.
That's the only thing I can really say just real smiley, real iry.
So.
I think that's what people are looking for.
That's the experience most are when they're, when they're looking for a cultivar.
Here, hold on.
I, I'm going to bring Brandon, uh, Bokashi earthworks on.
Cause, uh, he's also rocking the V2.
So while I see him up, but, uh, cause I think that's interesting.
Like you're both in Maine.
So I want to kind of set the table, you know, and what I've always wanted to do
is get like a breeder and a bunch of people growing their genetics in different
environments, like indoor, outdoor, different outdoor microclimates,
greenhouse, true outdoor, uh, and just have like a round table conversation.
And obviously cap does not go on camera.
Uh, I was actually going to tell him, uh, to, uh, uh, fuck, where are they?
I'll find them in a second.
I have my Mexican wrestling mask somewhere that he could rock the mask.
We can send him a mask to wear something.
A spider.
I think even, even on the audio tip, I just don't think he's at this point
ready to jump out there and engage people.
I think there's a lot that comes along with that.
You know, you can catch a lot of, a lot of, a lot of flack and a lot of heat.
And, um, I just think that he's not about that, which I can respect that.
I suppose, although I'm kind of going a different route, but, um, yeah.
Him not being around, I guess, leaves a few questions to be answered.
There's some stuff I'd love to know.
That's kind of clunky to ask in a, in like a, you know, a chat situation
that would be easier to ask live, but yeah.
So what, what are some of the questions you'd love to ask a cap and not, not
in like text message format, but.
Um, I think more like what was the allure of the, of the specific plants
that, um, you know, was the, the chemotype and initiator on keeping these plants?
Was the chemical profile of the plant and how it made him feel a big motivator
for his selections, because I mean, I just, I'm curious about that because
the people can breed for, for looks as you would an ornamental, or, you know,
they can breed for terpene and aroma profiles or just how the, how
the plant makes you feel.
So I'm really curious about that.
Um, I'm curious about his selection, Mac one, which a lot of people might know.
Um, he's got sort of like a credo, sort of like an honor based thing that if
you have been cultivating and you're a serious cultivator and, and, and you
love the plant and you show it that you could have access to this really.
You know, great cut that he has.
And I don't have access to that just because I've never endeavored to get it,
but, um, you know, that's another interesting aspect of what he's doing
is putting some honor in what he's doing.
And I think that there's a lack of that in the game right now.
So that would be another question.
I think that could unfold to a lot of other separate questions.
But I just like to know a little bit more about his selection process and the
whys of that, because that helps the cultivator massively choose their phenos
and say, ah, I stayed away from this one because it tended to do this.
And, you know, as we all know, in lineage, some of those traits tend
to hop and skip and jump around.
And I would just love to know from a, from a experience based point of
view, why he went the way he went.
Cause we all know these little faithful decisions, there's the luchador.
Um, those, these little faithful decisions make history, you know?
So.
All right.
Just quickly here, here's the first mask.
And then, uh,
I like that the eye holes are just covering the eyebrows.
Thank you.
It's more for like, uh, this one looks, here we go.
So, um, in full disclosure, my battery power is not fantastic on this phone.
Um, so I just want to make sure that I, you know, anything that you want to know
or want to see that I can get that, you know, in front of your eyes, in case my
phone does die, go for it.
So why, why don't you just start giving us a tour?
You want to flip the phone and just kind of walk around and talk
about what you're seeing and.
Yeah.
Let me see.
Can I flip and still see?
Yes, I can.
Fantastic.
All right.
So obviously it's getting cold as hell here now.
So I'm seeing a lot of colors starting to pop off and I'm not sure, um, how
well you guys could even see, but, um, the reason, the reason why I chose to
fuck with this variety, excuse my language is because if I'm going to grow
outside, I want as much resin coverage as possible.
And, um, you know, that's why Mac, it just lent itself, but I definitely took
a big risk in that, um, I don't know the mold susceptibility of this
cultivar, especially in this climate.
So right now I'm starting to see, boy, try to start to rear its head.
And I'm seeing a few spots that I've have been triaging.
I've only triaged them once, but I'm playing like a playing a, uh, a game
against mother nature right now.
Um, In the fact that I'm getting a lot of similar, like look and color.
So that's cool.
But, um, yeah, the herb itself, this is a, uh, I'll try to get a better perspective,
but this is a four by 16 bed living soil bed, or it's actually two beds end to end.
Um, and I,
it's two four by eights basically.
Yeah.
And, and yeah, no hoop.
And so I wanted to keep it as small and controlled as possible.
And I figured this is like a good, good space for this amount of plants.
And, um, you know, I, I definitely had my challenges in here this year, the
structure of Mac, um, doesn't necessarily want to do what I want it to do.
And I grow with a hard rigid screen, which I'll depress all the plants as they're
lower as they're shorter, excuse me, and younger.
And then I will, um, force them to grow.
Razonably.
And Mac was kind of like, no, thank you.
I want to grow vertically.
And, uh, so I had my challenges and it's, you have to pick the moment basically
to take those, take the screen off so that it will branch out and not get rigid
and woody in the stem style.
So, um, yeah, it was a challenge.
I will, um, I, I would hope inside and I plan on doing that actually now we're
getting over into some in-house genetics here.
I have a couple of daddy Macs as well, which has some Mac lineage in it.
Oops.
Sorry.
But yeah, I got a few nice times again.
There's as a cultivator, there's some stuff left to be desired.
Um, I do find out that they were more nitrogen hogs than the Mac was.
Uh, nitr- the V2 seems to want more nitrogen.
But that's been kind of a running issue in this bed is that I used a high carbon
to nitrogen ratio because I wanted to get really nice fungal dominant soil.
And it's acting sort of like a stainless steel, a lot of nitrogen.
So thank goodness that went into flower and the nitrogen just isn't as integral
of a role to fattening and whatever.
But, um, we did have a strange mutant, um, that one that came out of the ground
had no apical Mary stem at all, which is the top growth point of the plant.
It had nothing at all.
And, uh, luckily it busted out on its second node, a sort of side branch,
but a strange mutant, um, it grew up and split into two after that.
And, uh, then I think with some type of viroid, I got an interesting, uh,
it was not boitritis, it was this, uh, browning of this.
And I think it may have been due to like a leaf hopper or
something transmitted like that.
I know, uh, Cinch Angel Matt would be the man to talk to you about that, but
it's definitely feeling the stress, oops, feeling the stress of that
viroid, um, but did frost up quite nicely.
Um, again, I don't know how good my wifi is here.
You can see the trichome coverage.
It's it's okay.
It's decent.
But then, uh, my favorites of the bunch were, um, a little
bit more wide and spread out.
Um, this guy here in the front, definitely a little taller, uh, very,
very frosty and, uh, again, I was just trying to fight against that sort
of candelabra sort of structure.
It was really, uh, one thing I guess I'd have to say I didn't like about Mac.
It's not supple, it's not viney.
Um, and that's kind of what I dig because I like to manipulate my plants
and spread them out and get good, you know, the best light coverage
I can, especially outside.
So just quickly dirty, I think dirty.
Are you in Michigan?
Is that what the M I stands for?
But dirty court, M I Cordy said respect for admitting negatives in the garden.
I think that's what I like.
Uh, you know, cause Instagram, you know, people can get demoralized
about their own situation because everybody else looks perfect and
it's like, that's not reality.
I mean, that's the case with literally everything.
But I mean, if you truly love this shit and you want to talk, you
know, the nuts and bolts of it, how can you leave out the negatives?
Like I'm constantly, I would say never happy with any of them almost, you know,
it's like, I'm always wanting the Holy grail one and, you know, and time is
short for us, you know, growing takes a long time and, and I'm always looking
at it, like I'm in a rush, like I've only got so much time on this planet
and I've only got so much, uh, you know, time to play with these cultivars
and I want to, you know, get my hands on as many and check out
as many as I possibly can.
I mean, yeah, honestly, you don't learn anything when everything goes perfect.
All the learning's done in the, in the fuck ups and the mistakes.
And what's up?
How are you doing, man?
Good morning.
I'm chilling.
I'm chilling.
No, you said it, you nailed it.
And, uh, yeah, I, you know, and I made experimental soil blend here.
I mean, this is what I did.
I, you know, went to the regenerative soil conference, uh, shout out to Dutch
blooms and I realized that, you know, cultivating with Pete maybe wasn't the
best move and I went for a rice hull heavy mix in, in place, but at the same
time, I was starting to get into mushroom cultivation and I wanted to do King
Stropharia mushroom in here as well.
And so I built an experimental, what I would consider experimental substrate
based on sort of properties of both types of cultivation.
So, um, you know, I knew I was running a risk basically, like if, is this going
to work or is this not going to work?
And I would say, you know, I built this, this is a second year bed.
I would say by four or five years, I mean, I'm on my 12th round inside
and it's just really kicking now.
So, you know, in a few years, hopefully this thing will be
spitting out the fire.
We'll see.
But yeah, again, small little example, but I wanted to have a little small
microcosm.
If you're going to, that's why I thought, man, if I'm going to test something, I've
got a perfect little hoop to do this.
So let's do it.
And, uh, you know, it's nothing perfect, but the herb is looking very good by my
eye though, from here.
I know it's probably hard to see, but quality over everything, people.
And how's it smelling?
Um, let me take a look.
Yeah.
Mac has this, the ones that I have.
I mean, there's, there's a few undertone, but I get a lot of floral aspects to it.
Um, a sweet floral and, and on the, the, the, the hard to explain, hashy terpene.
When people say hashy, you know, that's a difficult, um, you know, terpene to
express vocally or, or translate between your nose and what you're saying.
And it's very hashy, uh, and very sweet.
And I wouldn't say there's one of them that is displaying over here.
See, this guy is displaying some citrus for sure.
Um, and this guy is in the same spot where I grew the Mac, uh, the original Mac last
year.
And, uh, I noticed whenever I even bumped into it in the garden, it would just let
off that sort of warning, warning, get the hell away from me kind of smell.
And I said, that's the one to watch.
And, uh, it is definitely the strongest terpene profile.
And as a keeper, I've this one, and I believe this smaller one, it's
unfortunately smaller in stature, but it's, it's got great resin coverage on it as
well.
Um, the one watch and I kept a cut of everything.
So, um, and then I have one over here, which I find is visually a little more
beautiful than everybody else and has some larger, uh, dominant colas.
So I don't know.
I think, you know, the, the mystery, that's another thing that I'd like to ask
you about.
I think the cap is, you know, he's probably set it on some of his forums.
I would imagine of just how he came across all these cuts and how he decided to pair
them together.
Um, but he's got miracle cookies.
I think it was an F two that he crossed with a Colombian heirloom and a star
fighter.
And so I just would like to know a little bit more about all that if possible, but
maybe that's for another episode.
Yeah.
The guy that I had, I wish I could maybe share a picture.
Can I share a picture from my photo gallery?
I have last year I grew, um, the Mac, the original Mac, and it rose down in the
most beautiful way.
It was just, like I said, it was almost rose colored.
I was gorgeous.
And, uh, maybe if I let D or one of you guys talk for a minute, I can pull up a
picture of that.
And that was just a really visually impressive plant too.
So I think what Mac has going for it is it's very visually beautiful.
Bag appeal.
Yeah.
Bag appeal a hundred percent.
And even plant appeal, if that makes any sense, like you kind of have to woo the
cultivator before you can woo the, the, the consumer, you know, so you need to
have an experienced cultivator saying, damn, this plant looks good.
Like I want to, I want to grow this.
This makes me look good, you know?
And so, um, or, or it has another attribute.
A lot of my selections are just based on the chemical profile, how it makes me
feel.
And I'm, I know everybody won't feel the same way that I feel when they ingest it,
but the ones that do are going to be, you know, supporters.
So here's one very like tough candelabra shape.
It just wanted to throw like four or five big ones and that's not my style.
I like many, many tops.
So, but yeah, that's, that's, uh, I don't have to walk too far to give you a tour
today in this area.
I don't know if anybody has interest, but I also did, uh, daddy Mac by in-house
genetics and that has Mac in the lineage.
Um, and those have proven to be completely different.
Um, and not really throwing a whole lot of Mac attributes other than, um, Cola
versions that, you know, I guess it's slightly a similar look to them, but you
know, like four giant branches, but yeah.
First time growing in-house as well.
I, like I said, I don't have a lot of, uh, experience with a lot of hype strain
type stuff.
I don't even know if I've ever truly grown a cookies.
Um, but yeah.
So, so that, so in the two four by eights, you're growing the Mac V2 and then the
in-house, uh, genetics, right?
Is there anything else?
Yeah, correct.
Correct.
No, that was it.
Uh, I threw, I had to, I had to kick my CBD strains with love for my medicine,
uh, outside this year.
I was like, sorry, girls, you, uh, taking a back seat this year.
Um, and I, I have suffered for that.
My, my, um, it's canna tonic, which is my favorite, um, is a lot smaller this year.
It got a lot less attention.
I'm letting kind of take the wild route, but, um, you know, in learning the, the
adaptive qualities of these plants, I've been kind of hyped to throw them outside
and kind of rustle them up a little bit and give them that wild kind of appeal
again, and then take cuttings and then, you know, run them back inside and see if
I can get a little more resistance or a little more vigor or whatever it may be.
Turn that house cat into a, a wild, uh, Bobcat mountain lion.
Yeah.
And I think there, I, and I see it every day.
There's definitely something to that.
I'm sure Derek could speak on that too.
Having run some things indoor versus outdoor, uh, and just the, the, the
difference in expression and you'll see when he shows you pictures now, I mean,
there may be some similarities, but you know, he's got that beautiful prize
winning house cat, you know, kind of coverage and stuff, and this definitely
has a little more open main sun structure.
Cause main sun is just as not as intense as, you know, certainly all you folks
down in the Pacific Northwest.
All right.
So Derek, do you, uh, Tyler, do you want to text me the pictures and I'll show
them and, uh, Derek, you want to, you want to take the baton?
Yeah, totally, man.
You can do that.
Let me, uh, flip it around.
I just want to make sure I can see his stuff.
I want to, I want to see his stuff.
I figure out how to rotate you guys here.
Ah, my floor.
Well, I guess, uh,
and then flip your camera 90 degrees.
Perps.
Yep.
There we go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So like, um, Tyler, you, you're shout out to you, man.
You totally inspired me to grow man.
This Mac is last year in the greenhouse.
I just saw it and I was like, man, so frosty and it's outside Maine and
definitely shout out, man.
You're doing a great job.
Cause it's so hard with the climate and everything here, man.
It's a so short of season, but this is like a, so I had three of them, three
females kind of all lined up here under the light lights for black shoes, but,
uh, so, you know, they range one.
I had a really tall one back here and they, uh, this thing stretched like a
bugger, I gotta say, and I'm not, I'm just growing old school.
I've been growing in those, uh, HPS, you know, you got a little 4k and
it was really fun to run this.
I think, uh, you know, I get the same notes like Tyler gets to, I get that
like hashy kind of cookies, peppery, you know, a little bit and, you know, the
shorter one smells a little sweeter to me.
I don't know if that's coming in there.
Very good for you guys.
But, um, it was a fun run.
I think, you know, something to be said about it is like, if you buy a pack of
beans of this, you're definitely going to get some keepers and get some frost and
everything's going to look pretty amazing.
I feel like that's, that's good.
I didn't do anything special to him.
I just treated him like I would any new seedling, you know, I
didn't give him any extra love.
They grew really well.
Yeah.
They've all got a beautiful thing going on.
Yeah, totally.
The other ones are more like a burgundy and this little short one,
man, it just turned wicked purple.
Yeah.
I had a, uh, I had a, if you know of the one that did that same thing,
like silver purple straight up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This middle one, man, it's probably the most frostiest and I can't really,
I get a good little, this little butter right here.
Maybe.
Yeah.
I hate when they get so frosted.
Oh, there you go.
They don't show up on cam very well.
That one looks great.
Yeah.
It's really frosty and they all smell this all smell similar.
You know, it's good.
I'm a organic guy too, but I grow in like a modified super soil that is a cocoa
base and then I actually add compost to it and recycle it like up to three
times right around there.
I do add some other inputs, like some seaweed and stuff like that, but I
definitely don't use anything.
I water in with like a simple sugar and then I just use, um, I top dress
sometimes with compost depending on the plant.
I used to try to get that nice fade going.
And then what, what kind of grass is that growing on, uh, in the pots?
It's just some cat grass, man.
I, uh, you know, do you just throw seeds in and.
Well, I do because I had all these, I love sprouts, you know, and I had a ton
of these sprout seeds that I was, you know, cultivating sprouts, eating them
and they're great, but they were starting to get a little old.
So the germination rate wasn't as good.
So I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just
So I just mixed them all together and made my own little cover crop.
You know, Tyler's actually, you know, definitely got me onto this and I'll
tell you, I've grown the same way for like a couple of years now and in this
recycled soil that I use, it's a farmer Joe's organics, he's south of me by
about three hours, but he makes a killer soil.
And, um, so I was, Tyler inspired me to do this and I got to say, man, like I
noticed in one of my plants, I grow like it's a Marion Berry Cush and it usually
stretches a lot and gets a lot of internodal spacing.
But when I, you know, added that cover crop, man, I'll tell you that spacing
really just shortened up for me.
And I thought that was really interesting, you know, and it's just like, goes to
show you like the, you know, the enzymes or the bacteria and fungi that the cat
grass or any of that cover crop makes definitely is helping out the plant, you
know, but yeah.
It's giving it almost a more competitive natural environment, so it's going to use
its resources sooner rather than having more space between.
Yeah, totally well said, I just, uh, it's really cool and I've been slowly adding
more organic methods, you know, I definitely want to get into some like some
ferments would be cool.
Cool.
And yeah, I definitely would like to do that.
But it was a fun run.
Yeah, I think one thing to mention on that.
Go ahead, Tyler.
I was just going to say water retention as well.
I don't know if you mentioned that with your, with your cover crop.
I think that that could echo all the way through your crop to the end.
I mean, whether you use blue mats or your hand water or you have irrigation, I think
that plays a critical role in the structure of the plant as well, because water
availability, potassium interplay, there's all kinds of cool stuff.
But I'm glad that that inspired you.
That's cool.
Oh, definitely, man.
And you know what I've been doing has been like, I've been chopping it about day
30.
And then just, you know, for a plant that's eating a lot, chopping it, you know, top
dressing with a compost and have that little bit of green compost under there.
It's really, really makes a difference, man.
I got to say it gives me a little more gas, you know, if that plant's a little too big
and eating too much.
Beautiful.
Not too shabby, man.
I got to say, I would definitely run more cats gear.
I think it's for me, it was pretty user friendly.
I definitely would like to, I'm going to run these again, probably and probably
whittle it down and definitely keep on going in the room for for quite a while,
probably.
And what else?
Well, I'd love to give you access to my cuts, too.
Yeah, definitely, dude.
What kind of lights are you throwing under?
I'm just going under 1000 watt HPS.
Oh, actually, right.
Yeah, I mean, it's kind of yellow.
I didn't want to really go and I can show you guys a little tour here.
Just I'm just running a little for 4k.
And just quickly, someone asked what how many gallons those pots are.
Those are just 10, 10 gallon pots.
That's what I've been running.
Some plants, I'll run a 15.
But more other than that, that's that's what I rock right there.
Efficient for sure.
And I'm going to have to be GP.
Yeah, you follow my feed.
I've been trying to shake things up a little bit with people talking about the,
you know, what size pot you need to create a true no till or living soil.
And I've been trying to bust them over the head with a little two gallon
in my breeder tent being like, check it out.
You know, I think it takes a lot more maintenance and certainly not like super
practical. And I think that people like the ship to cruise without you so much.
But if you stay on top of that and you do some specific things, I think you can
you can use a smaller container and simple things like D did.
Like Derek did is is is a perfect little addition.
The more traditional grower is try throwing a few worms in there.
Try throwing a little cover crop in there.
You can do it on one of your containers and, you know, throw an avocado tech pot
on there and tell me that that plant doesn't look happy because in my
experience, it always looks happier.
Let's just say that.
So just quickly, I'm going to show some of the starting with
Derek's, the pictures you sent me.
All right.
So let me focus on this.
So what are we looking at?
That one is probably the tallest one of the Max that I have rocking.
Yeah, that one really big.
That's I think that's the shortest one or the middle one.
Yeah, and that's definitely the tallest one, I think, too.
I just put a little plate behind it to add some color, you know,
I definitely love taking pictures of cannabis.
It's a beautiful plant.
I like the orange background.
Yeah, man.
Do you do you recall?
Do you recall what Cap said about the size of the beans?
Wasn't there some kind of thing he was telling us to take note about?
Like if the beans were.
Yeah.
He was saying that the smallest beans he believed would be more female.
And so I paid attention to that when I sprouted them.
And actually, you know, out of all the beans, the smallest one I had,
I kept track of it throughout growth and it definitely was a female.
Interesting.
Yeah, I thought I kind of like I kind of like sort of like shrugged at that
at that comment when he first made it.
But I was like, OK, let's just see.
I mean, there's no reason why it couldn't be something.
So it sounds like it's possible.
I'd like to hear with all the testers.
I think that after everybody's kind of got their work done on the bean
basement to go on there and kind of see how everything stacks up, it's going to
give him and all of the cultivators a lot of information.
So so, Brandon, you want to are you capable of showing us your V2s
or are you stuck in one spot?
I'm actually not working today.
I actually have a day off, which is a very weird thing.
So I'm sitting at home.
I just popped once that I wasn't doing any of the beans.
I was just sitting at home.
I just popped once that I wasn't doing any of the pre-testing.
But I do I do have some phenols from the very first Mac hunt.
Mac numbers, you know, number 10 and 11 that are currently at my facility.
It's, you know, a living organic system under LEDs out here in Oklahoma.
And they're pretty big.
They have they're a little more.
They're they're trickier than some of my plants.
Some of my plants are a little bit easier, but then I have ones that are a
little more difficult as well.
So it kind of falls in the in like a mid range for like nutritional requirements
and like, you know, to to get that thing dialed in specifically.
But it stacks really, really well.
It's one of the few plants that I don't actually talk when they're really young.
I actually just let them fully develop and then I just do a really heavy kind of
pruning to allow more light penetration.
And it seems to stack best that way.
And I also get a they have a really nice kind of sweet dough terpene profile with
maybe a little bit of raspberry cuts through on at the back end.
And, you know, they're really nice.
They they're the trichrome trichrome production.
It's prevalent and they also, you know, put on a lot of different colors, a lot of
purples and fluorescents when they when they're and I, you know, I usually let
them go about 10 weeks.
I let almost everything in my system go 10 weeks.
Just quickly, Brandon, from 619 to 664.
And actually, is that like you move from one area code to another answer in the chat
asked?
Can you ask Brandon what smells he's getting from his number 10 and number 11 mackinos?
Yeah, it's the terpene profile described.
I'm the ones that I have currently, the 10 and 11 there.
They have a really sweet front end and it's like a sweet, cheesy dough, if that makes
sense.
And then it has like a after floral raspberry.
Got it.
And I also have some G.A.S.
I can't I can't remember what the acronym stands for.
It's worth it that it's that acronym, though.
Who cares what it stands for?
Right.
And ironically, it kind of has a similar terpene profile where it has that kind of sweet
cheese dough.
But this one has the it doesn't have a floral back end.
It has this it has a straight gasoline that smells like gasoline fuel that like cuts through
the whole thing.
The overall sense is a little like deeper and less less bright, maybe.
Yeah.
So what it is, is that what that's that would be a good, good definition.
It's definitely like deeper.
It's more like pungent.
Yum.
It's so far pretty.
I like Capulators gear.
I've been able to find things that I run continuously out of just a couple of packs that I that I
was gifted.
I think it's Grand Aunt's Secret.
For the G.A.S.
That's right.
I knew it was great aunt something, but I couldn't remember.
The last one.
Yeah, Jet.
Yeah, I was just going to say, I think Tyler's phone died.
So hopefully he's walking inside to charge up because I was going to show he sent me a
bunch of pictures, but I'll wait till he gets back on to talk about it.
But Derek, you were going to chop some plants, right?
Yeah, today's the day.
Yeah, definitely going to start taking them down.
Definitely hang them and dry them, you know, you want to.
Chop a sacrificial lamb in front of us.
I could do that.
All right.
With 300 and something people cheering you on.
All right.
All right.
What was that?
We're at 14.
An audience.
Oh, wow.
So.
Yes.
Start.
Yeah, I usually just take the fans on and I just hang them on coat hangers.
And just let them dry.
You know, I usually dry in a fine drying in a grow tent for me.
We using a fan and like carbon filter is awesome because you can control how you dry it and
the speed.
So it was a good thing.
Did you say with a carbon filter too?
Yeah, I rock a carbon filter usually keeps it smell down a bit.
That's the one of the best things about like where I'm at in the facility, since it's all
totally legit.
I'm not like we don't have to worry about smelling or it's like such a great, great
thing to not have to worry about.
Oh, I hear you.
I I definitely I mean, I could definitely legit too.
And I definitely I've been registered with the state of Maine here for to be a carrier
for like five years.
And it's been quite a road, man.
It's been awesome.
Really built quite a business.
And I think, you know, just having the carbon filter to actually helps kind of grab some
of the particles in the air.
It's important to filter your air for sure.
Yeah.
Better than putting a towel on the gap between the door and the floor.
What's that?
Better than putting a towel between the gap of the door and the floor.
Oh, yeah, that never works.
I tried that in college.
That didn't work.
So just quickly, Jason Tomlinson asked, this was directed at Tyler.
Actually, Tyler is coming back in.
So I'll wait.
And here he comes.
Tyler, are you charging your phone?
Wait, he's connecting to his audio.
And he's in the car.
Are you in the car?
Yeah.
Are you charging your phone?
I have to, yeah.
Nice.
So just quickly, Jason Tomlinson asked you, and people have asked me this question and
asked me to do episodes on it.
But he said, does Tyler wet or dry trim?
And that goes for everyone.
I assume it's a lot of dry trimming.
But yeah, I definitely dry trim.
I'll remove some of the larger fans if they're cumbersome for any reason.
But I always dry trim.
And Brandon and Derek and Cascadian.
Yeah, I dry trim.
I got a trim crew who comes in.
That's awesome.
You got a trim crew, man.
I'm like an army of one over here.
But I definitely dry trim.
Yeah, so much better.
I wet trim for so long.
But I used to like to make the bubble hash out of it, the trim off that.
But it's just too much work.
You got to do it all at once.
And so I definitely dry trim now.
So Tyler, while your phone is charged, let me hit your actually, let's watch some.
Let's just all, we should play some classical music or something and just watch.
Anybody know how to classically beatbox?
I don't think they can slap us for copyright with that.
That's true.
Well, we could beatbox.
Actually, Tyler, why don't you drop some lines?
I don't know if I'm going to beatbox my own photos.
I don't know if I can.
I don't know if I can get that one out.
But I actually have a couple of good pieces.
I should have made one.
I do like to sync music to the photography and the videos and such that I do.
And as some may or may not know, we have a group called Green Tank, a hip hop group,
and another group called Aficionados.
And so I like to sync my music to my work.
So you can definitely catch that on Instagram, no doubt.
Yeah.
Anyone watching, if you can play an instrument, we can do some live music.
And not get dinged.
But I'm going to play a little bit of a song.
I have a question for Derek.
Yes, you.
So do you do your takedowns at any old time?
Do you just pull it out of the room and just do it as you can do it?
I totally do.
I haven't noticed a difference, given it like 24 hours of darkness or anything.
But I just take them out and go for it usually.
Yeah.
I've always, I don't know, I've always subscribed to like, I sneak in there before the lights come
on and give them the, at least give the plant the chop, the main stem, just because, and I heard
that would be interesting to get some science on that as far as sugars and starches that travel
between the root ball and the rest of the plant.
And if there is any true difference in the end, but I've always,
it's been a long time since I looked into the science on it, but that's what I had always come
to the conclusion that I needed to get everything hacked down before.
And I mean, that's a kind of a KNF style execution, if you will, as well.
They like to go before, you know, the sun comes up and is at its hottest, just kind of preserve
the elements that they're looking for in the plant.
And I just wondered if, you know, I find that the terpene profiles, what I try to treat with the
most reverence.
And so I'll go in there and chop them before the light comes on.
And then I'll try to as hard as I can to keep everything always below 70 degrees until
it's in a jar, basically.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nate L said terps are way higher before light goes on, they dissipate in the heat.
Yeah.
Most cases, I'm always like harvesting usually earlier in the day before, like just before my
lights come on for a couple hours or something.
That's usually when I start my harvest day anyways, but I haven't, I would like to try it
though.
I should do it next time.
Let one go and let the other one harvested earlier, whatever in the morning.
And I would imagine the cultivar makes a difference, you know, between monotropines and
stesquotropines.
Obviously one's a lot more volatile.
And if you're, you have a plant that's heavy in those monotropes, then you may want to, you
know, take that extra step.
But if you're looking for something that's got that, you know, that, that joint appeal, that
deep flavor that lasts throughout the joint, then it may not be as much of an issue that might be
already ingrained in the waxes and the lipids inside the plant.
And you don't have to use stress like that.
But one that I grow, the SBR that I'm always talking about has a lot of volatile terpenes.
And if I don't treat it just right, it can, it's the difference between a grade A product and a
grade C product in my opinion.
But I was just curious.
So for all of you kind of, can you talk about any like tips and tricks that you do?
Like as you're kind of the final stretch, like two weeks out from harvest into harvest,
is there anything you do or think about, or like even kind of like, you know, what do you,
like Brandon, did you say you basically take everything down at 10 weeks or just certain
cultivars?
I typically things will like to go 10 weeks.
It's usually between 9 and 10, but it's right in between there.
And for like when I harvest, we have, I have a, you know, dimmable LEDs.
So I'll go in there in the morning.
I'll make sure that the lights stay at the lowest level, which is basically zero.
They turn on, but not throughout the day.
We'll harvest a room.
And it just, you know, gets hung up in the drying room where it stays below, you know,
55%.
It stays at like 55% RH and around, you know, 65 degrees until they're ready to go.
They'll get bucked up, bucked up off the stems into totes or five gallon buckets.
And then I'll have my trim crew come in and trim everything up.
Are, are, are, are any of you looking at kind of like bulk, you know, the eye test kind
of just like which trichomes are, you know, Amber versus Milky versus like, do you try
to find your sweet spot of, you know, 80% are Milky or whatever it may be?
I can tell when a plant's done, you know, I can tell by looking at it.
But what can you, can you talk about what you're looking for?
I haven't really scoped a plant in a couple of years now.
They get this certain look when they finish up, like the pistols will all change.
We won't see any, any more new pistols, or if you do, there's very few.
And then the overall flower, just it like tightens up most times.
And it has this, this certain, it has a certain doneness to it.
Like it's not the time that you're investing versus what it's doing growth wise is not
the same as it has been when you're, when you watch it day after day after day, it just
gets the certain doneness.
You get a feel for it over time.
You get a feel for it over time.
It's kind of like cooking, you know, you just, you know, when the steak is done, you know,
when the cake is done, you don't have to stick a fork in it or stick a toothpick in it anymore,
because you just know what you're seeing.
So it seems to have this particular look to it.
And I look for that and I'll cut the water off a couple days when I can feel that that's
coming, you know, two, three days before that.
I'll skip that last watering and just let them, let them kind of, they don't even wilt
usually, but they'll, I'll let them dry up a little bit.
And then they tend to freak out a little bit more in that last couple of days.
And I think it really pushes the, the secondary metabolites up a little bit.
And then I, I chop them when they get that done look to them.
I kind of, I kind of feel like, you know, I give my plants the proper nutrition all the
way through.
I don't try to cut them off at any certain point, you know, because I'm, you know, I'm
they're in a living soil and a no-till system.
So they have adequate nutrition throughout.
I'm doing all the soil testing, saturated paste testing, and I'm able to adjust my mineral
nutrient levels by top dressing.
And what I will see is that the plant will naturally start fading.
And it's kind of like when that, I know when that fade is complete, like that, it just,
that plant's done.
It's just like watching, you know, a plant go through a tree and fall when you're like,
yep, it's fall.
And all those leaves are like starting to fall off.
They've all completely faded and they have this, you know, they've already put on their
density.
They're not doing anything.
Like, you know, he just said the, all the stamen have changed color or the stigmas have
all changed colors.
So it's, it's, it's again, like he said, a lot, if you've been doing it for a while, you
can tell when the plant's finished.
Yeah.
And Brendan, Brendan brought up a great point too, as far as like, you know, seeing the
trees in the fall.
Like that's more like the adage I come, that's the direction I come from is that the nutrition
is adequate because you're in a living soil.
I grow in a living soil as well.
And I try to kind of flip other triggers to get them to senesce.
Like I'll cool down the room.
I will employ more red light.
That's one thing that I'll do to give it that kind of fall vibe.
And then I'm a little more ruthless than Cascadia and I'll start cutting back water two weeks
before.
And I won't cut it off, but it's a living soil.
So everything like has a lot more buffers, a lot more gradual.
But in that point of time, I'll like purposely won't fill the res or something that have a
massive amount of water and it's much more few and far between.
So I almost kind of take over a hand watering aspect, even though I grow with blue mats and
it's all essentially automatic.
And then I go through a short period of having to kind of reset my soil due to that.
I'm just trying to trigger senescence.
I'm trying to make the plant say, yeah, I'm done.
And of course, all those other things that you said with the amber and other trichomes
and pistils.
And it's like cooking a potato, like diced potatoes in an oven.
It goes through this point where it looks like it's sweating and it's translucent.
And then it starts to swell up.
And then all of a sudden it gives up all that moisture and it starts to cook and become
golden brown.
It's like the same type of thing every time.
So, yeah, you guys all brought up great points.
Oh, I just want to ask him a question real quick.
When after you harvest, do you do like inoculation, like a microbial inoculation?
Yeah, depending on the biological cycling of everything that's left in there, like the
root mass and the stalks and all that.
Yeah, I do a couple of different interesting techniques.
It's definitely the same principles you're talking about, because I understand I'm sort
of knocking back my microbial population when I'm doing that.
Which is also kind of one of the senescence cues, I guess you'd say.
There's just not as much microbiological activity going on because I've dried it out, because
I've cooled it off, because I've done all these things.
And then what I'll do is I'll reset my environment.
I'll reset my blue mats and that'll be the first thing that I'll do.
And then that will help.
And naturally, I start to see a biological explosion from that because I keep a really
lot of micro arthropods, a lot of arthropods, a lot of insect population going on, beneficial
insect going on in my system.
And then I do a weird thing where I reset my blue mats.
I will cause a runaway on purpose and it will flood through my substrate.
And then I will shop back that up.
And then I will add a sugar source and I will brew that for a short period of time, only
like eight hours, not like going very far.
Or even less sometimes.
And then I will rewater with that.
So I'm sort of like trying to turbo boost the biological population that I have in there
rather than order it from somebody and get some microbes that may not jive with what
my system is currently, which is I'm very happy with.
So that's kind of how I do it.
I just say something sort of like.
That could potentially be detrimental because you don't necessarily know what you're collecting
from that system.
And if you're reintroducing that and you're reproducing an unknown factor using complex
carbohydrate, unless you're testing what you're putting in there, you could just potentially
be adding something that's antagonistic that's going to be either a soil antagonist or a
plant pathogen.
You know, what I've noticed is, I mean, I agree with you 100 percent, but like my system
is I mean, I'm 12 cycles in and I've done that almost every run.
And what I'm finding is, is that as long as I use the same sugar source and the same
process, I get the same result.
And if I agree, if I fiddled with it, if I added molasses or added something different,
I'm using like just a very small amount of maple and I am doing a really short brew.
And again, I think I don't even know if that's doing as much as I think it's doing.
But my everything just goes nuts in a great way.
I mean, and again, that's the point in time where I'll reseed cover crop if I'm going
to do it or if I want to play with a new companion plant.
That's when all that stuff goes down.
But yeah, I see what you're saying for sure.
I just how I'm doing it seems to be working really well.
But yeah, I would definitely caution that's not like.
Are you familiar with like biological crop steering where you're using certain genus
and species of microbes to induce certain plant responses or you can also use some of
these as for bio controls or integrated pest management?
Are you doing anything like that?
Because that probably really reduced things like the plant pathogens, like the botrytis.
Either phone data is dead again.
Let's see.
We'll come back to Tyler shortly.
Just quickly, I was trying to keep up with some of the chat stuff, but some things people
had mentioned they do and just kind of getting your thoughts on it.
But SOS Death Valley said I put my lights on 18 six for three days.
It makes the bud harder.
Ninja Boy asked, what about light deprivation?
Pilgrim 420 says I use light.
Anyway, can you guys talk about some lighting tactics?
Well, obviously, outdoor people, that's not relevant.
But if you're growing indoors, any lighting tips and tricks beyond what you guys have
talked about?
My lights are always on 11 on 13 off.
I do it mostly for the electricity.
I don't see that it shaves any time off the flower time or changes anything like that.
But it's just to save a little bit of electricity.
And then with the skip in the watering that I mentioned, I tend to water twice a week.
So I'll only, you know, it's every three or four days.
So by skipping that last watering, growing in larger beds, I don't tend to see any real
drying out due to a decent mulch layer most of the time.
And then, you know, I harvest and transplant into that bed in the same day.
So by the time I harvest, transplant the next run in, top dress, then I'm ready to water.
So I've really only skipped the one of two waterings in the week.
And it's worked out pretty well so far.
I don't do any of the biological manipulations, though.
I just tend to do the top dressing water after the harvest and pick the next run off.
And I haven't had any issues with it.
So I keep it pretty simple.
Just quickly, Brandon, Chris Butler asked if you can go into more detail about your LEDs.
Sure.
Okay, so the LEDs that we're currently running are the Horticulture Lighting Group 550 V2R
specs.
They run a little bit farther red, I believe.
And when I took over this facility as the cultivation director, this was my first time
using LEDs.
Before that, I was using the ceramic metal halides, CMH.
And then before that, I was using high pressure sodium and metal halide combination for
flowering and then metal halide for veg.
So with that particular light, it runs, I think, 480 watts.
And I think we're running 277 power, three phase.
So it's like 1.7 amps or something like that, if I'm not mistaken.
What I've discovered is that with the LEDs, because they run cooler, they're not as intense.
And what I suspect is the plants infrared, which is, that's heat.
It's not as intense on the LEDs.
So you can run the, you can run them closer.
And then you can also run, you should also run, well, in my experience, run your room
temperatures higher and then your humidity higher than typical.
What I'm seeing is faster accelerated growth rates.
I'm seeing a higher terpene production, resin productions.
It's, but, you know, I had to dial it in.
And when I was in the typical ranges where I would normally run, like when I was doing
CMH, I typically ran about 68% humidity and probably about 78 degrees.
And that worked really well.
You know, I wasn't getting as fast results.
And I think what also is happening too, in the higher and humidity and temperature environment,
the biological soil system is more active.
And I think of it from a perspective of if I were going to use like one of the mycology
or bacterial incubators, I'm usually, you know, producing microbes around 86 degrees,
which just happens to be where I'm running my room temperatures at.
And that's, you know, there's certain ranges where different bacteria, you know, excel,
you know, as far as them being incubated.
Soil systems, obviously a little bit differently and it operates different than an agar dish,
but the higher humidity allows more moisture and less, I guess, soil evaporation.
So when we're talking about the microbiology of the soil, I think we're really looking at,
you know, pH and hydrology.
And so, you know, those are huge factors and you want to be able to, like I inoculate
with the micro plus from my company Bokashi Earthworks, which is,
it has a consortium of several species of
bacillus species. It has the Rhytopseudomonas and the Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
And they all work synergistically together and they help, you know,
they help plants regulate any type of
abiotic stress factors, like maybe high salinity.
If there's maybe the sodium levels got a little high,
they're able to kind of mitigate those types of issues.
The nutrient cycling capacity of the soil is greater with
the temperatures running a little higher, I believe, too, because I don't use any phosphorus
inputs. And on my tests, the phosphorus levels are low. But when we look at the saturated paste tests,
there's a lot of available phosphate. So it can really only be one thing,
which is going to be the nutrient cycling capacity of that soil.
That's really interesting. But I got off topic. I was supposed to be talking about the lights.
It was fascinating, though. I think we were all spellbound.
So my experience, I, you know, I'm running my my LEDs pretty close,
probably around 16 to 18 inches above the canopy.
And I'm, you know, I'm pruning, I get pretty, they get better penetration, I believe, than
the high intensity lights, even though. So I get a more full canopy, as opposed to just
the density at the top and then have it all fall off. But I still do heavily defoliate the bottoms.
And the lights, in my opinion, when you use a full spectrum, you're going to.
I know, I mean, the science is there. You can just go research light spectrum for plants and
terpene cannabinoid production. All the science is already there. When you use full spectrum
lighting, you're going to increase your cannabinoid and your terpene profile.
But again, those are also going to still be limited by the genetics of that plant,
because you can only unlock that plant's genetic potential by having everything in a state of
homeostasis.
And I'd imagine having a full spectrum light is you're basically imitating the sun, but better.
Is that right?
Yeah. So it's called biomimicry. And what we're trying to essentially do is we're,
we're, we're taking the basic principles of nature, but we're applying a science to it,
where we're selectively taking the microorganisms that we want and kind of culturing them to work
and operate in these certain conditions to work synergistically with what else is already in the
soil biosphere. So, and then also understanding the secondary metabolite productions of these
organisms and how they interact with, with each other and the plant and the signaling
molecules and the pathways. It's all really, really complex biochemical stuff. And it's,
it's really fascinating to me. I, I takes a lot to really grasp and understand. But what,
what's essentially happening is some of these microorganisms are producing chemicals that make
nutrients more available. Some of them are like Cytio4s make iron more available. It's the highest
iron affinity binding agent in nature. So if you have something like Trichoderma, which produces
So if you have something like Trichoderma, which produces that, you essentially should in theory,
be able to acquire more iron into your system. But again, your pH and then some other stuff
that I'm learning about, which is called Redox, Redox, which is not pH, but EH, which is the,
the neutrons. pH is a measure of what protons. And it's really complicated. And I'm still just
learning as much as I can about, about that right now. Like kind of learning about, I'm taking a,
a free course that I found online. That's fascinating. You think of neutrons as being
kind of not too bothered about anything. Cause they were just like, of all the subatomic particles,
they're the chillest, but I'd love to learn more about EH and how that affects soil.
I could have, I could have pronounced it wrong. It might've been a different molecule,
but it's, it's really complicated and I'm still learning about it. It's just,
there's always something new to learn. And it's the way that it shows, the way that I saw the
first part, when it's related to, when you see a typical pH chart and you see the nutrients that
are in range, that is actually like completely false. And what they do is they, they actually
put that on an X and Y graph and it shows your, your pH and it shows your EH. And then it has a
different, it has different ranges because when things are in balance, then they become available
differently than what we typically think of. Because there's the different aspects of how
those things are sequestered. It's not just, oh, this is available because it's a certain ion.
It's, there's like other compounds that are assisting them. There's the biological nutrient
cycling and there's like all this other synergistic, you know, relationships that are,
you know, co-opting and making these systems work. Yeah. I mean, even the cat grass that Derek was
talking about, it's a form of biomimicry and you were talking about how the nodes were,
did you say it was like a shorter, shorter amount between, and I couldn't see how that would
happen in nature. And it's like, I don't know. I feel like with so many disciplines,
the more you learn, the more you realize how much more you have yet to learn.
It's, it's, it's, you know, it's a rabbit hole because you, you learn once you, you start
researching something and then you find that there's a whole nother science dedicated to this
one aspect of it. And to fully be able to understand that you're going to have to go
back and learn that first. That's what I commonly come across. So I try to apply a lot of different
agricultural sciences and my whole thing right now is biological crop steering and then soil
fertility management is my whole like spiel right now. So, so can you talk of Brandon,
when you did the soil test, kind of what, what were the results and what, if anything,
did you do based on those results to, you know, you said they were sort of low on phosphorus,
but it seems like you didn't really do anything with that information.
No, what I do is I use the information. I actually work with Brant Morrison. He's been on the show.
We did, I think an episode before together and we talked a little bit about soil health and fertility.
I use the data. I'm currently, you know, and have been building a data sets for my facility that
I'm operating. And what I'm doing is I'm getting the baselines basically down for what I should see
in the soil test and then what that should translate into a saturated paste test. And
so based off of that information, I can, we're able to look at, you know, what needs to be added
to the soil system. And typically it's gypsum, which is the calcium and sulfur. They also,
the plant, I'm only using amino acid nitrogen. That's my only source of nitrogen, which is
a immediately a biologically available. Plus it has 80% amino acids, which the plant isn't going
to have to metabolize to create a lot of these things. The plant will naturally create a lot
of these amino acids internally. And if it's not expending energy to create these, because
they're already immediately available and they can focus on the other, you know, potential
genetic functions that are inherently built into those, into their systems.
So the tests tell me this, they tell me that my plants eat a shitload of calcium, a shitload of
sulfur, just as much potassium and nitrogen. A lot of people are cutting off nitrogen later into
flour. And I am seeing that they want this amino acid nitrogen consistently, and based off of the
terpene tests and the potency tests of the products and just collecting data over time,
I'm getting fantastic results, you know. And for me, it's the most cost-effective means of
cultivating because when we're talking about input sources, a 50 pound bag of gypsum is like $13.
So I can go buy, you know, 200 pounds of gypsum for less than, you know, 60 bucks,
and I have a two, three month supply of calcium and sulfur for my plants.
The other nutrients that I'll see typically, copper and iron, copper, iron, and
boron. Sometimes they can get a little bit low, but the amount that you need to add to a system
is so tiny that if you bought a 50 pound bag of solubor or zinc sulfate or something like that,
you're probably going to have that for a couple years, even at a large scale facility,
because we're talking about a 50 pound bag and you're adding maybe like a few teaspoons,
maybe once a month to an entire system, like 10 yards of soil, let's say, and you only need to add
this tiny, tiny, tiny amount. So the advantages that I see at the cultivation style is
doing the biological steering, using things like the trichoderma and the probiotic consortiums
to cycle the nutrients. And then, and then just the soil fertility management. The next step is
going to be dialing cultivar specific needs through leaf tissue testing. So we'll be able to see
what the soil looks like, how that tests, what happens when you add water to that,
how it falls into the solution, what becomes biologically available to a plant. And then
we'll see how that biologically available solution ends up in the actual plant itself.
So what the plan is to create data sets over time, and then you can graph these and you can look and
say, but maybe build a real time data set. And you can say, Hey, look, these plants are requiring
this. And then that's going to be the maximum, the way that you, what I always call, what I call
unlocking the genetic potential of your plant. When you have achieved a state of homeostasis,
where you have achieved maximum fertility through biological and nutritional
foundations and environmental, and having the proper environmental factors. I think that's just
like, I think that's the best that you can get. And I don't think, and I think that if I just
continue to do this, I can really exceed like some of the boundaries that, you know, people have for,
you know, organic cultivation styles.
Having a database is absolutely key then, because then you can know about,
you can know what you want to replicate in future as well. That's fascinating.
So you're, you're just starting to put this in place, right? Like you don't have any data from
this season of the analysis of like this cultivar really pulled up a lot of this nutrient. Do you
have any hypotheses? Like,
So I have, I have data. I've been doing soil testing every two weeks for the last,
I want to say maybe three or maybe a little bit more months, maybe three or four months.
So I've just started implementing all of the, the testing and it, the results are definitely there.
I mean, I've seen a massive increase. If you guys go, I mean, you can look at my profile on IG,
where I post a lot of my stuff, Russ Brandon. And it's just, it's, I, I'm like, I've been doing
this, you know, for 18 years and I get impressed by some of the things that I see at times still.
And it's, So what, what's something that has recently impressed you?
So the, the, the consistency of the, the stacking and size and density
combined with the quality, because oftentimes in cultivars that I see that are really, really
massive bio producers have usually have some type of issue where like, uh, Botrytis is huge one,
right? Bud mold, bio producers, tend to have a tendency to do that.
Also, they're typically not as fragrant in my experience.
That's not always been the case, but, you know, it leans more in that direction in my experience.
Um, and so I see, I'm seeing this more consistently with when, with the, you know,
proper soil nutrition, biological crops, you're seeing a vast increase in the, the yield and the
quality is just, is, is there, you know, and I'm getting insane terpene test results. You know,
I I'm getting up to, you know, 8% terpenes on some of these plants. Dang.
That's like more than that's like more percentage than people formulate for
like vape distillate. That's awesome. Yeah. It's, it's fantastic. I have some, I mean,
I have some amazing varieties in the garden. They're not all doing that, but I haven't seen
anything under, um, I haven't tested anything currently under, I think 3.3%.
That's like the lowest. So it's 3.36.
So Chris Butler asked, can you ask what factors can cause low yield in a living organic soil system?
Yeah, probably the most common is going to be high sodium.
Because sodium is going to give you negative interactions with other,
with other soil ions. So it's going to, it's going to decrease the availability of
calcium, iron, magnesium. And that can be an issue because you could have all that stuff in your
system. And they could be plenty of it in there. But if there's, if it's, you know, if your system
has too much sodium and usually that happens, I made a video about this and I kind of actually
got a lot of, uh, flack for it because I talked about not using animal inputs or using, uh, C
inputs, um, in, in systems because they're usually over applied and they can drastically increase
sodium levels and cause these issues. Is that if I, is with, with you're talking about like kelp and
things like that. Yeah. I didn't say like fish hydrolyzed, crab meal, oyster shell, bone meals,
uh, you know, even the guanos and stuff too, because if you think about like seabird guano,
it's, it's, you know, it can be really high in sodium.
I'd imagine. Am I right in thinking that sodium levels will also
mess with the moisture and how you would control that?
Um, yeah.
Uh, high sodium levels will also dry, dry out soils faster. So drier soils means less biology
and we're talking about living soil systems. We want lots of biology.
Yeah. I'd say that's single handedly. The easiest thing to mess up is the
moisture levels, either over watering or under watering. That's,
that's going to just do your yield in either way.
Yeah, I agree. And you know what, there's a really good solution for that. And it's all about the,
the, uh, the aeration in the soil. Um, I love pumice and rice holes and my number one go-to,
and I almost, and I'm about at like probably about 37% aeration in those mixes. And it allows me to
thoroughly, thoroughly water. Um, I can saturate those pots completely without, uh, any runoff
and not worry about not having enough oxygen for both plant roots and biology. So it's a really,
really good way. Soil structure, in my opinion, is one of the most
important factors in a living soil system over almost all things.
You don't like your soil compact.
I mean, pumice is the fluffiest rock there is. It's going to, it's really going to help you
there. That's awesome. I, I think of pumice as, uh, as almost like a beauty tool most of the time,
because it has so many uses in the bath, but it's, it's fascinating to learn that it can do that for
soil structure as well. And do you have a way that you introduce that into your soil structure?
Do you have a way that you introduce that kind of geology into the system?
So typically when you, when you're talking about living soil, the type of system that I'm talking
about is a modified growing mix, uh, living soil. So it's going to be typically a manufactured soil.
This isn't going to be something that I'm talking about on someone's farm. Um, although you can turn,
you know, dirt into a living soil system fairly easily. It's going to take a lot of work and time,
but it can be done. Um, for these modified growing mixes, it's usually pre-mixed.
Um, and you have to, you know, find a, you have to either find a, uh, soil company that's doing
a good blend that you know is going to work. Um, I've run big roots with the Soil King and I've had
really good results with that. And now I'm currently running Build the Soil for the new
project, uh, the light blend, the VLS light blend. Um, and that has pumice and rice holes in it. And
that's one of the reasons I chose it because I needed a lot of it and I didn't have a lot of
time to make it. And I knew that their inputs didn't contain any animal inputs. So I knew they
were going to have very low sodium. Um, and it had all of the things that I knew would be the best
for me, for the, for the systems that I'm running with the data collection and all that. So.
Just quickly, but, but before I forget, uh, my question earlier was kind of like with your
every two weeks soil samples, can you give an example of like cultivar A is really sucking up
X and cultivar B is really sucking up Y like something that you've specifically noticed?
Yeah. So I actually have some, uh, some of this happening right now. Uh, typically I have,
I'm running, uh, different cultivars in my facility because people in on the market demands
variety, right? They want a lot of different flavors. I want to be able to satisfy the market.
So, um, it, it does offer a challenge and that challenge is that every variety has different
nutritional needs. So what I have to do is I have to take an overall sample, um, from the room
and I have to take an average. Um, and then what I have to do is I have to use my best judgment,
uh, for a varietal. Um, I've been doing this long enough. I can, I can pretty well understand
what a plant needs by looking at it. And so I will typically give it a little bit more
of the things that it needs, but it's usually in the same exact ratios that are proportionate
to what everything else is getting. It just might get X amount more, you know, it might get
20 milliliters more on a, you know, a hundred milliliter top dress, you know, or 40 milliliters
more, or maybe it might get double, you know, it just depends on, it just depends on the variety,
but it's for right now until I start here was the thing, right? I did, I got out to this,
the facility and there was one cultivar here. It was Gorilla Glue, one of my favorites. Don't get
me wrong. I love it, but it's difficult. Uh, it's a difficult cultivar because it stretches,
it's uncontrollably wild. Um, and because there was so many people cultivating out here,
the market value was less. So, um, as much as I love it from a commercial perspective, it's
not a viable option. And so what I did was I did a big female hunt and I hunted through around, uh,
200 females out of all of the seeds that were tested. I took all the males out, kept one male.
That male was a Lime 1BX from Mean Gene, um, out of the 120 males that were tested to be male. Um,
and I, and I had to do this big hunt, right? And I picked out the varieties I wanted, but then I
reran them. I reran probably about 20 varieties so I could select the best five or like 25,
so I could select the best five. So I reran the best ones from clone to do my secondary
selection process. So I could see how the epigenetic changes might occur using the clone.
And so now I'm at the point where I've made my selection process based off of the second
judgment. And now I will start to implement the tissue testing because now I know exactly which
cultivars I'm going to continue to run. Am I the only person who has to look up epigenetics?
And I was like, oh yes.
Excellent. Did Derek run away or is he going to come back and show us more?
I know his, his plants look beautiful back there.
No, I keep staring at them.
I love them.
I'm here, I've just been working.
Chopping them down.
Yeah, they look like they have a really beautiful fade.
They're one of my wonderful favorite parts is watching that, that fade at the very end. Then
when you get a nice natural fade, it brings out all the, those beautiful colors. It's just.
Yeah, I love it. You know, like in two weeks time, isn't it amazing how that plant will go,
like get tinges of like burgundy and then it just goes purple, you know, it's really cool.
Yeah. It's funny given the autumn metaphors you've had. I know some of you are in Maine
and some people watching are in Maine. I moved from New England to Southern California and it's
very, it's very nice to be in California for cannabis, but it's also like every autumn,
I miss the trees.
There's no leaf peepers.
Yeah, the leaf peepers.
The change is nice here in Maine. You know, I like that. It's what attracts me to be here.
You know, definitely the fall and the winter and the spring. They're all so different in summer.
So pretty good place to be.
I moved out to Oklahoma from San Diego and people were like, it's going to be a culture shock.
It's going to be, and it's like, man, I'm loving it out here. I absolutely, I'm like in the best
place that I think I could possibly be.
Nice.
Yeah. It's like total freedom from a commercial cannabis standpoint. Can you just quickly talk
about maybe some of the market differences you're noticing between like what the Oklahoma
consumer wants and what the Cali weed smokers like?
Yeah. So if you're like, if you're like an OG or like you've been doing this a minute, man,
you're familiar with all the old school stuff. You're familiar with all the Cali Sours and the
Kushes. And that was like the thing in Cali. They never experienced that really out here.
And so what's driving the market here is really the recipe, which is, it's what I call the recipe,
right? The recipe is a lot of facilities are doing the Athena and PowerSci or Front Row Ag and
PowerSci and they're using Finest Cannabis Cuts or GMO Sherb Crasher. They're using the
modern stuff. And those are what's driving the market out here because
those, the people that are following that recipe are essentially getting the best marketable results
sense for like a cannabis marketing standpoint.
And so I see that is kind of like where the higher end cannabis is, is there. And then there's also
the small batch craft producers who are doing small batch organic. There's very few,
there's like, there's a very, very few large scale organic full spectrum LED facilities like the one
that I operate. There are a couple of people that I know that are following the same
system based off of what I'm doing and they're having pretty good results as well.
And the people that are doing the small batch organic craft are competing at the same price
points and same quality, but it's, I think different. It's different because like I'm not,
I don't grow, I grow varieties that like I created the lime orilla, the death breath,
the exotic Joe cut, the, some of the stuff that my friends made, some stuff that was given to me
through the community. So like, I didn't pay for any of the seeds that I pheno hunted.
You know, they were all gifted to me through the cannabis community. And it was like,
I was so grateful because I got stuff from like JD short. I got stuff from, oh man, dude, I got,
I had, I had so much stuff in there. I can't even list the amount of different varieties I had in
there. And I found some really, really great stuff. And it was a unique experience to be able to run
through so many different breeders work at scale. So, you know, I was able to keep varieties.
Um, the exotic because nobody else is growing them and, and I'm the one that personally hunted them.
I, you know, I double checked them. I re-ran them and, um, you know, and they are testing for,
you know, really, really high targets and really, and really reasonable cannabinoid levels. And
that's really what I look for. You know, that it checks all the boxes for me and I have,
uh, I have a high standard even for myself. Uh, I'm my own worst critic because I just,
I always just want it to be better. You know, I feel like a lot of us cannabis people that grow,
like we could be really, really satisfied and so stoked what we have, but we always just like,
you know, how can we drive to eat, drive this thing to be the next thing? You know, the,
I mean, that's just how I. Yeah. We're always our worst critics. You know what I'm saying?
We always are, you know, that's what makes, you know, turns you into a good grower. I think of
anything, just always striving for that perfection, you know, figuring that plan out and just, uh,
changing things up a little bit. Definitely. So just quickly, Tyler, now that we have you back,
I wanted to, uh, have you narrate what we're looking at with these, um, with these pictures.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Sorry. My phone was being terrible. Um, and just battery died and would not charge
back up. But basically these are just some shots from the Mac, the original release of Mac, um,
Fino that I ran in the greenhouse last year. Um, and I was really happy with it. And especially
as the colors were just beautiful, long, you know, dense colas. It was just beautiful. Like
it's one of those ones that when, you know, as you were just saying, striving for perfection, I,
I wanted to work with the plant more, but that's the other, the other tricky thing is that you need
to balance these, these cultivars and save everything because you never know what's one's
going to end up being the one. And of course this was a mistake that I made that I didn't save a cut
of this, but I always have that feeling that I can find it again, but I, you know, I've let so many
great cuts go stupidly in the past. So I think one good thing and one tip to aspiring growers is
to get your mother room, get your library room, do all that first, get your quarantine room. Those
are the most important aspects of doing, you know, of scaling up, I guess you'd say. And I'm still
small. I'm still little, but I have my eye on the prize of definitely doing, you know, what Brandon's
doing, doing a, you know, uh, to scale full spectrum, led living soil, um, commercial growth
I can be involved in a rec business around here. And, and those were some shots of just some, just
some great colors, basically. Um, I'm sure some of these pictures don't even do it any, any justice,
but they were just really pretty plants. And, uh, again, I think that's one of the strengths of,
of CAP and that's why I'd love to talk to CAP more is, you know, how much is your eye guiding it?
How much is your nose guiding it? Um, things like that. They were just, it was a, it was a big,
vigorous, frosty, smoked well, um, checked most of the boxes, most of them. So I just wanted to
shoot you guys a few picks so you could see that. So just quickly, Chris, Chris Butler, a while ago
asked anyone have an idea what the next hype variety to explode will be? That's a good question.
It's it'll, it'll be the, uh, the Oreos and the ice cream cake.
More, more pastry style stuff. You think?
I mean, that's what I, that's, that's what the word is. That's word on the street right now.
I'm not sorry to hear it.
Yeah. The ice cream cake's already all over the place.
Yeah. It's making its way like nationwide too. It's all, it's starting to come out this way.
Uh, have you guys, have you guys tried the Oreos out there yet? Yeah. That's good. That's about
to hit too out there. It's funny. Here's the last of my ice cream cake and then, uh, some Mac.
Yep. But, uh, go ahead.
I was just going to say, it's funny how it's through the industry, you know, so quickly,
or mainly between the heads, you know, it gets, you know, he knows already what's coming down
the pipeline and that's the way it's always traditionally been. And I hope that's the way
that it stays is that, you know, you get this vein of people who know what's up, what they're
working with, who are the real heads who are absolutely killing it and checking every box and,
and throwing out these cultivars for the world. I mean, that's, it's, it's invaluable. It's really
great. Um, but also to everybody out there who's doing your breeding, keep working with your lines
man. Find the one that's in there. That is that next kind of, um, that checks all those boxes.
I can't say it enough. Um, you know, always, you know, grow, I grow a lot of these, these plants
so that I can see what everybody else is seeing out of them. But then I'm turning back around and
I'm looking at my cultivars and going, you know, okay, what's where, where are these shining?
Where, you know, where, how could these become? And I'm not saying I'm trying to make them the
next hype stream, but I just, as we said, as growers, we want to work with the best material
we can, something that's friendly to grow and just gorgeous, um, and keeps you motivated to
do what you do. You know, that's a big part of it. You know, that I'm, I have some stuff that I've
been, you know, working with for a while, the Lime-A-Rilla being one of them, which is a Black
Lime Reserve times Gorilla Glue. And, uh, I got, I got, uh, Jackson's Lime 1BX. That was the male
that I selected out of the 120 males that tested male out of the like 300 and something plants that
I had, I think. Um, and I used that for, I hit that back into, cause it's the, it's the parent of the
Black Lime Reserve. So I took that back into the Lime-A-Rilla 31. And that was the cut that
consistently tested between 5 and 18, uh, and 8% terpenes. Um, and it's being able to just keep
working lines and, and then go through them and then find things that, you know, are consistently
able to hit those numbers and just breed with those. I have this other one that's called Death
Breath, which is my Lime-A-Rilla crossed with an old, uh, the old Purple Kush. And it, um,
it's like, it's really hard to place the, it's not the prettiest weed, you know, like I, I've,
there's a lot of stuff in my garden that's way prettier, but it has this crazy funky terpene
profile where it just encompasses like everything. It's hard to describe because it has floral,
it has skunky, it has chem, it has perfume, it has citrus. It has like, it has a like tangy,
it has like, it just has everything in it. It's like a collaboration of everything stacked on
top of each other. It's so unique. And the weirdest, the weirdest thing about it is that
when you actually smoke it, the flavor profile translates over and you're like, whoa, it tastes
just like it smells. So I'm hoping. That sounds incredible. I like the idea that it's, it's
powerful to the nose, but not to the eye. Yeah. It's, you know, it's one of those things where
it's like, man, I wish you were a little better. I had a little bit better bag appeal, but you know,
it doesn't matter because once you open that bag, it doesn't matter if you're in a room full of
other bags. It's going to shine. That's what I look for. I think that's, that's a, that's an
experience. Yeah. That's what I look for. That's an experience smokers cultivar right there. You
know? And it's, you know, I'm there's, I want to be able to make things that other growers are
like that become staples in their gardens that are like, dude, this is just so solid. I don't
want to like, you know, there's no reason for me to get rid of this. You know, that's that kind of
stuff that I like, you know, things that are tried and true that just will never let you down.
Well, also if you are narrowing the variables, you're able to focus on your craft more. And I,
and you were talking about growers being such perfectionists earlier. And I think part of it
is when your craft is seasonal, you're always thinking of it in terms of cycles like that.
And what can be done better next time? It's like, it's like turn-based combat and video games.
You kind of have to be preemptive too, you know, and you have to know, Hey, if this plant is needing
this, then I should have this in my soil before it's good before it needs it. So that way it's
there for it ready. I think that's one of the things about, you know, doing the crop steering,
you know, if you, if you, if you have the data sets,
you can know, Oh dude, I got a top dress with, you know, four tablespoons of magnesium sulfate.
And, or I got a water with, you know, this and this and, you know, whatever it might be. It's
just like, you got to go in there and get it done. I just, I get really excited about all of this
stuff because I get to do this every single day and, you know, learn. And it's like, I feel that
I get to challenge myself every day. You know, it's like cannabis is like the most amazing.
It's amazing thing ever. Isn't it?
I don't think anyone here would fight you on that.
Just quickly Tyler and Derek, can you guys kind of talk about Maine's cultivation legacy?
You know, cause people were growing, I mean, Vermont, like I grew up in Boston and you know,
kind of what, what was going on in Maine and the, like, you guys are old enough, but there's even a
generation older than you to kind of have been around in the nineties and the two thousands.
So can you talk about kind of the legacy of cultivation in Maine and then kind of
the current state of like Brandon's in cannabis heaven in Oklahoma. Cause you can, it seems like
it's the wild West, like you can do whatever you want. And they're like, that'll only be $500 to
get your license, go, go get it. And what's going on in Maine? What's the opportunity, but let's
You want to feel that Derek or I can, we both came up together.
Yeah, go ahead, buddy.
He and I went to high school together. So we've been, you know,
as far as cannabis culture, we were in the deep, we were in it together, you know?
And you're right. A generation ahead was where it all really went down on a larger scale. I feel
like, you know, we're a heavily forested state. We're a heavily forested state. We're a heavily
scale. I feel like, you know, we're a heavily forested state and there was a ton of guerrilla
growing going on and not only guerrilla, but some large scale operations going on in the
North and Eastern parts of the state where we live on the coast. So it was more guerrilla growing
where we were, but you know, a rich culture for sure. And, you know, we went way back. You hear
Kevin Jodry talking about it all the time, how new England was kind of, you know, it was rough
around the edges and kind of weren't scared to do whatever they needed to do to hustle. And so,
yeah, we were part of that. We came up definitely, I can speak for him a little bit too, that,
you know, our first grows were all outdoor grows. I did move into indoor for a short period of time
before giving up growing for a little while. But, you know, there's a rich culture. A lot of the
Native American reservations have cultivars that are unique to them and keep propagating.
Because they operated a little bit more autonomously and were able to protect their
borders a little bit more and were not run up on and knew the land so extremely well
that they were able to keep some cultivars going for many, many seasons and were more
self-sustained in that way. And of course, you hear the stories about the Maine Blueberry Outdoor,
MOB. Everybody says it has a lot of different acronyms, but there was certainly a beautiful
mold-resistant blueberry-style strain that grew in the woods here for many generations. And so,
yeah, it's a forested situation. And talking about epigenetics and talking about, you know,
biomimicry and all those things are super relevant because, you know, the pinene profiles and the
woodsy profiles are prevalent in our cannabis for sure. You won't see as many citruses and things
like that, maybe rose hips at best. But mostly, yeah, there's a lot of that going on and I think
it's shaped our cultivars and what we've worked with over the years. So, do you have anything to
add on that one, D? Not really. I mean, that's definitely true all of that, you know, growing up,
you know, it's like kind of limited though in ways. And we guerrilla grew or whatever we could
to get by and it was really, those are fun times. But as, you know, now recreationalism just starting
to come into play here in Maine and, you know, the laws and all the regulations are definitely
changing. So, I see a lot of change coming as far as, you know, I'm on the medical side of things
where I'm a caregiver and, you know, I'm going to have to definitely start abiding by some more laws
and regulations and it'll just keep getting more refined, you know, like look at some of those
states that are definitely been in it for a while now. And I mean, their laws are pretty refined in
the way they regulate things. So, that's just starting here. The market's really good here
actually in Maine. Any, you know, good quality cannabis, you can get pretty, you know, top dollar
for it for sure. But it's definitely changing, definitely year to year it's changes is immense.
Yeah, and I imagine it's really important to keep to encourage the cannabis culture and community
and industry out there because if I'm not mistaken, Maine was hit pretty hard by the
opioid crisis, like more than 300 deaths, I think. And just we know the correlation between
like the access to cannabis treatment and all of that. So, it'd be really amazing to see that,
see it flourish in Maine like never before. Yeah, definitely. I think you're absolutely right.
I think having access to it is very important, you know. I mean, it's like when the medical
started coming about, you know, it was hard to even access, you know, you had to have certain
conditions, but they loosened up on that eventually. Now, you don't need any specific, you know,
you know, conditions to get a card in Maine, but you just, you know, have to go to your doctor and
get that filled out. You know, what I find really interesting about cannabis that I, you know,
I don't know if it's in a lot of other industries, but it's so community involved. It's, you know,
there's the grower and the processor and like the people behind the scenes that have like their own
community. And then there's the community involvement with the actual consumers themselves
from like a business standpoint. So, you have almost kind of like two interworking communities
that are coexisting in the same space. And I don't know of like really any other, you know,
business that's like that, because you have to take care of both of those communities. You have
to take care, build like good networks and relationships with the people behind the scenes.
And then you also have to do that with your brand and with the people who are consuming, you know,
and involve them, you know, like make them feel part of what you're doing. That's why I kind of
like always show people, Hey, this is what's going on. I do patient stuff. Like I involve,
you know, the community home growers. I love the homegrown community. I think that's like
really one of the essential footholds for a cannabis community.
I think most of the people watching are growing at home. So
definitely shout out to everybody watching that's growing at home.
Can you guys just, the, the, the cultivar, the, what was the one that's kind of everyone
blew just a way blue. Are you there?
Well, Derek, maybe you can feel this one, the ones that he was, that you guys were talking about,
that kind of people were growing out in the woods are, I assume, are they fast flowering just to
kind of beat the cold and the. Yeah, definitely. I mean, those cultivars, those people have been
grown for, you know, some generations. Sometimes they definitely flower faster than most. I mean,
our season, I swear outside here in Maine, I swear we lose like the last couple of weeks of
flower, you know, to get those really mature buds. But if you can find something that finishes a
little bit quick, you know, I mean, you're, you're sitting pretty. I mean, I definitely,
back in the day I had some, you know, it was given to me, it was called the orange, the strain and
man, that thing flowered so fast and it was done. And it was like, you brought it in,
you didn't get any, but try this or, you know, any of the rains, you know, sometimes that come
late, you didn't get any of that. And it was nice to be able to have something that you could bring
in and finish well. So they're definitely out there and they're still out there. I mean,
there's so many genetics now, you know, with the medical and the rec coming into play in Maine and
a lot of companies starting to get going. But some of those old school strains are definitely
sought after still, I think. But when you guys were in high school together,
dominating the, the social, the, the, what was, what was the name of your high school?
That's Mount Desert High.
When you guys were big men on campus, when you smoked, was it mostly stuff that was grown locally
or was it stuff from out of state?
Oh, I think, you know, for the most part, stuff out of state, but during, you know, harvest season
and stuff, you'd always get some of that good green, you know, and you were just like, oh my
God, it's the best, it tasted so good. So different than the brick, you know, that you would usually
get, you know.
Got it. And yeah, sorry. I'm just trying to catch up.
Smoked a lot of Mexican weed when I was younger.
Yeah.
A lot of Mexican weed. The best that you could hope for sometimes when you're,
when you're young and broke is the pretendicas.
Yeah, definitely. I mean, I'll tell you, that's how I got my start.
You guys never remember the pretendies. The pretendies, they were like the Mexican weed,
but they were like a little fluffier. They'd actually, they wouldn't be like a little more
light green.
Heck yeah. Oh man, that's how I got my start though, growing those seeds, you know, from that
bagged herb I had. That's where I, you know, started trying it out, you know, and just
have a passion for it. Always have for gardening in general, but definitely that was, started it up.
I grew a couple of Mexican bagged seeds.
Nice.
I feel like the first time I saw a real flower was when I was in Nepal, but up until then,
I grew up in Hong Kong. It was, I, the only thing I saw was like
the worst butt hash you can imagine.
You were saying, Kevin?
No, sorry. I was just looking. So, so I guess Tyler is on the chat, just not in the room. He
said, Trojan. Were you guys the Trojans?
Yeah, the Trojans. Yeah, definitely.
All right. And was Tyler an athletic specimen back in the day?
I don't, you know, I don't know. You know, I would say we, we hung out definitely, but
I don't think he was. I don't know if he played any sports or not, but definitely always keeping
his rap game going, man. Those guys, him and his good friend, they always, I mean, since high
school, have kept something going and it's really amazing to see where they've come, man. It's,
their music's awesome. And yeah, I was always into like little alternative things, I think,
you know, as far as sports, like skateboarding and stuff. Nothing real mainstream.
Got it. Well, any, anyone have any final, let me go for the chat. Anyone have any
questions before we wrap up? Since I want to go eat lunch?
Yeah, I don't have any questions, but I just want to say thanks for the opportunity
to be on the show, man. It was great.
It's great to talk with all of you and listen to what everybody has to say. It's cool to have
a cannabis community and important, you know, to connect with one another for sure.
Well, actually just quickly, because we have you guys here a while ago, Philippe Pala asked,
can you please elaborate more about mixing soil for the first time? Kind of like what inputs,
like when you're first building your pots or raised beds, kind of what are you,
you want me to take this? Sure. Yeah, yeah. Go ahead.
All right. So first of all, I, I personally, this is something that I like to do is I like to,
you know, try to source things as local as possible for all your inputs, if possible.
But your soil mix is, you know, you're going to have to have a lot of soil,
possibly, but your soil mix is usually going to be something like 33 to 37 or maybe 40%
aeration, which is going to be pumice and rice holes at probably about, I would probably say
about, you know, two thirds pumice, one third rice hole or a ratio around there. And then you're
going to want, it's usually going to be a peat or cocoa base, depending on, you know, who you ask
or, you know, what your, your optimal goals are. If you use peat, it'll hold the moisture a little
better. Cocoa will dry out faster. Then your third part is your, or your third largest part is
usually high quality compost. You want to source this locally. Pretty important. If you can get
like a high quality local vermicompost, that will help give you kind of some indigenous microorganisms
that are, you know, indigenous to your area that you know will be kind of beneficial to
your, your system. And you also want to try to make the, if you're on a commercial or if you're in a
market where your product is being tested for heavy metals, compost is extremely important
because it can contain heavy metals. So you have to be careful. But those are your three main things,
the aeration, your, your substrate, cocoa or peat and high quality compost. And then typically you're
gonna have a lot of minerals like gypsum. You're gonna have a ton of gypsum in there, probably
around like, I don't know, maybe like 12 cups per yard or not per yard. I usually do,
in a base mix that I do, I'll do probably like two cups for like a cubic foot and a half, because
that's like what a 27 gallon tote. And I'll usually mix like my home grow stuff in like one of those
totes. So, so gypsum, let's see, also potassium silica, like Agsil 16 is a really good one that,
because plants are gonna need a lot of potassium. And it's also, you know, pretty easily available.
Also, you know, things like azomite are good, not too much azomite because they can contain high
aluminum metals or heavy metals. Soy bar, soy bore is something that you need a very little
amount. It's boron, you can add like a teaspoon of that for like cubic foot and a half. There's,
you know, most of these things are just tiny little amounts. The main things that you're gonna
be relying on is your high quality compost and then your, your, your mineral, your gypsum, volcanic
rock dust, bath, bath salt, that kind of stuff. Those are the main, the main, the main inputs.
And then when you go and look at a soil test, you'll, you'll be able to see like your percentages
of organic matter and your ECE, your exchange capacity, and you can kind of get a gist of
everything that's in there. Yeah. And if we had Tyler still on, cause, cause I know you,
you didn't mention any, and you had talked about this earlier, no
kind of products from the ocean. So no kelp, no crab meal, no, uh,
I use crab and oyster personally, but, um, I just work off the original coots mix.
Um, as far as the ingredients go, but I've started to, what I did this last time is I made the base
mix, sent it to a soil lab, and then used amendments to fine tune it where I needed it to
be. But that's not something I would expect somebody just getting their feet wet to be able to do.
So the, the coots mix as it stands works pretty well. I think he has a couple of iterations of
it now though. Um, but I just use the original one with name kelp, crab, oyster, gypsum.
I think that's it. Yeah. You can remediate using, well, higher gypsum levels will, uh,
help, um, remediate any high sodium levels too. So that's one of the benefits of the gypsum.
Yeah. Using the calcium to push the sodium out, right?
And I think you said that gypsum is one of the more, uh, inexpensive of the things you use.
So that's good news. Yeah. Oh, you know what? Another thing that I, I failed to mention,
um, soy hydrolysate. So there's a ton of research, like a massive amount. I couldn't even begin to,
you know, read all of them, but I found probably some of the best ones, um, that I,
that I could find. And, uh, the way that amino acids work and the bioavailability of them
and the rate at which they're, uh, effective, in fact, is, it's better than anything that you could,
uh, do something on. So the only type of nitrogen source that I use in my systems is soy hydrolysate,
which is 80% amino acids and like 13% water soluble nitrogen. And I use it consistently
and it's worked really well. So that's just a little tip for like people, if they want to,
if they want a readily available, uh, you know, source of nitrogen, that's, you know, also organic.
They can use that. You're muted, Peter. I was going to say, Tyler, defend the honor of kelp.
I'm not going to defend the honor of it, but it's a readily available locally sourced
thing that I can get here. I also use a lot of sea grass, um, things like that. Um, people might
call it sea lettuce in some places and also use shoreline grass. And, uh, y'all go out and do a
harvest again, not a lot, trying to avoid sodium, rinse and triple rinsing, but, um,
soaking everything, uh, and then making a puree of it generally and watering in, in small amounts.
But, um, and I use oyster shell as well, because again, local, local, local. Um, but yeah, I, I
don't, I use a kelp at a very timed point. I use it, you know, when I'm looking to, I use it in
late veg personally, when I'm trying to induce branching, I want lots of branching. I want to
create a vine that's, that, that just has a ridiculous amount of nodes on it. And that's
what I use kelp for. That's, and that's the only time I really use it. I mean, it's in my substrate
after that, but I'm really cognizant of sodium because I do live by the ocean and I do use ocean
inputs and I plant, uh, companion plants and cover crops that will sequester sodium. Um,
and then I will eat those and I'll get those out of there. And, uh, I take other, obviously chop
down other green, uh, elements and put them back into my soil, all my leaf, all my stem,
uh, all my clover and those things go right back into the pots. But I do grow, uh, minuet, which
is, uh, also known as herbistella. My phone's probably going to die here. I'm sorry. So if I
do go, I'm, I'm gone. But, uh, that's one thing that one of the things that I do to sequester
sodium, um, in my system, in my particular system. So yeah, it's low growing, it survives,
it survives the canopy, uh, it propagates itself. Um, it's kind of a creeper and it's delicious.
It tastes like a nutty spinach with a salty kick on the finish. And I highly encourage anybody to
go check. I think Johnny's seeds probably has it. I think that's where I got it. Johnny's is a local
name. Great, great, great seed company. Johnny's J O N N Y S. Um, but yeah, that's one of my,
one of my, one of my strategies, I guess you'd say to be able to use things from the ocean,
but also mitigate any sodium issues in the long, long-term.
So earlier in the chat, people were talking about, uh, compost teas and foliar sprays. Uh,
can you guys talk about whether you use teas and foliar sprays or not? Or?
Oh, I'll touch on this one quickly before I bust. And I wish I had more time to elaborate with.
Yeah, I gotta, I gotta head out soon too. Unfortunately.
I wish I had more time to elaborate with Brandon. I mean, not knowing my entire flow of my system,
you know, vacuuming up refuse and putting it back on your plants is definitely not recommended. Um,
but in my system, I grew with Avocado Tech and essentially I'm making a hub of microbiology.
And I use a watering system where it's trained directly on top of the Avocado Tech. And so
what I'm getting is a bed of worm castings essentially, or a nutrient well, if you will,
underneath that avocado shell that I've mixed dry amendments into the flesh of the avocado,
the worms eat it, poop out beautiful worm castings directly below it. And then when my drippers are
turned on high, I'm kind of making a compost extract for lack of a better term, because
I'm pushing water straight down through worm castings and vacuuming it up. And so I wish I,
I mean, I understand that you can propagate, you know, negative things by, by doing that. And so
I'm really careful to avoid that, but that's kind of like the mechanical aspect of my method.
That sounds really neat. Actually, that's a pretty, uh, uh, inventive way to go about, uh,
cycling your top dress amendments faster into your soil system. Very, uh, inventive.
Those were, uh, the, uh, I wish I, let me back it up. Those are the black soldier fly larva.
Nice. They, they do like their cantaloupe. Yeah. So anyway,
that was from the worm bin earlier. The worms are not very happy with the company in there right now,
but, uh, all right, well, I think we lost Tyler again. That's probably a good time to wrap it up.
Mia is doing one last dab.
Nice. Um, well, thank you everyone. And, uh, yeah, I'm trying to think tomorrow morning at 8 AM. Uh,
we have Ed Denson, uh, and we're talking, uh,
I actually don't really know what we're talking about, but I think it's Humboldt County. Um,
abatement issues. So anyway, and Ed's kind of a legend. I think I touched on this yesterday, but,
uh, anyway, we'll be talking at 8 AM. I'll be more up to speed on what exactly we're talking about,
uh, after this and a bunch of other stuff, but I'll let everyone go. I will, uh, post stuff and
announce, uh, when we're going live again, but, and how many people are watching right now?
You want to give us a 552? It looks like, yeah, 552 online right now. All right. Well,
we appreciate all of you and, uh, thank you to our, uh, let me go back to him. How, so wait,
so sorry you had, uh, how many, you had three plants or how many plants growing? Okay.
Yeah. Just three plants. All right. So, so you will be done with this, uh, pretty soon.
Oh yeah. I'm going to rip through this probably. No problem. Got it. All right. Well,
well with that, uh, I will kill the live stream and we'll see you all soon. Right on.
