And we are live welcome everyone to episode 17 of the James Loud show today
we're gonna be talking cat piss and
With this motley crew and we got some other people joining us shortly, but James why don't you take it away?
Hey guys, welcome to this week's episode of the James Loud show. We are talking about cat piss this week
Cat piss is something that I grew up with it's been gone out of my life for a really long time
I've been in search of it for 20 years from the real deal. Yeah for the real deal
It's something that I hold very dear to me
And so my experience with cat piss was that it's kind of what turned me into going that connoisseur direction
With cannabis it was the strongest
You know smelling and in most potent variety of the day and this is a you know early 90s 93 ish
Give or take when I first saw it and started smoking it back. Then it was $60 an eighth
It was straight up if you wanted to buy a pound of it
You would pay $60 an eighth straight up the Hells Angels were running it through some friends and conquered my buddy G
And the stuff a tenth of a gram would smell your whole room up your whole car
It wouldn't come off your hands. So if you were to smoke at lunch and you're packing bowls or rolling joints
You you wouldn't go to class you cut class because you would stink so bad if you didn't want to get in trouble if your
teacher wasn't cool
so
It's been gone for a long time a very long time
You know at least as far as in my life in my circle of friends in my experience
So this show is a kind of special to me. I met you know
707 who's coming on here in a second he
He grew up with some of the same friends. So he has some of the same stories
We've got Tom from San Diego and he was talking about the Hells Angels and some other things that really caught my attention
Which added some validity to his story and I thought that would be interesting
so we're just gonna kind of go through and talk about our experiences with cat piss and
And
Let's see who should Louie you what you want to start it off since you're coming on lately sure. Absolutely
There's
Union you're right like with with the persona behind it and some of the names that you just said
You know a lot of people like to change the names on it as well. So you it came up
I think I came across it in like 2002 and
At that point if you had it
There's only like one set of folks that was letting you have it or whatever and then I know that the names have changed so
Jack Foster
Yeah, it was a difficult it's a difficult train to track down and to keep and then to have it
you kind of don't even want to almost say that you do because of the persona that does come behind it and
I like I like to keep my circles close and
It's a very yeah, that's it's a touchy subject actually
It's kind of a trip because it's the only strain out there really that you've never seen blow up
What's the reason for that? You know what I mean? Like there's there's reasons behind that
It's a very private strain for sure and to have it is I mean fuck it's better than platinum, right?
But I used to call it the concert stopper because I don't give a fuck where you when I go to a dead show
I'd go I don't care where you went. I'd go to a dead show. I'd go to a dead show
I don't care where you went you that overtook that that aroma that turned the turps from that
overtook anything that you would find in a concert or anything any large gathering you're like
Where is that shit? I would you'd follow the smell to get a hit of it. You know what I mean?
But yeah, you ain't lying James when it comes down to the names that you just dropped and all that shit
My buggers don't don't want people having it. That's for sure
You're from Concord the Bay Area originally, correct? Yeah, that's that's where that's where that she came at least that's where I'm
Familiar with it from was it came from Concord from all I know and I've been in Concord since I was 48 now
Then I've been there all my life
Right and
So what I had heard was that the Hells Angels controlled it and they were moving it
I mean there's a handful of people that had cuts of it
But uh
It was never in seed form until I met you and then you told me that you had it at seed form
But I hold I had heard that it was a cut and it got lost in a gunfight
with with the police with the sheriff's
On a raid in a house in Concord, but it was known as like the Pittsburgh piss the uncle Bob
There were several names behind it
Jack Foster
Yeah
So the Fino that I have that I gotten back from I can anyway I
Hold some seeds to I did it last year
I don't you cross it yourself and make seeds with it with the cross or I do where you give it
It was it was given back to me. Yes, it was given back to me and and
That that I you know, like like you said, you know
It's a touchy thing when you you know that nobody wants to be nobody wants to be known for it
You know, I mean, but yeah when I got the seeds back
it was always kept in our small tiny little circle and
You know never done bulk or anything like that. And
You know and I've never really released it because I just don't want I just don't want the fucking problems to tell you the truth
Because it kind of becomes a problem almost it's trippy. It's the only strain out there that becomes like this problem
Oh gee super silver. Haze fucking blue dot remember the blue dot come on, you know
Everybody got those but there wasn't really much of a repercussion
I think there's repercussions that come along with it. Sometimes that people want to stay away from so
So you have regular seeds of it? They're male female male female and you've been crossing that back up upon itself for how many years?
So I've had the seeds so I went through my little gig you remember I went through my little thing
So that that was a hiatus for four or five years and then I brought it back a couple years ago in my yard
Crocket I went and fucking I I think I put because they got old
I put down like 75 of them and like six of them came up and I got a male and female from it and then
In my yard, I just did I just did those the two pheno the best ones that I found and then I just pollinated it
Got the seeds back did it again last year and then my boy over there at fire up clothing
We confirmed it and unfortunately
I didn't get a chance to bring it over to you because we did have that that talk a few months ago
and
now I'm up up by a Bernie Falls, California, and I'm gonna be doing it again this year and then I'll be able to
Hopefully get your confirmation that it's you know, it's the juice baby. It's the juice
So 707 we've had some interesting conversations in the last couple days you want to go into
detail on your side of the catfish story and
You know, I think there's a lot of stories but
Your opinion on it
Right. Um, well, you know going up to the bay back in the early 90s
We didn't have names back then it was green it was death. What else do we have dank?
We had skunk and we had cactus
I mean just anything that smelled like skunk was called skunk anything that smelled like cactus was called cactus
There's just
You know
It was just generic names, you know
Grown up and conquered. I went to YV we had a
May we had at least a dozen different
We would get some from Danville we would get some from Martinez who would get some from
Pittsburgh and a bunch of guys in Concord also had it
And you know as a kid not knowing what was what but you know now looking back at it
I could totally tell some of them were straight Indica's
Some of them were sativas
My personal favorite was this guy Nate we call him
The Nate dog piss and he had like a super silver haze cut of it
That was just it was just the river back then
The uncle Bob
You know, we all probably got it from the same guy back then
That was my least favorite
That was out in any other day uncle Bob coming from like Pittsburgh Antioch area
Pittsburgh is where I always thought it was coming from. I forget the two brothers their names that were growing it
you know, I
left Concord in
99 and
As far as my dreams and growing and actually the BC came out that you know
That was a beaster days and that pretty much wiped me out of town
so I had to take different options, so
You know came up to the sticks
Took me a couple years to track down
The uncle Bob I was originally trying to get a couple of the other ones the one from like Danville or that Hells Angels
one for Martinez
But I couldn't find any the only thing I found was the uncle Bob
Found some guy in Pittsburgh that had it. He sold it to me for a couple racks and then I'm just sort of working it there
But you know, I've heard a lot of different stories about it. I've heard
Northern Lights
Northern Lights Durban poison crosses
But you know after digging into that strain for so long
Better for 10 years straight
You know, sometimes they'll come out. Sometimes it wouldn't come out right so I have to start all over and
I
Would guess it's probably straight Northern Lights
That's my guess of the uncle Bob. That's pure indica short slow
You know great for see agreeing style one big fat Cola
You know, it's it's got that our old high school flavor the cat piss
you know every everything about it is just
It's just it's just old school, you know, and it's
If compared to weed nowadays
It's just it's not as potent. I feel like I'm like the old-timers. They used to say
Oh the aqua poke of gold that was the best weed around, you know, that was just what they were smoking in high school
They were smoking in high school and stuff and for me it was kind of the same thing this is my high school weed
That flavor, you know, so but compared to like Jesus like nowaday
It's not as potent as that stuff
But the uncle Bob that I worked did I worked it?
Ten years straight trying to get that thing right to where every seed just came out
100% cap this fun
And I finally accomplished it a little higher on the male side male to female ratio
But every seed comes out 100% uncle Bob
There's no I bred the fuck out of that thing reverse males, you know
Count the turps out of the males and cross them
I even I even grew out a bunch of male s1's, you know, see which one would be the best out of that and
And
Back cross four times to get a completely stable to where every single one comes out 100% cap this fun
But I mean, you know, like I said the name cactus back of the day
It was a generic name for any herb that had that flavor
We called the cactus
But in reality
It's back in the late 80s early 90s. Almost all the Dutch food that came out had those terms
you know, and then the fruity stuff came in it's
Happens time and time again, you know, like one thing gets popular
Everybody wants to bottlenecks everything and then something else comes and then that old thing gets you know
Lost and then the new thing comes along and that's what happened with it
I talked to Tom Hill once and I was asking I was like, dude, what's up with the roadkill scum?
And he broke it down. He was like look it was
It was a pure Afghani was short. It didn't yield for shit and
It wasn't as potent as like, you know
After the skunky stuff fruity stuff came in and it wasn't as potent as that stuff in it and the fruity stuff
Yielded ten times more and everything so it just got lost of the wind
Same thing with the cap this kind of
I'm all over the place. Oh
That's good, yeah
it's interesting because I feel like the roadkill skunk and the cat piss have the smells from the 90s that you just don't
smell anymore and and the concentration of
The aromatics you just don't see that in any variety, you know, there's some strong smelling stuff
But it doesn't compare to those varieties, you know, I was just Ed Rosenthal and I were having this conversation
maybe a month ago about those old-school varieties and they're just
They're not around anymore. And you know, I think I would love to see some real
Yeah, I mean I just have yet to see it and maybe somebody has it people
Yeah, I think shoreline is probably the Texas shoreline Papa Papa seeds. Yep
Pop a pack of seeds and find that one because that hidden gem is somewhere out there hopefully and hope
So I guarantee you 100%
My whole my whole reputation you pop a pack of ice cap his seeds
You're gonna find uncle Bob and every single one you try out nice
But I mean, I didn't start breeding seeds to sell them. I bred seeds for myself. It was always just for myself
I wanted to grow these things 20 30 50 years from now, you know, and yeah, it wasn't until like I saw
it was about a fort about
There was maybe like four different people that started a seed company
they based all their seeds off of the seeds that I gave them right and
That's when after I saw like the fourth guy come out with the seed company is when I decided, you know
These guys are making money off all my hard work as well, you know throw some shit out there, too and
So, I mean that's the only reason I ever started the seed company was just because I saw so many other people coming out with
Seeds are based off my seeds. Yeah, welcome to the industry
Yeah, right, right I mean I've been in it since I was a little kid I've seen every swing of it I've seen it go from
$60 eighths to the beast or comes through wipe everything out that people got sick of the beasters
then they went back to the day and started paying for four ounces again, and then the med thing came through and
You know, the rest is history
but um
You know
Like I said
My seeds have always been
for myself
they weren't
Originally intended for the masses. They were just for myself. It was my hobby. It was my passion. It's what I enjoy doing
You know, it's a like the hunt, you know trying something new
Grow them out that I make it, you know, you never really know what's gonna happen
So you finish them up and grow them out. It was always kind of you know, it's kind of a gamble
Right, but like I bred um
Consistent like every single seed
Is gonna be short indica and have that terpene profile and that cactus terpene profile tell you what was one of the hardest ones
That no G to get like pure into the seed form like every seed comes out with that fun
It was hard, but I mean I spent over 10 years
Agree that OG and I could imagine cat piss being similar
I mean it took forever for people to get seeds out of OG that expressed OG
Right, you know and I got one question for you
You remember so the Hells Angels version of what we got his cat piss
The some of the stuff I would say that was more sativa leaning because that came out like shreds
Sometimes we didn't have any structure
It would look like LARP in bottom of the bag and you know, we'd pay $60 for a bar
I think people today would think we were crazy looking at it, but it would smoke it would smoke hard. I
Pay for it right now
Yeah
Yeah
So we got a
Favorite, you know, like I said, yeah
Old school dick
We got you still there. Yeah, it's cool chronic, baby. Oh chronic. Let's uh
Captice for a minute because I feel like you're from San Diego originally, right?
Are you're down there? Yes, so I got my partner here, too
We're gonna talk a little bit about our history and we're and what we're familiar with and what we've seen in the years
I mean, I'm I might look young just because I have my hat on backwards
but it's a lot of gray hair under there and I
Grew up in the pretty much in the 80s and 90s
I grew up in the era of the best lead that is ever been around really in my opinion and a lot of that
Here come on in bro, so this is my go man, it's my partner here
We've been growing this particular strain of super silver haze cat piss now
Some people say that you know that they I don't know. It's just I've been hearing some weird things about the super silver
Hey, maybe it's not their favor or whatnot, but I don't know why I I don't know
Maybe it's just not the same phenotype or whatnot, but I have never
Smoked a cannabis as fucking awesome and as potent as really this strain is
Even my partner tell about your experience with with with back in the back when you found the cat piss
So basically I grew up here in San Diego
Back in the you know 90s mid 90s of when I started getting into it in my high school years
Came across the cat piss
I'd say around
96 ish somewhere out there
Yeah, I remember you know, I mean just getting around I don't know the connections that you guys got it
I mean we had a back in the day a lot of good good chronic out here
You know with the bull rider the hog spread the p91 all that stuff back here back in the day
That's gonna get it here
What's that?
And then so I remember my personal experience with it back then was it was good, but it wasn't one of my favorites
I linked up here with my boy
He was growing it outside and out of everything that he had. I don't know. He had a shit ton of plants
It it was a loudest that I found and his garden and we kind of started taking it from there
Took loans off it put it inside and it's it's it's it's a real sativa man
It's it grows very sativa long lankies like hazy
Everybody that I've given it to and you know to try out
I don't tell them what it is. And the first thing they all they tell us is like oh man
This is this is like piss. This is piss. This is piss and you know, I like I said
I don't tell people what it is
and I know like you guys have a
more background with it
But I just I know what we got is if I don't know
100% if it is if it isn't but this is what we're getting out of it and
It's fucking pretty badass and I would like to have
One of you guys check it out and give us your opinion on on what it is
And how close it is to what you guys had up north, you know our experience like I know like San Diego
had a lot of good dank back then and
And I don't know if it's the same cut that you guys had up north, you know
I don't I don't know the sources of it, but I just know that we came around it
You know, I'm old school like like like the other homie up there was talking about everything was just called dank or chronic or
You know, we had a few names
Like I said, just the hogs read the p91 which was out of all of them was my favorite, you know
I mean that's like kind of what you're talking about. Like I'll pay a thousand bucks to smoke a joint. That's mine for me
but um, you know this this cut that we have now is pretty phenomenal and I would love to see some of you guys and
Get your opinions on it
You know and just going over that, you know, there's a lot of there's just a lot of
Misunderstanding about cat piss a lot of people think that it's a strain a lot of people think oh you you know
Kevin's you have you have that strain and I there's there's no such thing as a strain, you know
I have probably even a couple different kinds of cat piss to be honest to do it
I've been cut and I've grown thousands and thousands and thousands of plant like most of the people on this line here
And I've only found two plants that ever smelled like it
It's the super silver haze and then I have a straight northern lights BL ED and that shit's fucking even more pissy
And louder than this the super silver haze, but the super silver haze has this funk to it's a funk piss
It's the fucking what the fuck is it? You know, I just smell your fingers is so fucking awesome
It is what I think should be at 44 K pound easy. It's rapper weed
It's the wet fucking people in the industry should be paying for it
Hands down, but now you know, there's there's there's just so much out there. I'm just wanting to experience more
I feel like it's rare when you have a strain that can bring a community together like what we're doing right now
The RSK, you know, I the roadkill skunk. I keep hearing about that too. Is that extinct?
Is that even around anymore?
You know what quite frankly there's a guy, you know, and some of us have heard of him already
He's blue sky Savina and he's been claiming roadkill skunk roadkill skunk roadkill skunk and I'm like well fuck
Let me fucking run his shit and let me see if it actually is anything
Well, I didn't find roadkill, but fuck I found real old-school skunk and I know what the fuck it smells different
It smells a skunk
Smell, you know like there's difference between dank funk
Chronic all that shit and then there's that skunky weird fucking smell and I found onion skunk in his and I'm also
Smelling this shit right here. It's fucking fire
I don't even know how to pinpoint it, but I'm like dude
So check his shit out to if you guys I'm not trying to say anything unless I fucking smell it smoke it myself
I'm just not the kind of guy will promote anybody unless I really fucking understand what the fuck it is
so I really honestly believe that
Who knows, you know
I just want people to know that the reason why I came on this show is because I just want people to know where
To get stuff from like you can get a variety of the cap is from 707
You can get a variety of it for me. You can get a variety from from other friends online
I mean, I'm really interested to tasting all of your stuff
matter of fact
After the show, I'm hoping we can connect and really share some stuff together
Because I think that's what the community is about is about sharing and giving because what if I found something special
Even in the p91. Oh my god, you know how much?
Horror, I got from saying that I had the original p91 somehow
I got it from a garden that was stolen from and it was a
15 to 20 year old clone or or even older than that really is probably about 30 year old clone
I think and in some people say it was and it wasn't but who knows but damn dude
I got a lot of help for it
And and now I I crossed babies to see cuz it was a weak strain for some reason just was old
It looked old it felt old and I wasn't able to
Make it perform the way it should then I bait I crossed it with something
I found its babies and babies were fucking the loudest thing probably I've seen in the garden all last year
It was the loudest you get three feet close to that fucking plant and you you smelled its aura
You didn't you didn't have to rub it touch it do anything. It was like oh
Fuck what is that? That's the kind of shit that is is
Available to you to the community guys. I mean, that's really why I came on here is a share what's available
We're you know some old stories cuz I'm fucking digging the 707 stories and the other brother's story. I forget his name, right?
I can't see his name on here, but I'm really appreciating hearing all this stuff from Hell's Angel
I didn't even know it came from Hell's Angel to be honest with you. I did you know, I'm the Pittsburgh stuff
I didn't even know that there was a Pittsburgh a cat piss. I know there's an East Coast guy coming on a guy named rich
He has an other
Killer I mean from what I'm hearing that shit's fucking he's he's had that fucking clone for 30 years and to hold on to a
clone for 30 years
That's almost impossible as far as I'm concerned. That's like fucking miracle that anybody can even do that
I lose clones so fucking much
I mean the longest I've ever held on to one was like four or five years, you know
And that's when it took a mission to do that and in God's strength you do that, you know
So so as far as I'm concerned, I just wanted to say guys. I'm honored to be here one
I'm so glad that we're able to share information and really put it out there for everybody to hear
What is cat piss cat piss is a phenotype is it transferable into a seed quite frankly?
I think it is because I have it too and I was able to work with it back cross it do this play with it
You know cross it other stuff
I have a whole bunch of people that have ran my shit and they always smell it and they always say dude
It's funky and it's pissy and it's got shit in it
I don't know what it is, but it's fucking awesome
And so even with all that I just fucking I'm just like I said man
The main reason why why I think this is a fucking awesome topic is because it's mystical. It's mystical
Nobody really believes that the p91 could be around that are the roadkill skunk could be around that real cat piss could be around it
You know bull rider is it still around all these mystical fucking things that may have died in the past
You know what? I bet you they're still around. I mean as far as I'm concerned
I'm 100% believer cat piss is still around and now I'm starting to believe that
Roadkill skunk or at least real skunk is really around still because I've actually
Smelt it myself and that to me. I don't give a fuck what anybody else says when I smell it
Then I know if everybody else can have their opinion
No problem and quite frankly, I can't say that you know
Anybody anybody's dick is bigger than anybody else's cuz quite frankly all you guys on the line right now to me
You're my elders, you know what? I mean? You're like you're like people that I respect I look up to I hope to be like
You guys someday, you know
I'm in the game and I'm playing a hard game right now
and I've got a lot of stuff going on and I got a lot of breeding projects and I got a lot of partners and
I got a lot of fucking investors and I got a lot of fucking opportunity and I got a lot of love in the community
And it's it's a blessing just to be here. You know, I mean so Peter and
James dude, thank you so fucking much for bringing this out and
Really allowing us to come together. Really? That's that's why I'm so happy about this. But uh, you know super silver haze is fucking real
There's a real cat piss here and I'm gonna make fucking sure James you get some and I'm gonna show you
And I want you to smoke and then I want you to give your opinion on where it's what you thought about it
And I would love for you to grow it people that haven't grown it out are shocked
If you look at my page, you would be like fuck dude, that thing's fucking a beast
It's so fucking crazy looking. I mean and it blows away today's genetics. I'm like smelling this fritter runs shit over here
I'm like
Yeah, it's pretty good. But it's honestly it's not as good as the this blue sky Savina
That's the loudest thing in the garden right now
I'm smelling fucking onion skunk or some shit in this fucking thing and this little jar right here blows away half the shit that I
Have in the garden right now. I'm just going what the fuck
And so so anyways guys, I think that it's sometimes we all hate each other for some reason
I don't know why the community does that you know, it's like
Everybody there's plenty of business for everybody. There's plenty of love for everybody. We don't need to hate anybody
Let's just fucking find all the good shit share it with each other and let's make some more good shit. And and that's it guys
That's where I'm here, man. I just want to say thank you for everything
Man thanks for coming on. So we got Tom here. He's originally from San Diego and he's in Florida
We've been talking or no you're in Florida Kauai
yeah, so we've been talking back and forth for a while since you've been on the Adam Dunn show and
you have some great cat piss stories from
San Diego back in the day the Hells Angels. There's definitely some stuff I
Thought was very interesting and you know, if you want to share your story, that'd be great
Yeah, I mean if you just want to fire away some questions and ask that'd be great I mean my background I grew up in Jersey
moved to California in 90
When I was 18, I stayed there until 2002 came over to Kauai
Been here ever since I go back and forth for work and family and whatnot
I
Love growing the plant been growing the plant since I've been 18 19 years old and there hasn't been a day in my life where
I haven't been growing the plant me personally
It's a part of life for me it's a way of life I can thank my wife and my family for everything
It's been it's been a long run
Still going on never looked at it like a sprint. It's been a just a real long
Marathon and
Just super stoked I have a fucking great life man. I don't sell seeds. I don't sell anything man
I just grow good stuff and
I work for some great people in Massachusetts
building a beautiful grow there and
You know, I I
Every when somebody like myself wants to talk about a subject or whatever it may be
they always take things like
Your response that it's directed towards that person or that instance or whatever. I
Don't base anything on except me and what I've done
not
Someone gifted me this someone gave me this
someone supposedly gave me this or
I it's been me and
my wife basically
all right, so I
Moved to Kauai in oh, two. Okay. What what got huge between? Oh two and now
Social media, what did I not do?
The whole time I was living here full-time
Social media. I don't know hardly anybody in the scene. I
Never wanted to know anybody in the scene
In back then and the very few now I
Don't think people understand
Kind of what it was like, you know years ago growing and growing the way we did and for the people we did I
Don't know. I I would love you guys just to ask questions because I know people that's probably the best way
But all I can say is that
If we want to have some sort of meeting of the mind somewhere neutral
Obviously you could see I get around Kauai, Colorado, Massachusetts
I'm all over the place so I could meet you anywhere
well, we all sit down and have like a little cat piss cup or
Cannabis cup for the cat piss or whatever just something to share our cat piss
Because listen the biggest thing is this bring it if you're stuck if you're if your stuff isn't a plus
Okay, and it looks like a leafy lettuce plant and it has leaf City and there's like no crystals on it
That's not the cat piss if you got giant huge buds of larvae, that's not the cat piss
Okay, so
Ask away on your questions. Yeah, let's anything you want and just remember I just want to say this last thing
What were you doing? And I'm not this is no disrespect. This is a general question this
Adam Duncan answer this
James can answer this probably what were you doing in?
1991 what were you doing on that day January 1st of 1991?
Okay, most of yous weren't were maybe in high school maybe middle school probably in diapers
But you're all experts on something that you didn't live and be and see
You had to been there in that time in San Diego to see the real deal
There was a lot of good strains the last dudes that talked I saw I heard a little bit
I couldn't listen to the diary of the mouth for most of the other dudes you guys just go on and on
Northern lights all this other bullshit seriously, dude
Okay
It's the g13. I was growing a g13 snow bud
If anybody knows what the snow bud is speak up and talk about it. Okay. I was gifted clones of the g13 snow bud
I grew that for about a year. I had one giant Cola the picture
I posted on my Instagram that I got processed at Costco in Miranda Boulevard in San Diego
Okay, the picture is 30 years old. It's a huge Cola
Giant look at the pictures on my Instagram now of the remake that me and Jackson did the leaf structure is the same
The Cola looks the same and I don't want to hear from 707 talk shit about my old picture
It's 30 years old. The picture is as old as you brother. It's as old as you
Okay, so I don't want to hear your trash talking you were in diapers
Okay, and all your boys that you get stuff from they were in diapers too, so if they didn't get it from me
They didn't have the cat piss and this is what I want to touch on. Yes
You're all a hundred percent
Right that cat piss isn't you can smell it in different strains and flavors or whatever varieties and cuts whatever you want to say
That's that's probably kind of accurate
but
Just because it's got a little hint of cat piss doesn't mean it's cat piss
Because everything half the shit that you guys grow in Cali has OG and it's everything looks like OG out there
So is everything OG?
No, there had to be the first person to bring it to light that people got a little
Hided on and stoked on I didn't grow hundreds and hundreds of pounds of it
I lived in San Diego with a very tight-knit crew
It would get pre-sold before we even harvested at like five or six G's a pound and
I only got two or three pounds in a ten pound harvest
Okay, so my stuff I'd send a little bit back east a couple samples of ounces
So if you talk to TK origins that that's the triple OG man
He used to get little samples on my cat piss because he ended up being friends with my best friend that died in Florida
That's my daughter's father that my daughter's godfather that died a few years back. We connected he reached out
I know your friend Eric. I fucking almost dropped dead. Okay, so I have connections through old-school stuff
I
There's no there's no
reason to even like
Really dispute or debate what I'm saying because I'm not saying
What you guys are doing is wrong or right? I'm just saying at one point
Somebody had to be the first one to grow something called cat piss because
You can talk to the whole San Diego scene and no disrespect to you younger guys from San Diego and the one dude
I see I heard you said you were a little older but during that time in the 90s like 90 to
Probably around say like late 90s
San Diego was hopping the music scene
My friends and own suburban noise records that promoted
Sublime the offspring sprung monkey all those bands in San Diego
Those were that was like some of the guys that I was I want to say friends
But I was acquaintances with and I knew and I hung out with okay and friends with those guys were all getting my cat piss
Okay, that's the scene. It was it never made it up to Northern, California
So just think about this for a minute you have a really good strain like I did back then
Okay, and I had a niche and as people know people from the East Coast
We're pretty hard-headed. We're thick-headed and we have a lot of pride
I'm not saying everyone else doesn't but we're very prideful people
So when I got out to Cali when I got when I was growing a g13 for my friend Jeff that I'm still friends with
I got that seed from that g13 Cola
My friend said it smells like cat piss. Okay, and then for something I just say, you know
What this is gonna be something and I'm gonna keep to myself
It's my little niche and I'm not gonna share it with anybody
I didn't share it with anybody
okay, and if you like we'll get into all the weird and stuff if you want and if you care about it, but
It got really weird situation when I had biker guys that I used to grow for asked me for it and I said no
Okay, I had to leave
OB because I was guys came to my house with guns at the front and back door and they wanted to scare me to
fuck basically give them over the cut and
Pay them to grow in their town because I was from Jersey and I was growing in a really gnarly town. So
That's when I decided to leave OB and I went to another part of San Diego and little by little all my grows
I was taken down little by little but anyway, I had a little niche. That's all I'm saying
I don't understand why people can't understand that
It's the g13 the g13 hash plant that I think Bodie has looks like some of the most incredible fat bulky weed. That's
Kind of like that's the style of weed that we grew back then like then it wasn't purple some couple things got hurt
But we grew chunky
Resin II stinky loud weed and yes
happiness smells but I also want to say I
Was in the scene I we were getting all the humble Mendocino stuff pounds hundreds of pounds coming down from Mendo to hump from humble
I smoked some awesome stuff. Most of it didn't have names didn't even know what it was
But there was nobody I'm telling you guys at that time in the 90s
Was calling a strain or a variety whatever you fuckers want to call it
Cat piss except mine at that time
Yes, you had some stuff that had a cat piss smell
But the reason why all these names Pittsburgh piss I just said to my friend it takes care of my property
These guys are talking about Pittsburgh piss. He goes but Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
I mean you couldn't come up with a better town Pittsburgh, California
Who the fuck ever heard of that place? I mean seriously Pittsburgh. Okay, so
Listen man
It you guys that were up there on that part of the state probably heard about it some old-school legends some old-school
Oh, geez, we actually I mean I've said this before man
Be real in Cypress Hill
Wherever they were located up in LA contacted one of my partners not for the cat piss just saying that we had a string
Called the Queen that we were growing in OB. It was the only other strain
It was cat piss and the Queen those were the two hogs breath came later and the other ones came a little later
Okay, that stuff dominated Ocean Beach, San Diego. It was
Almost not even allowed to leave the town to be sold out of the town because all the boys wanted it there
It was 68 straight up
It was it was a notch a little better than my cat piss. I if I had it now
I'd probably be smoking every day every minute
It was an incredible incredible variety it was them it was called
it was an Amsterdam strain that these these these heads brought over and they were growing in houses all over San Diego and
I think it was the
Mama Afghani or something like that something an Amsterdam strain. It was super orange red and fiery
so the reason I talked about some of these things is because I
Bet all you guys are scratching your head right now like probably what's this guy talking about the Queen and the g13?
Am I making this up? Like what the hell dude? Like I lived in OB bro
Like I lived in San Diego for a long time. I my wife's from San Diego. My family lives there
Okay, like I was there. There's like
What am I gonna lie about? Am I gonna lie and say?
I'm I wasn't the one that grew it I have
Hundreds of people on my Facebook that I'm friends with that all know what I used to do back then it eventually got out
I I grew my mother-in-law used to go to the grocery stores for me to pick up all my hydro stuff. Okay, I
Grew in her house. I grew on my brother-in-law's house. I everybody grew the cat piss
We went on vacations off of it
we I
So when you say it's a generic name and I am going on with the diarrhea of the mouth
But I said the other dudes were doing
It's not a generic name brought like that's the stupidest fucking thing I've ever heard generic
generic
So what is generic about about something that?
originated from a seed that I didn't give out to anybody and I grew for years and
I lost it. What is generic about?
Let me explain something to you real quickly
And I believe that your story holds true, especially for you in that San Diego area
But if somebody pops a seed and something comes out a certain way and then they call it cat piss
It's not
I'm not saying that but but they've turned it into there has to be one. That's a cat piss
There's no there's no original og
That's not at all what I'm saying
I'm saying yours holds true
But if somebody does it and they pop a seed and then they call that cat piss and then they start selling it as cat
Those people know that variety is kept not taking away anything from the original but yeah, that's the problem with the lack of
Communication. I didn't mean to interrupt you before you're 100%
I didn't know you were going there with that
But that's that's what i'm trying to say when it was
And I listen i'm a very humble person dude
There was at that time a lot of people fucking wanted that shit. There wasn't a ton of it. Like I said, so
Everybody everywhere I went I swear to god, dude
Everybody everywhere I went I swear to god, dude. I didn't even know these people be like, dude, we need the cat piss
That's all you would fucking hear. We used to go into the hurricanes in in uh,
admission beach to go see sublime and all the shows
And uh offspring and all the boys be like, hey, give me a nug to put in my pocket
They called it indica loan. They put a nugget of cactus in their front pocket
And they fucking had chicks swirling around them all night, dude
listen
You have
I grew two I so I grew two mother plants and my boy jackson
I don't know if he's even on I can't see because i'm outside but my boy mike jackson
it's kind of funny white dude named mike jackson and uh,
Uh, michael jackson and uh, he's my he's my mentor and uh, super cool, dude. Love him. Uh,
He uh, he remembered the story about san diego gas and electric coming to my house where I was growing in a garage
Uh, I had two garages going to one chick that lived upstairs. I grew in her garage
And we were blowing out the cactus and the other side has kept my mother plants
uh
We had a little bit of a fire on the one side. So we had to shut it down, uh electrical cord
So the girl got sketchy's like no more we can't do it
So I had my mom's on the one side of the garage and uh,
San diego gas and electric came out because the neighbors said they smelled a gas leak
They came out said that ain't a gas leak and they kind of hinted to what it was
It was my two mother plants in the garage, but they were smelling two mother plants
Okay, they smelled two six foot mother plants outside my garage. They thought it was a gas leak
so when I say it's something distinct and different like
that's where I get a little bummed is because it's like the original one like
it's almost like saying everything's og when that triple og or or the original the
the one that tk has is the best and
Yes, there's other varieties people made off of it, but there's only one
And that's all i'm saying that at that time that was the one
Maybe now someone else has got a cactus that is epic that that is the one but like I agree brother. I don't know dude
Yeah, I can um
I can agree with some of that right there
I mean, I know like i'm a little bit younger than you are, but I came in the game like 95 96 and I remember
Uh hearing about the g13, you know, i'm a north county boy. Yeah
Um, yeah, and I remember hearing a lot about that never got my hands on it
But there was always the buzz about the g13
going around and then um
You know for my era 13 snow, but it had it like when I was listening to adam dunn show
Someone brought up the cross snow, but so
When I got it for my friend jeff, he gave it to me goes. This is the g13 snow, but so that's what I want
To keep wanting clarifying that it's not just probably the g13. I've said this from day one g13 snow
But I didn't know if that meant because it's all crystally and residue
They called it snowy because back then, you know really frosty
Crazy weed like that definitely, uh, you know stood out and they gave it certain names. Yeah, and you're right
I mean there wasn't much purple. It was very rare. It was always green
I mean orange, you know at most
Um and just very sticky dude. It would just stick to your freaking bag
I remember just going anywhere you are and you walk in a room and it was just like dude. What the hell?
and
And that's 100 right and and one thing I want to say is like I really wish I would have heard like
All the guys that say they still have it or or they have it like the one or whatever theirs is better
Like I don't understand why?
I never see like a straight cat piss picture of a plant or a flower of it
It's always a cross and i'm not talking this directly to you guys. I'm not no just direct
One thing that i've told my buddy here. My partner is
In my experience
What the cat piss that I had back in the 90s is not the same one that I have that we have now
Yeah, what we have now smells
Like it or whatever. Um
But it's not what I remember having back in that day
You might remind me what to say. I was gonna say I really wish one of these guys that says they have it
And i'm again i'm not directing it to anyone
uh that
Someone back in the 90s or early early 2000s
Was getting it from somebody in san diego and they got a bag seat
Okay, that would have been
The best if it did happen great, but that would have been the best lie for all you guys right there
Honestly, because that's believable
That's totally believable. You know, so
um
But the rename game is so real, you know the rename game. I mean to this day people rename shit all the time
so
I I think it also people think oh they they invented a name that's already been around it happens all the time and uh,
You know, so I feel like there's definitely multiple versions and what we got originally in the early 90s was stuff with better structure
And as we moved through the 90s the structure got worse and worse and it was like shreds in the bag
But I remember early on we got buds
And then it got to the point where it was so hyped up
I mean the the ha's were growing it and they would sell it wet even
And we would have to dry it ourselves so we'd buy an eighth and we'd get less than three grams
um, so there's definitely you know, I feel like that was probably a completely different strain or a bag seed of what you had or
Of what you know, there was a strain called the ebola that was also that's from vallejo and uh, j nettix is
I hope he comes on the show to kind of tell his story
But there was a cat piss kind of from vallejo and his circle of friends had had that on lock
Which uh, you know, I feel is completely different from the san diego
So it's not that you didn't have the original or that these guys had your cactus
It's it could be a combination of things like name changes people thinking they want to call it this even though there's something else
I mean, I think there's so many different sides to it and it would be great if we could all just smoke
What people had so tom, do you just want you want to tell a little bit about cat piss now?
I mean, I think you've gone over with me what the cat piss has evolved into with dna genetics and some of the stuff you're doing
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Uh, like I said, i'm not i'm not a big time breeder cedar guy
We um seed guy we just uh, jackson and I just do all our little personal projects and in the past I always would give him
Uh after I go through some seeds I give him the winners and he would make crosses and we test and work together
it was basically a little small op so
Um after 20 years and I hooking up with jackson, you know crazy facebook I
realized a few of my friends that I was on there was friends with jackson, so I reached out to him and
It was like, uh, it was like we hadn't you know, uh, we hadn't not seen each other for 20 plus years. So, uh,
It was super fun to reconnect with them. Uh,
And then jackson's like I have uh all my old uh, point loma seeds that were like garboville perps
Basically phenos and seeds he uh jackson, uh,
And I now I am finding out there was a lot of other people doing it
But I he was probably one of the you know
Not many that was doing a lot of back crossing and you know, he got up to 13 generations on his point loma
that was originally from um
We were getting trash bags of that garboville perps and it would be green and green
And like a huge trash bag and then purple and the other one and the chick was like, oh, it's the same stuff
It just gets cold and the one stuff turns purple. So
uh jackson brought it inside to his little couple 400 watt metal halides and
Fluorescence started breeding with it and back crossing it and he uh, he made some good winners
uh, some of them are what I would say are very close to what like the cookies like uh,
Like ogkb is that's kind of what the flavor is smooth cookie dough, but has the punch
um, so that's what he was doing and then uh,
I uh when I got that g13, I don't think I shared the g13 with with jackson back then I was just doing my own thing
But he's the one that got me my first plants
but uh, my friend jeff gave me those g13 clones and then uh got the seed
uh now uh
Now i'm at the time growing it I moved to kauai
I grew it for a year over here on kauai and then I stopped growing it
So I lost the cut stopped growing I killed my last mother of the original cactus that I was growing in san diego all those years
Uh got rid of it. I thought there was something wrong with it. Uh,
So I decided to scrap it which was very stupid. Uh, so
Reconnected with jackson. He has his old garboville seeds from 30 years ago and some old cactus seeds
He sent some only a few like five or six cactus seeds. He sent two to me
Couldn't get any of them to germinate. He sent me one seed of rare dankness cat piss. Also that one didn't germinate
his germinated
Uh the couple that he had he took a male
Or had a man got only a male which is weird because whenever I had cat piss seeds in the past
It would always be a female
never got a male ever I would
actually
I don't know if I did or not
But it was every time I did get a seed if I did try it out
It was exactly like the cut it didn't change. Um, and I know someone's like oh, that's weird. How can that be?
Well, that's because it wasn't crossed out and it's not a month. It was probably only a couple crosses in there
It wasn't a a variety that uh was mixed and mashed and shared and traded and gifted to everybody
so uh what you you know and back in the day when you had bag when you had uh
When you bought super killer herb and you got a couple seeds if you pop those seeds out of that bag
that's probably what the herb looked like is what you got in that bag those seeds so
um
You know, it was very i'm saying there wasn't a lot of variation. So, um
We got a male jackson went through the couple males that he had uh, he got the one has the the he likes the stem rub
uh
the obviously the uh
Just the uh way it was growing
Jumped out at him and when he started sending me pictures of it in veg
I go wow that I was starting to get excited because I was like wow, it does look like an in veg and then uh,
so he took a
so then
We were hoping for the female we didn't get it. So we had a couple males
He took the male and he crossed it to a dna genetics kosher kush because he thought that'd be the closest thing to it
and the best to use
so
He doesn't do a lot of seeds. I think he might have done maybe 30 seeds out of that
He just he just does a little couple lower buds here and there now
he has a little bigger thing going on now for for some things we're doing but he doesn't do big big, uh,
Like big projects all small and uh, so he didn't get a ton of seeds sent me
I think 15 kosher kitty seeds. We were just calling it kitty kosher a kosher kitty. Whatever. Just just the kosher times the cat
and uh
I've been going through those. I was hoping to find a male and I got three different females out of those
uh
just the gas leak pheno that I have I named that after the gas leak story how the gas company came to my garage because
the plants in bed, so I named that pheno the gas leak because it really reminds me of it and uh,
That's probably like an 85
90 match and then the the number six kosher kitty that I have going now is
God I don't want to say it's even closer, but it it's reminded me
Like it's it's reminding me of it's just growing really really the same. So
uh
We have a couple kosher kitty
Ceilings going left. I have two or three and jackson has a couple
We're hoping to get the male out of there so we can back cross it to the the two winners that we like
and then maybe we'll do a little something but uh
That's our that's what we were gonna do we just wanted so you're selling seats
No, no
For us, so you're gonna sell see I just said what you're saying
I said for us that didn't I mention that me and jackson do small batches and that's it
Okay, so you're just doing it for pheno hunting. I don't know
I'm doing it because I like to smoke good weed and I want to have something else that no one else has
so
That's why
Yeah, I mean, I don't know in my no other reason. I just gotta throw some things out here. Just share man
Well, I want to just real quick so I have a couple more questions for tom, um, so with g13 in
Snowbud with that ammonia. I mean i've grown g13 back in the day. Um, you know, I got it from
Family member up in washington
And I don't remember an ammonia
Not even turf but ammonia smell
From that and so the snow
But it's the pat pissed it. You think it's a recessive trait that would do that in your opinion?
No, I I mean honestly, I mean
When my friend jack named when he said it smells like cat piss around here
Yeah, he was more or less calling saying cat piss because of the lingering smell like a cat is yeah didn't smell
That's and i'm not trying to burst anyone's bubble i've never smelled weed that smells like cat piss
Oh, our stuff up north was ammonia pissy. I mean, it's like well that's different ammonia and like
I'm, just saying like that's a really weird fucking smell. I mean, so the reason my friends called it cat piss
Mostly was because it smelled so stinking it reeked out the blocks
If I was harvesting on say brighton street, it would be my friends over on muir street would be smelling it
Okay, that's it wasn't they weren't smelling cactus two blocks away
They were smelling the dank because it was so stinky and it'd be like a bedroom with a thousand watt light in there with 20 plants
Okay
Um, so and they'd smell it two three blocks away. That's the ammonia thing. I I
Jackson, he thinks he gets a little hint of it and but I
I mean honestly, like I don't know I would I don't like ammonia and I don't like like the those smells like I
I didn't get that in it. It was it's more skunky and funky
And like I said, it was a it's a lingering smell. I the cat piss thing is just I don't know man. I I
I don't know. I I it's it was more than it's just a funny name. My friends gave because
you know
Yeah, the cactus that I grew up with definitely had ammonia and skunk. It was a skunky like
like roadkill skunk kind of smell but like
Like nose burning ammonia where like your nostrils would burn when you smelled it and yeah
But you said you were getting it wet though. It could have been because it was wet and not dried, right?
Yeah, I think part of the no, but even when it was dry
It had that ammonia, but I think part of and maybe it wasn't the same strain
Maybe it was something else that somebody renamed
um, you know because I feel like there's a strain called the sweat and I think uh
Mean gene kind of talked about it
And I remember the sweat as being what I was told the sweat was was white widow and it was grown in like the richest
area by the asians and that had kind of the ammonia smell as well, but
So
So what else 707 you said you had some stuff you want to throw out there? What do you got?
707 c-band. Wait, so yeah, you you have some stuff you wanted to throw out there
yeah, like I mean
Back in the day growing up growing all the dutch stuff
I found cactus in
and
In cali, miss I found cat piss and pole cat
um
All the hazes, you know, a lot of those kind of have that cactus funk going on
um
You know like I said before
People throughout the world were grown or throughout america were popping
Dutch stuff back in the day and they were finding stuff that had that skunky funky cat pissy funk
And they just threw the you know, they just renamed it cat piss
um
You know, I have no doubt, you know sure
uh, tom or todd, whatever your name is, uh,
sure, i'm sure you found a cat piss, but all I was ever saying to you was
Yours wasn't the original i'm sure for your click and especially a four lighter dude a four lighter ain't gonna supply
America and make a name popular
You need to grow thousands of thousands of pounds
To be able to get one strain popular throughout
all the states
um
It was just a generic name given given to it was just renamed
uh, we any weed that had that smell was just renamed to cactus, so
Every big city when I was traveling with the dead every big city in every state had their own version of cactus
Um, and you know back then dude, there's no internet your shit didn't go out back then
Um, at least I never talked about growing to anybody not even my best friends knew I was growing back then
Um, it was it was very hush-hush
uh
you know
Like I said cat piss, uh, i'm sure thousands of thousands of people's have had different ones
Um, but the stuff, you know the stuff that we grew up with in the bay
The norcal cut uh fletcher archive renamed the pittsburgh piss to the norcal cut
I believe he also gave it to like rare dankness
Who made some crosses with it? Um
Fletch also made some crosses. There was also uh, fletch also has a san diego cut
who's
Um, I grew that out for a little while
Short not as short as the pittsburgh cut
Super frosty, um, like, you know, the families would curl up and get that crazy frost on it
Didn't have that skunky funk more of an ammonia to it
um
Also, there was the uh the guy
In san diego, maybe you guys could tell me who was growing like the p91 the bull rider
Um hogs breath. What else old betsy?
Uh, wasn't he growing a catfish as well?
Um, you know, uh, you're saying the tom is probably the guy who
Let's just say this hey
He's on the other line. My partner's on the line
Um, but I know that tom is pretty famous down here in canada and as far as as far as san diego cap is concerned
He definitely is the originator of the san diego cap is now
Could he have stamped his name on campus before pretty much anybody else stamped the name on that?
Yeah, potentially. I mean there's got to be the first guy who did that
It could have been a guy in pittsburgh could have been tom, but quite frankly
um from what I know and what I the history that i've grown up with in the san diego area in the orange county area
I'm a orange county kid and a lot of we came from san diego, you know, we got a lot of the fucking
Chocolate ties the fucking crazy good old school skunks the you know
the christmas skunks all most all that was coming from san diego and
And um and as far as as far as the reputation is concerned
I never want anybody to take away anything from anybody because I think we all have something to contribute here
and as far as i'm concerned, I do believe that tom was the
originator of the san diego cap is and again, could he have been the first guy who ever named a
Strained cat piss potentially. I mean he's an old school cat dude. He probably did but I I can't I don't know
I've tried a few
Yeah, well there's several different practices from your area
You know good question but there's you gotta think dude san diego's huge and tom
Didn't you say you're only growing a four lighter back in the day?
You know a four lighter ain't gonna cover all of san diego
I don't a 707 so back it up back it up brother back it up back it up
There was p91s. There was the hogs breast. I mean those guys were all like the hogs breast family
No, you know 707 i'll take this opportunity to apologize to you on our on our last stuff
Whatever we gone through it was immature and stupid. So I apologize to you
I don't want to be friends with you, but I just don't want to have fucking wars with you because it's i'm just over it
So i'm just talking to you like a fucking dude to talking to another dude. Okay, and that's it. So, uh,
Uh
Listen you you kind of you get a little weird 707 on some things that you see that I say
I never said I had one four lighter
Okay, I I had a four lighter at my own house where I was living. I grew for
My mother-in-law I grew from my brother-in-law. I grew for the bikers. I grew from my new jersey friends
I had 12 places going at one time in san diego from garages
Yeah, I had a one lighter for like a chip that worked at a bar that we knew so she can pay her rent
Yeah, but like not a four lighter and over
a 10 to 12 year period of pumping it out every
Basically every two weeks of how gardening was coming down
Yeah, that's a lot of herb dude. And back then if you pumped out 10 pounds of a room
That was a nice amount of indoor chronic. So I don't know what area you're coming from
But that's new talking bro, like we didn't have 100 lighters back then nobody did nobody
Nobody did no, okay
Okay, so
So I had a four lighter. Yes, but a four lighter gave me 10 to 12 pounds. Not 10. I'm not gonna 10
Okay, so that's a nice amount and what's 10 times five?
50
What do you get per pound now brother? What do you get now?
That's pretty good
I know what it is. I was in the market for a long long time, buddy. No, no, no, but no
Once in a while and say yeah, I know I get it
That's all but I don't get it that's the problem that's how you should respond
All i'm saying is
Cat piss is a generic name. You did not make cat piss popular throughout america
All right, even at a 10 lighter, bro. You can't
Name
It was a common it was a common
It was a common terpene and cactus was a generic name thrown on that kind of turn
Anything that had those turps people threw cactus or they threw skunk on no
It was all just renamed
G 13 i've grown them all i've grown the airborne g13 i've grown the pacific g13
There's no cactus turps and g13
And don't get me started with g13 because that's the whole story of it. So listen, I don't care. I listen
I don't I don't I don't care i've said to you but here's again you take things out of context
I had a four lighter when I had 12 places. I was growing in. Okay
Now you're taking another thing out of context. Did I say it was just the g13 brother?
I said for the fucking past 20 30 years from my friend. Jeff that it's the g13
13th snow bud
Okay, so look up what the snow bud is. Mr. Fucking dictionary
Okay, and go look and see what snow bud is because I look it up from what I saw
It's i'm growing the humble snow
No, it's not your humble snow
It's none of your little bullshit little wannabe strains that you put names on 20 years later to change. No, what was this?
That's what we're talking about
I'll look it back up
But adam had adam was on his show and they were talking about it a few months back and I text him and go fuck
You guys are talking about the snow, but I thought that meant
Resin crystals because it was super snowy the bud. I didn't know that it was actually there was a strain or a variety called
Snow bud, I think it's from oregon or something. Yes. So the snow oregon I believe from southern oregon
There was the snow the four-way. That's what i'm saying, brother. Thank you
But I don't remember that variety doesn't have ammonia either, um, but it could know
When it's skunking it's very skunky loud
Yes, the snow is very skunky. Okay, so that's what i'm trying to tell you g13 snow butter the cuttings I was given to
Okay that given that was it
Yeah, so we got we got j nettix coming on in a little bit. He's driving. He's about to get here
He has another story which kind of I think holds true for him
And he he claims to have named his variety the cat piss which kind of goes back
To yeah, his friend smelled like it
It smelled like the cat pissed on his plant and it was originally called the ebola
And he didn't breed it. He got the cut
uh, he'll come on to tell his story, but uh
You know, I remember hearing about the ebola when I was a kid and it being cat piss
And it's it being real pissy and then I saw it, you know, and this was in you know, the
I would say
1998
And it was different in structure, but it was definitely
pissy ammonia
so it kind of adds to the
Story of cat piss not not necessarily being a generic name, but having multiple strains
I mean, I feel like there's a lot
To be said for not just one thing being cat piss, especially
Hearing, you know the the six guys that I have on my show today. There's probably another 20 that have different versions of stuff
um
so
so yeah, so I guess
Let's let's talk about the specific chirp profile like you with your 707
Seed bank you have you said you have multiple cat piss varieties that you've grown out
Are they all like ammonia skunk or do the the turpoin profiles change?
Uh from plant to plant obviously you're the the san diego
The the san diego one had more of a uh
Ammonia kind of smell to it not not so much skunky where the uncle bob the norcal cut
That I worked
Is more of that like soapy?
skunky
Uh, just that old school dank smell, you know from from the 90s
Uh, the majority of the dank and cali had that smell back in the day
um
But uh, yeah, it's it's the norcal is more of a soapy skunky
Uh, it's it's hard for me to describe but um, it's just that old school what we grew up with, you know
Um, you know very well. Um, how would you describe the smell?
I say skunky and ammonia, uh with a real pungent nose burn on the ammonia
uh, and but like
The the skunk is what kind of stood around forever and it was just
It was just I would say that ammonia probably isn't even a terpene people are calling it a terpene
It's probably a chemical reaction that goes on in the plant that would be hard to identify, you know, we had someone saying well
It's going to take
genomics and sequencing to identify
the
Deal or can't even identify it without that but I think you know, just like somalis can identify varietals of wine. That's a real thing
Us the guys that have worked with these cannabis fries will recognize
Our work will recognize the stuff that we've worked with over the years
I I think I could personally identify cat piss right now without a doubt more than any other variety if I smoked it
Uh, you know if I was able to look at the buds smell it and smoke it. It's just
So distinct from for the way at least what i'm looking for. I mean, there's definitely multiple
We're talking about multiple varieties, but the stuff we had that that i'm really looking for is that ammonia terp
And that high because the high was like friggin powerful. I mean super super powerful
Right
Did you find the uncle bob?
uh compared to like the other sativa ones, I mean I always thought I always found that one to kind of uh,
It wasn't an ass kicker kind of like the um, the sativa ones like the super silver haze ones that were floating around the bay
Well, and see I didn't know enough about breeding back then. I thought it just wasn't grown as well
I thought it was the same thing because it was called the same thing. So I assumed it was the same thing
But yeah, uncle bob wasn't as strong but it definitely has that ammonia kind of skunkiness to it, uh
Kind of earthy I would say
100 has the flavor and everything. It's just uh
Didn't have the punch like that super silver haze did
Yeah
Well, it's funny. You know for me when I was originally making these seeds
I was thinking uh
I was thinking uh
To um, you know cross them to ogs this that and the other not and i've done a few of them here and there
um
But you know when I released the seeds I was hoping more people would have
Started making some crosses with these and bust them out try them out
So we got the jackson fire here, how you doing jackson
Good how you guys doing fantastic. Thanks for coming on
What's going on
What's going on
What's the word? Oh, man
Hey cat piss. It's all about cat piss today. Everything's getting heated
I'm not stingy. I'll bust out with everybody
Tell us a little bit about your history with cat piss and uh, yeah share share some good stories. I'm sure you got a bunch
Of good stories
I don't know. Um, I described it in chat everything I remember as far as the size of the plant, you know
Kind of lanky had some auburn tint on the back
Um was kind of like the gmo as far as the structure a little bit fluffy, you know
Probably a sativa in my opinion the one we had in san diego. Um
and it was uh
It would dry molten and hard because the
Amber resin was real dense and would make it dry, you know, it seemed fluffy but it dry hard because there was so much residue
Wow
Yeah
Interesting and then my otami was saying the gas leak smell, you know, then the alley and all that kind of stuff
So the one you had was definitely there was like gas like rocket fuel kind of like og to it
Um
I would say
More skunky thing, you know, and uh the gas leak like I said, just not like like natural gas, you know
Not not like gasoline
Um, like some of the stuff we're seeing now on the gmo and uh, og cushus. This was a different type of thing
Yeah, almost like a when a really strong skunk smell where it burns your nostrils
that kind of smell
Yeah, something like that and like I said kind of natural gas like kind of propane or butane type smell
Which is what I remember
Yeah
Interesting and so then you've worked with tom for a while you get your little pasta
Oh peter muted
Okay, there we go. Yeah, i've been uh
I've been growing since um, 86 87. I started popping my first seeds. I don't know when I met tommy
What 90 or something like that? Um
You know we were working together
and uh, yeah
You know, but I started with pie and different things. Um a guy that got me the cactus seeds now
he got me the uh, um
hash plant from pb back in
The 88 there he's also um hooked me up with gmo
In more modern times and these cactus seeds and he also got me a strain called the spice
Probably 15 years ago. There was a real hit around here as well
Nice you got to be careful with spice confusing it with
The
Liquid and a strain I guess
But uh, I remember a brand called the african spice. It was derby. It was I think it was a dervin poison cross
back in the day
Yeah, i'm not sure what this buzz is real loose bud structure kind of like a bangy haze looking thing or something like that
Yeah, it's so funny over the years the kind of stories i've heard uh
You know as far as like what what cat piss was there was nl5 haze
There was the you know what tom has
As being a the variety we i've just heard so many different things
um
And you know, uh the the guys and a lot of people I think they don't even know if they had it or a bag seed
I think bag seeds are something that's kind of made the world a beautiful place
I think a lot of people don't give enough credit to the bag seed
And I think a lot of people try to create take credit for breeding when they've just
Popped a bag seed and they found that winner
Um, so I think there's something to be said for that and every variety that I know that's popular
Definitely has bag seeds from time to time
You might only get one in a pound you might get a handful in a pound
But you're gonna you're gonna find even if it's one in 10 pounds, there's going to be bag seeds
It's a natural response in the plant
um, not necessarily think of stability, but it's a natural response that happens in the plant, so
Yeah, absolutely. I've gotten some of the best things ever and most of my seeds and all the breeding that I do
you know have been seeds gifted to me by people or
Bag seeds when you find you know, i've i've found like recently I crossed um, tommy's medicine
And my uh master gorilla cheese with uh, a gorilla glue bag seed. So is it a super male?
Is it you know gorilla glue times x who knows, you know, but
We'll see what what that turns out, but um, definitely and then like all the gmos i've grown are all from those
You know unstable
Seeds that you find in the sack and they've all been hitting 30
You know a lot of these that I found would I turn them out or would I sell them?
No, because they're unstable, but you can find real potent stuff in those, you know, all the gmos i've been finding are potent
Um
Yeah that chem d which is you know gmo was made from chem d
You you take that back and that's got a real body odor
Diesel fuel kind of smell to it. That's really unmistakable
And I feel like uh gmo is a little bit more of a concentrated version of that same smell not necessarily better
It's more concentrated a little bit different and it really carries on with stuff that it's being bred with
um, I think
Maybe that's what's in uh, one of the exotic
Genetics did a cross and I think I have it right here
It's either the falcon nine times runts and it just kind of dominates. No, it's not the falcon nine. It's uh,
One of these ones right here
Uh, it's the rainbow chip I believe
That has yeah, so this this rainbow chip
just just off topic but uh
You know certain strains
uh have these turps in these profiles these
Aromatic profiles and they're they're dominant and they can get passed on within the progenies
And some of them are recessive. So they skip generations like the common turps and og kush
That you're finding in there that combination
That's recessive and that's why it took so long to get that in in seed form
uh, I feel like moving forward i'd love to see cat piss and seed form sounds like
707 seed bank has done some of the what i'm looking for in the cat piss in there and
You guys are working with the kosher kitty. That's pretty exciting and you know
Looking forward to seeing that
So I guess uh, unless anybody else has anything they want to add let's get some questions from the audience
Peter you still there? Yeah. No, i'm back. Uh, hold on
Yeah, so if people have questions just put them in the uh chat
I was not prepared for the question question part. Yes
um
And I think we lost uh
We lost lou. He has a bad connection, but you know, that's okay. Someone's working on a cat creep strain. That's great
Well, sorry someone someone a long time ago asked, uh, that smell was it, you know in veg as well and in flowering
Or just kind of at the end with the cure
I found it in both it was solid in the smell
Really in bed
And dry bud you would smell the just the funk to cat piss in it, you know
And when it dried out it dried solid it was true to its to its smell
And that's for me again. My most the most experience I have is with the super silver haze
Cat piss I call it the super silver haze jr cut because it's a specific cut
That it was uh, and it was back seed ironically
um, it was one seed in a pound it thank god it turned female and it has been everything that I dreamed about
And it is as potent as anybody's ever smoked any week at least let's just say i'll speak for myself and I
It's probably the stoniest weed i've smoked if not really damn close to it. And so I totally get
um
Where you coming from? I keep hearing all these hay stories and i'm like, yeah, that's that's it man the funk that skunk
That that ammonia funk skunk and ammonium is exactly how to describe it
but um
Yeah, is is uh is the east coast gentleman coming on still?
Uh, i'm not sure
J I think he says he what's your 10 people on there?
We got j coming on I believe he's coming on soon
Let me get a friend called rich too. He's he's got that. He's got the original east coast one
Yeah, and it's interesting, uh, so we had some someone said champeli equals cat piss and champeli who is one of my friends
Uh has a strain called champeli or the champagne and that is not the cat piss
You know, I found something that was similar what I thought was similar to but that that's been gone
He's been in search of the champagne and the champagne is completely different than cat piss so someone had that
Silver haze cat piss turps some of the silver haze. I mean, I don't know if you guys remember the 97
Super silver it was floating around the bay area back then
that had some
Pungency to it and maybe a tiny little bit of ammonia, but that wasn't anything like cat piss like what I remember
Or or somebody says cat piss
turps
Uh super silver had its own unique
Super powerful pungent, uh aroma and that's been gone, too
That's another one that I have yet to see again like that phenotype
And because what we're really talking about the end of the day is phenotypes
So it looks like someone's got some plants over there, what do we got what do we got going there jackson
Uh, that's my phenol of the kosher cat that I got going
Right now that's the uh, it's kind of uh turpentine
Turpentine um oregano gas leak is how i'm describing it on that one
Nice
So we got some questions yet peter are people just all excited
Yeah
Some yeah, it's the chat's been interesting. I think everyone's head hurts
I had a guy the other day. Um, I have a cross called the purple piss
And it's it's basically that cactus, you know that I have and I crossed it to a gdp-ish
Kind of smell to it and then from there
He said the other day
He his buddy came in and smelled he thought he had a bunch of cats in his house that literally he says dude
Do you have like did your cat piss all over the place?
And I swear to god that was his
His buddy said that without knowing that he had a bunch of plants in the purple plant the purple piss plant and his
And I was like wow dude that seemed to me that that was just the best
Testimonial ever is when you can have a stranger come in your house and it smells like cat piss
and
Again
We ended up with a t-dog
T-dog, I just want to say respect to you brother. I know I know you come where you come from
I know the old school weed that you've grown. I know the people that you've connected with. I know a lot of those people personally
Um, I grew up in that area
I was pretty much 15 16 years old. I mean I started fucking growing weed since I was 14. I'm 46 right now
47
next month
And dude
I'm fucking hats off to you brother
I definitely one day I want to get together with you and just smoke a big fat blunt of whatever we got that we love
together
and uh, and a lot of respect bro
Oh, yeah, you too man, he keep up the great work man, you seem like a good guy for sure
Yeah
Oh cool man, fuck yeah, bro, i'm in valley center area that's candido area
But uh, yeah, man, thank you for the nice words it's it's it's uh, it's refreshing to hear like actually someone like
say something nice and not just want to
fight and argue so yeah, thank you and
Again super cool. Thanks james for having us on and stuff
And peter yeah peter got a little sample the gas leak how did peter like this the gas leak sample
Uh, I while I was invisible I went outside to the smoke so it's uh, no I was just saying I sent
Oh
Nice nice
So, yeah, i've been sending a few samples to some people they've been super cool and
Uh, and they're all been they've been they've been really happy. Um,
I got it adam's growing it right now, too. Uh
Did you ever uh, did you ever have people across the original?
Did you ever give people an opportunity to cross because I found like a couple
seeds that said they that original san diego cat piss crosses
And I just wanted this just jackson jackson he did the
Uh jackson was the only one I gave it to grow with um, and he made the mango piss
There was a guy in pacific beach called the mango man
Yeah, and he took his mango and hit hit that to the cat piss
We had the mango piss and then let jackson he could that's the one I remember he did
But that was the only one I remember right now off the top of my head
Yeah, that was the cat mango and um, that's where in my opinion if any males are floating around
That's what it came from because that was a regular read I did, you know
the regular
mango indica
to the cat
So someone says what's up, oh here we go
Is the cat piss have sativa or wide leaf?
It's depending on who you're talking about
You're talking about tom's and theirs it sounds like it has more of a narrow leaf
Yeah, and then we're talking a 707 steve bank his uh choice one was a wider leaf varietal
If i'm correct short and wide indica
Pure indica. Yeah pure indica
Yeah, it's so interesting that you can get this uh terpene or this
this aromatic across
Uh the smell across different things and uh, you know, especially something like a pure indica
that you're referring to and then we have a sativa and the sativas that most people are working with they're kind of unscathed unlike some of
the
More modern day genetics that have been bred into these super polyhybrids to have a little bit of everything across the board
but uh
interesting
So someone wants to know about the pittsburgh story more
Uh cap history, do you want to talk about what you know about it?
Who 707 um
Uh from what I understood or the stories that i've gotten
Um, it came from two brothers
That were just growing shit ton of it back then in the early 90s
um
You know, they called it uncle bob, uh
Uh
And then and then you know in high school, we just renamed it to the pittsburgh piss or cactus
um
But not not much of a backstory
uh, it's just
From from what i've heard is uh, the two brothers aren't with us anymore
um and that uh
It it could be either northern lights northern lights sterb and poison or a few of the stories i've heard but
i've grown northern lights way back in the day and and that's what I always thought it was and
I heard that northern lights over and over again. So
Just yeah, my guess would be it's a northern lights
Definitely no sativa in it. Um
There was none and I mean I dug into that line for years and years just kept on back crossing
I tried to reverse it a couple times, but it would never take it would you know
Shoot out balls and everything flowers and just it would never poop out any pollen at all
Uh, but searching through it. I didn't see any kind of sativas ever popping out of it. It was always just short stout
um
purindica
You know
most
Because they all you know originated up in the cush mountains where you know, they don't get very much water
so that's one thing, uh
I find a lot of people making a mistake with is is trying to water them as much as your modern day strains
Purindicas don't drink that much
They take probably half the amount of water as other plants do
um
But that that's all I know about it it was uh, I wish I had some cool story but I don't it's just um
You know when I found it some guys sold me the cut. Um
I was super stoked to finally have it and and I just worked for
over top 10 years
and um
like I said
most likely
Just pure northern lights is would be my guess what it is
Hmm
Yeah, we had a my buddy used to sell it uh lots of it he'd get pounds of it
he'd get two or three pounds at a time paying top dollar for it and then
Sell it out. He was selling to macdrey through a friend. That was a stripper at mitchell brothers
back in the day, um
You know 60 straight up sometimes wet sometimes dry
But uh, always tasty and I always you know, we used to smoke
Lots of joints back then and uh, you could smoke the road
Yeah, you fire a roach up of the cat piss that we had
And it would taste like cat piss you put it down you smoke it a week later
It would still taste like cat piss. That was the first variety that i've ever smoked
that uh that had that until you know, and it was years until I smoked like
Oji kush sour diesel that had those turps that you could really taste on that refire of the roach
I mean there was some humble varieties and some mendo stuff that we were getting and some stuff
We got some skunk out of santa cruz that had something similar
But that cat piss was really the the refire on the roach was the the giveaway that that was the real deal
Right, right
Yeah, I used to bring a lot of herb, uh from santa cruz to the bay
and um
There was one that we had out there called the asthma
And it was skunky
um
Skunky a little pissy, but just these golden buds
uh, like like
Perfect christmas tree looking buds golden colored super frosty
Uh, those hit really good
um
What else like I said, you know like pole cat I grew that out for a while that had straight cat piss turps, um
There was a uh, uh cali miss
cat piss turps
Um the nl5 hazes those those were those were bang and I love those ones, you know
um, i'm sure that that could be a whole show in itself because like the cough and the dog shit and all those other strains that
I've always just guessed where nl5 hayes just renamed
um
Yeah, yeah for sure
Portland
you know
Yeah, yeah colorado cough all that stuff i've always just assumed I thought it was this nl5 haze myself
Yeah, and the hazes definitely have it someone said that I said that cat piss was a5 a couple shows back
No, it was the only thing that uh, i've seen close to cat piss
In the last 20 years that was the closest I should say because i've seen some stuff that kind of smelled like cat piss
My buddy bought an ounce of this stuff. He's like I found the cat piss and I smelled it
I'm like got so excited and then we fired it up
And it wasn't cat piss, uh, the a5 was a surprise when I was I think
It's 2010 in amsterdam
And that was the closest thing i've seen to cat piss it had the ammonia it had kind of the structure
but it wasn't cat piss it was still a little bit different, um, and then
You know, the high was kind of similar
But yeah, so I definitely think it's on the for for mine some of the more sativa high
Was kind of the stuff that that i'm really looking for but
So, but yeah, we'll have to get another one it's uh
Yeah, for sure we I got another one though I got it from archive the malawi and all five haze
And I had the uh, pure malawi that they use for the cross too
And that one was real similar to cat pissy turps, you know
Light up a joint at a show and heads are just turn and looking for where it's coming from kind of weed
Yeah, someone said that the early 2000s fucked up the
og cultivars
I don't know that the 2000s fucked up
Oh gee, I think that og was pretty freaking held tight for a long time
Just just like the people that had these different cat piss varieties. A lot of people didn't give stuff out
It was for your small circle of friends
You know the guys in san diego had theirs and they they definitely kept it tight
The hell's angels they didn't let it out to anybody really from what I had heard
um
You know
Someone says i'll put five bucks down saying if I find cat piss fino this hawaiian cat piss times malawai crossing
It's funny because uh
Cat piss finos and and the the stuff that i'm looking for specifically
Can be two different things because you can have the smell but if it doesn't have the effect
And it doesn't have the the real overpowering smell it's not it
you know, I think
there's a lot to be said for
What the real deal is and I think we each hold that true to ourselves like what we think the real cat piss is
So
So can I ask 707 seed bags, it's something we grew up with
Strange you recommend what the flavors are, you know, i'm a flavor guy
Cat piss, uh, it just depends on what kind of flavors you like I breed for what's he saying?
Flavor
and um, you know like
Mouthwater and turps is what I want is if it doesn't make my mouth water. I'm not really into it
so, you know everything I got is
Is uh, just different kinds of flavor like you you want citrus we got lemons, uh, lemon tree
Og I got that
cat piss, uh
old san diego one the old betsy, which is like, um
It smells and tastes like a baby ate a shit ton of mangoes and then shit them out
But you know in a good dank way
um
What else in a good way?
We get away with saying that a lot, you know in a dank way it's uh, yeah
But you know, it just depends on what kind of flavors you guys like it's um
Um, I like variety I have to have variety and everything, you know spice of life
I agree
Yeah, i'm excited about this cat piss cup that we're gonna have here yes
That's what i'm excited about too, man. I want to see some
I want to share some shit with some other people
You can either do it in la or the bay area see what the hell we all like
Yeah, I think we just rent an airbnb or a vrbo get a big huge mansion and invite only I support that
Don't do it in san diego where it came from
Let's do it down here, man
Hey guys, I got to get going but I just want to say
Bless up to everybody. I'm super freaking happy that we all got together. I wish that we could have had um
Our east coast friend on you know, I was loving the I wanted to hear his story about the ebola
Um, but thank you again
everybody, uh t-dog
707
you know, uh the jacks
everybody
I'm super fucking stoked to be on the line with you guys, man
um, you guys are like really some of my childhood heroes man, and uh, and so
With that said guys peace
And let's let's smoke some chronic later
Definitely yeah, let's stay in touch. Thank you
Peace
Have a good one. I think people support the uh, the cat piss cup idea
Yeah, that's it's a great idea I mean I feel like
I feel like it could be a good opportunity. That was my wife thought of that. Yeah, give her a high five for us
What mom
She deserves more than that
So, yeah, I think uh, yeah we could probably do this sometime in the summer that gives everyone time to get their varieties together and
I'll plan it we could do some invite only and just figure out where we want to do it that makes sense for everybody
So I can finish one in the uh, no in the no-till bed that's where i'd go with it I like that
So you wanna you want to call it a wrap on that or
sure
Yeah, so have you I got one more question. Have you guys made extract?
This this is a great question. I'm glad I remembered but have you guys made extract with your cat piss varieties?
And does it taste like?
The cat piss how does it translate in extract?
Um, I did it all
Jackson we got a muted. Yeah, I squeezed a flower rosin and
I can't it was kind of it's been a few weeks, you know
I'm waiting for the next batch to come in but I mean it was really funky I could tell it had kind of a funk
To it
You know a funky gassy flavor
Real potent real sedative. Um
You know definitely more indica leaning than the cat piss
Real potent real sedative. Um
You know definitely more indica leaning than I remember. So this one, you know, maybe took on some of that kosher, you know, but um
Yeah, it was really good
tasty
Nice
707
Yeah, I mean, uh, we've pressed it i've made oil out of it and uh, the turps just go straight into it I mean
Full on like I mean I left a jar out for a couple months. I forgot about it came back
It was just some oil it crystallized up a little bit, but I mean still had that full-on cactus turps
Didn't wash away or nothing. I mean, um
just super intense cactus
It'd be one of those good ones where uh, i'd like to see some people make pens out of them. I'd definitely be a customer
Yeah, some live resin pens
That sounds amazing. Yeah, right
Who has the live cactus live resin, I don't think anybody does right now
I'd like to see
I'd like to see more people. Uh
make some crosses with my cactus and uh spread those out because um
I mean it is a hard it is a hard turf being a pass off
But but you know you get lucky every once in a while, I mean the seeds my first outcross with my cactus was a
What was it? I think it was a bubble back cross three
across to a chem 91
Um, that was my original mail that I had used
and then uh, you know just kept back crossing and back crossing, you know, I reversed the mails so that way I could uh,
Pinpoint the exact terpenes that the males might pass off and then um
But uh, yeah, it's it's it's 100 percent cactus there's no mistaking it there's no like, you know
Variation in the seeds or anything every single one
Grows out almost identical, you know, and then like, you know, when I want when people grow out my seeds
I want them to have a hard time
I want them to have a hard time
Picking out that winner because they're all fucking winners, you know that that's my goal
That was my goal for breeding and it's more for my great because you know
Most of my seeds I grow them all just for personal use
um
But yeah, so that's the goal behind everything is is uh, I'd like to see some people
Start making some seeds. That'd be really cool and see see what comes out of them. You know, maybe we get some uh,
Something that grows a little bit bigger
More potent but carries on that cat piss. Oh
That'd be sweet
Yeah, I think that's what breeding is really all about at the end of the day you're trying to improve genetics if you're just trying
to make money
Making f1s, but if you're trying to breed and become a real breeder
Breeding is improving the genetics not necessarily for the both parents, but maybe one of the parents. There's so many different
Uh directions you can go with breeding projects
But it's definitely to improve the quality in one shape or form whether it's improve the structure while maintaining the turf profile
Or whether it's uh creating a novel turf profile. I mean all these things
hold value
uh
The people that are just breeding to breed to make money
A lot of these guys are just doing f1s and trying to do stuff. That's not really different
Uh, you know, we we get a lot of breeders out there doing different stuff
But what the the true like if we're talking about plant breeders and cannabis breeders that are doing a good job
They're the ones that are actually improving the genetics
You know the whole let's throw the dice and see what we get, you know, that's an interesting approach too
I mean that's and that's fine, but really improving the quality of genetics capturing that's what I love about the cat piss
It's like maybe we can capture this this profile
And we can we can carry it on so people, you know
I'd love to be able to share it with people that I like that i'm friends with
You know, I tell them about it and you can't really fully explain cat piss to anybody like no matter how much we've tried
On this show it'll never
Translate into what I experienced as cat piss without you being able to smoke it
I don't think the cat piss I had was for everybody. I think a lot of people would be like
Oh, man, this burns my nose. I don't really like it all this stuff
I think uh that but the connoisseurs that i'm friends with the guys that that are younger
I would love for them to be able to try it and that's kind of what this show is all about kind of
Putting our heads together and see if we can come up with something
Yes, and I actually also
Go ahead go ahead
You're talking about preservation
Yeah, that's my big thing about um for breeding is is you know
I want to grow I want to grow og 20 years from now when when nobody when it's gone, you know
Um, I want to go cactus 20 years from now when it's completely gone, you know
So my breeding is all about preserving these gems that I really enjoy
for the future
Yeah, and I was gonna say well peter I guess we're not getting jake
uh
Yeah, and I was gonna say also that we we're not trying to be jerry springer-ish
uh on the shows it's uh, sometimes you have you have uh,
Firm opinions and and personalities so but everybody is a uh
Yeah, anyway, that's all yeah and I can really appreciate I can appreciate tom and his passion
You can obviously tell he's passionate about what he's talking about, you know
So I feel like it's not like jerry springer and and same thing 707 seed bank
He's passionate about what he's doing and that's the beauty of the cannabis industry the passion for the sacred plant
I firmly believe that that is a real thing, you know, and I I don't believe everybody has that real passion
but I believe you guys do and uh
Yeah, it's it's been a it's been a good show
I agree
so just quickly, uh
I think on uh
Just some housekeeping on
possibly on tuesday, uh
we're gonna have uh breeder steve and ryan douglas and then uh
People were talking about kevin jodry. He'll be on next saturday with nat pennington and josh rutherford
uh james will
keep us hanging to the last moment with next sunday and
And what the topic is and who the guests unless you don't know it already do you?
I might but i'm not saying anything till saturday night
I'm
I I yeah, I I I always announce shit at the last minute. But uh
Anyway for me personally, uh, thank you mostly all for not telling me who's currently winning the football game
Uh, which I have been recording so I can go chill and watch it
uh
Thanks to the crew and cdog. This is delicious
uh
Thank you for that. And uh, I guess for that should we nice
Should we kill it? Yeah
Thanks for having me guys. Enjoy the rest of your sunday. Thank you. Thanks for coming on. I really appreciate it guys and i'll talk to you
All right
