to think the way I think of it is I've got this huge palette of colors to work from.
And it's the best palette of colors and I can draw on that to make any shade of anything. And
I don't feel limited to just pursuing two or three paths. I really like to keep the
keep the door wide open to what is required, what people want. And I think from a production point
of view, what people are going to want is going to be sterile versions of those plants. So
once you've got the plants you want, then you want to work on making sterile versions of them.
Because the sterile plants won't take seed. So if you want to grow a field with no seeds in it,
even if the neighbors have hemp all around, you need to have sterile plants. So that's going to be
the real one of the notable features of the current cannabis genetics renaissance. You're
seeing there's so many more people involved in cannabis genetics research now than ever was,
on a more professional level than there ever was. More academic level, let's say. You're going to
see a lot of advances from plants you don't need to trim, to plants that can't be seeded,
and plants that mites don't eat, plants that are very, very resistant to different fungal issues.
It's, I think we're going to see an enormous leap in cannabis genetics just in the next five years.
Like there's going to be more happening in cannabis genetics in the last five years than has ever
happened in cannabis genetics. You were talking sterile before, right?
The sterile plants that I'm referring to, that I've seen, and that I'm endeavoring to reliably
produce, right now I've only about 50% success rate, but I need them to be at 100. But those
plants have no pistils. They're female plants with no pistils. So you can smother them in pollen.
So they're barren, basically.
They're barren. They cannot get pregnant.
Okay. So is this something new or has this been a...
I've seen it.
And is there a word for that?
The first time I saw it, it was in, well, the sterile females was essentially it, but
there's different roots to it, I've found. And the first plant I found were in 96.
And there's hormonal ways of inducing this. And some people aim for polyploidy mutagens.
Others go for monoploids. I think the monoploid is the way to go. There's also
the possibility of doing it by gene editing, but I'm not as happy about that.
It's the problem I find with gene editing that scares me about it is that there's been instances
of the bacteria used to cut the chromosome is it ends up occasionally inserting its own genes
into the organism. So you end up with a transgenic plant, even if you didn't mean to,
because maybe you think gene editing, oh, it sounds nice and clean, but it's not as clean as
it could be yet. And it's still in its infancy, I think. But let's say there was a gene for
hermaphrodism and you had a great plant. You loved that plant, but it threw some bananas at the end
every time. And you're like, I can't keep this plant because I hate Hermes. I can't, but I don't
want to lose it because it's the only one I've got that tastes like whatever. So you say, if only
I could get in there and just remove the hermaphroditic trait, that would be great. But
if in doing so you introduce a foreign gene, then you may regret it in other ways down the road.
For me, the jury's out on it in a way. I'm all about learning from these techniques,
but I would be really loath to release anything done that way without knowing a lot more about it
because I'm not convinced it's all ready for release, but I'm totally convinced it needs to
be studied. The concept here is basically sterile females and then you could plant a field full of
sterile females and never have to worry about the hemp farmer down the street, the fox in the
henhouse coming in and impregnating. The sterile plants, you put them out, they cannot make a seed.
They're incredible. But what you're saying is that we don't know, it's like every pharmaceutical
drug commercial, this will solve problem A, but you'll have anal leakage and you'll die.
No, I was only talking about that in reference to gene editing as a pathway. The other ways of
doing it through mutagenic breeding really is not going to have any risk of transgenics. There's
nothing about that. The other way of doing the hormonally induced ones is not hormonally
induced and does bring you back to the tissue culture angle, is pollen culture. Some people
do it as an anther culture, but you could take a single grain of pollen. Think how much grains
of pollen you'd have in one gram of pollen. It's mind boggling. If you think of those grains of
pollen as a haploid seed, and you raise that grain of pollen in its own test tube into a calyx,
and from the calyx you initiate green growth and start a new plant, that plant is a haploid. It
doesn't have a mother and father. It's only the father. It's a haploid. Cannabis is typically
diploid. It's got two sets of chromosomes, one from the mother and one from the father.
Same as you and I. Are we talking somatic embryogenesis?
Well, yes. Somatic embryogenesis is a calyx culture. That is calyx culture. Somatic
embryogenesis is when you do calyx culture and you encapsulate it for a synthetic seed.
That's the somatic part. You want it sleeping. You're making tissue culture dormant for a little
bit and encapsulating it is somatic embryogenesis. That starts as calyx culture typically.
Calyx culture is usually an adventitious root. When you look at the bottom of your
trunk, right above the soil line, there'll be some little white bumps on the bark. If you buried
them, they would grow into roots. Those little bumps are called adventitious roots, also known
as calyx. If you sanitize the surface of that and took a razor and nicked off some calyx,
you could propagate at a cellular level and raise up. You could put those calyx in a blender
and make it into a million little calyx cells and grow them in a suspension culture.
Then as they get to a size where you want them to have some green, because it's very easy to
have them growing in the white, the trick is to get them, and different for every variety,
to get them to initiate the green growth. You typically would do that by changing the spectrum
of the lighting over your bioreactor and hormonal initiation. Once you've got those little
artificial seeds in suspension, you could start encapsulating them. That has nothing to do with
the sterile females, other than the calyx culture could be initiated from, if you're doing it just
from a mother, you're just making cuttings of that mother. If you're doing it from a single
grain of pollen, you're doing it from a plant you've never seen yet. When you grow that plant
out from a single grain of pollen, not a lot of people are doing that. I think I know two other
groups actually doing pollen culture right now. This is something that you're researching?
Yes. This is something we're playing with now. I'm working on financing in-house testing because
right now for sequencing I have to send it out. We can prepare the samples, but we would send
it out for sequencing. It's quite expensive, especially when you want to sample high volume.
Let's say I want to sample a million grains of pollen. You look for a specific trait. That's a
bit cost prohibitive, sending that out at $1,500 a pop for a sample. If you can get high volume
sampling equipment, which is very expensive, but if you can get that and run it in-house and keep
it busy, then it makes sense. Sifting through and weeding out plants, even from seedlings,
if you've got a million seedlings started, you can take a little punch out of the second or
third leaf that's growing from each one. You could say, whatever trait you're looking for,
if it was purple or green or sterile or non-sterile, you could separate those plants out,
male, female, or hermaphrodite. You can separate those plants out at a very young age.
If you're looking for one that's the highest in CBDV, if you have a known marker for CBDV,
then you're saying, which ones have the best concentration of that marker? Which ones are
really going to push the CBDV? Once you can start isolating your selections through lab-assisted
selective breeding, even without doing any transgenic madness, you can have some really
stellar information quickly from large batches. That saves so much time. You still want to take
the contenders and finish them off and see them under real conditions. Just being able to thin
the herd out by looking under the hood, that's a huge advantage. Those pollen grains are going to
make a haploid plant, which has a single chromosome. You and I, we're diploids because we got
one strand from our mother and one strand from our father. Whereas that one only has the strand from
the father, never met the mother, and we went ahead and took it to the next level.
Starting with haploids, you can use that and cross it to itself later and make a double haploid.
It's got the identical two strings of genes. There's different pathways you'll see people
using to get to the sterile females. The important thing to remember, which I was
about to touch on earlier, but we switched gears somehow, is that there's two types of sterile
females in the world. We see Parthenocarpic, which is the virgin fruit, which is the only way I'm
interested in. That will not take the pollen. Then you have Stenocarpic plants. That has little
aborted seeds in it. That's useless for us. That's like the seedless watermelon, seedless grapes.
You get those little white pips in them, but they don't develop a finished seed. Nobody wants
thud that's all polluted with little white seeds. It's not good enough that they abort them later,
which is Stenocarpy. We don't want them to make them in the first place. That's Parthenocarpy.
That's the big dividing line. I've seen a lot of breeders fail to make sterile females
using polyploids. Polyploids are how Stenocarpic plants are made.
Are people using these procedures in the States?
I've seen one American and one in Spain and then us in Colombia.
Would the cost of doing this be the lab cost?
I don't think so. For the straight up sterile females, you don't have to spend
millions of dollars. The first time I saw it was in 1996 and it was out of somebody's basement.
It was like, you know when the first sterile females came out? It was when people started
trying to make feminized seeds. It was before anybody was using silver even. People were using
other hormones like ABA and gibberellic. It was basically just a freaky little hooch.
What's the form factor? If people can create sterile females and you can plant a whole field
of it, is the form factor like, could you create seeds where if I pop those seeds every female
is sterile? Or is it tissue culture? Or do you have to have one mom?
That's what we're working on now. The best I've done is 50%. I'd get 100% female seeds
and only half of them had pistils. I want to release those with 100% without pistils.
You can make a selection right now with only getting half as sterile. You can make a selection
and propagate those in tissue culture. But ideally, I would like to be able to make the
seed 100% that sterile so that they can just go straight into the field without having to
be propagated in any way, shape or form. I have recently brought an American friend that
has a lot more training than me in molecular genetics. He was growing spice in the 90s,
early 2000s. He came to visit me in Switzerland. He's a longtime spice fan, spice grower.
He was growing aquaponics sweet tooth in 2000. Now he's spent the last 20 years getting degrees
and studying molecular genetics. He said, hey, I want to do a PhD on cannabis. If your company can
sponsor me, I'd do it with you guys. We were able to bring him in. It's really fun to build the teams.
So with him specifically, what kind of problems do you want to task him with solving?
What's his first project? Find us powdery mildew resistant genes.
He'll be looking at that. The fungal resistance is a big part of it.
But also the sterile females. I said that's really got to be a strong focus on each of the pathways
of doing it to chart them and what's good and bad about each of the pathways we found towards doing
that. The fungal resistance goes on a stand that's really key always to watch. But as far as
I send out prepared samples to be sequenced, I can't read the information that comes back.
So I require a genetics interpreter that knows how to look at a sequencing analysis and say, okay,
here's what you're looking at and explain it to me. They can decipher that. He's really gifted
at that sort of thing. He showed me a lot of the work he's done has been in tracking specific
markers in lettuce. He would attach a glow in the dark gene to the thing he's looking for.
Then it would make it very obvious because all the lettuce sprouts that had it glowed in the dark.
That's transgenic lettuce. We don't necessarily want to eat that lettuce or smoke it. But to be
able to work under the hood like that, not just to look under the hood as an asset,
I don't necessarily want to make transgenic cannabis with it. But I want them to be able
to help me identify and track markers for the development of traits.
