I
Champion green sugar elegant come again
Hello and we are back again for another episode of cannabis for breakfast here in
Well, I'm in beautiful North North Vancouver BC Canada for my last two days it is snowing it is a blizzard
I'm hoping that our wedding certificates get in shortly so that we can make sure to get in
Quick thanks to our sponsors as you guys also I forget I got a beautiful intro
I don't need to do that part anymore. We have a really fun day planned for everybody
We've got an awesome group of very passionate plant folk that are excited to get into a conversation start start digging into the plants
Without any further ado, I'm gonna drag everybody up on stage here because we do not have a small group today
Which is awesome, and I love having them the more the merrier
I mean as as we we usually like to get rolling here
I like to remind everybody to check out lots of fun stuff, but we have a huge group
We got David got Tom who else we got Manny and Danny. We got Steve. We got Lyle and Sam
we have an
Absolutely massive group and and you know kind of there's there's the main person that we had a lot the person we had on last
year for guest appearance was Dave
And we what farm were we with Dave last year?
We did it with us do farms last year awesome, so
Really really great episode. I'm gonna let you kind of like just because there is a very big group of people
I'm a meeting some of you all for the first time which is excellent
That's where we like to have some of these conversations
we're gonna get into some of the more social stuff in a little bit, but I'd like to like really get to know and
And and say how you Dave see how you're doing and introduce yourself to the audience again after a due break
As it were I imagine you've been busy as a bee
Yeah, without question. I mean first off a big shout out to those shirts the boys are wearing there love them by the way
Don't forget to send me one for Christmas
So that's awesome yeah, London we've been super busy over here as a lot of people probably heard we did the
Deal with girl box and had Tom and the team come in here and really elevate what we're doing here
You know way past where we were so
Clonetics today versus when we talked last time is is that a whole nother level without question
The product we're putting out at another level
The genetic catalog is growing immensely
And I think one of the biggest things is we just flipped our license from nursery to cultivation and the biggest reason we did that
is
We have such a massive as Tom says gun safe downstairs that you know we're gonna do a
30,000 seed fetal hunt in this building and
To my knowledge. It's the largest one ever done in the legal industry. It's gonna be
you know creating incredible incredible cultivars and
Well a lot of people need to realize to like yes
We've got the craze if everything has to be 75% THC and no terpenes
And it's gonna melt your brain and all that fun stuff
It's like what about the old-school masters and the super cool 22 percenters at four and a half percent terpenes that'll absolutely
Just let you ride a wave
So I'm hoping
Society starts to wrap their head around again like what cannabis used to be like when you know used to smoke back in the day
So a
Lot of the old-school masters are in that vault downstairs, so you're gonna see stuff
You've never seen reader Steve is one of the most famous breeders out here in Canada
Nobody smoked his blockhead in 30 years
There's only 20 seeds left a blockhead and they're downstairs in that safe right now period
So when he handed those to me he was like don't waste these they're the last 20, so it's a great deal of pressure
And then we opened in Europe so we have a full-fledged
150,000 square foot EU GMP facility that were partnered with in Europe
We just had killer news out of Europe this morning actually our cuts in the greenhouses over there one of them hit at week
six twenty nine point six percent some good turps so
from a greenhouse perspective the Korean barbecue
Launch that's that's killer. Can you can you back up just a second there?
I want to touch on a couple points. I think are really really valid and really important to dig into
We'll get into the Europe part second, but but first off. I'd like to kind of like ask you about because
Depending on where you're at and what you're facing and where your licensing is we do have a fair bit of American
Followers as well as we have a lot influence a lot a lot of you know new people coming into
the the European space like we're actually going to be launching to our channel in Chinese Hindu and
And Spanish in the next three months to
Put all of our content out as bilingual
So we're like really like there's there's a whole bunch of new audience out here
So I wanted them to understand kind of the preface of that
nursery license to cultivation license that they that they wouldn't regularly get because you have a huge facility
But you're again doing clones and pheno hunting so you would have to outsource
So I'd like to understand that business a little bit more and and we're we're clonetic and there you fit in
Yeah
100% so when we got together with grow box and brought Tom in and Tom will kind of walk through grow box and kind of
the relationship between us
when we form this partnership the whole thought process was
To bring the expertise of grow box
To light was really to be able to flower and in our building under a nursery license
We're only allowed to flower 500 square feet so you can imagine
When you have over 1500 strains downstairs
455 gold medals when you want to start popping these things
The problem is that you just simply can't do it in 500 square feet under health Canada regulations
And even even our own breeders are like hey
How come I don't have more lines and it's like because I don't have enough room to pop all your stuff to do this
by switching the cultivation
That now allows everybody to step up and be able to grow
Multiple different lines do multiple different fetal hunts and that'll give us not only fresh lines
But get stuff out of our breeders catalogs that are not currently in the marketplace right now. So cultivation
Allows us to do everything we want to in this building. So we've actually
Split this building in half to 25,000 square foot state-of-the-art building
We're doing all our tissue culture and as you can see the guys are sitting in front of our BB cabin
That's another huge change which the guys can go into more
But that BB cabin now gives clone addicts the ability to 1.1 million
Gen zero for Marist and tissue culture clones for its rooted
within 600 square feet
so
Nobody in this country. I don't believe is doing 1.1 million clones at 600 square feet a year
It's almost impossible to do without this cabinet
So the knack freed is up to be able to turn some of our rooms that we're going to do clones
In the custom flower. So now we can custom flower
so to grow some of these strains out because our thing is
We want to elevate when we're working with people like Steve and Mike and the team over there is to be able to say like listen
We've grown this thing out. Here's your batch records
Here's all your growth stuff and Tom will kind of walk you through that
But that's the biggest difference between a nursery license and a cultivation is now we're free to do what we want within Health Canada's rules
That's awesome and really well well well spoken it like it's
Freaking weird holes and things and challenges you guys face. It's fucked
Go it's like you should just be able to plant it like tomatoes. It should just
Plant so what it what the other part I wanted to touch is you're working in Europe
So first off I'm going to be in Europe in two days
And will you guys be at Spanavis? Well, I'd be running into you there
Are we gonna be live on location running into any any of you all at that point in time?
Yeah, you're absolutely gonna be running into our European team
so we have a full European team that is actually made up of
Javier from resin seeds leads that team over there. And so one of our breeders
Like so resin seeds if you don't know the name
Resin is iconic. So when you look at like Tico wrong out of Israel, you look at metal leaf in Canada
That strain can a tonic that these guys used to create these first medical strains that actually came from resin
So that product is something that that we grow here. We grow in Europe as well. So once Javier became a breeder
You know, he was just such a good guy. We worked so well together that we made him the head of EU sales
So you'll you'll see him at Spanavis walk around 100%
Awesome. Awesome. So what else do we have looking forward in in the next year?
There any specific strains to be excited about before we get into introducing Tom
Yeah, 100% I'm gonna let Tom talk about what he's doing in his room right now. There is some
Some cool stuff coming up for sure that I think will put smiles on everybody's face at Wayne Patrick for sure
Yeah, so
Kind of started the beginning founder girl box
We pretty much founded the company when legalization happened
I basically come from legacy
My whole family's actually open seashell and it's probably running and we feel it's when I was like three didn't even know what they were
But the whole goal is to like bring craft premium product into the light and in Canada the regulations are challenging
It's kind of like find that balance point and I've always kind of been a believer that good cannabis will always sell
Shitty we won't
You do
Yes, so it was really cool
Just led to some like phenomenal collapse over the years with some different brands and we've had a lot of success
With them in putting premium flower out and what was always missing was the genetics
It's obviously a critical part of cannabis and we got together with clone addicts
It was super organic how the whole thing came to be
We wanted to make sure that we had really high quality starting material and David touched on this kind of supporting these guys to
Get to that finish line with growers notes
Everything in Canada is based around the COA. So it wasn't enough to be like, here's our plant
Here's our COA kind of our fill that in to get our partners to be able to achieve that
Everything from environment nutrients plant maintenance and all the growers can kind of speak to this I think as far as the substance
So yeah, that's kind of a long story short on that front and he's being totally modest London to be honest with you
the two growers
on this
YouTube segment right now Michael and Tom
Lyle I
Can't tell you when I first got into this industry
The first 20 guys I met said they were the greatest growers in the world had the best genetics in the world all 20 of
Them in a row and I was just like wow, that's a lot of the best in the world in one province. So
No way
Way Dave no way. I don't believe that's at all
I don't believe that someone that's been growing in their basement for 20 years came to you or
Anyone and said that they are the master of growing cannabis
Listen I got I got a list for you if you're looking for the best in the world. I got a long list for you, brother
But the greatest thing is like when you talk Michael or you talk to Tom and Lyle
They never said that it just keep putting out incredible product and other people
Were the ones who came to me and said you have to find a work a way to work with Tom
and we went back and forth for like over eight months trying to find the right deal because Tom had a lot of
Different offers and a lot of different things happening on his plate. So I
Mean we could not be happier to have the grow box guys as our partners in here and we could not be happier
than to have the team at wave Patrick see
we're really close like the two companies and
as the two CEOs me and Steve
We're fighting like everybody else to survive in this industry, right and we're we're kicking a clawed and
Taking market share by force right now both of us. So
That's what I loved about it and the support that we've we've gotten
You couldn't even imagine how well the relationship is gone for us anyways, I mean they might not like this but we love them
You can't do it. It's a community man. It's a community effort
You have to come together as a group to do it
And and if you were and Tom if you grew up in that history of like growing up in the cannabis space
It was secluded you were separated from others
but the community that you had that you trusted and around you with was super key like knowing those people and having them around you and
Creating that community now and essentially that's you know premise for what we call, you know, basic business groups today
But it's exciting to see these things move forward and develop
So Tom like and we'll get into everybody else too
But I want to know while we're on you on you is like what did you grow up smoking?
I what are the flavors that you dream of we're talking a little bit about blockhead
I mean, but where do where do you when you think of BC or Canadian smoke? What what what comes up in your mind?
Yeah, I mean there's a
I can go for hours and like it's challenging is we're in this THC race right now
It's like I appreciate we gotta play the dance, but I'm so excited to dig into that gun safe, right?
There's so many vintage genetics and we've got land races like one of the you know
One of the biggest things you this collab we did but like I walked in to the to the vault
And I was like a kid in a candy store
Like it was pretty easy for me to just get excited and be like, holy we can we can do a lot here
So I'd love to bring back some of these legendary cuts
But for now in Canada as much as we want to we do have to kind of play this game
But to what David said also around the amendment to go standard is I think the industry will slowly shift as
We get more educated right and I want to be prepared to drop some of these like
OG fire cuts that we like all growing up on right?
It's just it's a bit of a balance point right now. That's all
Like what about the clobber fun? Yeah, the white widow we grew the white widow and the liquor boards went
It's not high enough THC it's like how about I drive by and smoke this white widow and let's see how you feel when you're
Right like so like you're talking about
Like the red-haired conga like, you know, like that vault
there's one that has has a
controversial place in the community here in BC and a history of
Challenge, you know like some of the old heads wanted it to go everywhere because they thought it was this amazing medicinal plant
They handed it out everywhere and then it kind of like disappeared for a long while
And now we're hearing about it coming back and being delicious again
So you you are running it?
Are you guys running a red Congo right now?
Or is this something in your vault that you're going to be exploring in the next little while?
so the Congo
Sitting in tissue culture right now. White widow is sitting in tissue culture
Just begging for the liquor board to wake up and be like, okay like listen or I guess it's a cannabis board
But we both know it's all been brought by the same guys
But you know at the end of the day, it's so funny because you know
The OCS will come out and say, you know, our next call is on we want to know what's in the legacy market
We're like, well, we know what's in the legacy market and it isn't all 30%
1% T
or 1% turkeys, right it's it's the
22s to 24s with the incredible flavors and the chirping profiles and that's what's really floating out in the legacy market not all that
But you know like one of the things that drives me crazy high THC doesn't win awards
Basically trying to check a box that only has three sections when it has like a consumer and a grower there's like
There's no there's like the physical look of it. There's taste and
Unfortunately, like that doesn't help right now too much when it comes to like getting listings
Just a big challenge within Canada that like gotta be above 25 and this thing better be a 9 out of 10
And if not, then like this game is tough, right? It's it's humbling like it's yeah somebody had somebody call me yesterday
They said can you send me four skews that are all 37 and above and I was like, no
And he was like what do you mean like everybody has these and I'm like
Everybody's selling you a fairy tale bro. Like this plant has over 140 cannabinoids in it
What makes you think 37% of those counterpoint is one?
Like the numbers are also almost
Unrealistic like we've heard what groups coming out with a 48 percent. I was in California. They're like, you know, we have a 42%
Mondo breath and I'm like, okay cool. I'll go home and pack up my company. They're like, what do you mean?
I'm like, well if you got a 42 percent of that's real you're gonna take the whole market
well, I still haven't seen this 42 percent on the shelf here in Canada and
What I would like to say too is that when you see these like super crazy high numbers
I'd like to just go to the store shelf pull one of those numbers and test it and
Actually see like what the true number is because I just I just went into a store in Vancouver
Beautiful store on Robson and I mean people were just coming and going like it was a 7-eleven
Is that the new there's a new one that open? Is it one of the the inspired the new inspired?
No, I think it's called cannabis city or something like that it's like really funky interior right and they yeah
Packages around stuff it was super cool
Super busy, but when I looked at all their strains the majority of them were like 22 to 26
20 22 to 28. So there was these big gaps on the bags
And stuff and I asked them I said are people concerned when they see a 22 to 26 or 28
Ratio they said, you know when they first opened some people were asking those questions
They said more people are slowly starting to ask about terpenes
More people are slowly starting to to buy the stuff at the 22%
So then they had this really cool a little visor to put it over your eyes and it showed this board that you can't see
With the naked eye where the staff pics are and I'm telling you they were all
24 21 20 there was even a 16 pointer on that board
There was only one 28 pointer on that staff pick for period so
I'm urging the world to get back to like what we used to go like I never did this
But you know what used to buy weed on the street and it was in a bag. It smelled great. It was super frosty
It was sticky
again, you know full disclosure I never did that but
Never I never bought weed
Any of these things that people say that they've done I never did anything until I got security
Yeah, no, never
It's interesting because there's there is it there is this connotation coming from the States
Well, and and one of the biggest challenges that we're running into in the scientific space and like running into these really challenging conversations
Is can the plant do it? Can it go to 42? Can it go to 48?
I mean like we were we were chatting and I mean we on the day car
We do the the scientific conversation on Tuesday nights
We're bringing PhDs from all over the space and we have in the next little while we have a Reggie Gaudino coming in who is
an amazing PhD in
in genetics
and he's
specializing cannabis and we also we also have
Kyle boy are who does does testing so check out those episodes for two interesting things on this
One of the
Controversial question we run into is like can the plant like if the plant puts that much energy into making cannabinoids?
Is it possible for the plant to grow?
Like where does it get the energy to do to function as a whole plant?
Like if it's 50% of its mass is being accumulated in the cannabinoids
Is that possible right or are we like looking at where we're we're we're really doing something different with the methodology of?
Harvesting and shaking on key fun to its really sticky plants afterwards, you know, like what's actually going on here
It doesn't like I guess London never say never I suppose some scientists can manipulate some kind of plant genetically and try to get it
To those numbers, but so when I was in California visited that location
They had said they had this 42 percent of the first thing I did was call
Our head of science at the University of Saskatchewan. Dr. Tim Charbel and I said, is this even possible?
And he said no not really
He said like and if you think about it from a growing perspective if it was 42% THC
the thing would probably be laying on its side and try to grow like you'd have to
You know staple it to the ceiling or something to get it to grow straight up. Don't you think like?
Yeah, it's amazing it's
Maybe it's possible but like right now it's like
I
Was just gonna say like why
Like what's the point?
otherwise
let's just let's just like because what they've done to is now they've
They've they've taken the markers and put it into bacteria for a THC cannabinoid production and put it into bacteria now
They have bacteria producing cannabinoids the craziest part is so like if we really want to get into like having really high THC stuff
This is kind of the way to go that being said they're finding that the bacteria evolves and starts creating its own novel cannabinoids
So back pressing back onto your original point is the fact that it's 40 that it's 38% and it's all THC
Think about this for a second to what's the fastest growing segment in cannabis right now? It's women
So how many women want a 32% THC product? Probably not many, right?
So, I mean I spoke 16% I might be the biggest lightweight on this entire freaking path
I spoke 16% drink tequila and sit on my deck and giggle like I'm a 14 year old schoolgirl having a blast
So, you know, that's what I want out of my cannabis
Everybody has different reasons and I guess some people want to do a dab and melt into their couch, right?
I would probably have a panic attack and need to go to the hospital if I did it down like that, but you know
teach their
I
Yeah, the dabs are delicious, but they're dangerous
They're like they're like the ultimate double pain
So so you guys have a couple of new pro where you guys last time we were talking about and maybe Tom could get into
This is like we were talking about mother health and and your genetic library, but also like a ready to flower
Plants if I if I remember correctly something that you can just pod in and go
So do you want to I think I actually have a little short video so while I bring that up
Do you want to tell me about the ready to flower plants? Yeah
For those who aren't in Canada
There's two licenses. There's standard which is unlimited and then there's what's called a micro and in a micro you're limited to canopy space
So the whole goal is like how do you maximize that canopy space and how many crops can you pull a year?
And then we kind of played with this over the last couple years and really proved it out where
Instead of using that space for veg or housing moms. We would use it to flower
And we bring these plants in that were like 12 inches
You get green ready to kick and we were hitting upwards of like
20 to 22 crops a year with four rooms basically like turn and burn nine acres and we were
Crushing as far as yields go and you know, the average company hit or miss can probably do about 600 kg in a micro
We were pushing upwards to like 800 and it actually started triggering health Canada audits where they're bringing tape measures in and making sure we were
within spec
so you guys know this that like, you know, the more cannabis we can grow the more money there isn't it and
What we started to dig deeper into was like holy we're not running 18 hour bed flights
Our IPM went down or watering went down and like all these like
all this collateral beauty and cost savings that kind of combined and then we put together kind of like the model down to the
pennies and it was just
fascinating how much more profitable and how much easier it was to run these facilities by
focusing a hundred percent on turn and burn flower crops
so
Yeah, long story short, you know, we offered, you know the traditional clone which is you know
Still a phenomenal way to start people already have this production space
But within these smaller facilities or these micros it logistically makes so much sense
To bring in these we call them our tips ready to flower plants
And you know, let them run. So, you know long story short, I guess
You know one of the things too if you really look at the dirt and go
For it
No, no, no go for it go for it
I was just gonna say like we hear a lot about
Teenagers and we call them ready to flower because a lot of people take their teenagers and they still bench them out for a period
of time
We'll send you an actual RTF that when it hits your building you can put it right in the flower
It's totally it's totally up to the grower himself. So there is a bit of a difference to between a teenager and our RTF
Utilizing the RTFs and clawing back your mother clone and veg space even in an LP
increases profitability by 37%
So, I mean it's a huge game changer
If if a facility gets comfortable enough with you to be able to start changing those things over
It's a big trust process and one thing that people like don't are like that forget, you know, like
Screen of green is a very cognitive
But we have a very flat lighting in LED spacing and a lot of these newer facilities are focusing on LED lighting
And it seems to be the major trend you got less heat transfer. They seem to be easier to work with
So it's like it it's a flat plane right as it doesn't matter where the plane is
As long as it's flat, right?
You know like you're always gonna have that two feet of grow
That's gonna be your best stuff and then you're gonna have your your your B's and C's and D's that are further away from the
Light, it's just how it is. So why have more plan, you know, like it doesn't make a lot of sense to me
I love the ready to flower program
I think it's necessary in our space and a lot of people need to get into it
So what are like some of the priorities that you guys seek?
When it when you're looking for plants that you're gonna put into programs like this because like you said
There's a lot of trust that goes in here
You can't just you can't just throw the like you guys you guys that kutch craft, right?
You guys trust these guys to produce your entire crop before it comes to you or or your your coat
No, maybe not your entire crop or what?
What have you you know, like that's a that's a big trust point to rely on somebody for something like this
So what are some key factors that that that give you?
The confidence to be able to do what you're doing
I think what's really important is to understand who's growing it in the facility
They're growing it and like you know this line and everything from like what's your lighting? What's your medium? What's your layout?
What's your irrigation like all of these factors play into how do we optimize that growth space?
And again, what's what's cool here is, you know, we have been through, you know
hundreds of these facilities over the last few years and really
Listened and learned, right? I brought it up. It's humbling because there isn't really a right or wrong way to do it
It's just how do we optimize this? So with the space and the availability here an RTF to
You know what? I mean this group here to this group
Maybe a little bit different like in a in a greenhouse like these things are gonna they're gonna run
They're gonna grow huge if we're limited in a micro under an LED system
Well, like we better keep these things small and short, right?
So we've kind of left it here where we can customize this to be tailored to that partner of ours for that exact reason
It's not like one shoe fits all right
and
like the trust like knowing that we're gonna be there from the moment they receive that clone to
Harvest to kind of back up and offer tips and tricks and just observations
We've seen whether like a plant stretched or whether it like holy shit
This thing just flattened out and turned into a blueberry bush. Like these are critical things for our partners to know
It's all about making sure that they get to that finish line
And like I call it the crop three analogy where like, you know
You get a new cultivar and in first crop you're like, okay like use what you know, get it to the finish line
Second crop you're like, okay, like let's go. Let's go play trying to optimize it
And it's usually around like crop three where like you've really optimized and you know what that plant's gonna do
So like if we can kind of provide that substance and that data to be like, this is what we've learned
This is how we got here
I'd love it
if we could speed that process up for for partners of ours just so they can instantly have the confidence that like
Okay, we're tapped out at 1200 ppm. Don't go above or this thing's gonna jump 400%
Be careful just more so like, you know get off for that substance
Which ultimately in my mind leads to the trust in that relationship and you know the community at the end of the day
Which is you know this line of like that's the biggest thing I missed about the legal market going from from where I come from
It was and it was you you work together, right? So
You know call it a project in process, but like this is you know, what we're trying to do here
It's
No, you said it so well man
You you did exactly what we do at cannabis for breakfast is we wander through the conversation of cannabis for breakfast
Usually if it doesn't go off track a couple times
It's not entertaining and it has to be about community because that's what supports us. I mean we wouldn't be here
like producing our show with 110 people live if
It wasn't for the fact that we have a community that
Supports us and wants to see what's going on wants to drive us for we have a huge event
We're going all over North America next year and we're hoping to visit a lot of you guys over the next little while
To check out your facilities and see these amazing things and show even a more in-depth look to the community on how things are going
Like this we're gonna go check out
We're going to go check out farms in Italy and in France and in Europe and in Spain and in coffee shops and all sorts
Because like this is what people want to see is we're not just a community locally sure
We are very proud in Canada and especially in BC and you know the Kootenays. I have a certain love for
For her passion for cannabis, but we are an international worldwide community and we're Canadian cannabis community as well
It's like nice to have those development is now one. I there's a fun
We I want to dig into kind of hopping over to Lyle
Lyle and Sam
And digging to you guys in and because you're all over at the tissue culture area, right?
Like this is your area. We're talking about you. We were talking about clones and trying to design and build that out. So what?
What the fuck you guys do?
It's future cannabis project we got to be a little bit casual
You oh, yeah, you got I got a mute you too, don't I sorry my fault
This cabin we have
Right here. We have some initial
segments of the plant
I'm not sure if you can see that but these are next plants that come from the mothers
they're just one node or shoot off the plant from there or shoot those and
You know put them in a tissue culture start that process clean them up move any bacterial
Contamination to bring good plants in or anything like that
After that, they're gonna get shooted up into something, you know like this you see about two to three inches tall
This is where we're gonna get our tissue culture clones from so when I'm holding this box right now
And we're talking about mother rooms and stuff saving cannabis face this box that I'm holding right now is a mother
Right this this right here. We're gonna be able to get 20 to 30 cuttings
So the box that I'm holding right now
Sorry, I get in some some of the community screeching very bad feedback on
On the bottom and I'm gonna mute you guys and for who will come back
Maybe if you could you guys think you could hop into a different room and see if it works out
okay, and and we could just have you as audio and ask you guys a few questions in a little bit and
See what we can do there if you want to try and find another location that one
It's just it's it's too rough on a few the people
Just got to be a little bit careful with it
But anyway, so what we're gonna do is we're gonna go for a quick commercial break
And then we're gonna come back and dig into it with kushcraft
So we'll be back in a couple minutes
Make sure to grab yourself a fresh bowl a fresh some fresh smoke and fresh thing
You got about three minutes and we will be right back with
more fun here in on future cannabis
You
I
I
And we are back again and you guys have changed rooms it's excellent. Let's let's see. Oh
We can hear you
That's a cooler room anyways, there's way more plants how you guys do it no more bad audio page
So you want to like let's just jump right into it. Where are you?
What are you guys doing?
What do you guys still have your starts or did you have to leave them in the other room?
And the real star of the show here is the tissue culture which I was talking about earlier
So in the what I was I was just going over the different stages of what we have in
Culture and what comes out of that cavity you saw before so in my hand you can see some of these
Nodal segments and these are basically just know their shoots that we take off other plants. This is called the X plant stage
So they get taken off from other plants or a cutting they get shipped in new genetic seeds
Everything starts on tissue culture with these nodal segments. We do this to help remove any
Bacteria fungus anything that can be on the leaf. This could even be beneficial bacteria will stop growth in tissue culture
I've endorphins anything like that and contaminate these trays
So we start with these nodal segments these stay in here for about two weeks and then we get something that looks more like this
so this jar is full and what we consider this is
Basically the mother plant of the future
So this box right here allows to take between 20 to 30 cuttings
And plant them for direct rooting in vitro in these trays that you can see
Right here. This is Lio's holding. So these boxes that talking about space saving for not only you know micros
But us we're limited with our building and what we can produce. So this is the real ability to produce
1.1 million clumps that David was mentioning in that cabin. You go from a mother
That's in a you know, a two to four gallon pot that you're gonna get 20 to 40
Maybe 50 cuttings off and a four gallon pot. We all know is it's quite a lot larger than this container. So
It's really exciting what we're doing with this what we're seeing
So basically from there, we'll go and take those and put them into these boxes
Now these boxes have a dual layer
Micro-pore seal what this does it just allows us to harden the plant off as it's growing and a lot more airflow
While still having small enough pores to block any bacteria
fungus pathogens from entering it just allows for gas exchange because like okay, I
I'm a little bit of a food science geek
So I I love crossover stuff and there's actually like a weird amount of crossover here
so like so you guys usually use an agar based gel for the
Thing and what like those that have ever used like so agar agar is really interesting
It's actually like the the oldest jelling agent like known to man. We've been using it for longer than anything else
We actually started using it's harvested from red sea kelp
I believe and it's it's a very crucial but the one of the coolest things when you make gelatin or anything out of it it
spoils so fast it is crazy ability to spoil fast and it's
Really interesting because you can use it in mycology and you can use it in all these other subjects
Originally a cooking ingredients one of those one of those first first things
But it's it's it's amazing because you guys take it you guys take it like an agar based gel and you guys kind of put
A bunch of stuff in it, you know, you want to describe that process a little bit
I think I actually have a little video that I can show of that, too
I
Believe you
In the creation process, it's got to be a hundred percent sterile. We have a absolutely massive autoclave
That will fully sterilize the agar and then basically run it down a production line
And automatically fill these containers you see here with the exact right volume
Even distribution and everything's done under a few foot, right?
The machine itself will even attach the lid which has a little HEPA filter on top to allow for you know, a bit of gas exchange
But you know traditionally with tissue culture you're kind of hand mixing all this stuff you're making very small
small amounts of it right but you can see
We've got the technology here to just do it on mass at scale
Repeatability is all there with it. So it's pretty exciting
So this was this point that I stopped these are what are where we are here in the process?
Like I just want to back this up a little bit and take this phase by phase because you cover a lot in this video
Right here this is this is that cylinder that you were speaking of this mixing drum
Yeah, so that's an autoclave. So that's gonna bring it up to temperature
Well
And then like just that's a huge autoclave I've used autoclave that's a cool
Thing that is the coolest autoclave you can buy
It's the biggest gelatin maker ever is where you think it's you got the biggest jello maker in the world
Starting of this container here and
After a few weeks of growth, you're gonna see those tiny little shoots
Well, you can see some of them at a little bit faster rate or growing some leaves in there
Very cool, very very cool
I mean like that that's neat to see the the plants developing this phase and get like a real bird's-eye look into this
I mean that's
So, you know straight out of tissue culture the plants are gonna look a little bit different than the traditional clone for sure a
lot of hormone
Changes going on in there, but it allows us to retake
Gen zero
clones off of these plants and
Go straight into media with them so you can see these are tiny, you know
I
Got a technical question for you
So one of the things that we've noticed that we've seen that we're starting to see and we're having
conversations about is the microbiome of plants right and often things like tissue cultures the biggest concern is we're stripping and
Killing off essentially all bacteria because we need to get rid of as much of it as possible to clean it out, right?
So when do you reincorporate?
bacteria back into this system
When does that because I know you can't be throwing like micro rise in the in the agar agar, you know
I mean, that's not a good idea. But are there is there a
Looking at this
We are necessarily doing organic growing here and I
Touched on it earlier
Talking about the endophytes, but it does require a bit of testing
We have data before it gets put into tissue culture and data after a flower harvest
Do we see any drastic differences at that point?
We know we have to reintroduce the bacteria that are in there
But if those endophytes are playing a role a small one may be negligible difference and we don't see any difference
Post harvest after it's gone through tissue culture. Then we just won't be introducing because we're introducing those can
You know, it's not the smoothest process
There's a lot of trial and error and it is expensive to to set that up in a space where you know
We are a production facility and small things like that can be challenging
But most of the time we haven't come across this situation yet where we've seen a cult of our
underperform active tissue culture the bigger it gets back from
Reintroducing the hormones moving all the stressors all that all that fun stuff seems to outweigh any endophytes
Awesome well said because that's what it's like you were trying to you're trying to produce on mass here, right?
This is different. This is not dude growing in his backyard
This is not you know plant you like doing a field by see we need something different
you're trying to achieve something different and where we're at right now and
In in this situation is is interesting. So I think it's time that we get over
I mean these guys have been patiently sitting there with jars of weed and I've been patiently sitting here waiting to talk to them
So, I mean what what I want to like last thing before we go
And we I wanted to touch on like what what is kind of the the key?
things in and
Challenges that you face in your space on a daily day-to-day basis
In in in this process right because you you have a very unique job. It's very fun
Very different but I manage it poses some individual challenges at points in time
What are what are some of your day-to-day challenges that people might not realize that you have to face? I?
Mean
You know
The nuance to each one of them to make sure everything performs as best as it can be a lot more diverse than people
You know, you know, it assumed everybody it's cannabis. It's one plant sure
We have different cultivars, but I mean growing a beefsteak tomatoes not much different than growing a cherry tomato and that just isn't true
With cannabis with all the breeding that's been done throughout the years for all of these people who haven't been able to share information
It's all been done in completely different ways creating different
Requirements for each one of these plants. So the biggest, you know challenge for us is managing this giant library
Figuring out the best way to treat each individual cultivar because at the end of the day we are production
We do need to find a good general solution, but making sure that everything grows
Well, even though we have a hundred different cultivars alive at one time is definitely one of our biggest challenges
Yeah, and I'll touch on this quickly in our flower
You know, we've got a ten light row right now that has 24 different either cultivars or phenols on it
One watering system, right so we're in there we're taking notes we're making sure you know
We can provide as much information as possible
But I can't give a different nutrient solution to every single cultivar, right?
So we just kind of have to rely on our
experience and our notes and our results at the end to provide the clients with as
Much information as we possibly can be touched on that like we'll provide batch records watering records
But it is challenging right you've got
Some cultivars that stretch right to the light. You've got some that are sitting down at 18 inches in full flower
And it's it's really exciting and it's really stressful
and consistency consistency consistency
Because that's one of the things that we look for right and and I'm good looking at you you over there David for making these
guys lives hell
more cultivars
But like that's the thing that's the challenge with it is the day-to-day right it's getting through those little things
So thanks for sharing that and we appreciate it man
like there's there's there's
There's like people think that this is an easy thing to do and it's like you're trying to take care of a lot of plants
And a lot of different that need a little slightly different things and it's complex like we look at the grow off data
From the states. They have the regional grow off and it's it's done with royal gold
And it's it's done with a lot of different things and it's it's complex
From the states
They have the regional grow off and it's it's done with royal gold and they have different
Farms produce the same clones and they do hundreds and they they test every single one of them for the terpene profile
Every single one of them for the cannoy profile and every single one of them in period we like to work with the local guys
But they do these things but one of the interesting thing that we find is I mean other than self-tracking with farmers. It's horrendous
Is that is that it's so variable one?
one plant
Asexually propagated in exactly the same way through the thing can vary
Massively in terpene or flavor profile some terpenes are on the pendulum where it's either this one or that one
But like the diversity in a single flavor profile from a single plant is huge
And and we don't even understand it that much yet. So a man to trying to
Create as much consistency and with the ways challenges possible. Thank you so much. So David
I want to ask you like so what we're called to how many more cultivars are you gonna throw on that hundred list?
And then do you want to introduce the kushcraft guys? I
Gotta unmute you think there's some mute but
Yeah, 100% I think if the industry knew just kind of what we're coming out with here
I would say over the next 12 months. I mean this portfolio is gonna be
Immensely diverse like we've got some exciting stuff going on. We're popping a bunch of land races right now
I mean
Sky is gonna be the limit for what's coming
I could not be more excited and I think as the industry evolves and changes the more stuff that we can bring to the market
You know, it's it's gonna be super cool
So I would say to everybody just keep an eye on our social media and that kind of stuff
You're gonna see some more old-school stuff coming to the table
we're gonna force the world to love it and
To get back to the roots of cannabis here a little bit and and that's kind of what we're focused
But I know the guys at kushcraft been super patient and I mean
Like I said earlier freakin love those shirts. I expect one of those for Christmas
As everybody knows I'm extra small, you know
Anyways, uh, so listen
In the very beginning when we started going out and getting clients and that kind of stuff
Kushcraft was one of the first guys to step up and actually give us a chance and I really mean give us a chance because
I mean
There's there's a lot of people out there that are nurseries or want to be nurseries and everybody says they've got the best genetics in
the world
without question
The open arms that we were treated with at kushcraft and just the skill level there and the way that they can grow
Anything we sent them they just took to another level, you know, you know
and there really is a difference between how facilities are run and who's running those facilities and the growers like without question because
You can send something to a kushcraft who just knocks it out of the park makes it look gorgeous love to follow Michaels
You know social media stuff and comment on it because he's always taking great videos
You could send that same plant off to somebody else and I'm like, I was okay
I'm like, okay, the other guys killing it. Like what are you talking about? Like it really does matter and
Not because they're just clients bars they are in my opinion
some of the best in the business hands down little question, so
Steve and the team over there have been amazing
Steve's like seems like a brother to me, although he never bites me on these trips to Columbia
So that sucks, but you know one of these days maybe one of these days
He'll call me don't invite me on the one where you're like living in
I was hostage in the woods. Oh, that's not the one I'm talking to the beach. That's where I want to go see but
Listen there. You'll love these guys and they've got some killer brands out there, too
So, you know, I'll stop taking up airspace and let these guys introduce themselves
All right, who wants to go first Steve Steve do you want to go first
And me I gotta unmute. Yeah, I gotta do the button
Thanks, thanks so much Dave, thank you so much, you know, it's pretty comfortable
It's my first time doing cannabis for breakfast. I've seen that I saw the issue was the stew farms
I've I took on Wayne Patrick consumer products about two and a half years ago
And it's been a bit of a ride. I've heard some some key touch points though in the conversation this morning
We talked about partnership. We talked about team
We talked about community and we definitely found that with our partners at clone edX. I've got the same disabled Dave, you know
You find there are a lot of great characters and a lot of shy characters here in this industry
Dave's been a great partner from from the beginning
What you see is what you get what he tells you is what you get
He's probably one of the most legit legit guys legit businesses dealt with so far in this industry
You know, we took on this this brand
Partnered with Kushcraft to bring it to market. It was a legacy market brand
We wanted to bring quality to the to the public
you know and really in terms of my strategy and what Kushcraft and Wayne Patrick did was
You know, we wanted to bring the legacy market into the regulated market
We wanted to bring that quality flower at the right price point to the Canadian public
Personally I can say for myself. I wanted to bring a bit of legitimacy back to this market
You know when we first kicked off it was a bit of a rough a rough go, you know
There was a lot of flower out there that was crumbling in the hand once they open the bag
You know a lot of the same strain that was just mass-produced
You know
We wanted to kind of go more with the craft element and bring that quality flower back and you know at the very beginning this
Conversation. I mean I ate was music to my ears
You know, we Kushcraft really focuses on the cannabis connoisseur, right?
And we've been given this this this this faux bar of this race to the
Generation for the terpene profile or what else that that plant has to offer it is not always the THC that's gonna do it
You know, I don't know if there is that special
47 percent or 45 percent that you were talking about
I have this image of like, you know, the karate kid with that bonsai tree
You know growing on the on the ocean side like if there's that one tree somewhere
That's that's the pink unicorn that everybody's looking for. I don't know. We haven't found it yet
But I can tell you that every genetic that we brought in through clinics has been has been a winner for us
We've had a quite a few out there, you know, whether it's the grim blue or the white two wise or that, you know
The negra we've had on the tables. It's been great
I wanted to introduce, you know in terms of building my team or my company
My approach was hybrid. It's been hybrid since day one
It's been a hybrid concept of regulated meat legacy. It's been a hybrid grower
It's been you know, whether it's my operations manager or my QA P or whatever on-site. It's been hybrid
I wanted to bring in some of that legacy and some of that regulated because I think that's the only way this industry is
Gonna exist is if we actually embrace both sides and get information from both sides to bring the most quality
Product to the general public right and now obviously it's not just the THC game
It's also the economic game because we've got inflation everything that's going on. The consumer doesn't have that extra disposable income
Mike and Danny are great examples of team for me, you know, Mike's a second-generation grower
You know, he's he's a master of what he does
You know, he's the only guy I know that that's actually, you know
Produced for me a cola that looks like an indoor cola in a greenhouse space and having said that back to my theme on hydro
Or I'm sorry a hybrid
You know, we do have my facilities got a standard greenhouse room and it's also got a hybrid room, right?
And that's actually where we're finding the best flowers coming out of right now is our hybrid room
He's been able to somehow manipulate that that little strains and that genetic to grow something that does not look like it normally comes
It would come out of a greenhouse
And so, you know, we have to find those partners
We have to find that partnership like we did with Dave and I hope that he keeps giving me the keys to that gun that
Gunvolt his downstairs because he's had some pretty special
Special things come out of there. We've got some we've got some fetals on the table for him. We've grown some flower out
For him as well
Danny is my sales rep my national sales manager. It's it's been his job to actually bring that into market
You know, we find that with the bigger bigger markets in Canada the harder it is to get some of that flower in
Some of the nicer nicer flowers in the smaller markets
But that's you know, we will keep knocking on that door to bring it to market
But having said that, you know, we wanted to kind of show you what what we were able to do with Clonox genetics
I'm not gonna lie. We've got our own fault as well, but our safe isn't as big as Dave's and
Hopefully we can continue the partnership and keep the quality genetics coming for the Canadian public
Well said and I just gotta say I want to I want to like the guys that get to test your pheno hunts
30,000 plants and smoke one of the little bit of each of them. Good luck. It's not
You guys want it take it away guys?
Introduce yourself. I'm gonna unmute you now
The unmute button there and go ahead. Say hello. Hey guys, I'm Mike
and I'm Danny and the
National sales matters last director here at bushcraft and I oversee pretty much anything cannabis related from the growing to
Extractions to packaging and basically bridge the gaps between all those different departments and make sure that
Everything that's coming out these doors. It's just exactly what we're looking for
Awesome, maybe you guys could tell me a little bit about you before we get into this video
I'd love to know like who you guys are where you get into it
What like was like you guys are passionate cannabis folks clearly you got you got your glasses full of it
Like but what what gets you up in the morning?
You know what why why are you doing it and and and where so let's let's chat a little bit about that Mike and then
We'll hop over to you Danny
For me, it's honestly it's the whole thing. It's a big competition
I look at this whole I look at this whole thing is a massive game and we're just competing at such a high level with
With the best out there. It's like you guys said earlier like every grower thinks he's the best. We're coming at it differently
We're coming out at it as we have the best team. We have the best relationships
We have the ability to bring it all together not because of any one person that Dave I appreciate all the kind words
But it's the team. It's the the fact that we get some of the best genetics
It's the fact that we get all the notes everything provided with them making things so much easier and our in-house team like
These guys make me feel so dumb
like you know, I
Was given the challenge of leading this team where literally like every single one of them has a specialty whether it's IPM
Propagation. I just want to give a big shout out to many to Nick the James to Mike to
Roger everybody because they're the reason we are the the company we are and I think that you know as much as
What gets me excited is the whole fact that like it's our team versus everybody else, right?
And like, you know, like it's still you see it. This is such a developing market. It's all still so new look
Everybody we talked to in terms of genetics company just like growers. They all said they were the best
Not with Dave. Dave was straightforward with us. He's like look I'm building. I'm growing
I'm trying to be the best and let's do that together
And that's that was just like like magic to us, right?
We were so excited and then you know to talk about where I come from my passion of whatnot
I mean, I I was a corporate, you know tech, you know sales rep for years and
2018 saw this opportunity this industry that opened up and I've been passionate about Canada's the whole life
I worked for companies. I had no passion
I didn't I came in just went to the daily routine
But when I saw cannabis as an industry, I jumped in the moment
I left my career came here and I've been more happy about that that job of my life
Everything is so positive this industry you talk to people that are technically competitors when you're talking together and you're happier
You're just talking these like really positive
Interactions of people and whatnot and that's what that passion that I see from everybody and I love it
I never do it just it there's an energy at special the canvas community
and then what Mike was saying to like
We're trying to bring together this team that I always calls I call said the Avengers of you know, the the cannabis industry
It's the best of you know, legacy growers Mike has this special, you know
Skillset and he's building this team on the actual like in the grow house. We got Steve putting together
He's our Captain America putting it together
And it's just it's really exciting to watch this because it's a new industry and we're pioneers here to watch and it grow actually
You know being members of something that's going to grow into something massive and you know
Having partnerships with clone edX and seeing what they're doing
You know just it's it's great to have you know people to have a great partnership Z partners to be successful in this industry
And they've been great for us. So it's just a lot of just excitement and again key thing is again
I'm surrounded by so much positive energy. It's just it's contagious
Lagging it's because of all the cannabis and coffee this morning right now
Okay
So speaking of the facility, why don't we jump into it? Let's let's kind of video. So let's let's have it
Let's have a look. Okay
Beautiful shot I gotta say whoever's doing your camera work is doing a good job. You keep them around
Oh, yeah, oh, you know what I'm doing I'm not sharing the video. Thank you for letting me know
That he has since then completed building a 95-foot building
Red building
That he has since then
completed building a 90,000 square
Square feet facility onto so what you're seeing is actually the transition of them going from one building into the other
Actually what you're seeing is the solar panel as well
So is that is that like a supplemental energy there to kind of save some cost?
Yes, so everything so like everything from trying to save on electrical to our generators that we have like we can power a
small-city
If we need to like I don't know if you guys are familiar
But right now in Canada Canada and Ontario specifically like we have constant electrical shortages
So instead of improving the grid what they do is they actually approach large companies and facilities and they tell us to turn our power off
So imagine what that's like in the middle of the summer when you get told to turn off your ACS on a 70,000 square foot
Facility so we actually have a generator and a backup generator to be able to power this whole thing
And yeah, every every morning 5 a.m. It's just waking up to that email
It's like it's today gonna be the day or not, right and and that's one of the challenges of growing here in Ontario
It's it's crazy. I love this though. I love the fact that you're pulling out the the the
the solar panels, it's just
Yeah, gonna grow in door
Vision and you know, it's why we kind of
It's why he's able to assemble the team that he does is just really you kind of see the passion out of Steve
right, like he's literally like
He'll give you the shirt off his back to make this happen
and it's kind of how he convinced most of us to come in because of the level of
Integrity from him just wanting to achieve like look most companies like we say this all the time
They were trying to buy more equipment more automation Steve was sharpening scissors
He was trying to get more hand trim more hand buck trying to get to quality
I mean look at the size everything he's doing like it's in scale
I mean this room right now you guys are looking at we're able to hold over
200,000
Litres of water like it's it's just everything we're able to do like each one of those silos holds
15,000 gallons
And we're filtering all that from our well, which is another one of the challenges that is presented in this growth is
You know well water
Unlike city water unlike our old water that changes
So we're constantly testing our well and working actually with our partners at floor max
We supply our nutrients to constantly adjust our recipes, you know, like I hear the guys talking about
You know
30,000 different genetics like that gives me anxiety trying to figure out
30,000 different recipes and trying to figure out which plants are gonna grow and that's why with this irrigation room
You know, we're able to do a lot. We're able to
This is huge I've seen a lot of irrigation rooms and this is nuts like that is that is not a small irrigation space. Oh
I'm sorry guys. Yeah, I'm just saying like tech is saying that some of you guys may be getting like a
Freezing video right now, so I'm not really sure. No, you're good. You're all good. All right, great
So yeah, so I paused it. I paused the video in the background
So, yeah, so I mean
Yeah, so what you guys are seeing right now we're looking at now Steve was talking about
We built this room literally like the team welded the tables we we put together the trellis supports
You know like this place like there's so much passion that we bootstrap this room together
Just to test out the concept, you know, like this is these are huge investments of time
And money like you're talking about hundreds of thousands of dollars every single month, you know
And we don't know what the final result will be and that's where like working with
Clonetics working with these phenol hunts and getting the data points from them
look right now like the guys were saying earlier 25% or don't count and
That's a lot, you know and some of these genetics aren't even designed for that. And so imagine the risk putting forward
When you decide to start a grow we're talking a single
Harvest being you know up towards a half a million dollars in investment
so
Yeah, it's huge. It's huge and that's where being able to rely on
Clonetics and our in-house team for getting a good structure good recipes and like look we did 20 plant phenol hunts
that cost thousands of dollars because
Not only are you limited to what you can sell a phenol hunt to it's the amount of paperwork involved with it
Like what you guys are seeing right now
That's actually the 2y2 from Arkham genetics, you know, this was one of those we went to Clonetics with a wish list
I'm like look guys. It's the middle of the summer. It's gonna be hot. I
Need a plant that I can get to stretch. I need to get height
I want to get maximum potency out of what can we do? I need to test out my room
I need to know where my where are we gonna max out at?
You know
What kind of power and PPFD levels are we gonna get from it?
and
and that's where like, you know Sam and the big shout outs to your entire team because you guys have just kind of been so
supportive and like helping us kind of find the right genetics for this room because like I don't want to grow 20 different strains I
Don't want to grow 30,000 different strains I want to grow two three
I want it to be bangers and I want to be able to switch that out at you know, every single season
And then even look at these are gorgeous guys like I mean like these flowers are nuts when I walk in the facility
You see like the state-of-the-art facility
It's it's it's exciting to see like I'm shocked every time what Mike his team put together
But really comes down a combination of this, you know his knowledge his team's knowledge combined with state-of-the-art technology
But also not, you know reinventing the wheel
Cannabis is
Keep it in house there with the family there, but I love that that that's critical
But I want to just just a second because I need to pause because right here
The purple that's poking through on in this in these plants is quite lovely
Yes, so you're looking at grim glue right now
Which we got a whole video on grim glue so we won't get too much into that, right?
That's dad like this is you know Steve
Has allowed me my family to come in like me and dad actually did the first hash washes by hand
We hand paddled our first lots like we've been doing this like, you know, this is my second generation farmer
We've been doing this for a while and you know trying to do this at such a high level and
Steven allowing us to you know to run his machine
It's been a pleasure like it's just another one of those things like what gets me excited
I get to play with a Ferrari every day. Yeah, you know
Going from our legacy facilities to this. It's been a dream come true
Then now you what you're seeing right there. So yeah, like I said, we do full plant hang dry
We started off selecting we originally just did our tops
But we've actually changed that since you'll see that in a later video where now we're doing the full plant
Let's get the full potential out. We'll do a separation after
We'll separate our tops from bottoms. We'll separate what's like all of our pre rolls actually come from the buds
We don't use trim. We don't dilute it
That's you know there I see Steve like that that was a big thing
Because I mean even even how we grind our flour we went and got a massive Santa Cruz mega shredder done
Just so the grind wouldn't be too thin, you know
And that's coming up actually you guys are gonna see some of that because you know, it's it's the fine details there
You guys you see how big this thing is London
So fun. I saw them at lift Expo and it's just like I kind of just want one to do it roll a doobie with it
For the sarcasm of the whole situation
What's great like what we're doing to it's like it's it's getting products that are people are expecting years
You know pre rolls like I said that are not, you know shake we're actually hand rolling keeping it
You know keeping it real from how cannabis should be produced for a product that's no 20 these yesterday
I got from somebody at lift. I think
Bill Blizzy's blizzy blood. That's the
See this was like it's another one of those steps we're taking right so look we're proud of the flower we're growing
We don't want it to be you know muffled by the what is being rolled in housed in
That's why we went with the King palm just because it doesn't really have much of a chirping profile
You get more focus on the flower
It's another one of those steps to organic and you know
Like once again just another different product that just stands out a little bit more a little bit more effort
That's what we do to we're all about innovation, right?
It's like we don't want to like be different for the sake of being different
We're actually providing providing products that are functional for reasons
You know like having our you know, our day and night career rolls happening to have steve
Uh, you know strains of one pack or mini moons where it's a point five
Moon rock
You know in a one's consumable sort of mini moon as we call it a mini egg
I essentially call it in a sense, but you know, we're doing things that are like unique
but also not so unique that it's
Strange and weird the cannabis users. They kind of they understand it
We're not just being different to say be different. I said, it's great have that
Facility where we can do these cool things and be different but have products that people really gravitate towards
it's been it's been phenomenal every day is a fun day like the for our reason we go in every day, man, it's like
It's easy like Steve's been like that being said like, you know
Just I know I keep going back to him
But I'm telling you like but this is right now we are just about to start our third harvest into this greenhouse
We are just dialing this thing in like Thomas saying like but the third grow is supposed to be that moment where you really dial
In the system. How do you do that when you're constantly switching genetics when you're constantly switching profiles?
with working with clonetics
Thanks to Steve and bringing that relationship together
We're actually able to get to a point where we can do a third fourth fifth consistent grow and we know
Exactly what we're getting like we know that it's not going to be a random change and we exchange notes back and forth
Which allows that to happen so smooth like, you know
Sam
Gives me a good idea beforehand either a hey, look I've grown it. This is what you're expecting
You know, you're gonna get this much of a stretch
You know, you might need to put in the third bit of netting or you'll just tell you look
We just started this one. Can you please run it in your room? We're gonna run it in a couple of different environments
we're gonna see where it lands best and
You know being in Southern Ontario and being in a greenhouse that has open venting
Our environment changes constantly
So what I'm growing in the winter won't necessarily be the same type of plants
I might be wanting to be growing in the summer and I don't need to keep
Hundreds and hundreds of different genetics in our room. I actually we want to take our 12,000 square foot
Propagation room. I want to convert that into another flower and you know as these relationships as this time as time develops
Like that's exactly what we want to do, you know, it's great having in-house
But once the you know, you're working with a team like phonetics
It kind of becomes pointless, right?
Like I mean Dave and his team are able to store house clean prep everything just the way we want it
I'm able to get an access to a massive Rolodex and they've been really good with us. We're like look
If we find something in our phenol hunts
Dave's been the first to say hey send it over. Let's try it
You know, it's just like great
He's like I was saying before a little bit where you know in this industry you need those partnerships to really thrive
You know it if you don't you sort of stuck by yourself
We haven't that you know
The the genetic library and the expertise from clonetics working with our team and having that communication
Just makes things so much easier for us to do a lot of fun things and I'm like Mike said this our third harvest
Started like guys this is just the beginning Dave. That's your grim right now
And like I'm telling you the light doesn't do it justice
Like we're we're getting our test backs. The COAs are coming in fire, and I honestly don't think we could have done it
without all the different relationships we have if it wasn't for clonetics if it wasn't for and our labs if it wasn't for
Floor max if it wasn't for grow Dan, you know, we're we're working with grow Dan helping measure
we're using their grow sense system and
They're actually coming in on a regular basis helping us read the data
Helping us really
Understand and read it because like look
You know, we say master grower grower. No, like we're just learning and
That's you know
Like that's one of the models here is to if you feel like you already got it all figured out
You shouldn't work in this building because we're all still learning this is all still also new and
Taking some of the classic
Tested methods and now introducing new innovations like but we're able to get real-time testing on
Where I'm at with my nutrients I'm able to get a nutrient analysis from a leaf test in under three days
I'm able to get water content drive back data literally on the hour
So I'm if I want to and I want to get tight
Internodal spacing because I'm seeing a little bit of stretch
I can go and start doing a bunch of quick injections or if I see a plants not stretching the way I want it
You know, we'll introduce more red lighting
well
we won't rely as much on the Sun and
depending on where we end will cause the stretch to happen and having that kind of control and
Thanks to all these different partnerships
It's the only way we can do it, you know, like our operating system is Priva
I don't know if you're familiar with it
but it's it's like the MS-DOS of growing like I it took a whole team to teach a team how to read this thing and
You know, thanks to all these partnerships now, it's it's a breeze
But before like yeah, they didn't sleep
But it's exciting like
We're really taking off now and you know having that facility operational now
I mean from two and a half years ago when I first stepped in this facility
It's night and day like the videos you're seeing there is to see what the that's our first delivery
Just starting right now and like we're just your first delivery of Korean barbecue clones. Yeah
So it's just it's exciting to is like this industry to you need a lot of different options
It's always a thirst for new strains and having that clone X or say hey
We got these these this this library that we can work with buying ours and whatnot. It's just it's a win-win scenario
So we're we're ecstatic than what the future is with with the you know, not only in the industry of what we're capable of doing here
But it's just it's really now. It's like it's day one. We're starting off just recently now compared to like two years ago
But it's exciting like it really is and we're looking forward to you know, what's next what Mike is magic is magical
You know team can put together here, but like going away every day when he sees I see his team we could do
Thank you, honestly
Humble but it's all the team like you see how many bodies are in there you see the level inspection. That's actually our QA
Jeremy going through everything, but we
We're taking the information that all of our PhD employees have and we're taking large-scale production
And we're trying to do it in a craft format. Look it's not easy and
It's because oh, that's yes, I mean the lighting on that shot man
Shout out to Boston Roadbox.
That's that Korean barbecue.
Like, I mean, like, you know,
these are the kind of crosses and exotics
that we're looking for.
Like you got like a garlic sherbet,
cactus breath in there.
You know, like the grim that we were talking about earlier,
like Mr. Soul has been perfecting this thing for years
and now being able to take it to market.
It's just been, you know, it's been humbling.
It's been humbling because it makes it like,
it makes it so easy for us.
And like I said, again-
He had Mr. Soul on the sift a little while ago
with Ron Harrington and we had a great show
and he is a brilliant, brilliant breeder
and a very passionate guy.
And I know what level he brings.
It's very cool to see his work on scale.
Yeah, and like, once again, like, like everybody,
they're all been so welcoming
and forward with the information.
Like if we were doing everything blindly
and trying to figure out, you know,
what's this recipe got to look like?
This would take us a year.
You know, this wouldn't look the way it does
going into our third harvest.
Like, you know, there's a third-
Look how happy those fucking plants are.
My wife's getting mad at me
because I swore with kids around.
But like, I just, just like,
you see plants like this and they just like,
they're so ecstatically happy.
Like, look at this, like, like, oh my God,
they're just reaching for it, eh?
Like just stoked.
And once again, like it's dialing in the,
like the environment, like I'll tell you,
like that entire space,
that's our propagation room you're looking at right now.
It's 12,500 square feet.
You know, that room doesn't want to run empty.
It's one of those situations where we got to keep it
as full as possible because the VPD,
everything drops off so fast, you know?
And it's just like another attestation
to like the quality of the room
where we're looking at this
and we're able to adjust climate so quickly.
But honestly, if it wasn't for our maintenance team,
we'd be in water all the time.
Like, look, this thing's a big machine and it breaks.
I would love to tell you that every day goes perfect.
It doesn't.
We, you know, like it's constantly,
it's having all these backups and all this knowledge
that really saves us.
Like our maintenance guy, you know,
shout out to James and Mike.
I was telling you guys earlier,
they literally welded and built our tables.
James has been traveling around the world,
working for gold mines, working on pump systems.
Like he's able to rebuild things right there
because, you know, when you're talking about
a 14,000 square foot room full of plants in rock wool,
they can die in 24 hours if the environment's up.
We found out here-
Like what's your rate of decay?
Like you get, and I mean, how long do you see,
how long until you see diminished yields?
So is it before you have problems out?
Because you need this community to do these things.
It's crazy.
And we're looking at the grim glue here.
Yes.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, that's the grim blues coming out.
So for us, it's within a, roughly within a day.
So we have people walking the roads constantly.
We have people randomly pulling out drippers
and because we're testing them out dry bags,
that's actually Ken from FloorMax.
We're talking about relationships.
They come out and they talk with us.
We get, and like, they're coming from Australia.
They had Andrew fly out.
He was literally down in Ontario for less than 72 hours.
We took up most of those 72 hours.
And they'll come in, they'll perform all the tests
because look, the irrigation rooms, they're complicated.
We're actually running a liquid fertilizer
similar to what some of the viewers might be used to.
Look, most of these facilities are usually run on salts.
But FloorMax has been like, because of our relationship,
they've actually made it where it's cheaper
for us to run the liquid nutrient.
The amount of time I'm saving on mixing, recipe checks,
making sure that nothing's breaking that suspension,
like just making sure that it's all perfect.
When you're talking about a 15,000 gallon reservoir,
that's a huge savings.
Being able just to add my liquids,
making sure they're at the right level,
and then being able to rely on FloorMax's entire lab.
Yeah, it's great.
It's like, you see the roots, you know, like-
Like look at those roots for shoots, man.
Like that's just beautiful.
And what we're trying to constantly do
is just get there faster.
And you know, good irrigation,
a lot of oxygen to the roots.
We're growing, we keep our moms in a soilless medium,
but we're growing a rock wool.
And our feed is actually partially organic
and does have microbes in it,
but then we kill them on a regular basis.
Like we are the house of murder.
I love you.
I just fell in love with you a little bit.
It's what we have to do.
You know, like I do rely on that microbial webbing
to be able to uptake more sugars.
I am trying to get the best of everything,
but at the same time,
I need to make sure that everything is sterile and clean.
And we found like just introducing a bit of Xerotol,
not only am I getting a bit of more oxygen to my roots,
along with our ozonated water,
we're also able to clean those roots a little bit better.
So, you know, not only are we doing flushes,
we're doing cleans at the same time.
But one of the drawbacks of that is,
well, we kill all the microbial biology in there.
And so we have to reintroduce it back.
And that's another thing that 4Max
kind of made it cost effective on us.
Because otherwise, you know, Steve would kill me.
Right?
That's the truth.
And you are using,
I saw the Bio-Protect sachets on some plants,
if I'm correct off the top of my head,
like the little sachets for microbials,
not microbials, but for spider mites and such.
They're the,
God, the bug people love their stupid long names.
Yeah.
You're looking like we got like persimilis.
Yeah.
Like the P one and the N and the F,
you know, the phalacis or whatever.
Yes.
But it seems like that's a good one.
I'm not the only one that butchers these words.
There's a team right now laughing at me.
But that's where, once again, like I came,
I come from an outdoor, indoor background.
My mom always growing with companion plants
and companion bugs, teaching me about that.
And now we brought in our IPM specialists
and working with them and them really teaching me
like the full capability of this.
Look, our goal is to not spray.
And we've been like, since I've started working here,
I can honestly say that that has never happened,
but it's all thanks to them.
Like these predator mites are way more effective
and I don't have to shut down my room.
I don't have to worry about safety.
It's just a lot more better process
and timing them out and really knowing
when to use which bug.
That's the, oh, yeah, that's the Grim Blue right there.
Yeah, wow.
Like look at that.
Like obviously that's the team right there.
That's the culmination of all these people together.
I was telling you, we have a third person sitting with us.
That's our friendly bag of weed.
That's a big bag of weed that we're able to grow.
And that's the Grim Blue that you guys are looking at.
Oh no, hold that up.
Hold that up again.
I gotta get that on full screen.
You gotta, it's a big bag of weed.
Bilbo Baggins.
Bilbo Baggins.
I don't know.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah, and like everything's coming out,
like I said, so like we know it doesn't show well
in the bags, but just because it's so dark.
But once again, like us being able to work
with Dave's team and Dave being able to send us his phenos
and look, he's, it's been back and forth.
He's allowed us to also test out different phenos
of that genetic, which we're doing right now.
I think you guys on our, actually on our social media,
if anyone's following that, that's in our stories right now,
is that process, is this pheno hunt process.
Because the paperwork and the tracking every time
you do a pheno hunt, it's actually incredibly complicated.
Because if you don't grow a large amount of it
where you can take it to a small market,
you're then forced to be very creative
on how you can actually monetize that crop.
You know, you gotta, it's really difficult.
Like there's, it's a very much, oh God.
Yeah, I guess I'm excited right there.
It's very much.
Yeah, no, everybody's stumbling over the words
with the pretty flowers.
So I'm noticing something here and is this Grim Glue,
like is it a temperature shift for the,
for the when the anthocyanin purple,
that's kind of showing up?
So it happens naturally.
Do you get cooler temperatures?
What we do, like going into flower, going into late flower,
we start dropping the temperatures overnight in our rooms.
So the antioxidants come out a lot more on it.
You know, like the 2i2 is where we really found it
coming out the most.
Shout outs to Arkham, Angel, Nacho over there.
Like that 2i2, that's where we really saw
the purpling come out.
It actually had like a blueberry kind of scent to it
afterwards.
That's yeah, you're looking at it right there.
We were trying to.
His eyes, I don't know if you can catch his eyes there
for a second, but if, let's see if I just got to pause this
just at the right spot,
cause his eyes are like the most, like right there.
I'm so happy.
I am an extremely happy human being right now.
We're providing the whole thing there, right?
And like, this is us going in with our full plant hangs now.
So you see it like it's the full stocks
that we're hanging out.
Like you just see the quality of the growth
that's happening here.
I know we keep going back to partnerships with Clonetics,
but just, this is the great thing about, you know,
legalization and regulation is that you have access
to the best of the best, the best of breeds of,
you know, nutrition and you got, you know, nutrients, sorry.
You got like the best of breed of technology
and the best minds coming together.
And you're seeing the results of it right there.
We are building reputation for quality.
And I know what Steve said to the beginning
is that we're trying to bring, you know,
quality legacy strains, legacy products,
price points that people are looking for.
And it's, people gravitate towards this brand
because you see the results, you know,
the product stands by itself, you see it.
And these pictures are just, it's mesmerizing.
Look at this stuff.
And this is just the beginning.
We're gonna keep growing and getting better and better.
We just started.
We just started.
It's insane.
So this is, we're gonna see the industry grow
and, you know, get more quality products to market.
And we've already seen it today.
And I love what David said earlier.
It's not all about these top end high THC products.
Personally, I'm like you, David, man.
I love the 16%.
There's a lot of products I can't even handle now,
but, you know, the ability to have the,
put in some high end flour, high THC,
which we got, high terps,
and then for the products that are also, you know,
lower percentage that are banger stuff.
We got the best of both worlds.
We got it all going here and you can see it.
It's amazing.
Yeah, I think we all,
we're all striving for flavor to become, you know,
the way that customers are focused on purchases,
but we're not there yet.
For some reason, everyone's still looking for that crack.
I don't like, personally,
like I don't mind missing a few exits here and there.
I love a good dab,
but it does start getting ridiculous, you know?
Like when people are telling me that
they're striving for this 30 plus 40% flour,
I haven't found one that tastes good.
And it's something that's-
No, and they're so fucking boring.
So like, I've had like,
I've gotten in a lot of that,
like the high THC stuff here and there,
and it all tastes the same.
There's only, the thing is,
once you get in high THC,
you get like two flavor fucking profiles.
It's gas and citrus,
and it's boring as fucking,
and people are gonna realize
when all the weed on the market tastes the same
and they're bored as hell,
that that was the wrong way to go.
100%.
There needs to be space for that resin gland to develop.
And if everything's being taken up
by the one cannabinoid,
it's not gonna happen.
You're not gonna be able to process
and build up that terpene profile
when all the energy from the plant
is being focused on one cannabinoid.
And I think that's the big issue
with high potency strains.
On top of many other reasons,
you know, like in terms of viability,
they don't grow that great.
And they don't, like,
they're very, it's very easy
because of the amount of frost
and trichomes on top of it.
Yes, that plant looks amazing
and tastes great that day
that it leaves the trim room.
But after it's been banged around in a bag,
and then, like,
it's all broken next.
So you end up with this poor tasting flower,
where meanwhile,
I think something that's more sticky,
more resinous,
I think those buds actually have preserved better
and hold better for that reason.
And I think, you know,
when we're going for a more bulbous trichome,
I think, yes, okay,
because our hash room may hate it,
but in terms of our flower,
it's a much better product, I find,
especially by the time it gets to the user.
Yeah, that looks better than opening the bag.
Just beautiful.
Now, just hit me in the face.
It tastes insane.
I'm excited.
These are two very different things, right?
These are two very different things
for designing stuff for, like,
high THC or washing
and designing great smokable flower.
Yeah, and that's why, you know,
Growboxx and Dave,
they got us the Korean barbecue.
And like, I don't know if you've seen it,
but the way it foxtails
and it still stays dense,
like, I'm so excited to grow that.
You know, like trying to,
these different characteristics
and these new profiles, like,
look, we want it to look pretty, right?
Pretty cells.
You know?
Yeah.
Yeah, a majority, like,
I would love looking at a bag of flower opening up
and just see these new colors
and these profiles come out.
And, you know, like being able to do that
on a high level right now,
I think gets us really excited.
I think it makes the Danish job a little bit easier.
100%.
What you're saying there,
and then also having the ability
to bring in strains from around the world.
Like, everyone loves a good story.
For us to get access to genetics in Spain
and, you know, in the States, obviously,
and then, like, in Amsterdam
and then presenting to the Canadian market
is a huge selling point,
not only for the quality of the flower,
which is, you know, obvious,
but to have that story behind it.
Hey, you want a flower that's grown
from a legacy breeder in Colorado,
the Brothers Grimseeds for 20 plus years,
and they perfected these strains
and Cinderella 99 crossbreed in this grim blue.
You know, people, like, get excited about the story,
but then they try the flower and they're like,
oh, wow, you're smoking history.
You're smoking guys that have proven
that these strains have been, you know, perfected.
And we're bringing it into the Canadian market
through Clonetics,
and people are really getting excited to see what's next.
And we got a lot of cool things on our schedule here
that are coming down the pipeline.
And it's just, the sky's the limit right now.
You know, especially this industry being so new,
you know, a lot of cool things are coming in
from around the world.
It's an international flower.
Cannabis is not located in certain areas around the world.
It's everywhere.
And we wanna make sure we get the flavor profiles,
those different strains,
from different areas around the world
into Canada and the Canadian market
to get people that, you know,
the tribal new flowers
that they weren't able to get access to before.
So Clonetics is another reason why we can do that.
It's been unbelievable, this whole ride, for sure.
You hear that, Sam?
You're gonna be growing 40,000.
There you go.
You're a shit out of luck.
So Danny, I wanna ask, like, we're getting around.
We usually try and summarize these at about an hour and a half
but we've talked and done through a lot here.
We'll have to skip the Q&A segment today.
But I wanted to dig into one last thing.
I wanna know, you know,
where can we get a hold of KUSH craft products?
What do we have on market right now?
Like, and if you don't have it at your local dispensary,
you can go and request it.
We appreciate that if you're in the Canadian market.
Where are you guys available
and how can we support you before we finish up the episode?
And cheers to some beautiful glasses full of flower.
Yes, absolutely.
Yeah, so I mean,
we're currently about eight provinces right now.
Obviously Ontario, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Alberta,
Northwest Territories, Yukon, Nunavut,
and then my home province of Newfoundland there.
So we're, you know, we're growing pretty quickly
and that happened within like a first year and a half
or so of us operating, which is pretty remarkable.
And we're looking to be in more products
or more provinces soon.
But the big news right now,
the big products are really, you know,
gravitating towards customers are our mini moons,
which is doing extremely well,
which I kind of hinted at a little bit before.
0.5, four pack of moon rocks.
Again, functional,
because it's innovative where, you know,
one hit sort of, you know, mini moon,
mini rock option, which is doing very well.
Our Hawkberry is killing it in Ontario,
a new flower that dropped about a month ago, I'd say.
We can't keep it on the shelves.
We've been getting a lot of pre-up orders in Ontario.
Our infused pre-roll line,
we have a sub-brand called the Jeffrey by Kushcraft,
which is focused on just infused pre-rolls.
We have our Greek out there.
Now our Mindfreak.
Mindfreak's combination of a blend of our flower.
I always call it our craft salad.
And then a combination of our bubble hash
and our live resin and-
Rosin.
Rosin, sorry.
And I know Mike here, he can smoke me under the table.
The Mindfreak's killing it.
He's going to sit down and smoke in that.
I can't even touch it.
It's too powerful and strong and smelly.
You can smell it when you open up the bag.
So a lot of cool things in the infused pre-roll line.
Also our Shatter Slice, which is a new product.
One of its kind where it looks like a slice of pie.
It's fun, but the key thing is about it.
It's layered for the first time ever.
Layered shatter and live resin.
And as you smoke it, the flavor profile changes.
So it's-
Is that available in BC?
Cause that sounds delicious.
Unfortunately not BC yet.
You won't be able to get it online,
I believe through medical, no?
Medical, yes.
We do have a medical on our website,
but everything I mentioned would be mainly in Ontario
and the province I mentioned there.
But like, London, you help us out.
I'm coming to smoke all this stuff.
All my West Coast brothers and sisters,
go to your local dispensary, tell them you want Kushcraft.
We're working on it.
We want to get out there.
We appreciate all the support from you guys.
A lot of people tune in on our social media
and we're really excited to get it to there.
And I hope it gets there soon.
Especially like, I mean, people just,
it's the capital of growing.
We need to be there.
100%.
And then just last thing to say too about Kushcraft.
I mean, like this is a brand that's got a lot of history
and we're really taking off right now.
So I'd just say that this year is the year that Kushcraft
and it comes by, it comes by,
like it's come together for all the team we have.
That's really two and a half years of perfecting that team
and bring that team together.
That really works really well together.
No egos here at all, man.
We know what needs to be done.
And with all the partnership together here,
we're here to make this a huge brand.
And we've got a lot of momentum right now.
We're looking forward to the next chapter here for us.
Yeah. And I just want to thank you London.
And like, you know, for having us on here
and for having Konetics and just giving companies like us,
you know, a voice, a bit of light to be able to promote
and just let, you know, let Canada know
and let the world know, you know what we're doing here.
And we really appreciate it and keep doing it.
Keep teaching growers because without the growers,
we got nothing.
Yeah. We're looking for a true legacy brand.
You're looking at it right here.
Thank you all for being here.
Thanks. Thanks.
Steve, Mike, Danny, Tom, David, Lyle and Sam.
This is our largest episode.
Actually, no, we did it.
We did a massive episode for the season finale last year
where we had like, I think a dozen people on
like Jorge Cervantes, Bubble Man,
big episode was a lot of fun.
So that was, I think the largest episode.
This is damn close.
This is damn close to maybe one or two away.
But thank you all for being here.
I really look forward to it.
I'm coming to Toronto in June.
So I'm going to come, you're going to come and see
if you can actually smoke me under the table.
And it'll be fun.
No, no.
Let's do it. Let's do this.
I'll be on a one month, I'll be on a one month hiatus.
So you'll have an advantage.
Okay, I'll take that.
Okay, I like those options.
I appreciate it all.
I appreciate you all.
I look forward to having you on again
and hearing about it from you guys a little bit later on.
Thank you, Dave and Tom as well
for helping to coordinate all this and you know,
happy growing.
We'll see y'all a little bit later
here on Cannabis for Breakfast.
Be back next week.
We're with Weathered Islands Cannabis.
We're going to do, he's starting his outdoor season
and we're going to, he does the methodology
where he doesn't use lighting.
He just uses outdoor sunlight and his regenerative farm
in like the island of BC,
which is fucking cold and ridiculous.
So I don't know how he's going to do it.
I'm very, I'm excited to see that.
So come and happy growing.
Happy tr-
