Hello, hello, hello everybody and welcome to another episode of Cannabis for Breakfast.
I'm your host London back again with another great episode. I'm excited to get chatting
and get digging into this week because we have some award-winning growers with us. As
usual, you can see me here in the garden and all the links and info and stuff is in the
description. We have two main sponsors, Merco Banking. For those that are working in the
cannabis space and need to do online banking, whether it's sales or payment processing,
what have you, Merco Banking Solutions is a good option for you. They're about 70% of
the dispensaries up here in Canada, so you can tell that they're a legit, safe company
to work with. And of course, as usual, you can find them on degga.garden. You can find
them everywhere. It's Bavita, two-way humidity control. Bavita keeps your weed fresh, man.
Fresh weed is good weed. I'm excited to be here. We got an award-winning growers from
the Unicorn Cup and we're going to have a great conversation. So without any further
ado, I'll bring them up and have them in here because that's what you're here to see and
that's what I'm here to show you. So welcome guys. Welcome to the show. Why don't you guys
go ahead and introduce yourself. Everybody knows who I am and they're here to see you.
So why don't you guys let you know, Team Sweetgrass here, everybody.
Hi guys. I'm Brandon. I'm the QAP at Sweetgrass. I'm Andy, a grower. Master grower. He's humble,
but master grower.
I love that. I love the master grower. I was like, no, I didn't. No, no. I've got friends
that are consultants that are master growers at large facilities down in California. One
is Ebinflo Farms. And she's like, I don't even like calling myself a consultant. I'm
like a plant guy. That's as far as I would go. Those terms are kind of faux pas of our
industry now because we've had some interesting people. So is there a reasoning? Is that kind
of your thing? You like being a humble grower and you don't like the title? Is that why
you're humble about it there, brother?
Yeah, I guess so. I don't see the necessity for it, I suppose. But just a curious guy
and always been into plants and just a grower. That's why I'm here, obviously, to meet
and work with that.
Awesome. So first things off the bat, what got you into this? How long has Sweetgrass
been around? What's the background of who you are and what you do?
We started in 2019, do we? It's like, that's when we got licensing. We started working
on the certification stuff in November. Is that 2019 or 2018? 2019. And sort of putting
everything together and then assembling the building. This is pre-licensing and just figuring
out the workflow and production flow and everything. And Julian and I and then these
guys started coming around and Brandon was there as well, I think, and then started to
assemble a crew. And then when did we become certified? When did we get our licenses?
I've been here since early 2020 and we got licensed in May of 2020. And probably the
whole year before we've been working on the licensing package and building the building
for at least the year before that. So that was all of 2019, I'd say.
Yeah. So it was all building that. Yeah. Okay. So it was longer.
Because even the Fraser Valley Organic, you got all the systems in place before I started
really. In 2019, you were working on the...
It's hard to remember, to be honest. It kind of makes it obvious that it's hard to really
know. It's been a bit of a blur.
It's been a blur. It's a fucking lot of work. It's incredible. And it's the initial work
because you're talking 2019, micro licenses aren't as easy to get. You're probably on
the initials.
It totally is. They were changing the goalposts as we were applying. That was sort of when
they started making the distinction between a full size LP and a micro and they made it
slightly easier on the licensing, but they also kept changing the requirements. So they
made that harder as well. And just to... The reason we got into this is because we have
a lot of legacy growing experience. There was a... Like in many places in BC, there
was already a cannabis industry around here that was transitioning and that's why we got
into it. And there was a ready-made labor force that needed work around here as well.
So yeah, I think we have at least a hundred years of growing experience between all of
the growers and then the people, the managers, whatever else around here, we have lots of
experience.
That's awesome. And that is an area that needs the support right now. Kootenai was kind of
built on cannabis when you look at it historically.
A legacy. A huge part of everything that they did. And it probably had a good portion of
the development of even Nelson as it is. So it's an integral part, but when that legacy
transition happened, a lot of those businesses... I'm talking to Chris who runs a dispensary
in Nelson. She went from 36, 37 employees to three over the exchange from illicit or
the gray market, whatever it was, to now. And the challenge, it's through there. So
I love seeing businesses develop and putting together teams and getting back to be able
to rehire people and have a community built out because it's important.
The community needs work. And when they did the switch over and all of a sudden Pure Sun
Farms has a million dollar square foot facility that they're stoking in Delta, the
Kootenai just seems a little bit further away.
And when it's really not, it's a short drive and it's really been our emerald triangle of
cannabis for a long time.
So naturally, you guys have been influenced by that.
Have you been Canadian growers or in that space for a period of time where you're
traveling throughout North America?
Where do you hail from?
Andy and I both come originally from the coast.
Andy, it's fair to say you came from the Fraser Valley and I came from Vancouver Island.
Yeah, Fort Langley.
And we've all been in the Kootenai for quite a while.
And then the rest of our crew seems to come from Quebec.
There's quite a few who came out to Kootenai from Quebec independently.
Where are you from?
Yeah, I was born in Quebec.
Hey, there's someone else here.
That's me. I'll say I've been out in the Kootenai 22 years, but grew up in B.C.
Yeah, 22 years here too.
Most of our growing experience has been around the Kootenai.
For everyone who's here, we've been growing in the Kootenai.
I grew up on the island before, but.
I think I had a couple of plants on my porch on Commercial Drive overlooking the city
when I was probably 21.
And I didn't even really understand flower, you know, periods.
I think I did.
I was just generally just curious about growing.
I did a lot of gardening before that, but never cannabis.
I remember the first one of the first plants, like I grew myself.
It was so bad. But it was like there was this, OK, this is a weird story and it's
just coming up because we're talking about it because you said that that that
commercial drive thing is I used to live downtown in English Bay, like right off the
beach, an apartment building that you could literally see the water from like six
floor up, like not very high up.
But there was this weird old naked lady that would come out to her deck and suntan
like nude. But she was old, like like like leather handbag old.
So like it was it was an interesting set of circumstances.
But anyways, like one day I know she's got weed plants on her balcony.
I'm like, oh, that's that's crazy.
She's got some weed plants there.
It's like I have to go get a little drone and try to steal or whatever and make a
joke out of it. Anyway, she ends up coming up one day and giving them to us.
And that's the first plants I ever got.
She's like, yeah, I found them on the street on my walk down, walk down Davie here
the other day. Just pick them up.
And I'm like, OK, that's a little weird.
I'll try. It went very poorly.
I had no idea what I was doing at the time.
It was it was it was bad, but it was a good entry in for first attempt into it.
But that that reminder and that was what I was doing.
I was growing them on my deck
off off of English Bay Beach right there.
And it's like they only got like a little bit, but it was pretty funny at the time.
Yeah.
Anyway, so what what what is it that makes the Kootenai special to you?
Because it is a special place for cannabis and is a special place for the community
there. What drew you to the Kootenai?
What is it that makes Kootenai special?
All start, I guess.
Well, I came here, I think it was first in 1999 to visit a friend
that was in the Selkirk woodworking program.
I think this is a familiar story for some some people like quite a few people
I know came here to even attend that program, but came here, just thought it was beautiful.
And my friend was from Vancouver as well.
And I just came and checked it out and cruise around for a bit.
And and met some of his friends that were kind of in that world as well.
And then the next summer started to work in the legacy world
while attending school in Vancouver and just coming back and just loving it here
and spending every summer here after that.
From that point on, I don't think I miss a summer here for 20,
however many years, 24 years or something like that.
But yeah, just so beautiful,
so dramatic like the geography and crazy climate, the warmth
and then the winters here as well that for some people are great for skiing,
snowboarding and stuff like that, outdoor sports.
Yeah, just there's so much here.
The climate's changed quite a bit everywhere, but it's not quite
as perfect for cannabis as it used to be or farming in general, but
it's still beautiful.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, I guess the cat's out of the bag, so if we tell people how nice it is up here,
people already know about it.
So I'd say the reason the reasons I moved up here are even changing a bit
because the kind of the climate, the concentration of of interesting,
healthy, fun people really.
And that combined with kind of you could tell there was a cannabis culture up here
was why I initially wanted to move up here, like why I saw it was interesting
when I was in my late teens, early 20s.
And that is changing a bit because it's getting a lot busier in the area.
People are coming up from other other places, but still the people
who seem to settle up here are still, on average, fun, healthy, interesting people.
So the people and the climate, like Andy said, I was into winter sports
and then just the.
Ease of getting into the outdoors up here compared to other parts of.
Of B.C. and.
And the climate, so that's kind of why I settled up here was because it was
kind of remote, was kind of cheap at the time for real estate,
and there was tons of people and there was gardening opportunities, really.
You could tell. Yeah, I'd say, yeah, it was about getting away from the city
for me as well, the congestion.
I said it is special, like coming up to the unicorn cup
and experiencing that and and and kind of coming into that area,
because that was really the first time I've spent much time in the area.
And we did a little bit of traveling in the area ahead of time and afterwards.
And I've been, of course, to the to Kelowna and up and down that area,
Penticton, and I have friends that have farms in in in the Silmoke Valley.
And I've spent time going to visit them and checking out their farm
and the green and going to the restaurant, blah, blah, blah.
But it's like it's such a it is a different world.
It's like stepping into a different dynamic in comparison to where
I'm in land in the Vancouver and the hustle and bustle of it all.
It really does take you out of it, which is quite nice.
I'm I'm I'm really loved coming up there.
I can't wait to spend some more time up there next year during the summer,
which we will definitely be doing.
So you guys went through the heartaches of opening up a facility in Canada.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the major challenges
that happened throughout that period of time?
What were some of the things that made things difficult?
And and and what are things that continue to make things difficult
as the practicing LP here in Canada?
Real economics, I guess everything, everything takes longer and costs more
than you might hope, so having, you know, the
having to have pockets that are deep enough to withstand
all of the all of the delays, so like that health,
Canada is frustrating to deal with.
I mean, it's doable, but it takes a long time.
And then. Being able to sell your product, so getting license is one thing,
but then you actually have to find the the actual mechanisms
to sell your product at a decent price of finding the business relationships,
and that has been.
Challenge and learning experience, you know, so being able to.
Sell our product, but but we've but we've been able to, you know, like it's been
it's been a challenge, but we've learned along the way
and it's only going to get more competitive.
So, you know, it was a struggle to get in there to be one of the pioneers
to learn the system, but now that we're a little bit ahead of some operators,
it's it's helpful to be in to have been in business as long as we have.
You know, we've learned a lot of things along the way. So.
So, yeah, mostly that anything from the technical side, I mean,
I think the growing has been fairly similar.
Yeah, it's been almost nicer because we have such a we've put the capital
towards making a facility that's.
Two facilities, two facilities, part of me that are.
I'd say a step up from a lot of the legacy facilities that,
you know, we've been used to seeing, like it's at least we can.
We have a good facility to work to grow under.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
And also to clarify, yeah, there's two facilities.
I think the first one came online, may, as you said, in 2020.
And then the second one, 2021, June, June.
Yeah. So and while the other one was being built,
we were figuring out, you know, the first one.
And for us as the growers, I think just like getting used to.
All the paperwork and stuff like that and just telegraphing everything we do
and keep track of that, which I fully understand the necessity for oversight
and it's just a matter of adjusting to that.
And and it takes a lot more time, you know, when you don't have to display
everything you do to a secondary body or whatever, it's just easier.
It doesn't take as much time.
And and that's OK. It's just an adjustment.
You know, it's the real world.
So it is coming from that world to this world.
It's a little bit more complicated, but it's just more hard work.
And getting certified was a bit frustrating at times.
But I understand why the process is the way it is.
And it doesn't help necessarily to complain about it.
Sometimes it's just best to put your head down and make it happen.
And that's what we did.
And Brandon, these guys went through a lot of frustration
and they did really well in developing S&Ps and everything like that.
And that was quite a process.
I think it's entertaining.
It's nice to finally see people like yourself and actually quality
flour hitting the Canadian licensed market.
Like when it first came out and I was a pretty big advocate of like,
go try out.
I loved going downtown to all the dispensaries in Vancouver
and like loading up on 18 different types,
like everything they had on the fucking shelf.
Give me a gram of it.
I want to try all of it.
And that was my big thing.
And then when legalization hit, that's the first thing I did.
Gram, gram, gram, gram, gram, gram, gram, gram, gram, all the way through
and everything.
And every every week I dropped my my, you know, it was three hundred
and fifty bucks at the time
of an ounce to try and to go through it and try as much as I could.
And the thing is, it was really a lot of problems
in that first period in time of LV, and it actually turned me right off.
Yeah, I was like, fuck that.
I'm going to just grow weed.
I can do it better, man.
And I and and and reduce my own and I can get what I want and know what it is.
I bought some weed in Kelowna.
One time I bought some weed.
I was I mean, I was stoked to be somewhere.
I was like, oh, I'm not going to run out of weed.
I can smoke some weed before bed and go to sleep.
But it gave me such a headache.
It was such a crappy product.
Yeah, I mean, it's just like it's fucked, man.
Yeah. So it was like seven months old by the time I bought it.
And then there's a bit of a game even to that, because that's just
the packaging data on a package is just when it was taken from a big bag
and put into a small bag.
Clearly, the product was a couple more years old already.
You could tell, you know.
So well, and the fucked up thing is they're storing this stuff
at room fucking temperature in a warehouse in the middle of summer.
Yeah, yeah. It's insane.
It was like we I mean, it was like old outdoor.
I bought one year when I was a kid.
It was all I knew. It was a year old.
I bought some outdoor to go plant trees.
And this was a weed I bought at the weed store.
Made me feel like, you know, give me a headache and I feel like shit.
Sure. You're awesome. Yeah.
It makes no sense.
And they didn't even get the foresight to think like,
you got to keep this stuff cold if it's not like
if it's being stored for a long period of time, like you have to cold store this.
You got to like take it out.
You got to take your rosins and your resins.
And like we've had we've I've had Joe's with B.C.
Bubble Man on here in multiple different where we've broken into this
pretty heavily.
But it's it's it's like we have a perishable product.
And you're you're selling it seven months to a year later.
Like what what are you doing?
Like that's like that's that did you even talk to anyone at all?
Like it doesn't make sense.
Slightly fair to the bigger producers.
I mean, I think they could have done a better job.
But a lot of the time the delays were caused by doing things
the legal way, according to what the health Canada has dictated.
You know, like the it's.
You're able to get a product to market sooner now, but it's a challenge
because of all of the amount of time it takes.
For example, if you grow a new product, you have to tell health Canada
two months before you release anything that you're going to do it. So.
Unless you plan around that and do test batches
and know what you're going to be marketing in two months or more,
if you grow something and then try to sell it,
well, it's going to be old by the time you get it to market.
So it's yeah, it's a dance and you know, it's worth figuring it out.
But it's not as easy as you might hope. So.
No, I remember getting I remember getting the tuna can
kush from the from the island back in the you guys maybe remember
that it used to come in like the actual sealed tuna cans.
And I remember when I found that, when I see that as a dispensary,
I would buy like as much as I could of it.
I mean, it would only come in half ounces or something like that.
And there were two cans of actual.
And it was just just absolutely killer.
But that's stuff my buddy has on the shelf and he breaks it out
on like Christmas every once in a while.
And it's like it's still a banger.
And it's like if we were doing this before legalization
and having great cannabis that can be stored and put together properly,
why can't we do this now?
And it's just like it's because they didn't listen and move anything.
We could bitch about what's wrong with that market all day.
But now we get to talk about what's right.
And you guys got to win the unicorn cup first place for it was your mint
chocolate chip.
So do you guys want to talk a little bit about that win
and a little bit about that experience?
And then maybe maybe while you do that, we can get the camera set up
to start walking through the facility or get close to that time.
And he wasn't there at the unicorn cup, so I guess I can probably start.
You poor guy.
Were they left you behind?
Julian?
Yeah, I had to. My android, sorry.
And he had to work, I think.
Actually, Julian was working that week.
And he had to go.
Julian, the other main master grower, he's taken a sabbatical for a few months.
He'll probably come back.
We hope he comes back.
Yeah, we hope so.
That was sort of his baby, he the mint chocolate chip was his legacy strain,
I think that he had been been growing for a while and passing around in the cookies.
So it's cool that that strain won because it was one of our unique
cookie strains that translated from the legacy market.
So, yeah, so what was your question?
So that's exotic genetics.
It's a nice strain, very got kind of like all the attributes you'd look for.
It was good production strain.
Can we step back a second there?
Because I'd like to touch on that point, because when you when you when you start
a licensed producer facility here in Canada, at least traditionally,
what my experience and understanding was is you're able to bring in
a certain amount of your own genetics.
Yeah, like you can bring in you get one plant claim out like at your entryway.
Is that still how it goes years later or?
It was pretty slippery.
You could bring in as many as many plants as you wanted from ACMPR to
to the legal building and Health Canada and CRA were OK with that,
even though it was obviously a little bit.
You know, they didn't seem to care too much, as long as you were honest
about the number of plants you brought in.
So we brought in a lot of seeds and a lot of
plants from the legacy
days that we have here as our in our genetics here.
And you weren't allowed to any plants you brought in.
You weren't allowed to harvest.
You have to clone off of them and then grow those ones up and harvest the clones
because Health Canada wanted to make sure that anything grown in the legal market,
you had had your eye on it right from right from clone hood.
You could know everything that happened to it environmentally and
fertilizer and anything else.
But there was no problem bringing in.
Bringing in genetics, we can't do that anymore.
Once you had a one time thing, as you got licensed to bring it in after that,
you have to find your genetics on the legal market or breed them yourselves.
But we did a conversation yesterday and, you know, we had some pretty serious breeders on
and, you know, their entire lifetime, they're only have 18 to 20 strains ever.
They're like, I've worked my entire life to seriously breed.
And it's taken me my entire life to properly breed out eight, 18 to 20 strains.
So it's like to say for an elf or a license for the government to say, oh, yeah, no,
you have to breed it yourself in your facility.
It's like, hey, do you guys have an extra three million dollars like just to throw down
to fucking set up a breeding program?
It's like, fuck you.
We have a we have a pretty good, you know, pheno hunting program.
We have a lot of seeds and we pop them all the time and we try to pick the interesting cultivars out of there.
We have a lot of legacy genetics.
We have a genetics room with a lot of moms of various old strains that we're also
starting to bring to market as well.
But yeah, the breeding part is difficult because that's that's a whole thing into itself.
And it takes that's a whole other story.
We could get a chat about breeding.
We're not breeding.
We're in a flower producing facility.
Pollen is scary.
Yeah, it needs to be avoided at all costs.
Yeah, it's out of their comfort area for sure.
Yeah, you can't make a mistake, right?
Like if you can't send seeded weed to market, it's just not going to happen.
People aren't going to understand or take.
Yeah, it's not going to be good for your for your business model yet.
Yeah, it's not desirable in the smoke.
So if we could, if we want to grab the second camera and link up and get going into the farm there and then while that's being set up, why don't you guys run us through?
Because you guys are our award winning growers.
What is your methodology?
Like what type what are you growing in?
I see organic written around, you know, like you don't feel like you have to submit your entire like thing.
But that being said, I feel like there's there's something to be said about actually doing these processes and acting them out and doing them in large.
It's not as easy as people think.
So I would love to know a little bit about your methodology, your thought process.
What type of input are you using?
How are you developing and so on and so forth?
The nitty gritty of the horticulture soil management.
So we mixed our line this building in the first building, we didn't actually have a soil mixer.
We rented one second building and that was a tremendous help.
But in the first building, we're mixing all our own soil, just making our soil as media by hand, mixing by hand, by hand in these large beds.
So we have we have four rooms in the first facility.
Let's just start chronologically.
We started there and there's four rooms, five tables, 24 by four per table, about 14 inches deep.
So it's a lot of volume, tremendous volume of soil.
I think it was in the twenty five thousand dollar range buying it and getting, you know, thousand two thousand fasting.
And you said soilless, right?
So I'm thinking coco, perlite, vermiculite, basalt.
We're in court, which is the easy road is Pete, really.
So we this is in that building we used peat and perlite and we use some vermiculite.
But we added that after time and castings.
You need to put in a mineral component.
It has to be two percent.
So there's requirements that run parallel.
There's a health care requirements and there's the organic certification requirements.
And within that, there has to be certain percentage.
This all has to contain certain percentage, certain things.
So there has to be a biological component, which I believe is 50 percent.
If I remember, I think it's 15.
That's so biologically mean composting, composting or sea soil is what you end up with.
Castings and sea soil.
It was like, you know, it was more cost efficient to do.
Is that that BCC soil, too?
That like the stuff you find at your garden?
I get it from Parker.
You're a good brand.
I like their stuff, man.
I use it like it's it's mixed in with my stuff, too.
It's not that it's mixed up.
Yeah, I think if you wanted to really get into the detail, you would test that batch.
You go in as well just to make sure that it doesn't have too high of a like that is properly broken down.
That compost, that's so.
But that's a whole other subject.
We could go, but just go through that summary of this.
So and then it has to be a two percent mineral comp like component as well, which is just sand.
I mean, it could be perlite because it's just volcanic glass.
It's essentially so two percent mineral, 15 percent organic and everything else is up to us as long as it's.
Yeah. And then we and then we had, you know, it was probably 30, 70 perlite, 30 peat or a mix of sunshine, organic sunshine.
Number four in that building, in this building, we just use straight peat with perlite.
Same kind of thing.
And then we would do our initial amend fairly heavily and then kind of let that cook for a bit.
And then what are you what are you amending with if it's if it's all right?
And just like we had a suite of mineral components in calcium, gypsum and an oyster flower, azomite and basal rock dust.
And then we have insect frass, kelp meal.
This is the initial.
Do we use 444 here too or?
We do use it as a tool here and there.
Not in the initial one.
Not in the initial one.
No. I'm trying to think of what else.
We did have neem seed cake in that initial group and then alfalfa meal incorporated later.
Yeah. We're always searching for something, you know, and then searching for nitrogen is the hardest thing to kind of keep in there.
Right. So we're always searching for methods.
Now we're using that sort of that we did initially.
And now we're adding more and more stuff to it.
Fish bone meal, alfalfa meal and quite large quantities.
And we figure our our our microbial communities used to that.
So we're sticking to that, but probably modified a bit.
This the fish bone meal can be an issue with sodium.
So I've already been kind of looking at that as maybe.
I love this because it sounds like you're like really going down to your base minerals and bringing everything in yourself.
But we kind of that's what organic growing really has to be where you're not allowed to fertigate as a way of of as your only way of growing.
So like what some growers in the past would say is, hey, I'm organic because I'm using organic nutrients.
They say organic on the bottle.
I'm adding organic nutrients to my PRO-MIX, right?
Sure, your weed tastes good. It's good.
It's good weed. But that's not organic in the way that we're growing.
Everything that we grow has to be added mostly in its base form or close to and it slowly gets incorporated in the soil.
Yeah. And originally, Andy and Julian learned how to do that by feel.
But now we've been we have a soil testing program that we do as a big part of that.
So that way we're able to kind of tailor what we what we learn the soil needs.
And then Andy goes out and finds the most efficient or a useful product that can be used.
And anything we use, we have to ask permission for from organic certifier first of all, or make a case, not make a case, but ask if we can use any base amendment.
We have to they have to check out and make sure that it is organic according to their holistic reasons why it's organic.
And then we can incorporate into the soil and start using it.
So our version of fertigation is really just feeding microbes.
So we're making teas so we can feed microbes.
We're putting in molasses.
But also we add, so we add most of our nutrients, you add dry on top of the soil, our fertilizer program for new.
So we amend heavy at the turnover of our beds and then the growers add a fertilizer, a dry powdered fertilizer every 10 days or so.
Yeah, we it's for it's two weeks now, but we put a top dress on every two weeks and then it just depending on what's going on with our soil testing, we could back off on that.
Or we could adjust our amendment program after each crop.
You know, we take a test at week six right now.
We could do more testing, might do testing in the future to just sort of dialing in.
We are doing tissue testing now as well.
We're doing tissue testing as well.
We're just we're getting really there with our trace minerals and that's that's been really like a big, a big game changer for.
Oh, I mean, we're getting on to other things now.
We're just talking about the soil, but it's easy to get in.
Yeah, it's it's you can talk for a long time.
But yeah, so we're getting the trace minerals, the dial and all those things.
But we so we do like a six week test and then we amend that gives us enough time to get the results in harvesting generally at nine weeks.
And then then two day turnover kind of thing.
We don't have time to cook.
So we got to be kind of we have to play it safe.
We don't pump that.
We use the same soil, you know, so we're two years in on that other.
So we play it really safe.
We bring it along slowly.
It's it's a big, huge organism and we're just taking care of the soil.
So it's kind of a different concept.
We're we're we're caretakers for that soil so that we can have nice, clean, we come out of it and and have it be balanced.
Trace mineral wise and nutrient wise.
And also building it up in a way that doesn't build up pests.
Because that's a whole other dance.
Exactly. Because so building up in a way that it stays full of good things and not very full of bad things.
Exactly. Periodically, we take some of the soil out.
It gets a little dense after a while as the microbes and the other worms and things living in it start turning it into compost.
We have to take some out every once in a while and re add perlite or something lighter in there.
Yeah, we need to improve our infrastructure.
So you just using perlite, you could use pumice as well.
I think it's a little more difficult to get it.
I think it's just ease of access.
We're trying to use wood chips, but we haven't got a certified.
Yeah, I think that would be useful.
Pine chips would be useful, especially because you grind with a more alkaline and toss some pine chips in there.
Takes a little while.
Like as a mulching layer and then let it come in.
As an aggregate kind of like as a replacement for perlite or pumice as an air space in the soil.
Yeah, so it's supposed to make it a little bit more acidic over time as well.
Love that. I love that.
So a question came to mind when you were when you were doing it.
And the main factor being is you're growing organically.
You're trying to mend as much as possible, as little as possible and keeping it as clean as possible.
And I find it interesting because we see all these people using these bottled packets of nutrients that are like pre-mixed.
And it really drives me nuts when I talk to people in facilities and places and they don't seem to understand.
That crop salts and traditional agricultural methods don't involve bottled, watered down nutrients.
You know what I mean?
You know, it's like, sorry, guys.
This isn't what people fucking use in every agricultural industry ever.
So why do we think that it's an appropriate thing to do here in the cannabis space and charge these obnoxious amounts of money for it?
It's funny how much it costs to get water shipped around the country.
It's kind of like buying laundry detergent, you know, when you're buying it's mostly water, right?
And when you buy liquid fertilizers, they're almost all water.
So, yeah, big agriculture doesn't use watered down nutrients as their source.
It's not economic, right? It's madness, really.
So besides the feed.
Yeah, well, if you think about what we do, generally speaking, it's all kind of crazy, you know, growing in chambers with all this energy thrown at it.
And so and then you add that to if you're doing that.
So even like even the wood chips you mentioned, like that's a more local source of aggregate compared with perlite.
You know, like there's little things that along the way that eventually start doing to make it slightly more sustainable.
You know, it's still growing meat inside.
Yeah, you can hear me.
You can walk the walk as best as you can.
I think that's important.
Well, let's let's get to the facility.
Where's the where's the second camera?
Yeah, it's ready. I think we're just waiting for a walk.
Shattering too much.
What we can do, what we can do is you guys can stay here and chat and then he'll go around the facility with the with the mobile phone camera and you guys can describe what he's what he's touring through.
Oh, hey, do you want a list of which rooms?
Hey, Nasco.
Okay, we had we were gonna try to get you.
Because we're gonna try to go through them.
So do you guys want to do a sequence of babies to flower?
So if you saw that would be ideal.
And if you can go on their landscape for me there, brother.
Okay, so he's a he's in kind of our area where we keep all our cleaning supplies stuff.
There's a bunch of pots that we clean yet, but there's the there's a dry room there.
And there's a mix of Mendoza mint in there with some curiosities exotics to
Mendoza stomper and mint.
How long was it harvesting?
That is how many years have been now it's been about a week that was last.
So a few days in a few days, it'll get bucked and we'll cure it.
Yeah, in totes.
And we'll get trimmed.
So it's a few days away from that process.
Yeah, about two weeks.
Yeah, cold, dry cure is what we're up to.
Nice and slow.
60 and 60.
Nice and gooey.
And
those are some frosty looking pants, man.
60 60.
Yeah, it's pretty perfect right now.
Nice.
I hate it when I see people going 50 and 21.
You know, like 50 degrees 50 degrees Fahrenheit and 20 or no, sorry, 50 relative
humidity and 21 degrees Celsius.
I'm like 70.
It's just like, oh my God, how could you do that to your poor plants?
Like, it's like, are you so careful if you're if you're on it like that?
This this one seems almost brainless.
It's such a good cure.
It's very weird.
Yeah.
Our dry rooms are pretty, pretty great.
They're they're easy to work with for sure.
So this is where you're doing your tea brewing.
Yeah.
Well, no, we brew them in the water.
These are just clean reservoirs.
And then we would then we would decant the tea into those reservoirs with the
appropriate amount of dilution.
And then we would dispatch it and then we would clean it out, all the biological
material after and then then start fresh.
So we have pumps in this in this room that pump fresh water from those tanks to all of
our grow rooms with some valves and whatnot.
And we can clean them out.
Awesome.
And how much water are you guys using?
Yeah.
Can you.
Come on.
OK.
We're going to come on the tour with you, but.
OK, cool.
We're going to change up the format here.
We're going to follow Andy.
Brandon's coming along too.
So the problem is, is their audio is not going to come through as well.
So make sure you're up close to them when they're talking.
OK.
You need to actually put that back on, put it in.
So, you know, you've got this, they're just integrating.
You hearing us OK?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's coming through all right.
Yeah.
Not really hearing you now, though.
I said on the three tables to the right, there's there's a bunch of crunch.
And then on the left side, there's some mint babes.
And two weeks old, Andy, how long ago?
These are about eight days in here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And what's the size size rate on this room?
Pardon me?
The size of the room.
Oh, the size of the room.
They're about twenty five by thirty.
So thirty deep, twenty five wide.
The ceilings are twelve, I think.
Yeah, they're twelve.
We're allowed to opposing ACs on either side like this.
They're kind of vortexing.
And then we currently have this method for air.
There's a sandbox in here to scrub the air up in the corner just for any
undesirable pathogens.
And that one's running all the time when they're babes.
Also, just we're evacuating CO2, playing it safe until they start consuming it,
until they have enough material to consume the CO2 like they're a big enough plant.
When we first do our amendment for a week or two, the amendments in the soil
actually cook off CO2 for a couple of weeks and actually bring it up past what
the plants would like.
That's the greater point, actually.
There's actually composting going on in the beds and that's what I mean by cooking off.
Yeah.
So basically you're just barfing out CO2, all that stuff we put in each bed.
The microbes that are in the soil eating the compost barf out the CO2.
Yeah.
So we got to evacuate that.
Otherwise it would be 300, 3000 parts per PPM.
So that's really that high.
You guys get that high from your microbe kickoff of CO2.
I mean, there's like 12 cups or more of alfalfa per table alone.
It's like some people brew in the old days, people used to brew beer in their
grow rooms, you know, as a way to try to get CO2 up.
I don't know if it worked, but it's the same kind of idea.
So you guys want to look for a sequence?
Yeah.
Let's go to the next size room, I think, Andy.
Let's do it now.
All our rooms are about three weeks apart, I think is how we organize it.
Right, Andy?
Yeah.
They're just about three weeks apart.
Yeah.
Depending on.
So this is three weeks later.
It should really turn off.
And what light schedule have they been on for this last three weeks?
What's that London?
What type of light schedule have they been on for the last three weeks?
They're on 18 hours a day, 18 on, six off, right Andy?
18, six on the beds.
Yeah.
And 12, 12 on the sofas.
These are still, these haven't been flipped yet.
No, these are, these are a week away or so.
There's some that are a bit taller.
We're going to prune them pretty hard in a week.
Yeah, probably about a week or 10 days.
Just depends.
We'll just see where they're at.
Get them all kind of knew where they need to be.
You know, probably in this range, the mint's kind of there, but the
mint is not as stretchy, so yeah, we'll tip this a bit more and we'll
get it to about 14, 16 inches.
We'll get it to about 14, 16 inches, if you can hear me.
There's a lot of like, noise, so.
So you go 14, 16 inches and then you're going to flip over to flower that
usually takes three to four or five weeks.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's about, with these guys, probably four with crunch is really like rapid growth.
So maybe three.
I'm not hearing you very well there.
With crunch, it's shorter with, with this mixed bag we have in here, it's
probably four to five weeks.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
We step on time.
So every three weeks, I imagine you, you, you take a room down and, and, and, and
dry it and every three weeks you're building up a new room.
Is that kind of the idea?
Pretty much.
Yeah.
Times two.
Cause we have two buildings.
Times two.
Yeah, exactly.
Generally have mostly crunch in the other building, like crunch is quite
vertical, so it's not as a companion.
Well, it's not as a companion.
So it's not as a companion.
Well, with some other strains, you know, it's going to flip a week earlier.
So you end up with this ginormous crunch if you pair it with mint.
So we've been trying to keep kind of mint in this building and crunch
over there, it's easier to manage.
And then if we have vertical exotics, you put it with the crunch.
And I, and I've, every dispensary, like as I hit the downtown dispensaries
and they love sweetgrass flower, man, like it sells out all the time.
It is fresh and it's really nice.
It's hard.
It's as much like good legacy organic weed as you can eat as you can get.
Okay.
So here we are.
We're about, we're a week into flower.
This is flipped on the 20th.
We're five days into flower strain in this room.
Yeah.
So on this, on this table, I just stand a little closer.
You can see my hand here.
We have big, big D and then finally stable just a little bit.
We have some big D and then we have Mandarin cookie and then we have a mint,
mint, and then Mendoz.
This, this is quite a cocktail, this room.
Everything's really super happy.
We have some to say, Brandon.
Well, I was going to say that big D and Mandarin, Andy's mentioning strains.
We're starting to try to do a table of something, uh, unique for like, uh,
a small drop every harvest now.
So big D, big Detroit energy and Mandarin cookies are the, are two that
are going to be released pretty soon.
Big Detroit energy is going to be next on the market.
Thanks Brandon.
So are those like, is that to do your testing?
You kind of try and do like a table and throw them in there to figure out how
they, how they run before you decide to throw it in the market?
First we do one plant.
Uh, when we're doing phenol hunting, then we'll test those.
Then we'll grow, say maybe four, four to 10 of those to see if it still has the
same quality and get a feel for what it might grow like with its friends.
And then, and then we can hopefully base our, uh, uh, testing results for the,
well, we can then register that strain with health Canada and then two months
later, grow it up.
So we usually grow one plant, then say 10 plants, then a whole table.
And hopefully we can sell that table.
And that whole process is three harvests.
So it takes about six months before, from the initial drop to when we might
start being able to sell something.
Cool.
Cool.
And those will be just like limited releases, eh?
Will they, will they get hit?
Will they come to market?
On the market for the limited releases, we might decide to, uh, grow more of it,
but it's a bit of a dance to grow more of it and sell all of it.
You have to grow enough of it and have a continuous market for it.
So we're probably going to grow limited for a while.
And then every once in a while, one of those limited strains will turn
into a commercial strain, maybe, and maybe we'll retire one of our commercial
ones for a while, depending on if there's staying power in the market,
or if it's something that comes and goes, the demand, it's hard to know
exactly how that's going to shape up.
Yeah.
We keep following the categories, right?
Trying to make sure you have the product for the categories that people want.
It's complicated because every province has a different way of marketing and
every province has different demand.
And, uh, we were being the size we are, we have to balance all
of those competing things.
So, yeah, I don't know what to say about that.
Very cool.
Complicated.
We're learning about that.
The economics part is the whole thing.
We hadn't even really put too much thought about having to know about, you know,
in the old days we'd sold itself.
So this is a vault.
We, this is where we keep the product.
Yeah.
So this is our last one.
This is the one closest to our artist.
Yeah.
This is, this is week five and you can see right here in the foreground crunch
berry, so we have some crunch berry in here and you can see how it's just a
vertical, you know, despite being a blueberry cross, it's quite vertical.
You know, anybody's familiar with the DJ short.
I used to grow blueberry.
It was so short.
It's so short and compact.
And it just looks so different.
The morphology is absolutely different, but it is a beautiful strain.
It's hard to manage sometimes.
We do well under these, under these lights in here.
And they, they, they look good under these lights.
Yeah, they do.
I think they're, they don't, they're plowing through the micro-malls.
They like them, eh?
Yeah.
So we have in this room, the two that, uh, Naska just passed by with the crunch.
And then we got some, uh, crushed velvet.
Oh, yeah, this is the, some big D.
And then we have another table of mint.
If you can, then you just get, give me some nice, good shots of these buds.
Like pause up and like, take your time with those.
Cause that's, that's what people want to see is they're beautiful flowers, my friend.
There we go.
Yeah.
Take nice and slow like that.
That's beautiful.
So the mint is, uh, it's good because the mint's in the other building.
This'll give you a chance to see the mint.
Um, so that's mint chocolate chip.
There's just one table in here.
I mean, it's in this building, but actually what am I talking about?
Actually, isn't this building?
Mostly crunch.
Another one.
Walkers.
Yeah, that's right.
All that smells good, eh?
It's a, it's a unique one too.
It smells really good.
Yeah.
Citrusy kind of.
Kind of like a turkey, roast turkey.
What week are we on with these plants here?
Week, uh, what a flower.
Pardon me?
What week of flower are we at with this?
Week five.
So they're just about week five.
I think they're a day away.
Three and a half, four more weeks.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And they're going to start, you know, in another, uh, week we'll remove some
leaf, selectively, you know, like kind of walkers, leaves that are interfering
with other ones, we'll remove those.
Leave some on, probably 50% of the leaves.
And then, and then we're on our path towards the last three
weeks, two and a half, three weeks.
What's that one tall plant in this table?
Is that another unique cultivar?
Is that a test?
We've got some exotic in the middle down there.
That one's, um, I'm trying to remember what those ones are.
There's a whole cluster.
So we're doing, you know, in the middle of, in the middle of this table,
there's a few plants that we're doing a one-off to see if we like them.
You can see the black sensor there and just beside it.
It's obvious actually.
It's quite large.
Quite tall and everything else.
Yeah, exactly.
But there's a bunch in that cluster.
There's probably 10 new strains keeping them in the middle of the
room so they get optimal light.
See how they deal with that intense light and like the center of the conditions.
Yeah.
It's 60 and 78.
Probably.
Crunch berries.
Can you smell it through the video?
I wish we could smell a scratch and stiff screen, man.
Yeah, this is really nice.
You're super careful with wearing proper eyewear, which is here, but.
Like in this building, we haven't discussed.
I'm not, I'm not hearing you.
The fans cutting in and out really bad when the door closed, I'll
be able to hear you a lot better.
In this building, we were just in one of the all LED rooms.
There's 30 LEDs in that one.
And then the one that's behind NASCO as well.
So there's two, had the building split.
Two of the rooms have 30 LEDs in them.
And the two other rooms are, are a checkerboard.
So they have a 750 HBS, a Gevitas.
And then, um, they have 15 Fluence, uh, spiders in there.
These ones are.
So you're doing like mixed lighting in some of the rooms, eh?
Buildings are, are the other checkerboard.
I wish it has its merits, but you know, like you get a diffuse light a little
bit more on the sides from the HBS.
Some strains, some strains respond differently to some lights, which we're
loading, even, even between brands of LEDs, like some, some strains do better
under particular brands of lights.
That's true.
And I hope we move to all LED.
I don't, I love it.
We had all LEDs.
I think we're learning that you get just as good, better quality in a lot of
ways from all LED and use a bit less power.
So yeah, I personally find the lighting on LEDs a lot flatter.
You know what I mean?
Like when you're, when you, when you have such a beautiful, even canopy, like
what you've created in that space, that kind of flat light where you're focusing
on that top 20% and that's it.
It's kind of like for your facility, you don't need as much penetration, right?
Yeah.
And the LEDs we use penetrate hard.
They're, they are powerful lights.
Like when you get to be at an 800 watt LED or a seven 50, one of those things
rated, they're, they're very bright.
Like we have to dial them down to 50% or less for starts compared with the HPS.
Like they're, they're bright lights.
They penetrate.
Yeah.
As all, as most people who are growers know with LEDs, you really have to integrate,
you have to equate them to the LEDs.
We actually, we brought one, we bought one kind of LEDs that according to their
specs were supposed to be as good as one of the brand names we were used to using.
But it turns out that they weren't as good.
Clearly they didn't penetrate as far.
So I think it's, it's a bit of a, it's complicated trying to pick an LED light.
There's a lot of smoke and mirrors in the marketing.
It seems like about it.
And it's not really mature about knowing what they all do.
I don't know if that makes sense, what I'm trying to say, but
no, it's, it is a new technology, man.
Like it's not, and it's changing so quick and so fast.
Like it was like three years ago, everybody had blurple lighting and
now everybody's got bar whites.
What we've learned is that, uh, kind of the brand name people who are really
know the big time lighting companies seem to be the ones that make the best LEDs.
Like the ones that have been making lights forever are the ones that are
making the best LEDs compared with some of the new upstart companies that make
LEDs, but they don't have the history behind it and seems like, yeah, it may
be a problem of oversight as well, where they're manufactured and just may not
be accurate information coming from.
You get what you pay for in a way.
It seems like.
That we really liked the Fluance.
I think they're from, from what I can see so far in the cabitas
we have in the other building.
The panels only issue with the panels.
Um, you know, the four by four panels is they kind of create stratas in the room,
but other than that, they're super effective.
Like you say, delivering this sort of even blanket of light, uh, to an even canopy.
But, uh, yeah, they do kind of divide the airspace a bit.
So we're trying to play around with the Bosterman's a bit, the vertical
air flow fans, and see if we can suck that air up past the stoma.
And, and be more efficient with our use of CO2 as well as like equalizing temp.
So we're experimenting with that right now.
And this building's probably going to be switched over to that.
And, uh, that helps move that air around through that sort of definition that
they create in the room, those panels.
Awesome.
So I'm wondering if you guys wanted to like hop over to the, to the laptop
computer and do the, the closeout there.
So we can be a little bit more comfortable.
Maybe it'd be a bit easier.
This is a beautiful facility guys.
That that's gorgeous.
And, and what the first comments that came up was fucking clean as fuck.
It's beautiful.
And I love, I love me a clean facility.
I really do.
That's perks about growing in the legal market is you have to keep it clean.
So then you end up working in a clean building all the time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's me.
It requires maintenance.
What we did discover.
And I think this could have been, if we look back now in hindsight, the other
building, all the floors are painted white.
And, and when we worked in there, the first thing I saw, I came to that
building, I was just shocked by how bright it was that actually
kind of gave me migraines.
And so I just was like, guys, we can't have white floors in the next building.
We need a little bit of relief for your eyes, right.
Or even the Jeep area outside of the growing area, some other color.
So that was one thing to consider is, you know, maybe we did gray in this
building and it really helps like the reflection in the hallways and in the
grow room and it's easier mental health.
Yeah.
On your eyes, right.
You gotta be careful.
Your eyes, when you work in a place like this, you gotta be really
conscious of that.
I want to be able to see when I'm older.
Yeah.
Not have bad cataract balls or something.
Anyway.
Not be a blind, old grow OG.
I can't see the weed I'm smoking.
It tastes good, but it looks like crap.
But then, and then, so where are you guys?
So a couple of things you guys, one for your, your, your mint chocolate chip.
So where are you guys like, where can people get your product right now?
Are there, is it available Canada wide or is Ontario BC?
What, what regions are sweetgrass flower available?
It's available almost Canada wide.
It's in BC and Manitoba under sweetgrass.
And then in Ontario and the Maritimes, it's our product in tuna cans, I think,
branded under East Ken.
Is that right?
Nasko.
So East Ken has been one of our bigger LP partners.
They, they buy in bulk from us and have taken care of sort of the
Eastern part of the country.
We're working on getting into Quebec.
It's a bit of a slow process, but I think we're going to get into there.
And Saskatchewan as well, perhaps in the near future.
So we'll be almost countrywide pretty soon.
So what I would like to see is like people that are Canadians here, like I said, Mike
Bendo is in Ontario and there's a whole bunch of people all over the space that are
regular followers.
Take an opportunity, go to a store, buy their flower.
And if it's not on the shelf, ask for it to be on the shelf.
But then review it.
Let us know in the comments what you think of the mint chocolate chip, right?
Like come in, come on to the show and come into the comments and let us know what you
guys think of it.
Cause I think that'd be a great, great thing to find out as well.
I think you guys are doing something special.
It sounds like East Ken is taking pretty good care of our product and it seems to be
pretty well received on the stores there as well.
So yeah, we don't mind showing up that they're doing it.
We sold some, we learned some lessons.
We sold some bulk product when we first started to a company that sold it in BC and
Alberta. I won't say the name or the branding cause they did a terrible job storing
it. They stored it warm.
They're still releasing some product we sold to them in 2020.
They're still releasing it into stores currently.
So that's kind of the difference between what can happen with the product along the
way and what we do.
Ours generally, when it gets to a store, it's a month after a cure, which is about as
best as you could possibly do.
Even less sometimes, you know, like two weeks, two weeks after a cure is what we aim
for to get it to the warehouse and then it gets distributed.
So fresh, fresh product is good product as far as, you know, once it's cured anyways, you
can be too fresh, I guess.
But fresh is the best.
So yeah.
And the tuna cans, you mentioned something about the Kushek.
Was that a legacy product you mentioned, London, where you say you get it in tuna cans?
Yeah, it was something I used to get in my 20s.
Yeah. So it seems like that's what East Can is doing.
They tuna can our product and it sounds like that is the best way of actually packaging or a
good one. At least for shelf stable.
Yeah. Ours is smaller.
In BC and Manitoba, we try to turn it over fast.
You know, we use as little packaging as we can weight wise.
You know, we like packaging, but it turns over in the stores fast.
It's never more than a couple of months old by the time it does.
Do you know if they put nitrogen gas in there?
They nitrogen seal the tuna cans, they do.
Yeah. See, that's the trick, man.
You get that nitrogen gas, you get that preservation, you get that shelf stable thought process.
Right. But nobody was thinking about this for the rest of the space.
Nobody was planning on this properly.
But anyways, so I mean, other than that, you guys have some available products.
So I really want to see some comments below of people checking out your products.
But most of all, how can people support you guys other than straight up buying your flower?
Where can we find you support you on social media, Instagram?
Where can we where can we.
Hey, why don't I take that question quick?
Yeah, I mean, requesting our product in stores that aren't carrying it in BC and Manitoba.
That's great. Please do that.
Yeah. I mean, we're we've got products selling out through East Canada, Australia and Israel right now.
So we're kind of, you know, exploring international markets, which is really interesting.
But as far as more direct support, we're on social media streams.
Instagram, Sweetgrass Cannabis Official is one account.
We've got a backup account on there as well.
We're on Twitter at Sweetgrass Can One, I believe.
It's our handle there.
I mean, visit our website, which is just sweetgrasscannabis.ca.
That really kind of spells out our methodology, the geography where we live, the culture that we kind of are a part of here.
There's some great video content made by Golden Spruce Media.
It really kind of outlines our growing methods.
Some great, great, yeah, spinning bud shots there to really give an idea of the flower we've brought to market.
And beyond that, we're going to have to take that video down pretty soon, that store as well.
So watch it while you can.
Yeah. Health Canada has finally wrapped our knuckles enough times about this beautiful video that we had made.
We actually won an award or the guy who made it won an award.
It's a beautiful video.
But according to Health Canada, you're not allowed to have a person or an animal in any sort of promotional video.
And even the definition of promotion, we've been going back and forth over the semantics of what is and what is not a promotion.
But Health Canada is generally not very curious and they're sort of inflexible.
So it sounds like we just received the last notice that we're going to take our video down because it has dogs in it and it has chickens and it has even a couple of people.
What?
You know what? This is the most I was so excited because it sounds like you do it like because I'm a big person and prepare for like civil, like civil disobedience.
You need a little bit for there to be change.
So I love that you're being civilly disobedient, but it's just comical on what you're being civilly disobedient.
So do you think people complain to Health Canada and asking for that to change would be of any benefit?
Probably not. Right.
But I don't know if I don't know if it's possible for the for the average consumer to be good health Canada and ask for for relaxation in some of the some of the more silly red tape.
But I don't know. It's just mostly a joke.
But yeah, you know, maybe your audience can decide, you know, go to the website, watch the who we are video.
Really well done video.
I mean, like these guys said, it won an online commercial award in 20 late 2021.
Best best online commercial.
It was called the Telly Awards.
Super well done, but portrays kind of the everyday life of the owners and the master grower here at the facility.
And yeah, there's there's a few dogs featured, you know, chickens with an egg being collected, you know, for breakfast kind of thing.
But for some reason that violates the health Canada standard for for marketing and using those lightness.
So you can and it's like I could talk.
I don't want to talk anymore.
Yeah, I got to say one more thing.
We don't as a rule, we're never going to complain about other LPs.
So there are, in our opinion, other LPs with more suspect marketing videos, you know, with more people, whatever.
It's not on us to complain about what other people are doing, but it seems like it's a bit of a level playing field or it's really health Canada complains to LPs about what they discover.
So health Canada notices a video.
They will eventually tell us to take it down.
But what they don't notice is still out there.
And damn you and your award winning video.
Well, there's lots of folks doing the same things.
Right. And, you know, so I don't know what to say.
We'll post it on a future cannabis project if you guys want.
Well, but we'll happily share that.
We're down for it. Thank you guys.
Sorry, I said it deserves to be shared.
So thank you.
We're happy to do that.
So thanks again, guys, for coming in and being part of it.
We will have in the comments section below the link to their website.
We don't put it in our description directly because we'll get banned or blocked or so on and so forth.
So we have like secret accounts that come in and put it in the comments so that we don't get that.
That's how that's how we will.
We could talk about it right here and they'll do nothing.
But if we put it in the description and like weed photos on your front page, we're fucked.
It's just weird. It's just fun.
But yeah, talk about weird media problems in life.
But yeah, so definitely check out Sweetgrass, check out Flower when you can.
Check out everything else going on.
We've got a show. We've got a Dank Hauer show happening later today.
I believe next week is November 1st.
And I've got Julie from Canna Reps coming on the show where we will be actually downtown Vancouver at the Vapro Lounge or some sort of lounge.
Activity area. And we're going to be sitting down and having an interview and a chat there.
She has the Collectors Cup coming up in November that we're going to be visiting there as well.
So be back next Tuesday for that show.
Tonight we have, of course, the Dank Hauer.
Tomorrow we have Butterfly Sessions with Pam West.
Thursdays, of course, is Joda Herb.
We have on Channel 3, check out Guerrero Grow Show and of course, all the other fantastic content here on the on Cannabis for Breakfast and Future Cannabis Project.
Thanks again for coming in and we look forward to seeing you at the next show.
Are we off? Are we still live?
You're still live for a second.
You got it.
