All right, we are live on YouTube talking banker plants with Russell Pace and Matthew Gates.
That's me, Peter Saveri.
Russell and Matthew, welcome.
Why don't you guys kick it off?
Russell, you've been growing some peppers.
Yeah.
Yeah, sure.
I figured it seems like the banker plant topic has been pretty.
Oh, we lost you there.
We lost Russell.
Russell, can you hear me?
All right, Russell, can you hear me now?
Yeah, I can hear you now.
Sorry, you know, the connectivity out here.
No worries.
We're in a bit of a fire season and there's quite a bit of smoke.
So I think it sort of disrupts some of the satellite signals.
Try to reset it.
There.
All right.
So take two.
You were just about to talk banker plants.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I'm going to try to reset it.
All right.
So take two.
You were just about to talk banker plants.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, you know, there seems to be a lot of interest in banker plants and some other podcasts.
And just like I figured we'd have our, you know, to fill in some of the blanks with our
own research and my own, you know, trials and my experience probably be helpful.
So, you know, this banker plant research project that Matthew and I engaged in was an idea
for 2019.
Matthew and I had been talking like, well, what would be cool?
What would be a cool little research project to do?
And he was like, well, you know, I did read some research papers on the Swarovski imites
and this explosive ember pepper, which appeared to show, you know, really good results for
housing this Swarovski imites.
In fact, he said they showed better results than the purple flash peppers, I believe.
And so we're like, well, you know, this is really interesting because I had been working
with a lot of other companion plants and banker plants for other beneficial insects like,
you know, the pirate bug or the green lacewing or the lady beetle.
And I was like, well, let's, you know, I really want to try it because I really want to engage
with predator mites because they're expensive and they're cool and they're a really important
resource.
After enough debate, we decided we'd embark on this little research project.
So we decided to choose the explosive ember pepper plants and I purchased the seeds and,
you know, it was a bit of a learning curve in terms of getting peppers to germinate.
But I was pretty successful and I got about 160 plants out of the seeds.
And then, you know, the whole research project began.
To be quite honest, it was not only a research project in how to rear the Swirsky mites,
but also on how to effectively grow the peppers, you know, to optimize the growth condition
of the peppers that also sort of is included.
And so I've been super busy, but I just got a new page up on our website on CHA.education.
If you go to the homepage, there's a blog article on banker plants, the latest blog
article.
And if you click on that, it'll take you to the link where the pages are.
And in there you can see basically a little research write up.
It's not complete.
I just wanted to get it up there on the web for everyone to see.
But the results aren't complete, but the entire growing methodologies are there.
Some of the results are there.
And then also if you wanted to purchase the pepper seeds, they're also available.
So anyways, back to the research, you know, and really like Matthew and I discussed like
the capacity of what we were able to engage in the research, like what kind of research
can we actually do with limited budget and time and resources.
Basically, we came to the conclusion of like just the simplest possible outcome.
If we put the Swarovski imites on the pepper plants, are they still going to be there at
the end of the summer, at the end of the plant's growing cycle, right?
That's like we didn't have enough resources, the screens and filters to measure like the
density of the Swarovski imites, how many were left.
We didn't have that capacity research, but we could say, OK, we inoculated the plants
July and then we tested the plants in October.
Are the mites still alive and moving around and sort of what numbers?
And so that was like the capacity of the research we could conduct.
And it was actually really successful.
Yes, Swarovskii is just the predator mite.
Matt, I'll let Matt go into the details with that.
He's definitely more of a, you know, that you can fill in more detail.
But in terms of like the research, just to recap and then we can go into the details,
you know, inoculated the peppers once they started showing flowers and with the predator
mites. And then, you know, three months later, I checked the plants and the mites were still
there in, you know, decent population.
So I feel like it was a success because the mites survived through really, really hot
weather out here in eastern Humboldt, really hot weather, you know, like hundred five
degree days, really low relative humidities.
They even survived a frost event in October.
And so I feel like that overall, the project was a success.
And I can go into more detail, you know, in the podcast as we sort of flesh all of these
like components out. But that's the overview.
And what's unique to, I mean, is it what's the like thing that makes peppers spicy?
Capsaicin.
Yeah, is that kind of the.
Thing in the pepper that makes it something worth using or exploring.
Actually, the thing that makes them the most useful, the reason why we chose the explosive
ember pepper plants is because they're ornamental.
And so they're not they're not produced commercially for their fruit, for their peppers,
they're produced commercially because of their flowers, because they're meant to look
pretty. And just quickly, Russell, this is from your garden.
Yeah, that's right. So this this little research was, you know, the recreational cannabis
plot and and it was intercropped with the explosive ember peppers.
Yeah. So that's the flowers of gelato.
And then there's the peppers.
Yeah.
So these peppers are useful, the ornamental peppers are desirous because of two reasons.
One, they stay flowering longer.
Again, they're not made to fruit and be very productive, or at least that's not their that's
not the intention of developing them.
They have a lot of different flowers and they have pollen in these flowers and a lot of
arthropods feed on pollen.
Some pests feed on pollen like thrips, for example, but so do a lot of biocontrol agents
like the swirskii, the Amblycea swirskii that Russell mentioned, Neocilus cucumaris, both
of which are type three predatory mice that are omnivorous and they feed on a bunch of
different pests, whereas type one and type two predatory mites are more specialized on
spider mites, for example.
That's sort of a thing.
Orius minute pirate bugs also feed on pollen and hover flies feed on pollen.
Some of them do anyways, and their larvae of some species, they feed on aphids.
So there's a bunch of different pollen feeding biocontrol agents that you can facilitate
using ornamental pepper plants.
And really, you could use other peppers, too.
I mean, that's also possible, but there are advantages to these cultivars, like the fact
that they might produce more flowers, they produce them for longer periods of time.
So you'll have this sort of banker effect for a longer period of time.
Yeah, and so I'd like to interject real quick, I feel like I have so much information to
relay to everyone, so if I'm coming out is like a little bit like frenetic, it's just
because if I don't say it, when I say it, I'll probably forget, you know, for another 10
days.
That works for me. Just diarrhea out that knowledge.
Yeah, I'm just going to lap it up.
Intelligent.
Informational incontinence.
Right.
What?
What?
Knowledge dropping.
What's important?
Exactly.
My knowledge drop-ins.
What I found was important with this, what I was excited about was that some of the other
species of ornamentals, though, what one thing are just ornamental, like the purple flash
pepper, I'm pretty sure is just truly ornamental.
But what's unique about the explosive ember is that it's considered an ornamental, but the
peppers are actually edible.
Right, Matthew?
Technically, the peppers on the explosive embers are edible, and that's what makes it
different because then it toes the line.
You go into the ecological modality, the regenerative modality of closed loop systems.
And now all of a sudden you have these pepper, you know, the plant is functioning as a
banker plant.
But now you can also harvest the peppers and you can use it for your own food or you can
use it in pest sprays, you know, like the whole Korean natural farming do where they take
pepper, you know, and they can make certain pest sprays with these peppers.
I haven't done it yet, but in theory this is possible.
But what turns me on to the banker, this explosive ember, is that it's multifaceted, that
you know, it becomes like a fully, fully integrated into this like closed loop kind of
system that we're trying to develop.
So I like that component of the peppers.
One of the things I will say about the peppers was interesting that we learned is that
so most of the peppers I had were in one gallon pots, like I had like 160 pepper plants and
I had a large subset that I left in these one gallon pots.
And then I had a smaller subset that I had planted in the beds with the recreational
cannabis garden.
OK, and the peppers that were all in the one gallon pots, they all flowered
significantly faster.
I'm sorry, they all fruited, they fruited significantly faster.
So like, you know, by end of September, early October, most of the one gallon pot
peppers were just all peppers and they didn't have any flowers left.
But all of the peppers that were in the beds, like you saw in that photo where there's
like the big flower, the cannabis flower with the purple peppers, those flowers that
were planted in the beds themselves, they were consistently producing flowers.
They didn't produce as many peppers as the ones in the one gallon pots, but they were
consistently flowering for a much longer period of time.
So from like, you know, a simple baseline assay of this research, if you plant the
peppers in pots, you're going to have a shorter flowering window, right?
You're going to it's going to convert because they're root bound.
You know, they're just like, well, I guess this is the end of the line here.
We're just going to throw off as many fruits as possible.
So but if you plant them directly in beds, it appears you're going to have a much
longer window for actual flower production because you're looking for the flowers.
The mites are feeding off the pollen and the flowers.
That's what they want. They don't want the pepper.
Right. So that's an important thing that I found regarding that.
I don't know. Maybe I assume that if you have a larger size pot, I was using one gallon
pot. If you had a five gallon pot, you'd probably get better results, you know.
And I suppose now would be a decent time, Matthew, to discuss what the there's been
some strategies around banker planting systems and there's been some different
methodologies suggested regarding do you keep the banker plants in the pot or do you
plant them directly in the bed?
And I think maybe now is a good segue to like discuss that those methodologies and the
pros and cons of both.
If you if you have any thoughts on that right now, chime in, Matt.
But if not, I'll just kind of dive in.
I definitely do.
And I appreciate that despite your freneticism, you have the presence of mind to give me a
chance. You are such a big you are such a no, that's not a dig.
You're such a wealth of information and it can be fun to just listen to you talk.
So I appreciate that, though.
Yeah, man. So so yeah.
So the banker plants, right.
So I'm an integrated pest management specialist.
For those who don't know, my name is Matthew Gates of Zinthanol Consulting.
I have a YouTube channel that that has videos on this topic, too.
And some of the research reports that were the impetus for this project I've made
videos about and I've talked at length about.
So if anyone's interested, they can contact me either on the YouTube channel, Zinthanol
that I'm commenting in in the chat.
You can add me in the chat if you have questions.
I also have the footage and other sorts of resources and the reports for anyone who's
interested, because I'm very big about backing up what I'm saying with empirical
information and making that available and accessible to people.
So from an integrated pest management perspective, what Russell brings up is important.
On the one hand, for some cultivation context and there's so many different kinds of
cultivation context, right?
Some people are outdoors with like acres and acres and acres of cannabis or whatever
other crop they're growing.
Some of them are indoor greenhouse, right.
Various scales.
So, you know, these are all important factors to consider.
It's always important to consider this.
And if you're growing these pepper plants, on the one hand, you might want to sort of
more permanently integrate them into a crop by planting them with the plants either in
the pots themselves or very close by, whatever the context allows for.
But there's also an advantage to having them be mobile.
Maybe you can treat them easier.
Maybe it's easier to move them around as like little garrisons where all these predatory
mites and other biocontrol agents can be on.
You might be able to move them to a place where you want them to sustain.
Like if you, let's say you have a crop and you have some thrips that are coming in in
your border area.
Well, maybe you want to wheel around your pepper plants if they're quite large or even
if they're small to those border areas or whatever spot where you're seeing a lot of
thrips as sort of a prophylactic approach.
And then you might also follow up with whatever your other treatment styles are, maybe
additional biocontrol agents and that sort of a thing.
Before I get too much into it, there's also the fact that there are pollen products out
there by various biocontrol companies like Nutramide, I think is made by BioBest.
And it's a cattail pollen.
And cattail pollen is suitable for predatory mites, for example, and I think also
aureus. And according to the company, anyways, the cattail pollen is not particularly
suitable for pest species, for example.
So you won't be supposedly feeding so many thrips and things like that with the cattail
pollen if you were to apply it.
And also it's important to consider that various pollen sources for predatory mites and
other biocontrol agents that feed on pollen might be more suitable because and I have
research on this too, ultraviolet radiation resistance can be conferred by like tea and
peach pollen for I think it was californicus in the report that I'm referring to and
ostensibly other predatory mites too.
At the same time, though, some pollen can be quite toxic and lethal even to certain
biocontrol agents or sublethal.
But it might make them like abort their eggs or it might cause them to not hunt for a
period of time. It might lower their life.
It might reduce their lifespan and that sort of a thing.
So, again, when it comes to implementing a banker system that uses pollen, you have to
consider all of these complexities.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, that's that's a good overview.
I think I would probably add into the pot size.
I mean, I guess like so one of the questions is like when you talk about these banker
plants, I guess the yeah, starting backing up to your overview point, you know,
depending on size, I think that's a really important thing to to let's like parse
through parse out.
You can look at like the home gardener, you know, planting a few banker plants or you
can look at like the commercial cannabis farmer who's got, you know, an acre of
greenhouses.
And I think this is where the rubber meets the road in terms of like our understanding
of how well this, you know, this system functions.
Right. And I mean, the realistically like the research trials that we ran were more
tailored to the home gardener, the backyard gardener on a smaller scale, you know, like
or even like maybe the mom and pop, the boutique cannabis farm that's trying to
integrate more of this ecologically minded presence.
And so when you when you engage with banker planting on that scale, it actually is it's
easier to do.
It's significantly easier to do because usually you you have an integrated companion
planting system with it's not just the one species of banker plants you have in the
environment. You know, it's like, for example, like right now I probably have, I don't
know, 50 different species of flowering plants out in my environment, at least.
I could go count them.
My wife plants a ton of her beautiful ornamentals that she loves that are always
flowering nasturtiums and whatever.
And then I have all of my herbs.
I love herbs, planting all these different species of herbs and they're all flowering.
And so all of that ecological succession sort of promotes a really complex
biodiversity.
And so that helps.
That really helps the model.
I think this is like this is the key.
This is like what is the most important component to understanding the
successfulness of a banker plant system is that if you just have the one species of
plants, like if you just had explosive ember peppers and let's say you were a
commercial cannabis farmer and you just planted these explosive ember peppers and
you just had cannabis, you had literally those two species of plants, the banker
plants could actually potentially turn into a vector for pests.
They would almost turn into like, you know, not a trap crop necessarily, but they do.
It's like they don't just house beneficial insects.
They can also house pests, you know.
And so this was this was I documented this in the study.
So, you know, after a month on I checked, I was checking the plants and some of the
plants had thrips.
There were some aphids.
They weren't cannabis aphids.
I was able to send Matthew some photos, microscope photos, and he was confirmed it
was just a different species of aphid.
So these plants definitely had pests on them.
But at no point did they ever become an issue.
Even the plants that were intercropped, you know, right next to the cannabis, like you
saw in that photo, at no point did thrips become a problem on the cannabis.
At no point did the aphids become a problem on the cannabis.
There was it was a non-issue in that research project on that scale.
But, you know, if you had I can I can see how it could become a potential problem if
that's all you had. If you just had cannabis, you just had the banker plants, the
pest population, the pest populations theoretically could reach a critical threshold
where they might then spill onto the cannabis.
So that's a pretty important caveat to understand when you're planning this whole
operating system.
I would just want to add that you're totally right.
And I don't think that that should be considered a sort of a strong disadvantage or
weakness as long as they're the plants are being crop scouted.
And that's a fundamental.
It's a fundamental aspect of IPM in and of itself.
So if you're not already crop scouting to begin with, then you might run into other
problems already. So, yeah.
Yeah, you're right.
That's that. Yeah. So that just goes in the IPM strategy of crop scouting for sure.
And then I guess, you know, you can like we can talk about some of the ins and outs
like, I mean, really like on a commercial scale, you know, how many how many banker
plants, you know, do you need per, you know, thousand square feet of space?
You know, that's I think lesser understood, less less studied in terms of cannabis
horticulture, at least, you know.
Yeah, I'm I'm trying to think through some some.
Some points here, let me look at my notes here.
Yeah, I guess all in terms of scouting, I mean, I guess one of the other points, you
know, that is that there's, you know, so if you have the banker plants and they do
have pests on them, you know, in theoretically, if you have them in pots, you can move
them outside the environment, you can pick it up and you can like treat it, I guess.
If you really wanted to, you could spray it.
But I don't know.
I have mixed feelings about that.
I that's that's more of a commercial horticulture application.
And so I don't you know, I don't know very many details about, you know, treating
banker plants with pesticides.
To me, it's sort of counterproductive.
But right.
That's also that's because I'm trying to promote the ecological regenerative like
side of this where it's like integrated with other species of flowering plants and
then all like the biodiversity works itself out.
I think that's a really important point to touch on about context.
Right. Because again, your scale, your size, what you're growing, what your own
resources are, both in time, logistics, funds, personnel, whether it's just yourself
growing your plants or this is a larger scale situation, all of those factor in and
what your what your cultivation context is.
So, you know, of course, if you're applying a sort of broad spectrum, pesticide agents
and not necessarily synthetic ones, but even natural chemistries, those are broadly
toxic to a bunch of different organisms.
You know, you can disrupt the, you know, the microbiome of the soil, of the phylogeny
of the phylosphere.
You know, you can disrupt the predatory that might be on your pollen or on your banker
plants, for example, that would be eating the pollen.
You might even accidentally dope the pollen, for all I know, depending on what you're
using. And if you're using a systemic pesticide, then that's definitely going to occur
in the nectar at the very least.
And organisms that eat on the tissue, they're also going to get a dose of that pesticide.
So I'm a big advocate against that.
It sort of runs counterintuitive to using a banker plant system in that way, but sometimes
it makes more sense to if you're on a smaller scale, for example, just like crop scout the
plants. And if you do run into a problem, you might add more biocontrols or a different
kind of biocontrol.
Or if you are, if you are wheeling them around or if you're moving them in some way, you
might be able to isolate them in a quarantine room or some sort of quarantined area, which
is a much better situation than possibly applying certain products.
And there's a there's a labor cost to that.
There's an environmental cost to that.
There's a personnel cost and all that sort of a thing as well.
So whether it's commercial or small scale, you have to consider these things.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. And then I guess like, you know, some of the plants, you know, they had some like
minor aphid populations and minor thrips.
But, you know, in scouting the pepper plants, you know, I noticed there are quite a bit
of arias, the pirate bug, you know, just that naturally came in.
And I was like, well, this is sort of they're doing their natural control, you know, on
on these pests.
So I just kind of let it I let them be.
I never I never treated those plants, you know.
And I guess one thing I kind of maybe inadvertently did treating them was just spraying them
with water because the plants are so small that when I watered, I watered down on top
of the plant, you know, to get to the soil because they're so bushy that you're kind
of you're not watering underneath, you're watering down through the canopy.
And so I might have been inadvertently, you know, knocking the aphids and bugs off of
the plants into the soil, you know, disrupting their cycles.
So that could have that could have happened.
I don't know, you know.
Did we say sort of the general environment that these that you were we were conducting
the project in?
Should we go over that?
Yeah, but yes, the environment.
Right.
So this was in Northern California.
And how would you describe the background?
Would you say that it was quite sort of forested?
Was there a lot of environment to contend with?
Oh, that's so cute.
Yeah.
You know, it was it was in a, you know, a small subdivision here in in eastern Humboldt,
where we're smack dab in about a million acres of national forests.
So, you know, the backdrop was just, you know, next to some hedges.
And, you know, the project started in May.
And then, you know, as it progressed over the summer here in eastern Humboldt, we have
very, very hot days, you know, 100, 110 even degree days, as low as 5 degrees.
5% relative humidity, maybe 10% relative humidity, very dry, very arid summer days.
And then in the fall, we have, though, I think, what is it called diurnal, large diurnal swings,
where the nighttime temperatures, you know, the day night temperatures can be as much as 40
degrees different.
So that's just a little bit about the environment and, you know, what you're doing, I'd say it was
a fairly extreme environment in which we tested this.
And, and then, you know, approaching fall, obviously, in October, there were some frosts,
there were some mild frosts that they survived.
And then finally, the hard frost that just sort of killed the plants.
Now is the end of the, that wrapped up that project.
That's an important, that's probably an important context too.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Because, you know, if you know, then then if you if you think you're carrying on through
the winter, you're not, you know, it's like, it's pretty much over.
Yeah, so you know, I think overall, it was it was a it was a successful, successful little
venture here.
Because, you know, it's like, basically, I got Oh, yeah, here's part of the random, random
info.
You know, like one of the things that looking back on the project that I'd seen, you know,
looking back on the project that I'd love to, that I'd love to research more is like,
so we proved that the mites stayed on the plants, you know, over time, they were they
were they were definitely like, they took up residence on these plants.
Now there's they weren't on, you know, I checked the plants in the beginning, so they weren't
naturally occurring, they were introduced, I purchased them from the beneficial insectary.
And I, you know, inoculated the plants with the Swirskii.
And then periodically check the plants, you know, and I could, I was cool, I have some
photos, I think if you go on the web, the web page, there's some micro photos of Swirskii
mite in the purple flower.
I was really excited when I saw those mites in the flower.
That was pretty cool.
And then what I would do basically, it's just like, you know, to get sort of a representative
sample as best as possible, just get a black, you know, black tote top or a black, ideally
a black piece of cardboard.
And then just like tap, you know, vigorously whack the plant.
And then all of the insects would come spilling off onto this dark surface.
And then you could see, you know, a lot, a lot of times you're gonna see aphids, pirate
bugs, thrips, and predator mites.
And so I do that periodically and, you know, and get it and try to get a count, you know,
and see how they were, see how they're performing, I guess, in terms of numbers.
So, you know, it was interesting.
I thought it was pretty cool.
One of, you know, it's just, oh yeah, so one of the things that was the open, upended
question is like, okay, well, you know, the mites are on the plants.
What is the theoretical possibility that they're going to spread out into the environment?
You know, so you have the cannabis plant here and then the pepper plant planted, you know,
maybe a foot away.
Are the mites that are here going to migrate and, you know, crawl up the stock?
Are they going to migrate out?
Are they just going to stay on the pepper plant, you know, or maybe I, for my baseline
understanding of this, perhaps if they reached a critical threshold of populations, like
the, they were so successful on the pepper plant that they, their numbers exploded, they
would theoretically then look for other avenues, other plants to spread out on.
So, you know, but I did not, I was not able, because the cannabis plants are so big, I
was not, I couldn't figure out how to like find them, find the mites on the, the Swarovski
mites on the cannabis plant.
I was like a really difficult challenge for me because I couldn't really tap the large
plant.
I couldn't move it.
It was not mobile, you know, and so that was one piece of missing piece of information
that I would love to, you know, figure out.
So that might be a caveat, you know, it's like if the plant is planted in the ground,
there's really no way of, you know, knowing if you can get the mites onto the plant.
Now, if the plant is in the pot, you could theoretically pick the plant up and then kind
of tap it, you know, onto the cannabis plant.
You could theoretically like tap the Swarovski mites onto the cannabis plant.
Of course, then, you know, you're potentially like also tapping thrips out on the plant.
So I, you know, I don't know if that's a good idea, but it is, it is, you know, an option
if you're so interested.
Some musings, I guess.
And just quickly, you were saying one guy, so basically like this size pot, right?
Small, tiny.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's one gallon.
Yep.
Yeah, there were a lot of work.
I don't, if I had done it, I think I just wanted a high representative sample size.
Also, there was, I should probably just comment.
It might, it might be interesting to people.
I originally had, the plan originally was to take subsets of all these plants and transfer
them to farms throughout the area, you know, like five farms and then like, you know, try
to get them to plant them, intercrop them or whatever they wanted to do with the plants
and then inoculate them with the Swarovski mites and then come back periodically throughout
the growing season and check the plants and basically try to get more of a sweeping, broad
analysis of how this research can develop in different microclimates, you know, different
environments, because some farmers might be more forested, some might be more in the plains,
you know, try to see if perhaps there's some variability with these microclimates, because
that's a, you know, maybe a better, better research point.
But what ended up happening was, is just what for one time, but for two, the critical thing
that happened was once the plants, the pepper plants grew big enough and since they were
outside, they were not in any hermetically, you know, clean environment, they were just
subject to the natural environment and they had a few thrips and other aphids.
Some of, it was decided that, you know, some of the other farms were like, we're not really,
you know, don't really want to bring other pests into our environment, you know.
So it was sort of decided that it would just become an in-house research project and we just
have a larger, you know, sample size to monitor. And so that's sort of the rational behind the
one gallon, because the one gallon, if we were going to move them to all these farms, it would
be easier to just keep them in a one gallon pot, you know, and have to up plant. So throughout the
year, I just, now then that I kept 160 plants, I had to, you know, water them quite frequently.
There's a lot more watering involved, but anyways, that's the sort of nine yards behind that.
I know that in the comments here, Blue Green Tank has asked about thrips being a big deal on the
East Coast. And we actually recently talked a little bit about pests, I believe last week.
So for those who don't know, so a lot of the, so the Swirskii that we were looking at in this
research report, they feed on a bunch of different pests, like I said earlier, and also the pollen,
like in the banker plants. The various pests that they do go after include, like for example, thrips,
white flies, they also feed on, they've been used against broad mites and various russet mites,
although I would like to see a lot more research tailored specifically to the hemp russet mite.
But I have had success with them in cultivation contexts. Thrips in particular are a huge problem
agriculturally. The vast majority of thrips are actually not a huge problem. There's over 5000
different species documented, but like about 1% or 1 to 2% are actually the real big pests that
people deal with in agriculture. And the biggest species that I see as a problem in cannabis
is also one of the most prolific in agriculture, and that's the western flower thrips, Frankliniella
occidentalis. And there are other thrips that might also feed on cannabis, I've seen some
banded thrips on cannabis as well, possibly some greenhouse thrips as well. I don't actually
remember, I think I came across greenhouse thrips like once or twice, I'd have to check my records.
Thrips are, they used to be called thunderbugs in a lot of places, and that's because
they would be associated with like thunderstorms, because like when the barometric pressure and the
changes in the winds and the atmosphere happen, they'll ride on the air currents. And that's one
of the things about thrips is that they are highly reproductive, like a lot of pests are,
and then they also distribute themselves very vastly around their environments. So
the reason why I asked about the context in which we had this specific banker plant research project
is that the field and the context is an important thing to note. There was a ton of forested area
in this particular space, and so you would expect sort of a more consistent incursion
of various organisms, both pests and possibly even biocontrol agents.
Predatory mites, like the ones that I mentioned, Ambylaceae swirskii and Neocelius cacumeris are
type three. They're in a family called Phytoceidae, and all that means is that they are generalists.
And so they will tend to go over after the eggs and the larvae, and there's different like stages
of larvae, like they get bigger over time, then they pupate, then they become adults. That's the
thrips. They don't tend to sort of take out or harass the adults so much, partly because the
adults have defenses, partly because they're much larger. They're very harder to deal with.
But the larvae, if you can disrupt the life cycle in the population with various predators and
possibly even natural chemistries and other sorts of disruptive facets to your multifaceted system,
then you're much more likely to, on the whole, deal with the issue. But again, that depends on
your cultivation context and that kind of thing. So okay, so I have a thought. I'm thinking out
loud here. With thrips, because out here, thrips are present, but they're not prevalent. In some,
like you mentioned, on the East Coast, perhaps there's like serious, actual serious thrips
problems. Let's talk about the context of banker plants. Because it's interesting, all these terms
are thrown around, and many times the nomenclature gets, it morphs, like a banker plant can turn into
a trap crop, depending on what happens. What is the context? If someone's trying to grow cannabis
and maybe they're dealing with thrips, what is the possibility of having a large banker plant system
and essentially, effectively, being more desirable than the cannabis plant? So you're bringing the
thrips in to the banker plant, like the explosive peppers or let's say, calendula or something that
thrips love. But then you're also, so then they're being housed more in that environment.
And then what you do is then you inoculate with predators, whether it's arias or swirskii.
And then the predators then are effectively controlling the populations within the banker
plant system. You're letting the war play out in the banker plant system and then having it avoid
spilling over to the secondary plant like cannabis, that maybe is less desirable at first.
I guess it's all a function though, of pot. It's a function obviously of scouting, your ability to
scout populations and determine when and if the thrips population is achieving, reaching a critical
threshold in which then it might become a problem to your commercial crop. That's a much
harder thing to pin down is identifying when that will occur. But it's alluring to think
that that's a possibility of maintaining an ecologically more friendly system.
Yeah, it's very hard to quantify. And I think that's one of the other sort of valid criticisms
of banker plants in general. I'm not going to sit here and say that because we did this
one iteration of research that it's going to be globally or comprehensively applicable to all
other contexts. That's kind of the quintessential point I'm trying to make when I say that context
matters.
Yeah, I agree. By no means is this like the holy grail to horticultural proficiency. This is just
one example. There's all sorts of caveats associated with having to water. You have to use
extra water for the plants. You have to fertilize the plants. You have to scout the plants. If you
pay attention, the plants can develop problems. It's a whole integrated approach. And so it's
important to remind you just think of that in the context of everything.
You were, I want to make sure I answered everything. Did you have a different point?
I think there's a couple of different points in that.
Oh, with thrips?
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, so it's like, I guess, because what I'm sort of like trying to solve on the fly is
like, what is the possibility of, you know, so like, let's say out here, you know, this,
you know, we don't have a very super intensive thrips population, or at least if it is,
it's kept in check by the natural predators. Somewhere on the east coast, we have a very
intensive thrips population. And so, you know, if someone plants these banker plants,
and then all of a sudden, they check the plants, and they're covered in thrips, you know,
what's the strategy? What do they do?
Right. So, like I said earlier, thrips do feed on pollen. And the thing, I think there's a very
sort of, a lot of people, for obvious reasons, they're not really versed in like,
in sex physiology. And like, and even then, like, there's so many insects are so diverse,
in general, that it's kind of hard to, like, unless you're actually looking at a particular
order, or family, or even genus of these insects, it's kind of hard to make generalizations. But
most pests, even the ones that don't have wings, and insects are, their biggest trait is that they
developed wings, at least most of them did. That they travel on the wind. So,
believe it or not, russet mites, broad mites, they don't have wings, but they're so small,
that they actually can get picked up by air currents. And they actually do what's called
questing, where they behave in a way where they get up to a high point on a plant or whatever
substrate that they're on, and they sort of try to get picked up by the wind, the air, and the
air currents will bring them a short distance or a long distance, depending on how lucky they are,
and a bunch of other factors. Even the sort of, even, even sort of weak flyers, like aphids and
thrips are also like this. They very much utilize the wind currents to propel themselves a great
longer distance than they would normally be able to, or at the very least, they won't have to
expend as much energy in order to do so. I bring this up because when they're out, up in the
atmosphere, people think that, people will make the point that specific plants or something will
like attract the, the pests. And while it's true that various volatile compounds can have attractive
or repellent qualities, color plays a huge role in a pest's ability or attraction to a plant.
For example, I spoke about white flies and how recently on my Instagram channel, I talked about how
silverleaf white flies that become infected with a particular virus, they are, they actually
neurodegenerate because of the virus, it infects them as well. And it causes them that, they would
normally have a preference for yellowing leaves, while those yellowing leaves might have the virus.
So the virus actually causes them to lose their bias for yellowing leaves. And so that will
increase the possibility that they feed on a green leaf and then also subsequently infect those plants.
So, so thrips, for example, might also have the same thing. You've also, some people know that
there are sticky traps that are like various colors of yellow and blue. Some of them have
compounds that are meant to be attractive in that way. And this is the reason why, it's because we
understand their physiology and we understand what they're attracted to in that capacity. But
when they're swarming, when they're moving in these vast population swaths, like it's not,
I think it's sort of an unfair criticism of like, sort of inner, certain kinds of intercropping
of plants. Like they're not going to be explicitly attracted to the banker plant because it's,
you know, not a cannabis plant. Like that's a little bit ridiculous, but it is true that a large,
like, and especially way up there in the atmosphere, their visual sort of,
so the granularity of detail that they have is going to be very low. So they're kind of deciding
things in sort of broader context. They also see things that we don't like, ultraviolet radiation,
Cascadian grown in the comments, Susan making a lot of great points, salient points. I always like
to hear what he has to say. They, it's true, they are attracted to ultraviolet radiation
and, or they're repelled depending on the intensity and that sort of a thing. It's also
very toxic to them too, physically. It's not toxic, isn't the right word. It's very bad.
UV radiation gives us sunburns, but it can literally kill a lot of different organisms
like insects. And that's why a lot of them like to feed on the undersides of leaves, for example. And
that's also why the UV radiation resistance conferred by certain pollen can be so useful
for predatory mites too. So hopefully that long-winded answer explained kind of what I mean,
like the big, if the plants roll in or the pests rather roll in because it's like the swarm season,
because a lot of the outcropping plants or the natural plants that are weedier, they might,
they'll desiccate because of the seasonal change, or maybe you'll mow them all down and a bunch of
thrips will then try to find a new plant population to infest. And that's going to be
your cannabis plants or whatever other crop plants you're growing nearby. In those cases,
it's kind of more that you're in the wrong place at the wrong time, rather than there being some
sort of like explicit attraction going on, if that makes sense. And the way that you would deal with
that is not to rely totally on binker plants. I had a conversation with somebody recently who thought,
or rather, I think that they misinterpreted what I was saying, because they said that they,
in their experience, would use binker plants all the time and that they would never see control.
But of course not, right? Because you can't rely solely on binker plants. That's not their
role and that's not the reason to integrate them into a pest management strategy. They're meant to
be one singular facet of a multifaceted approach. Right. That's the important, that's the really,
the crux of this whole thing. It's their integrated component of integrated pest management.
It's one of the many tools in your toolbox. Oh, I have one question. So the insect, the pest,
like rusted mites, that when they climb up to the top to catch the wind, you said it's called
questing, like Q-U? Yes, ticks also quest for prey. Not in the exact same way they don't fly.
Predator, I was curious to know, what about predator mites? Do they also do that?
Not to my knowledge. Okay.
You might also come across like foresy. Right, so foresy is when,
it's when an organism uses another organism for transport. So there's sort of wind movement,
but there's also foresy and that can also possibly happen. Some people may have seen
in the comments or audience members, beetles that might have mites on them. And some of them
look like predatory soil mites. And so they wonder, well, why is this happening? A lot of
mites utilize, and a lot of other small micro arthropods utilize bigger arthropods as sort of
travel aids. Okay. That's interesting. And then Matthew, you saw a Cascadian's question.
Can you elaborate on the pollen UV predator protection concepts?
And then both explosive ember and cattail pollen?
Yeah, but not with as much detail as I'd like, because we didn't of course like assess whether
or not the pepper plant pollen is going to have these effects explicitly as well. But
in the research report that I was reading, this was specifically done for
a Neostelius californicus. And it's a type two mite, not a type three mite,
which doesn't really matter in this context, but it's kind of important to note. And they were
looking at, I want to make sure that I get this right. I can actually, why don't, I'll speak
generally, and then I'll come back with more specific information because I have the research
report kind of ready. But basically there were two different ways that the pollen was actually,
or I think there might've been different pollens that were tested that had UV radiation,
that conferred UV radiation resistance. One of them was physical. And one of them was,
I think maybe the best way to call it would be chemical. So one of the pollens had,
like when they fed on it, there were chemicals in the pollen, right? There were phytochemicals
that make up part of the pollen. And this is probably because the pollen also needs to be,
to some degree, resistant to UV radiation. One of the most important integral things about
evolving from an oceanic lifestyle to living on the surface of the earth, especially when
it was very barren, was UV tolerance. And so pollen has to be this way as well.
And so some of these phytochemicals would, they would be sort of sequestered into the body of the
predatory mite. So when they ate the, so it's like when we eat food, right? We sequester nutrients.
We also sequester a bunch of other things that we might not want or think about, but they still
get into our bodies and they stay there or they become excreted. So these phytochemicals were
sequestered into the body of the predatory mite and that conferred the UV radiation resistance
physically. So like the physical compounds were integrated into their bodies. And then another
one, I think, reduced the stress in some way, but I'd like to get that information more specific.
Yeah. I mean, that, that to me is an incredibly fascinating, yet incredibly
understudied complex science. Because if you look at like, you know, B. propolis for humans,
it is significant health benefits to the propolis. It's not fully understood though.
But I mean, you can only like, fractal out the possibilities with the biochemicals of all the
different pollen, the species of pollens, you know, of plants. Like there's probably a really, really
complex array of biochemistry involved with all of that. Like, we haven't really studied very well.
Yeah. And with regards to the pollen itself, I don't personally know if it confers
a particular kind of resistance in that way. I mostly know that the pollen is nutritional.
Sorry, what was that? I just said it was a food source.
Yeah. So I have, I actually have here, I could screen share, I suppose.
I have a picture that's ready for this particular thing. Let me do that right now.
Cool. Yeah. I was just, I was really happy when I was looking through the flowers to see the mites
crawling around in the flowers, you know. So I didn't technically capture them feeding on
the pollen, but to see them basically like on the pollen, you know, essentially on the,
what are they called? The, God, what are those? Anther? Is it the anther?
That's right.
Yeah. Crawling around on the anther, that was pretty cool.
Yeah. I definitely saw that a lot. I use a similar system in Gerbera cut flower
cultivation, commercial cultivation, and that was really useful. And I definitely saw a ton
of mites there. Can, Peter, can you see, is my screen being shared?
I see it.
Yeah.
What's that?
Yeah. Demographic parameters of Amblysius swarski.
Yeah. So this was on maize pollen. So important to know, but here you can see that compared to
polyphago tarcinemus latus, the broad mite that people think of,
the difference between that specific diet and a diet of purely maize pollen for the swarskii
was massive, right? Net reproductive rate was more than triple, just about.
Yeah.
So that's, and that's female by female. So obviously they're only considering the sort of
intrinsic, not intrinsic, but the only the females in this context, because they're making more
themselves in that way. Right. There is the, yeah. So there were a ton of advantages. If you look at
the maize pollen and this is just one, again, this is just one study. This is not again,
comprehensive and true for all pollen or all predatory mites for that matter. But there's a
lot of reasons why this works. And I go over this in my video on my YouTube channel, Zenthinol 2.
This is where these pictures are taken from actually, both from the research reports and
I use them in the video. The pollen is a great protein source and it kind of makes intuitive
sense, right? The predatory mites that go after their prey, they have to actually forage, they
have to seek out their prey. They have to subdue their prey, which is oftentimes the same size or
larger than them if it's not eggs, which also don't fight back. Right. So the larvae of thrips,
for example, are going to, they're going to move, they're going to disperse. They also will,
the predatory mites in some research reports have been shown to even change how they oviposit.
So they, if they detect the presence of thrips, either through, not through vision, but through
chemosensory ability. So they might sense compounds that are associated with thrips
or compounds that are associated with plants that are associated with a thrips infestation.
Then they'll change how they oviposit. They might typically lay their eggs around pollen sources,
but if they detect thrips, knowing, I mean, knowing is kind of a strong word here, but
when they detect the thrips, they will alter to maybe oviposit in like tuft domatia,
which is another advantage of banker plants. So banker plants can provide food, but they can also
provide shelter with quick access to a food source that they don't have to really forage for. And
then they don't have to fight to subdue. And I think this is the primary reason why these predatory
mites are so effective on a purely pollen food source even. That's a really good point. Just
real quick for the listeners. Could you give the layman's terms of what tuft domatia is?
Yeah. So tuft domatia are essentially small trichomous hairs or hair spots, rather. They're
trichomes, but they're not glandular trichomes. There's a ton of different kinds of plant
trichomes out there, but tuft domatia are little spaces, typically like in little crevices, like
up against the pedestal of leaves or various plants in different cultivars even will be
hairier or not hairier. That's another reason why we might find that other pepper plant varieties,
they might actually be even more suitable because maybe the pollen is somehow different or more
protonaceous or maybe the pollen plant has more of these tuft domatia for them to lay their eggs
in because they want to lay their eggs. The predatory mites that I've mentioned, I'm pretty
sure they can only produce like one egg at a time, more or less. So they invest heavily in that one
egg. Yeah, that's good. That's a good segue. Sorry to interrupt, but that's a good point with
amount of pollen. So the question that it raises in my mind is like, okay,
so people might bring up the question, well, if I can purchase the pollen, if I can purchase
peach pollen or cattail pollen, why not just buy the pollen and sort of rear the mites
without having to go through all the hassle of growing a banker plant, right?
But so there is that trade-off. There's like, you know, that potential situation is just like
you put the pollen, whatever. I haven't done this. I actually want to do this, but you take the
pollen, you put it near the cannabis plant. I don't know the details, but you buy the pollen and
you put it, you order the predator mites and then you, I guess, put them near each other.
And then they subsist off the pollen and maybe spread onto the cannabis plant in that canopy.
But, and then what you don't necessarily have is that breeding area or other home for them,
essentially the baker plants provide housing, quote unquote, you know, like it's like also a
home for the predator mite to thrive in and reproduce. So I think that's sort of like,
you know, a good look into the different worlds, how you approach it.
Absolutely. And so like, you know, on a more sort of what are called glabrous plants on smoother
plants to actually the type three mites that I referred to earlier, I have videos that kind of
talk about the phytocid, the various predatory mite classifications and what that helps you to
understand when you're trying to implement these bio controls. And I don't see it talked about a
lot. So I think it's a really important facet. So one of those facets is do the predatory mites
prefer hairier plants or smoother plants, more glabrous or more pubescent. And, you know, like I
said, so with the hairier plants, they might be a much better sort of jungle. They might require,
they might allow for easier places to hide their eggs or for for larvae to of the predatory mites
rather to kind of like exist around sort of in a protected way. All of these small little
physiological, you know, idiosyncrasies are important. Yeah. And just quickly, Matthew
Cascadian asked if you could spell the word that is used for the concept of one insect
catching a ride with it on another. Yes, I just put it in the chat. Yeah, that's foresy. P-H-O-R-E-S-Y.
P-H-O-R-E-S-Y? That's correct.
I also wanted to give a shout out in the chat. There's a lot of really great conversation and
questions. If you do have questions, please at me so I can see them. I want to get to people's
statements. I think there's a lot of cool assertions. Somebody in the chat, I think it was,
I think it was, was it C, like CK or something, was saying that
insects or other pests, they don't swarm for no reason or they don't get attracted to
plants for no reason. A plant has to be unhealthy in order for that plant to be attractive.
And that's definitely not the case. There's a lot of different reasons for this.
Although it is true that like volatiles and other sorts of things can be attractive
to pests because it lets them know. And I also brought up the whitefly example, right,
because they associate the yellowing leaves with, for whatever reason, suitability. It might be a
little bit too, well, it might be a little bit too inaccurate to say that it's because the plant
is unhealthy. But certainly the yellowing of leaves is not a positive trait physiologically.
So that yellowing can be what is being conveyed to the insect. But essentially, tons of organisms,
especially insects and arthropods, like I said, they'll get caught up on the wind.
And sometimes they have a little bit of control over how they move in those wind currents.
And they can use their eyes and their wings in order to orient themselves and sort of
kind of move a little bit under their own power. And then other ones like russet mites and broad
mites, and also spider mites for that matter, that use their silk in the latter case for spider mites
and not in the case for russets and broads, they don't have any real control over their bodies as
they move in the air. So they don't, so like attraction to the plant, like if they land on a
plant that's suitable and compatible, then they'll feed on that plant. And it doesn't really have
anything to do with their attraction necessarily. Are you there? I got cut off just now, the
internet closed out. Can you guys hear me? We sure can. And you're on a space mission again.
It's like I have to reset.
All right, it's like a reset. Perfect, we can hear you loud and clear.
Hey Matt, I have a question about terminology regarding all of these different...
You're cut off again, I think.
So the internet is, you know, throwing me for a loop here. So if it keeps cutting out, we might
just have to end the transmission. So, you know, it's not...
Basically, if it keeps cutting out, we'll just kill your video and then just the audio is not
fighting the bandwidth. But carry on, we can see you now.
Okay, terminology. Okay, so you have... I just want to kind of give an overview for people because
I think a lot of people that are getting into this or they get confused regarding,
you know, all these different concepts. So you have like a banker plant, you have trap crops,
you have intercrops, companion planting, you know, insectary plants. There's all these
different terms and there's so much overlap that, I don't know, it doesn't seem like there's a very
like... A common understanding of what each word means.
Yeah, yeah. There's like... I mean, if we could talk just like for two minutes shop talk on some
of that, I think it might help at least to some small degree for people to understand.
Absolutely.
You know, so a banker plant is a plant...
All right, let me... So Russ, have we lost you again? Let me kill his video or let's wait.
So you can hear me, Matthew, right?
I can.
I get cut off.
Yeah, Russ, just let me kill your... Hold on.
Does he have to kill his video feed on his end so that the device doesn't try to transmit it?
I wonder.
Well, I just killed it. I don't know. But Russ, let's hear you now.
Okay. All right, I'll try.
Perfect.
So, you know, like a banker... Matthew, jump in. I'm just using layman's terms here. So you can
come in and correct me at any point. But, you know, I'm just trying to get the conversation going.
So, you know, like a banker plant is a plant that hosts beneficial insects. It's there
to provide habitat for predator insects in your environment. And it's used like a commercial
setting, you know, and then a trap crop is designed to host, you know, to attract the pests,
to pull the pests away onto those plants. Right. But theoretically, a banker plant that's
mismanaged could become a trap crop if like thrips are over attracted to it or a trap crop,
you know, like, let's say calendula or marigolds that attract thrips now become like a banker
plant system for pirate bugs because pirate bugs love going on calendula. And now it's like that
home. So, I mean, I don't know. It's like it seems it all blends in together and it's hard
to necessarily distinguish. It depends on the context of the situation. And then you have
things like, you know, inner well, inner crop things, just planting the crops in inter, you
know, in between like row cropping and that. But I guess companion planting is another important
word. So companion plants can be essentially banker plants. And then you have this term
insectary plants, which also say, you know, they provide pollen and nectar for beneficials. But I
mean, I'm not really seeing a ton of difference between this all in terms of like how you want
to use it. I don't know. I think a lot of the times it's just like science, scientists arguing
over which term they think is the most appropriate. Matthew.
Oh, sorry about that. I was muted. So that's a great point. I'd love to talk about it. So
for those who don't know me, I see Cascadian grown. I see Jack Greenstock in the comments
and Russell, you know me. I can be very persnickety, very pedantic when it comes to semantics.
And it's to my detriment sometimes for communication, but also it can be really,
really helpful in the limited fashion of being explicit about semantics.
Semantics are important. And I think that's why it's important. Like I like that we're talking
methodically, like each person's definition of what these words mean. And then, you know,
hopefully everybody at some point can come to the same definitions.
Right. And I think...
When you throw a word out there, everyone is thinking the same thing.
Right. And I think here the most important thing to point out is that all of those terminologies
mean a specific thing. And it's mostly based on its implementation, not necessarily on like an
intrinsic sort of trait of the thing in question. Right. So like if we take a pepper plant,
a pepper plant can be a trap crop. It can be a sentinel plant. It can be a binker plant.
Right. It can be all of these things. And it can also be your crop plant. It can be all
of these things and also something else. Right. But that particular status is purely based on
this implementation. But you're right. It can be all these other things. It can be. It's just that
it's sort of imprecise to call it one thing when it's not being implemented that way. Unless I
suppose you're trying to criticize it and saying your crop plants are more like trap plants because
they're getting a ton of pests. But like crop plants do that. So I mean, it's kind of indolent
and lazy to sort of use that terminology sometimes, even if you're trying to make a dig or something.
All of these things refer to how you're using the plant in a specific way.
And you could say from an integrated pest management perspective, it has a certain role
and you're using in that role. Plants by themselves don't have roles for the humans
to put them in those roles, whether they're being cultivated for like the product that you're going
to get at the end of the harvest or because they have some sort of additive effect in the context
of cultivation, but they're not actually what you're cultivating primarily. You know, I think
that's kind of uncontroversial. Right. All right, guys, just so you know, I'm going to assume that
you covered all of the basics because that last segment where you started parsing apart all of
this, I've caught about like five words because of the audio, the connection issue.
Boy, you sound good right now. Yeah, definitely. I'm glad that you were back so quickly.
I'm assuming I'm assuming it keeps going in and out. It's quite annoying, but
nonetheless, this is just you know, this is what we deal with out here in the middle of nowhere. But
so I'm going to assume that you covered all of it. It sounded like from the parts I caught you
basically you covered everything. So my main point, the bottom line up front is
plants are devoid of roles until humans give them their roles. And the various terminologies are
totally contextual. They're not inherent traits of the plants themselves, if that makes sense.
Right. But yeah. So was there another question? I think there was something else, right, Peter?
I'm sure I let me look through the chat. Anyone have any specific questions? Well, actually,
while we're we're getting off, I think you guys I think I think we've had a good run here. I
keeps cutting off and it's really difficult to retain a conversation with you guys when I keep
losing. I don't know if you guys can hear me when I'm talking, but I lose audio. Yeah, we hear you.
You actually sound fine. All right. I mean, I think we did a pretty good job of covering like,
you know, an hour and 20 minutes of why I just invited two people on. So they check their email.
We can because actually, Russell, I was going to ask you, what are you growing up in? I forget
which county are you in? Are you in Humboldt? I think now we did lose Russell. It would make
sense if it was Humboldt. The mountains. Russell, what county are you in? Anything.
What what county are you in? Russell? It's dead air. Now I can hear. Did you hear anything I just
said? Unfortunately, what what county are you in? Humboldt. OK, yeah, so I was right. So what are
you growing? What what cultivars? Cannabis cultivars? Yes. Right now, right now. I have
some gelato and I have some seeds that I bred. I'm excited about because I've been doing some
very minor. We lost Russell again. He's really he's really in the in the weeds
physically and literally literally and figuratively. All right, Russell, you're
you're growing some gelato. Yeah, gelato. I'm excited. I'm doing some breeding projects,
some very minor breeding projects with some of the seeds that I've gotten from a bunch of
different farms over the years. I crossed the cherry skittles with that was from Emerald Queen
Farms. I crossed that with I had a Z.O.Z. which was from dying breed seeds. It's this skittles
cross with O.Z. Kush that was crossed with sour banana sherbert from Crockett. I crossed the Z.O.Z.
with that sour banana sherbert. I got a male out of that and I crossed that in with cherry skittles.
I crossed in with gelato. I crossed it in with Mac. So I'm doing some like minor breeding projects.
I think breeding is the funnest to me. That's one of the funnest projects process for me,
just like creating new genetics, new terpene profiles. It's like it's like Christmas.
So and what what do you like? Like what directions are you trying to push that? Like what's your
palette for breeding? Yeah, for me, for me right now, it's revolving completely around
the diversity of terpene profiles. Just very calm, highly complex terpene profiles like
I like terpene profiles like the Z.O.Z. is really cool. I had a phenotype that it smells like
skittles. So you get all these fruity profiles, but then it also has elements of like gas,
you know, that gassy O.G. smell. So you have like fruit and gas mixed together. I like those
profiles. I go for I go for profiles that make me salivate. It's like a actual, you know,
it elicits a physical response where it's like physically making me salivate. It's sort of I
don't I can't describe what that means in terms of biochemistry, but it's a obviously it's a
positive correlation in terms of how it's like modulating my my biochemistry. So does any does
quickly does anybody else? I haven't had Big Red in years, the gum, but I remember whenever I chewed
it, if you smelled it, it would it would make this part of my my jaw tingle. I know what you
mean. Yeah. When I was I just saw you pointing in like and needling your cheek and I'm like,
oh, yeah, that's exactly where those like salivary glands are like, you know, I totally get where
you're coming from. Yeah. Yeah, totally. And so I do that like a lot of the sativas do that,
like the sativas will do that. They'll activate the salivary response. And so I don't know,
I just I to me, that's an indicator. I don't understand the science behind it. But intuitively,
I understand that that's a beneficial modulation of my biochemistry. And so I look for that. I
should be looking for like pest resistance. I've been I've been arguing with myself because it's
I it's funny. I'm like, you know, like the the other IPM sites like, you know, you should probably
be breeding for pest resistance. Like, why are you just looking for terpenes? I'm like,
that just doesn't matter. Don't don't worry about that. That'll come later.
You know, because pest resistance is pretty mold resistance is pretty important, you know, as well.
But it's it that's what I've been doing, you know, just doing that. And,
you know, around the fire department up here. So I've just been pretty busy with like
managing that as well. So you could say that your your plants are fire.
Officially good. Yeah. Yeah. And you said it's kind of it's fire season now.
Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah. Middle of August. Yeah, yeah. Can you talk? Can you talk about I mean,
kind of climate change and things like what are kind of the trends for fires in the past
10 years or so? So so this is interesting to me. So, you know, it's it's interesting because I'm
kind of I have a foot in both worlds on this. I mean, obviously, climate change is very real in
terms of the anthropogenic impact that we've had on climate CO2 levels and all of that. But there's
also a component of the natural cycles that are very interesting that are maybe slightly lesser
understood. You know, so, for example, what I'm like this year, we've actually had a very mild
fire year out here. One of the one of the mildest in many years and one of the more
milder summers in terms of temperature. And then, you know, what I what I've been studying are the
solar cycle. So what this what this also correlates to is that we're in the solar minimum. Correct me
if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure that solar cycles are like every 11 or 12 years where it
goes to solar. I think I've heard solar maximums and minimums. And right now we're at the trough
of the solar minimum where the sun's energy is the weakest. So in terms of that cycle, that's good
because that is less heat, less radiant heat coming to Earth and therefore like having a mild effect.
And so but on the flip side, you know, that means is in 10 years from now, you know, it's good. It
might get pretty, pretty intense, you know. So there's that to consider as well in terms of,
you know, climate. And, you know, it's a complicated that's a complicated equation.
A lot of ins, a lot of outs, Peter. Right. One one facet of this, this conversation
really important is the human, the human effect. So our forest management systems have changed over
time and the tribe is escaping me right now. But there's a tribe of natives in California
where a portion of the forest was given back into their care.
And they started to manage it in their more traditional indigenous ways. And
the presence of fire in those forests is less than in forests that are maintained by
the federal government or the state government. So our whole approach to fire management west
of the Rockies is flawed and needs to be redone. I agree. Yeah, I agree with that too. Living,
living in California for most of my life and being an Eagle Scout and going through the
Boy Scouts, I learned all about fire ecology in California. I completely agree with you.
Yeah, it's it's. Yeah, I mean, to just in just to try to summarize a very simple model is like
the burning of the underbrush in the winter months. If you burn through some of that thick
under layer in the winter when it's safe, you really remediate a lot of these major fire hazards.
It's really pretty basic and it's just not done. West of the Rockies is made to burn. So
the fact that we have spent so much time and energy into stopping the
smaller fires that used to happen back in the 90s, if we would have let those burn
and controlled them as opposed to try to put them out. I mean, obviously you want to put them out
when they're encroaching on communities and neighborhoods and such, but there's a point where
the west of the Rockies needs to burn and it needs to get away. It needs to do away with
that fuel source because as that fuel source stacks up, that's why we get these super conflagrations
where it starts to melt equipment and melts the face shields and you literally can't fight the
fire because you can't get close enough. It's a different ecology out here and we've tried to
apply eastern US tactics to western forests and it doesn't work like that.
And I feel like to that end, we've kind of known about this collectively for decades, right?
I mean, it's sort of at this point, kind of the onus is on the government to look at the
research and implement it. But of course, people live in these places, right? And there's a bunch
of other confounding factors, wouldn't you say? For sure. Well, right. One of the problems,
I mean, I guess, and this is funny where I find myself towing feets in both worlds,
you know, because I'm like a pretty staunch environmentalist. I like the environment. I
want to preserve it. But when you look at like somewhere like California where all the environmentalists
are like, oh, you can't clear the underbrush because it's habitat for all these creatures,
you know, and so they just kind of protect it. But then it just builds up and up and builds up
and up and up and there's no clearing of the underbrush. Then it triggers like these massive
underbrush fires which lead to these large scale fires. And so it's like, well, yeah, you kind of
like, I guess, protected the understory for animals, but long term, you're decimating much larger areas.
So it's like, you know, maybe it's not the best approach. This environmentalist component of that
needs to be revisited. And if you're not going to do the old traditional native burns, back burning
in the winter months, like maybe there's a way to create like mechanisms for harvesting underbrush
and turning into large amounts of compost. Maybe that's some integrated approach where you can
harvest it efficiently and safe, you know, safely preserve the animals, I guess, somehow, and then
convert all of that material into compost. I don't know. It's just a thought that I've been thinking
about. Another part that just reoccurred to me from my formal education was that
a lot of the trees found in these environments can withstand heat to a certain degree.
They're made to survive the smaller fires. But now that we've stacked up this debris,
they don't survive the fires where you literally see the fire shooting over the tops of these pine
trees. But the smaller fires, some of the larger trees with thicker bark have actually
evolved mechanisms of defense against the heat. And to the flip side of that,
a lot of the seeds of these trees actually need the heat to sprout, to germinate and
sprout and start to grow. They won't grow without the heat. That's right. Yep, that's right.
Yeah, that's an interesting point. It seems like that's a fact that I always
think that everyone knows. It's like one of those ipso facto, oh yeah, everyone knows that. But
it would be worth reiterating that certain pine cones actually require fires to actually
germinate, to break open and germinate. That's a requirement. So that's really interesting.
I guess a silver lining to that is that because the fires aren't, I think, even naturally always
so, what's the word I'm looking for, regular, I guess. Perhaps a lot of these seeds and plants
are still in the environment kind of dormant if they haven't been destroyed through human
industrial activity and that kind of a thing, which is probably happening too.
So to steer back on topic, Matthew, I seen your question in the chat a little while ago about my
dangerous comment. And that is, there was a plant that they were comparing explosive embers,
pepper plants to when they discovered the efficacy of those pepper plants being banker plants. And
it's not the explosive ember that's dangerous. Sorry, the most important words were garbled.
Could you, in that sentence, could you say that again? So the plant, there was an original plant
that they were using that they found, I believe it was Swirsky Ion. And they were using a standard
for comparing other plants to find banker plants that would host predatory mites.
But the explosive ember plant that I consider dangerous, it's the original plant that they
were comparing it to that I'm hesitant to mention. Oh, I see, I see. And what was that plant?
That plant is dangerous to livestock, it's dangerous to people, it's toxic.
Ricinus communis, the castor bean plant. Castor bean plant, okay. Yes, it's a very, very, very
good host for predatory mites, because it has a lot of nectar and pollen. Oh, yeah. Grows to a
decent size, but it's literally toxic to the touch, livestock can die when they eat it. So I'm
very irresponsible. And I would hate... Don't get me started on castor beans. I totally agree with
you. Well, let's actually talk castor beans. I was reading about them earlier today,
as I was putting some castor... Anyway, go ahead. Yeah, no, it's... Yeah, that's just a rhetorical
device. Let's actually get started on castor beans. Yeah, I... So, yeah, Ricinus communis,
castor beans, they are a hugely invasive plant as well as having all the qualities that Cascadian
groans mentioning here. Man, I mean, in one way, they are super impressive to me because of
they have... Because of their ability to sort of get into new environments and grow prodigiously,
and sort of even choke out a bunch of other native plants in various places.
I actually worked with somebody one time up in Humboldt, who... They were using
ornamental castor beans, and they were very pretty. They... I don't remember the name or anything,
but they were like sort of a deep magenta green, and the yellow of the pollen,
they sort of pale yellow color. They were just very pretty. And they were using them because
they produced pollen. And I think there was a couple of other reasons they were growing them
as well, intercropping with their cannabis or something like this. But I did make that exact
point that I knew these people were environmentally conscious, and they weren't aware that
castor beans had this sort of detrimental aspect to them. And then they got rid of them,
and I was very happy about that. But castor beans, they are like cannabis, they are
wind pollinated. And so they drop a bunch of pollen onto their leaves. They also have what
are called extra floral nectaries. So they don't have nectaries right next to their pollen producing
parts of their flowers. They have... By the way, is this the correct image?
This is very much like the ornamental castor beans that I was looking at. That sort of like,
in this case, this is like a bright pink color. But yeah, they were pretty. The
inflorescence was very attractive to the eye. But despite that, they have a bunch of problems
associated with them. And I've seen tons of... I like to use them. If they happen to be on
somebody's property, it can be really nice to take a couple of leaves or take a look at the
seed pods or the flowers. Because like you say, there are a lot of predatory mites on the
organisms that will go to feed on the pollen. They'll also feed on the extra floral nectaries.
I've seen wasps align to the extra floral nectaries that are on the pedestal of the leaves
or right next to the...
Let me mute... There we go. I muted Russell. Russell, you're making a lot of noise.
And so they can also host pests too, right? Just like a lot of other plants. And so
I'll often find like thrips and maybe some whirlygig mites, which are predators,
journalist predators, spider mites, very commonly see on caster beans.
And I don't think it's because they especially attract them also, but also because like you say,
they have a bunch of toxins in them. Ricin is made from ricinus communis, right? That's where the
name comes from. And that's poison to humans. And it's not great for other animals too.
And so organisms, pests that can sort of defeat the plant immune response, as well as it's sort
of natural toxins and that sort of a thing, well, then they can live on the plant very,
very much more comfortably. And I think that's one of the reasons that I see,
especially Western flower thrips and two-spot spider mite, because both of those species
are incredibly good at adapting to a very wide selection of plant defense compounds and immune
system responses. And that's sort of a thing. Spider mites in particular, I love to say this,
and I think Cascadian Grown following me on Instagram and other places probably knows what
I'm going to say, which is that their genome is like 30% of it. Some like outrageous percentage
of their genome is totally devoted to detoxification and the sequestration of
deleterious compounds, xenobiotics and that sort of a thing. And then a lot of their genome is
also devoted to suppressing plant immune response. So for those people who say that
a particularly healthy plant can't get pests, well, that's patently false because
since 500 million years ago, half a billion years of evolution, arthropods have adapted to
plant defenses and it's a big part of their success as organisms.
That's blasphemy. How dare you say that?
How dare I? How dare I? That's right. That is definitely contrary to some people's dogma.
Just because I'm going to forget it in a minute.
That was so awkward. Right when I said that, the video feed got cut off. So I had this
open air like I did. I couldn't hear anything. No way of responding.
What I was going to say is, Matthew, bug lady Susan Wainwright, where do you disagree with her?
On what topic?
Are there a large quantity of topics that you disagree on?
I don't think so.
There's quite an overlap with her. She's a very skilled professional woman in her field
and she makes a lot of good points. A lot of times she clarifies her position later than
is in the same in agreement with banker plans, I suppose. She's just more commercially based.
She deals with commercial scale horticulture and she doesn't deal as much with backyard gardening
or regenerative and ecological cannabis horticulture. There's just different modalities
in which she operates. I'm reticent to talk about somebody in that way. I know Suzanne. I've met with
her and I consider her a professional colleague. I guess I would have to know what topic really.
Well, we could start with banker plans.
Yeah. Well, again, I would have to know what thing that she's talking about is and whether
I agree with it or not. Right. Yeah.
Let's talk about it. I'm pretty much in accordance with her on most of the banker
plan methodologies. I think the only thing that I would... The one point of contention that I would
probably argue with her in just general horticultural principles is she believes to
use mineral oil for pest control for the russet mite. I don't think that's an appropriate methodology,
but that's just my own empirical observation on my... I think sulfur is a much better
control for russet mites, but again, it's all about setting.
I suppose that... I guess I do have one point to make. I don't know if this is a disagreement or
anything, but I do feel like as a modern... A trend in integrated pest management in general and
agronomy and agriculture and even entomology, because she's an entomologist, she has degrees
in entomology. I don't know if she's published anything actually off the top of my head, but
the ability for people to interpret research reports, white papers and that sort of a thing,
I think that maybe some people... I don't know if she has this perspective exactly, but some people
have a tendency to think that only the specialists in that particular discipline
have the ability to interpret that research correctly. It's certainly true that a lot of
people who aren't specialists in that discipline might... Whatever that discipline is might come to
incorrect interpretations, but that doesn't mean that it's necessarily going to be the case.
I guess that when it comes to education and being responsible with what you're saying,
I'm very careful to make the point that I'm not a physical chemist or I'm not actually an
entomologist, but I do love those disciplines quite a bit. I have to know about a ton of different
disciplines to be an effective IPM specialist. In a lot of ways, it's more like being a
phytopathologist than an entomologist if you want to make a comparison.
Also in cannabis in particular, a lot of the research has to be extrapolated from other places.
I think it's a totally legitimate criticism that people will take research reports totally out of
context, but that's not unique to cannabis cultivation. It's not unique to agriculture
at all. News agencies do this all the time. Businesses especially do this all the time.
I am an agricultural consultant. I work in consulting. Some people lament that nowadays
everyone's a consultant and that perhaps there's some level of duplicitousness when people are
trying to make their products look good and say, hey, here's this empirical research.
This means that I'm right in all cases. That's why at the beginning of the video,
I wanted to be very clear and pedantic about the specific words that they use and how I word them.
I've met a bunch of people who will call me an entomologist,
but I'm not. On my Instagram, I do say entomologist, botanist, and mycologist all
rolled into one. I think it still says that and that's mostly tongue in cheek. I hope nobody
thinks I triple specialized and spent 25 years in academia to do it. I do often feel like those
are the three major disciplines that I associate with a lot, if that makes sense.
Yeah, I'm reading the chat right now. Matthew, while we're in a bit of a lull here,
can you speak to mullein as a banker plant? I don't know what you know about mullein, but
is there anything? Oh, mullein's great. Yeah, Russell knows a lot about mullein.
Well, I wouldn't say a lot. I probably know more about mullein for its medicinal uses because I'm
an herbologist or whatever, herbalist. Here's what I do know, because mullein grows wildly
out here. I've got probably four or five large plants of it. It produces these really cool
like spear colas with the yellow flowers coming out of it. I just found out recently that it is a
good plant for ... Matthew, do you remember what I asked you? It was like figus.
God, this is going to drive me nuts. What was it exactly? Try to describe it.
It was a generalist predator insect. It's like small and gray, and it almost looks like an
assassin bug, but it's not an assassin bug. It's an elongated, small, grayish color. I want to say
it's figus, like P-H-Y, but I know that's not- I think it was ... Was it gray? Was it an ambush bug?
I feel like we're playing not Pictionary, but what's the game where he describes a word and
the other person's like, ah. The ambush bug? Hold on. Let me see if I can ... This would be a
miracle if I can hop on my computer simultaneously. Let me do the ... Hold on, because I think the
genius- Russell is going to bring his internet connection down by opening a browser window.
We're in kilobits transmission right now.
Right. Russell,
in the middle of nowhere and humbled. Yeah, right. Here's what I-
Phimata. Are you sure it wasn't ... Because I remember you asked me about ambush bugs recently,
and the genus that I talked about was Phimata, or Phi-Mata, but it wasn't gray. I don't remember
it being gray. It has sort of raptorial legs, so it has like mantis kind of legs,
and it uses those ambushes prey. Does that sound like what you're talking about?
No, it's not an ambush bug. No, that's not it. As I look for this, this is what I will say about
mullein. My understanding of mullein, it's been more valuable to me as herbal medicine as an
expectorant in the wintertime. Mullein's like, you just make ... If you have a chest cold, you just
go out and rip off some leaves of mullein and make tea with it. I use mullein and whorehound
that I grow, and it's like they're expectorants. They're very powerful
for respiratory ailments. Then more recently though, and I never really considered it as part
of a companion plant essentially, or role for attracting beneficials, but very recently I
came across this one insect, and I found out that it loves mullein. I was like, oh, cool,
this is a generalist predator. I had no idea that mullein ... This was the first time I learned of
mullein having a role as a companion plant in an ecological framework of horticulture.
I got really excited whenever I learned things like that. As we parse through this, I'm trying
to find that species of insect that I was thinking about. Go ahead.
I was just going to share some herbal knowledge about mullein because it's actually what I went
to school for. Along with being an expectorant, mullein actually will help to repair the cilia
in the upper portions of the respiratory system. Cilia, for those who don't know, are the
the little hairs that line the respiratory system that actually gather
invasive materials and foreign matter into a conglomerate to allow you to cough and spit it out.
Damaging those cilia is something that cannabis smokers do on a regular basis, and mullein is very
good at helping to repair those cilia so that we can effectively remove them from our lungs.
Alongside that, the flower, that's the leaf. Interesting to note, the leaf is also used ...
Hold on. Can you start a sentence back again?
The leaf.
The leaf, that's the leaf that is the expectorant and cilia repair, and is also used as what they call a niter.
A niter in a smoking blend, niters are
are
materials like coals, and it will hold an air so that you don't have to repeat it.
Just quickly, I'm going to kill your video so the audio comes through better.
Okay, go for it.
I wonder if it's a Zoom thing today because I don't normally have this issue.
You sound good now.
Cool. So mullein is a niter used in smoking blends, and niters are used because they turn into a coal
and they save one from repeatedly having to light the bowl because they hold the cherry, as we would
call it. They allow for the smoldering of the herb, so they're a part of smoking blends frequently
because they have that property.
Can you take that from it allows again?
Two seconds here, let me kill some windows.
Oh, I'm learning a lot.
I figured out the problem here. I got too much stuff open.
Are you streaming this conversation on YouTube on like eight windows?
I've got windows and windows open here. Okay, it should be getting better.
Matthew, why don't you tell an entomologist joke while we're waiting?
I would, but it would only bug you.
That was quick.
Oh, yeah, well, brevity is wit.
All right, cascading.
But apparently you need a less witty response. Wait, is he here now? Is he good?
Yeah, and I can hear him closing windows.
I found it. I found it.
Oh, here comes Russell.
Found it.
It's dicephus.
Dicephus, okay.
Thank you.
Yeah, how do you spell dicephus?
It's D-I-C-Y-P-H-U-S.
I just posted that in the chat.
What did I say? Ficus? I was like, meh, my old halfway there.
Yeah, I remember you asking about dicephus.
Yeah, so dicephus is, I believe, a generalist predator.
It's a great ally in beneficial insects, and it loves mullein.
So that's a reason to plant mullein.
That's a reason to have mullein around.
Again, what I always tell everyone, one of the caveats, it's like,
you can't just expect to have one species of flowering plants
and have success.
To me, the holy grail of all this is having a really high number of successional,
of flowering plants that are flowering over the whole summer.
Right now, I could go outside, I have 50 different species of flowering plants.
I have all my herbs.
My wife has her ornamentals.
I have, if I could shoot from the hip, outside there's mullein flowering,
there's elk campaign flowering, skullcaps flowering, lemon balms flowering,
sages flowering, thyme's flowering, rosemary's past its point,
calendula's flowering.
That's just a small handful.
We have grindelia, that's called gumweed.
It's for treating poison oak.
Borage, there's tons of borage flowering.
I could probably go on and on, but it's just like a huge number of different species
of flowering plants that really draw in the biodiversity.
That creates the biodiversity with which the entire system functions as a whole,
that doesn't create an imbalance.
I think that's what I keep railing on that, but it's really an important point.
I wanted to bring up, since we're talking about Dicyphus,
and this is probably where people,
maybe I'm, I hope they're not encroaching on any entomologist territory here,
but I do love taxonomy and evolution of plants and insects and that ecological interaction.
I have videos on my channel that go over the evolution of viruses and insects and mites
and plants and bacteria and fungi, and how all of those very disparate groups co-evolved
for half a billion years up until now, and how those have had fundamental changes on,
influences on each other, and the plants, of course.
For Dicyphus, for example, it's from the family Myridae.
Myrids are plant bugs, and they're in the order Hemiptera.
They have the sucking mouth parts, and notably, a lot of Hemiptera,
a lot of recent Hemiptera have evolved to have, or they've gone back and forth to have the ability
to feed on non-plants, so they're carnivorous in that way.
But Dicyphus is a Myrid, it's a plant bug, but it's a predatory plant bug, so not all
Hemiptera are actually detrimental to plants.
A lot of them are predacious, so you've got predatory stink bugs, and in this case,
predatory plant bugs, and Aureus, for example, is an Anthocoryd of the family Anthocorydae,
so that means antho means flower, and coryd is like bug, so they're flower bugs.
They like to eat pollen, and I think sometimes they'll drink nectar, but they also eat prey.
They also feed on various other microarthropods, so I love to use the scientific terminology
that probably I can see in the comments in the chat that some people are lamenting my
magnoliquence, and my loquaciousness, if I am to use those words and describe myself correctly.
I can be very long-winded and use big words that can be flowery, but I'm always happy to
sort of get rid of that terminology and go to brass tacks, too. Sometimes it's really important,
other times maybe I'm just being pedantic. So I'm doing looking at research on Dicyphus,
you know, it's a generalist predator. It says they have a preference for whiteflies and spider mites,
but they've also been observed feeding on moth eggs and aphids. I know very little about Dicyphus.
I know a ton about Arias. I love Arias. Over the last five years, I've made it my
main goal to ensure their high populations in my environment, and I've observed them on quite a
few different species of plants. I mean, I guess this is one thing I would kind of tangent and say,
like, yeah, I don't necessarily have a degree in plant physiology or botany,
you know, but I have the real world experience. I've been working with farms for the last five
to ten years on getting them integrated with companion plants and what works. So I have that
real world knowledge. To me, even though it's not necessarily the best plant because of its other
pathogens, but calendula is like one of Arias' favorite plants. It loves calendula. It's like
almost always in calendula. Maybe it's because it's going after the thrips. Maybe it's because
it's the pollen. But I found very good success with planting a lot of calendula around the
environment. I probably have, like, I'm not joking right now, there's probably 200 calendula plants
on this acre of land I have. That's probably a conservative estimate because it just, once they
seed, they just start going, you know, bananas. And Russell, are we looking at an Arias? Yeah,
yeah, it looks like he's, yeah, it's looking like he's using his sucking, I can't tell if he's...
Yeah, you're right. And you can also see a whitefly larva or possibly pupa right next to
its head or also the pronatum, which is that shield on its like where its shoulder might be
if it was a human morphology. But like, yeah, it's definitely feeding on some prey. Yeah.
And so I have documentation of them feeding on the cannabis aphid. So they definitely eat
cannabis aphids. And just as a generalist predator, they're just a great ally to have,
you know, like my main, the main allies in my like, you know, ecological model of gardening
here has been Arias, the pirate bug, the green lacewing, the lady beetle, and more recently
Stathoris punctillum, which I've grown to love. And then obviously, there's ones that I don't
even know about, like, I just learned about Dicyphus that's here, I didn't really know what
it was until recently. So there are others that are in the environment. But all of those combined
have become, you know, a really awesome, you know, integrated model, where it's just sort of like,
all you got to do is maintain the environment and the companion plants, and then the insects do most
of the work. Yeah. And I think on that note, I just want to say that, like, again, some people
will use a particular banker plant implementation. And just like Cascadian Grown said, really
definitely, like, you can't use East Coast fire ecology techniques in the West Coast, potentially,
and in this case, definitely. Similarly, you know, you can use an implementation that somebody
used of banker plants, like the pepper plants that we used in this research study,
this sort of field trial, but you know, it's not going to necessarily work somewhere else.
Location is a huge, huge factor, perhaps one of the most fundamental factors, and people often
don't consider it because they think that, well, you know, I'm just a good grower, it won't matter.
But like, I mean, if you live in a place where you get locust swarms seasonally, that will be
an incredibly important pressure to deal with and consider. Like, I don't, it's, and a lot of
times we don't necessarily have, like, if you're, if you're, if at all cardinal points of your
property, there are other agricultural activities happening, you will have to contend with that.
It's way different if you're growing in, like, the high deserts of California out in the middle
of nowhere. Yeah, absolutely. That's a huge caveat for sure. Definitely. And we're in a very
unique microclimate. Like, I've thought about moving and part of me is like, dude, why would
you want to move? You're like, we have such a, we get snow in the winter, but it's mild enough to
where there's like this amazing diverse, like, I grow, I have a tea tree plant. It's a tree,
it's literally 25 feet tall. It's taller than the house. Like the tea tree, like you use for medicine
is growing on the south side. And, and it's huge. It's been growing there for 10 years. I grow
wasabi, actual wasabi. And I have a yerba mate tree I just planted recently, you know, 40 different
species of flowering herbs. We grow citrus. It's like a really, really unique microclimate that
I'm in, which allows me to cultivate a wildly diverse array of flowering plants, which obviously
is incredibly helpful, you know? So it's like one of those things that, you know, like, oh yeah,
of course it works here. You know, I've, I've attracted all the beneficials and it's like, well,
maybe that's the caveat. Maybe it's because you have that cap capacity to attract all of those,
you know? You know, here's a, here's a caveat, actually, now that, now that I think about it for
two seconds, it, I forgot to mention. So I've talked about this before in other, other avenues,
but there are these special bacteria that are called phytoplasmas. A famous one is, is the,
is the Candidatus liberibacter asiaticus and a couple of other species related,
that causes citrus greening disease in citriculture and citrus plants. And it's like,
it caused, it's like, it is incredibly lethal. We're just starting to find, like, really
commercially applicable and even like non-commercially applicable treatments for it.
It's very pernicious because it exists, first of all, it relies on a vector, the Asian citrus psyllid,
and it can't, it can't be vectored without it, basically, naturally anyways. And the,
this phytoplasma colonizes the phloem channels of citrus and it causes the branches to gnarle.
It almost sounds biblical, like the ripened fruit will turn unripe and it'll get brittle and it'll
get all wrecked and you, there's really no, for a long time, there was really no way to defeat it
without just destroying the whole orchard. It's incredibly damaging and these phytoplasmas,
they're very sort of capricious. So like, what I mean is that the pathogen might be able to feed on
citrus, colonize citrus, and colonize a totally unrelated plant group. I know that
solanaceous crops, your potatoes, your peppers, your, you know, tobacco, you know, various solanaceous
plants can also host some of the same phytoplasmas. And there are hemp phytoplasmas too,
and I have videos about that as well. And one concern might be is that if a hemp phytoplasma
that can infect peppers were to get, you know, transmitted to pepper plants, they could maybe
be another vector, or rather another host plant that could also transfer to cannabis if the Asian
citrus psyllid or some other vector that's related could feed even a little bit on another plant.
Because like, here's the other thing, sometimes pest organisms that can vector pathogens,
they might be able to transmit a pathogen to a plant that they don't typically feed on,
purely because they have no other option. And they might, what's the phrase,
they might like to, they essentially might test the host plant to see if they're compatible.
They don't like inherently know, they don't like look at a plant and go, oh this is a pepper plant
necessarily, you know what I mean? So they might test bite and that will be enough for them to
transmit a pathogen like a virus or a bacteria or fungal species. And yeah, like that's just
another aspect of the complexity of ecology, that a phytoplasma that infects hemp and maybe peppers
and maybe oak or possibly like some other various group of plants can be transmitted in that way.
So for banker plants, you have to really consider like the entire ecology, rather.
Is the microbiome compatible? Are there pathogens that can transmit between plants when
you're implementing them? And are they worth the risk? In some cases they might be worth the risk,
in other cases they might very well not be. Bee curly top virus, for example, is confirmed to
infect cannabis and of course beet and other plants. And so if the beet leafhopper, Secular
fir tenalis, uptakes the virus and then transmits it to cannabis, which is the only, which by the
way is the only known vector in nature. And so if that happens, you know, maybe you shouldn't have
had those bee plants next to your cannabis plant. But on the other hand, if it's already
close enough for the plant or for it to reach the, for the bee plant, if it's near the
cannabis plant, then it may very well have just hit the cannabis plant as well, if that makes sense.
So maybe that's not a huge concern, you know, but what do you guys think?
Right now, as you saw this summer, I did that other micro scale research project with
intercropping carrots and cannabis, right? That was, that was a really cool research. I can talk
more about that later, but so that was inter, carrots were intercropped on a separate row,
row on a separate row. Right now I have beets intercropped with cannabis and they're literally
inter, like they are like a foot or two away in the same bed and there's quite a few beets.
So, so it's very, you know, it'll be really interesting to see if there's any negative
repercussions. Yeah. Interesting. So far, so far, so good. Yeah. So good. I've been
experimenting a lot with this, you know, I, on a small scale, it's just, it's always,
I swear it's a function of lack of biodiversity. It's like the entire engagement of the, the,
the archetypes of, of, of engaging with earth systems. It's like, if you go and you just plant
large, large amounts of things, it's like the feedback mechanism will let you know that you're
not doing it right. And I'll be like, Oh, you have a virus or you do this. And I don't, it's not,
I'm generalizing obviously here, but on a small scale, when you just have like 20 feet of beets
intercropped with like three large giant cannabis plants, and then all surrounding that is like
30 different species of flowering plant companion plants. And, and, and the soil and the soil health
is strong. You know, it's like the soil health has been built for, you know, living soil. And
there's just like a robust micro biome. Like it's just like a different and different, the, the,
the whole, the way the natural systems will engage with each other are different than if you just had
like 20 acres of beets at a farm. And there's obviously like vectors present and then you have
your cannabis farm next door and then, Oh, boom, all of a sudden you're getting beet curly top.
That's just, I'm generalizing of course, but there's something to be said about that.
Yeah, I absolutely agree with you. And like, here's another thing that with regards to like
pests, both in nature and in cultivation, I think I said this recently on the future cannabis
project, but just to reiterate, like plenty of plants can survive pests, but in a way that would
make them unmarketable or otherwise unharvestable, not economically feasible to grow. Right. And so
like, yeah, so like plenty of plants, I'm sure cascading grown, for example, has plenty of
examples where a plant can be totally defoliated by like a caterpillar or something or lose all of
its leaves in some other way. And then, you know, that's fine. But like, if you're growing the plant
for the leaves, then you kind of can't have that happen. So it's not that the plant can't survive,
it's that the economic nature of the cultivation space can't survive. And those are
extremely important differences that you shouldn't conflate. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like refugia, in other words, places where plants can take refuge,
like when people make the argument that like a pathogen, like a sufficiently healthy plant cannot
succumb to pests or pathogens, you know, not to get on that soapbox again, but just like,
just so it's clear, there are plenty of examples. And some of the, some of them are recorded
recently with like, what was it, it was the chestnut blight in the US. So chest, so there's
chestnut plants in Asia and in Europe, and also in North America. And the chestnut blight really
briefly, really, really destroyed a bunch of chestnut plants in North America. But the ones in
but there's a fungus, that fungus, that blight, originally came from Asia. And the plants that
co-evolved with the fungus, more, you know, more recently, and for a longer period of time,
they've, they've developed resistances to it. So it's not as bad. The North American populations,
not so much, right. And so refugia plays a huge role in, in like population resistance to pests,
where a giant amount of plants can be totally killed off, and a smaller proportion of them
will eke out an existence where the pathogen didn't reach, and then they might like slowly
repopulate the area over time. So that happens too. I think, sure, very politely,
with a chestnut in particular, because if I remember right, something northwards of 2 billion.
The chestnut used to be one of the most prevalent trees on the East Coast,
before that pathogen came through. Now it's really hard to find.
But do I sound better now? Can you guys hear me? Okay.
It was a little bit garbled, but we definitely heard the important parts of the sentence.
We got the gist. I mean, I remember black pine in the northeast, there was like some fungal disease.
What one question because you were talking about bugs munching on leaves. So I have like,
one, two, like six or seven tobacco plants growing outside. And if you can see this,
so only this one plant of all of them, you can see the leaves are being eaten.
Yeah.
And then over here, and then actually this one too, but like none of the other plants have been
touched. So like, why are the bugs fixated just on this one plant?
I mean, it could just be coincidental. But I mean, nothing's totally coincidental when you
break it down enough, right? But...
Do you want to know my theory? This is my theory on light. It's more of a larger
scope of a theory and it ties in, maybe we can talk about it, maybe not. But
so, I mean, this sort of goes into this, actually, it kind of ties into the old
germ theory versus terrain theory. I don't know if everyone's familiar with that. I have
somewhat of a limited scope of understanding, but there's two, there's Louis Pasteur, you know,
champion, the concept of germ theory, you know, and germs are bad and we have to kill them.
And then this guy, I think his name was Antoine Beauchamp, he coined the term terrain theory,
which is basically like, there are pathogens in the environment that are in some degree ubiquitous.
And it's the most important thing we can do is to optimize our beneficial microbiome.
And through the optimization of our own, you know, biochemistry and biology, we have the
means with which to defend from the pathogens. And, you know, you apply it to health too,
like I, cause I've been dealing with health issues forever, just like sort of immune related,
I would just call it immune errors. And, you know, through diet, I've solved a lot of those
problems, diet or holistic nutrition, herbal medicine, you know, solved many of these problems
that I've had and how this ties and how this ties in with plants is like, you know, I think that a
lot of this is involving plant health, like plants become vectors for insects in things when perhaps
their elemental nutrition is out of balance and their microbiology, you know, in the soil is out
of balance, which sort of ties into elemental health. But, you know, it's like, theoretically
that plant could be deficient in one little element, you know, maybe it's got low magnesium
or low, you know, whatever. And all of a sudden now that becomes like, it's releasing phytochemicals
to try to like repair that. And that just becomes like, you know, that the pest can pick up on that
little electro chemical signature. And it's attracted to that particular plant over the
others. And it's like, you know, very complicated and not well understood. But I stand by at least
some to some degree that obviously, like, plants that are healthier will be more capable of
resisting pests and disease. And so if you have a weaker plant within that subset, that will be the
one that's most likely to attract the pests. And Peter took off even though this was directed all
at Peter, he took off and now he's somewhere else. We'll have to continue for him. I'll say this,
I definitely agree as much as I'm like, as much as I might be like, you know, contradicting some
points about like healthiness and all that sort of thing with plants. It's totally true that plants,
that it's complex, it is a complex of factors. You know, there might be a level of attractiveness
through volatiles. Some plants, like we were talking in the in the chat right here, actually
with Jack Greenstock and a few other people, like from 619 to 644, basically, plants might be more
susceptible. Like some plants have what are called S genes, susceptibility genes. And so like
pathogens like powdery mildew actually rely on these genes to be in their host because they exploit
them in some way or another. And if plants develop or through like, you know, natural
hybridization through breeding populations or through, you know, cultivating from humans,
they might lose these S genes in some way. It's often not the case though because you would think,
well, S genes, if they're so problematic, wouldn't they be, you know, sort of evolved out? A lot of
times these S genes are kind of important to the physiology in a very fundamental way. So that's
one reason why that doesn't happen. But there's alterations and other things that can happen to
genes too. Anyways, point being is that if you remove these S genes, if they're knocked out in
some way, then the mildew, powdery mildew, for example, or other pathogens or even pests,
they might severely, you know, they might not do well on the plant even. And so like health is a
factor, nutritional capability is a factor, or rather I should say status. Sometimes it's sort
of like a bit capricious, like maybe the reason why there's a bunch of caterpillars on one plant
or a bunch of aphids on one plant and not others is because like they colonize that one plant
because a moth laid its egg clutch on that plant and they haven't really moved to the other plants
yet. Same with aphids for that matter. But it may happen, you know, in time too. So sometimes it's
just a matter of the fact that maybe only one lone spider mite or aphid got into that one plant at
first. But you know, that might change over time. Yeah, and then I just think there's a lot to learn
about it. I think we know relatively, I mean we know to some degree what, you know, how
phytochemical defense mechanisms of plants function. But in terms of like the degree of
which they function and the efficacy in terms of like if a spider mite lands on a plant and a plant
is completely maxed with health, it has high Brix levels and it's like juicing its phytochemical
secondary metabolite defense system and like a spider mite's trying to eat it and then maybe
it's like, you know, maybe there's a plant nearby that's like exuding its, you know, it's like
struggling with its health. Maybe the spider mite might, I don't know, it's like do we know?
Is the spider mite going to be like, well this plant's okay, but maybe this plant over here is,
you know, more tasty. I have no idea. A lot of times, well like in the case of like spider mites,
their eyesight's incredibly poor. They barely have eyesight. They do react to different colors though.
A lot of predatory mites are either are functionally blind, they can only tell light
from dark for the most part. Just like to give some context physiologically, but it's true though,
right? So like it is true to a degree, I think, that certain pests may augment how they, you know,
test for plants, but if they're able to colonize a plant, they typically stay on that plant.
I'm talking sort of generally here, but like they'll usually be able to produce a colony,
like spider mites for example, and then those might go on to infest other plants, but they just, they're
not, for whatever reason, maybe behaviorally for example, they haven't reached like a critical mass
where it elicits them to move. A lot of insects, a lot of insects will, like aphids for example, they're
sensitive to the food that they're getting from the plant. So when they detect that a plant is
dying or there's some aspect of the phloem channels that's like causing them to not like it,
maybe because they're, maybe because the plant has blocked some of the sieve elements and that's
causing a difficulty in feeding, or maybe the plant has various compounds in it and it's not,
and its immune system isn't being suppressed very well. Maybe the aphid lacks a symbiont that
normally suppresses a facet of its suppression, or of its immune system rather. And then still
in other cases, sometimes, oh I lost my train of thought, but basically there's a bunch of
different factors like this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they might move. We're rambling on at this point.
Yeah, I'm probably, Peter are you back? Yeah, I'm here. I was gonna say I think this might be the
culprit on my tobacco. Oh, that looks like a buffalo hopper. That is a flatted plant hopper,
I can tell from the morphology alone. But I couldn't, I couldn't necessarily tell you the
species just from looking at it because I'm not versed and I'd have to know where. Location's a
big factor in ID. And so he was there and I didn't have the heart to kill him because I was taking
macro shots of him. Wow, that was a really good macro shot under pressure. Good job, man. Yeah,
good boy. Yeah, that's, yeah, that's some good scouting right there, Peter. Yeah.
I have, I've been taking spider portraits too. Spider portraits, I like that.
It's almost like headshots for spiders. Like they're glamour shots where they're like.
So you guys, I could probably wrap for hours with you guys. I love these conversations. I think we
have like a ton more to cover. And I love hearing Cascading Grown talk about the mullein and the
benefits of mullein and herbal medicine. And I think it's, I'd love to talk more about it.
But unfortunately, I'm dealing with my six and eight year old. Yeah, yeah, Russell,
go for it. We will carry on without you and I'll check in with you shortly.
Okay, I appreciate it, guys. I had a really good time talking with all of you.
All right. I really appreciate it. So Cascading, I'm putting you on the spot. So
I posted Mugwort as our resident herbologist. Can you talk about it? So the context is
my Chinese mother-in-law made a mugwort bath for my five year old because she was complaining her
skin was itchy. Gotcha. Actually, I would be more inclined to start stealing Russell's calendula
flowers for that. But mugwort is very good for sleep. The flip side of that is it can induce
lucid dreaming. So are you familiar with lucid dreaming? Lucid dreaming is where you
realize that you're dreaming and you have control of the dream and therefore you can influence the
dream. Some people get freaked out and they influence it so hard that they wake up.
So my five year old's dreams are just crazy, right? Or last night?
They might be. The theory also goes that dreams get wilder around full moons. And I think we just
had one of those too. So she might be doubly compounded there. I've always found that lemon
balm gives me more interesting dreams. Anything about that? Lemon balm is pretty interesting
because it's, if I remember right, it's anxiolytic. So it can actually infer small amounts of anxiety.
And people use it as like a, it's got those kind of lemony sort of terpenes, but it's in the mint
family. So it has a bit of an excitement or energy quality that it lends to people that consume it.
So I used to put it in cold infusion. I would just put it in cold water and let it sit for a couple
of hours. And after you drink, you know, about eight ounces of that, you can actually feel the
energy flow into you and you feel like actually getting more work done in the day. Isn't an
anxiolytic something that gets rid of anxiety? You might be right. I might've used the wrong word.
I just wanted to make sure that I was, you know, cause I actually, I can get a little bit anxious
sometimes. So maybe that's one reason it was helpful. Yeah. Let me, let me fact check myself
here. Great that we can do that kind of a thing. I definitely appreciate having a computer.
I've definitely, definitely been helpful. Especially with my syphus. So actually while
he's researching our resident spirits expert, Blue of Green Tank, who is manning
the liquor locker in Mount Desert Island of Maine, I asked him for his
tequila picks. So craft tequila. We have Corzo.
We have, and I'm probably totally butchering the pronunciation, Chamuco's
and Chinaco. So those are for this segment, Blue's tequila selections. He is our, he will be
coming with the bourbon recommendations on the next show.
Make sure to get that sponsored content, Peter. Right. Well, that, that, that, yeah, that's our
local commercial from the liquor locker for Mount Desert Island residents. The liquor locker, the
number one supplier of beer and spirits. Don't forget it's the liquor locker.
SEO. Yeah. Well, I, did you, did you find, did you find it out?
On my notes here, I'm waiting for it to open. For sure.
I do believe. He has to be very gentle with his computer right now.
I do believe it is an anxiolytic and I believe I had my definition backwards. I do believe it
does relieve anxiety, but there is a catch to it. And I thought that was the catch, but now I'm
looking to see what the catch was. Well, I appreciate that. I think that another,
another thing about like, whenever we talk about plant effects and I think Cascadian,
I'm curious to get your impression about this. It seems like you've studied this quite a bit
more than me for sure. Like when it comes to like pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of
chemicals in our physiology, like it's like some people are sedated, some people are sedated by
caffeine and some people are stimulated by caffeine and it has to do with their biochemistry
individually. So it doesn't, it can be a little bit difficult to really know exactly how people
react to certain things, right? It's based on our physiology and it's very, very, very,
it's based on our physiology and it's variable. Certainly that's one reason why like pharmaceutical
drugs and really any other compounds have to be tested, you know, and a more diverse test group
is much better for that reason. Like certain, you know, people along certain lines and whether
that's because of where they live or the diets they have or the genetics, you know, their,
their own gene composition, those all have factors, right? And they can have pretty
widely disparate effects. Am I wrong? No, you're not wrong. You're, you're right on the money there.
The best understanding for learning more about that is to look into the Ayurvedic system and
what they call doshas. There's, there's three doshas traditionally kapha, pitta, and vata.
And they come with sets of characteristics,
traits that can be used for personal diagnosis or deeper understanding.
People, they generally run warmer. They generally... Sorry, what, what, what runs warmer?
Kapha. Okay. Kapha, they're, they're generally, they have a few extra pounds.
They have, they're more prone. I might be getting some of the details wrong here because I'm,
this is one of the things that I still need to learn more about, but they, they didn't drill us
hard enough on it, but they have a slower digestive system, which is why they are a little bit heavier.
They run a little bit warmer. They're more prone to high blood pressure and being sedentary.
They're very much a personality that is hard to get started. They'll talk and talk and talk,
but they won't do. Where vata are the polar opposite. They're the very thin,
they always have cold hands and feet. They're very scatterbrained. They're very anxious people.
And pit is kind of in the middle. So are these like,
like, are these just personality traits? I don't mean to sort of demunitize it, but where do these,
where do, where do these groups come from? They're, they're of the Ayurvedic medicinal tradition,
which is, is the birthplace of traditional Chinese medicine. And it's, it's some five,
six, 7,000 years old. So it's, it's essentially observations over a long period of time that have
just held true. I seem to remember that cinnabar was a pretty common thing for people to use
in immortality potions, but it's incredibly poisonous, right? Arsenic.
Arsenic is, yeah, I'm not familiar with cinnabar as a term.
And they, and they use like mercury and, yeah, like back in the day.
That's, that's more alchemy.
That was a traditional Chinese medicine thing though.
Oh, okay.
Yeah. Cause what, what it would do is it would, my understanding, and I don't, I don't mean to like,
Matt, explain it, but I thought that because it would cause like a seizing in people, they thought,
Oh, like, you know, they interpreted that as like immortality because they kind of go rigid because
of the arsenic. But, you know, like, I don't think anyone's prescribing arsenic to people
who are practicing Chinese medicine that I know of anyways.
Yeah, I wouldn't, I wouldn't think that's a very common application these days.
Did we touch on Martin's question about powdery mildew earlier?
In the chat I did.
Let's bring it into the main conversation.
Sure.
So, so, so basically Martin said, I've got a lot of different bonsai trees,
how easily can oak powdery mildew spread?
Should I be keeping them on the other side of the garden, but just powdery mildew in general,
broad topic.
Right. So powdery mildew, I think another part of the question was whether it spreads really well,
and it spreads really well. A lot of, so the research for cannabis in particular is lacking,
like a lot of research about pests and cannabis.
I have a research report, I have a pest primer video on Golubino mysis cicera serum,
which is the lettuce powdery mildew. It infects lettuce, of course, but a bunch of other
different plants and cannabis is also recently confirmed to be a host.
Powdery mildews, like the thing is that not all powdery mildews are going to
infect cannabis. And it's really difficult. In fact, I would say that for the vast majority
of people, it's pretty much impossible to really tell morphologically the differences.
Partly this is because morphology can be, well, it can still be inaccurate. A lot of time in the,
in the, in the past, mycologists would use morphological traits to tell the difference
between the two. So in the past, mycologists would use morphological traits of like the
conidia, conidia fores and things to kind of tell one group from another, sort of broadly,
and even in specific. But nowadays, like we really rely on sort of genome sequencing to really know
what the, what the species is, and even what subgroup from species it is, like what strain
but powdery mildew on like roses, for example, isn't necessarily going to, and there's several
different species to that end that can infect like roses or some other plant. So to me,
because the research is sort of lacking, there is definitely a, there's definitely a legitimacy
to wanting to keep as little unnecessary plant life around cannabis plants as possible, which is,
you know, an important facet of banker plants, right? Like, is it worth the risk that
a powdery mildew that's, you know, hitherto not confirmed on cannabis, you'll be the lucky one to
maybe see the, the transference yourself, if that makes sense. Yeah, the one thing to note about
powdery mildew is, it's a, it's a very broad term that covers a vast number of species,
and some of those are, as you hinted with the, the lettuce example, some of those are very broad
in their, what's the word I'm looking for? Their host range? Yes, yeah, they're very broad words,
where some are very narrow, they only attack one or two or three different species of plants.
That's totally true. I just wanted to make sure we got that out there.
I appreciate that. Yeah, no, thanks for having my back with that. I didn't explicitly say it.
It's true. There are specialists and there are generalists, and I, and I have a video about,
it's called, Why is Powdery Mildew? And it goes over some evolution of powdery mildew, the
erysipheles group, and how they came to be. And there's a heavy implication, not outright
confirmation, but there's an extremely heavy implication from research that powdery mildew,
the order powdery mildews, branched off from sort of detrivorous soil inhabiting, inhabiting fungi,
and that these fungi, over time, they gained traits that essentially allowed them to
infect living plants instead of decaying organic matter like dead plants. So they moved up in the
trophic level a little bit, purely through association. And this happens a lot. This is
also one reason why a lot of microbes, even for millions of years, that Libera bacteri I mentioned,
I just read a research report about those phytoplasmas. They've been around for like
between 300 and 200 million years ago. You know, to put that into context,
you know, this is before there were even flowering plants, at least from some estimates anyways. And so
like, it's really, it's really like, how do I put this? It's amazing to consider that an
obligate pathogen, like powdery mildew, or like the phytoplasmas, well in the phytoplasma case,
they rely on a vector that also has to, you know, keep it around and move it. And if they don't have
that vector, they could ostensibly all die out with the right extinction event. And there's been a
couple of them since their inception, or their estimated inception. Similar for powdery mildews,
if their host plants go away and they're specialists, there's nothing else for them.
They're obligate pathogens. And some populations of powdery mildews are,
most of them are asexual, and yet they are still able to be competitive in the like greater
agricultural context. And it's kind of interesting to consider, right? Because
usually sexual reproduction is super important because it allows the intermingling of genes
and their traits. And there's a lot of positive effects for that from a fitness standpoint. But
there's tons of cases where fungi, in particular, even through all their asexual reproduction,
will simply, they'll get like copy number variants and other kinds of things happen to their genes
that allow them to still be competitive and still adapt around plant defenses and that sort of a
thing. So I just wanted to make that comment. To the point of the question though, it's,
I would say it's generally going to be pretty hard to say whether
that particular species of powdery mildew is going to be a problem.
Just quickly, I'm going to kill your video, see if the audio,
yeah, there you beat me to it. Sniper. All right, go for it. But to the question, I just,
it's really hard to say because there's so many species of what we call powdery mildew
that it's really hard to say whether it would spread. I would just assume that it's going to
spread to the ornamentals and the bonsais they were talking about because I'd rather be safe
than sorry. That was where I was going with that. I definitely agree with that sentiment.
It's the same for most companion plants or any real like, you know, integration of various plants
There are other cannabisi, for example, like hackberries, obviously hops.
And there's another group that I'm kind of, I'm blanking on,
that, you know, we also harvest those plants and we also cultivate those plants for various uses.
And so if you live, if you live in a place where cannabis is thought to originate,
and other cannabisi exists, like for example, in the Eurasian continent, especially in like
Central Asia, or, but really cannabis was considered, is thought to have spread very rapidly
all over Eurasia before human intervention. So really, this might be extrapolated to a lot of
the Eurasian continent in general. But it's, I think that like, it's important to consider that
things that originated or existed in the origination point of cannabis are more likely
to have an association, whether that's a mutualistic association or a parasitic association.
Powdery mildew is developed in, or at least it's thought that they developed in,
possibly either South America, if I remember the report right. It's from the video. I think
I mentioned that. And they developed on Asteraceae first. So those are a very, very successful
flowering plant group. But that's important to note because that means that they developed on
flowering plants, which are relatively recent in the span of like plant evolution. So when you bring
plants from outside of that range, although powdery mildews exist pretty much everywhere globally,
there may be plants from groups that are sort of more resistant kind of naturally.
Or conversely, they might be way more susceptible for that same reason.
Very good. I just wanted to come in and say what's up to everybody. I know one of our other
panel members, this is at Jack Greenstock for anybody out there, I just jumped on. I'm at the
end of a hike right now with a client. They're just taking a break. So I figured I'd jump in and
chat for a second before we get heading back to the car. But we were talking a little earlier about
like Ayurvedic medicine and Eastern medicine and maybe how it can be problematic when stuff like
arsenic was once recommended. But I just wanted to say, you know, cannabis is once considered
Eastern medicine and it's now getting a lot more recommendations. And I think a lot of the stuff
from the Ayurvedic medicine can be drawn over into modern day medicine if it's beneficial. Like
I recommend a lot of turmeric and like black pepper, which are both really good for inflammation
and pain relief. And I think in conjunction with cannabis, that those things can be used
really well. And the one thing that I really wanted to jump on and say to Matthew was,
is there is a little bit, at least from what I've seen, science behind it. There's in India,
they did some research with genomics, where they looked at, I think it was over a million people,
and they found a correlation to the Vata, Pitta, and Kapha based on genomics. I'll be right back
one second. I mean, I would imagine, hopefully that comment didn't come across as too cagey
or something. But I mean, I'd be curious to know what the definitions were for those groups
that they use to sort of make those assessments. Because I mean, it would be the first time that
cultural biases, whether Western, Eastern, or whatever, influence sort of the
definitions that we use in an unhelpful way. But observations across time, like those same
cultural sort of observations, can also be very beneficial and helpful. But you know, like
for example, there's human populations all across the world that over time, even, you know, I mean,
it gets into a sort of a contentious point. But like, for example, sickle cell anemia developed
in humans as an adaptation to like being around malarial mosquitoes, right? So it's an adaptation.
Mainly in Africa, we see it mostly in African people, African Americans as well.
Right. With the sickle cell anemia. But with this, what they did was, I think it was over a million
people that were looked at. And they had, like, I think it was surveys, that you can answer something
as little as like five or 10 questions, take it like a dosha type, that tells you if you're Vata,
Pitta, Kapha, a combination of any two or a combination of the three. But there was definitely
some research behind it. Like it wasn't just like a thing. And the person who actually introduced me
to it is a guy named Dr. K. He has a YouTube channel called Healthy Gamer, GG. He's a Harvard
psychologist. And he helps people with video game addiction and other things online. But he uses
Ayurvedic principles in his psychiatric counseling. And he finds that a lot of people that just get
like prescribed medication, they're dealing with something they call like a samskara, which is a
Sanskrit term that's like talking about people that are dealing with like a
undealt with ball of emotions. So like there's a lot of people here that are on antidepressants,
for example, that maybe they had a trauma in the past in their life that instead of dealing with
that trauma through therapy, they are just going to be prescribed medication and take an
antidepressant or something like that. So I find it pretty interesting. And I think there's, the
more you look into it, the more scientific stuff you can actually find. Like when I first got into
aromatherapy and cannabis in general, I thought, you know, I enjoy the stuff, but maybe there's not
a lot of science to it. But there is actually a decent amount of science on all three of those
topics for anybody who wants to look into them for yourself.
Very much so. There's a lot of information,
scientific and anecdotal, but you just have to know where to look.
You're breaking up a little bit. Say that again.
Take it from the top, Cascadian.
There's a lot of scientific and anecdotal information that backs up the
um, the truths of Ayurveda. And through my formal education, I've been exposed to a lot
of these publications. And I'm actually on my herbalist side of my life. I'm actually working
on a project that meshes Ayurveda with several of these other...
Sorry, with what? Meshes it with what?
Ayurveda and Western science.
Western, okay.
It must be Zoom today, because this is weird.
Um, but I'm actually...
It's okay. We can hear you now.
I'm actually compiling a database and a system of understanding that takes Ayurveda,
Western science, and other things like aromatherapy. There's about a dozen of them,
and mesh them all into one system. I don't speak about it much on these platforms because I try to
stay cannabis-based, but that is definitely another hat that I wear and something that...
Well, although just to be clear, I feel like for me, everything we talk about,
I mean, it's like cannabis is the center, like the bullseye, but it's just generally plants,
plant medicine.
Like holistic health.
Yeah.
And I think for me, one of the things I've always found interesting is just...
I feel like these conversations are all a blur, but I can't remember, it was with Suha yesterday
where I was talking about my sister who's an orthopedic surgeon and schooled in Western
medicine, but has a strong interest in Eastern medicine. And just these silos, and then people
who can kind of bridge the two and just... You have more tools in your toolkit if you can bridge
the two, and if you understand both.
I will agree with that. For example, one of the most interesting things to me is seeing the
similarities between various cultures and sort of ancient versus modernity in that stead. I think
that the term Eastern and Western science is kind of not really helpful because it's either...
If it's through the scientific process, then it's science, and that's really the only moniker
that matters there to me. Because if the thing is proven to work, then it works. And the moniker of
Eastern, Western, Northern, Southern is not necessary.
But if it proves to work, then how come no kind of pharmaceutical or modern American healthcare system research
researches any sort of... Anything that doesn't throw off billions of dollars of revenue doesn't get researched?
Yeah, they don't like stuff that's an effective treatment or even a cure in some cases. A lot of people would claim,
and this isn't necessarily my claim, but for certain types of cancer with like Rick Simpson oil or cannabis oil in general,
that it can be very effective at treating it. Whereas with cancer, there's a lot more money to be made with a lot of these treatments.
So not really a science thing then. So not really... Nothing to do with science and everything to do with people and races.
Politics, yeah. But with that, there is an issue with science because we don't have good science on cannabis because it's been
outlawed since the 30s, more so the 70s, but the 30s is when it really began. And we don't have good research to
make the claims that pharmaceutical companies can make about their drugs because they're doing trials where they have double-blind
placebo procedures where cannabis has not been able to do that at a large scale, at least in the United States.
It's starting to happen now in Israel. It's starting to happen in Canada. But a lot of these claims that like Rastafarians and Jamaicans...
Peter Tosh died, I think in the 80s or the 70s, but he wrote a song called Legalize It that was performed by Pato Bantant.
And he lists like 10 different things that cannabis helps that I didn't know about at the time in 2000 when it came out.
But he goes down and lists like rheumatism, asthma, cancer, like all these different things that now we're finding cannabis is very beneficial for.
And not that these other things like turmeric and black pepper, those aren't banned, but I do think that they're less profitable than a pharmaceutical would be.
So if you have an inflammation drug or an anti-inflammation drug, you can make a lot more money off of than telling people,
oh, you know, have a turmeric and black pepper drink in the morning to help your inflammation.
I just think there's a lot of ways to come from it.
I feel like...
And just quickly, Pato, not to be confused with Booju.
Different. So Bantant just means like somebody who rocks the mic in like Jamaican music, like Booju Bantant is a different guy.
Pato Bantant, he lives here in Southern California. He's by way of like England, though.
But yeah, different artists, but both reggae singers.
Let me see if I can climb on my herbalist soapbox here for a second without my mic cutting out.
And everybody appreciate that baritone radio voice.
So the American medical system is skewed in a way that herbs are shunned.
I plan on doing more research and putting a presentation together about this,
so I don't necessarily have all the facts at hand right now as to what year.
But there was a point in time where the American Medical Association hired this individual.
I won't try to remember his name right now, but he was not anything of a doctor.
And they hired him to go around the country and evaluate medical universities and their
approach to medicine.
And after he finished his tour of the country, they decided, the American Medical Association
decided to institute rules that led to a lot of closures in alternative medicines.
In alternative medicines, they specifically went after eclectics, homeopathics.
Apothecaries.
Yeah, herbalists in general, which is why herbalists cannot legally,
I can't legally practice medicine. I can't legally say I'm going to cure anybody.
Doesn't that go back to the Rockefellers and the whole medical communities,
and then that turned into the medical, what is it, medical, gosh, not college.
What do they call it when you go to medical schools?
Yeah, so the American Medical Association was bankrolled by some of those nefarious names.
Nefarious names. And that led to
several types of alternative medicines.
Sorry, that led to what?
The shutting down of several different types of alternative medicines. Homeopathics, eclectics,
Thomsonian practitioners, and they can only restrict
schools that qualifies these universities to be dubbed medical schools.
They, at the same time, a lot of people don't know this, they changed the Hippocratic Oath
the Hippocratic Oath to include profit, where before profit was specifically
prohibited. They weren't to do, they weren't to practice medicine for profit.
It was more of a donation basis. So the AMA totally transformed the landscape as far as
medical care is concerned. And that is part of the reason herbs have such a hard time
gaining traction even to this day, because they skewed the whole system to be for profit.
And there's no money in herbs, therefore, there's no research in herbs. Therefore,
there's no products that contain the herbs. And we can't find herbs on the market in the mainstream.
The flip side to that double edged sword is this is the same time when they started
to try to isolate compounds from plants, which is the origins of drugs and medicine.
They're all plant based compounds. But the medical field makes their money by selling purified
individual constituents as opposed to prescribing holistic, plant based, rounded
medicines that contain a variety of constituents. So that's why we find all these pills and all
these medicines that say they have one particular thing in them. It's a whole concept that was built
based on the idea of isolating these constituents.
So I just wanted to point the devil in the details. I think it's important to understand
in an herbalist context that that's why it's so hard to find
the scientific research as well as the medicines themselves. It's because it's all been actively
stifled for I can't say how many years, but it's well over 50 years. I don't remember the exact year,
but that's why it's a money thing.
I still feel as though the terminology is unhelpful.
Oh, for sure.
If you're describing it that way, there is no such thing as Western medicine or as Western science
or Eastern science. It's just science and to that degree medicine too. Because I also agree with you.
I'm no economist, but typically disruptive technologies can be incredibly profitable.
But you're right. It sounds to me, and I've also looked into this myself, and I agree with a lot
of the points you're making. There is active suppression of certain kinds of research.
And that's how I would characterize it. But I think it's important to understand that
and to recognize it. But at the risk of sounding, I guess, inflammatory,
I do feel like it might be a bit... I don't know if I would trust a diagnosis of a five-question
question. I don't know if I would trust a diagnosis of a five-question question.
I just feel like most of the... In fact, a good portion of this video, in fact, was
describing about how complex ecology is. And that includes, I mean, holobion theory
and phylo-symbiosis theory, which is pretty modern too, talks about how the importance of
the dynamic and complex aspects of our bodies and the environment in general can be.
It becomes very difficult to make broad general statements. And I think that for me, it's a very
tight rope to walk. And I don't know if I would... I mean, in some cases, it matters about what the
potential for harm is. If essentially the thing that you're going to take
will have some positive effects and probably no negative side effects, then there's...
I don't think there's a problem with trying it out. But if there's a potential for large-scale
problems, if you apply it to the wrong person, then that can be incredibly dangerous and would
be. And so you're right. There should be a lot more research and acceptance of that kind of a
thing. But there's also pseudoscience out there as well that masquerades as science that's just
simply misunderstood or actively suppressed. And I think that's also worth mentioning.
I do agree with you on the whole Western science and how that is an outdated term. I just
happen to be conditioned from my formal education. But generally speaking, when Western science is
applied as a term in the herbalist community... Janice, do you... I think you have an audio thing.
For many people that try the same path you're on. Is everybody else hearing? Matthew,
are you hearing that? Matthew? Is that better?
You know what? Sorry, never mind. I opened a window and I was hearing... Sorry,
I thought it was coming from your computer. Anyway, carry on. Gotcha. So Western science
as a term is generally... It's carried over now, but it was generally applied to
the mid-1900s when they were breaking out microscopes and the scientific method and
a lot of those sorts of concepts in the States. And they were...
Sorry, they were meant to what?
They weren't necessarily following a scientific method or doing scientific...
That it is a bit of an outdated concept in 2020 because science is science these days and it's
done all over the world. I just happen to be conditioned. So I guess I need to learn,
teach myself to not include Western when I talk about science.
So I appreciate the feedback because I'm learning here as well.
I did already warn you about being really pedantic.
I appreciate it, man. Thanks for keeping me on my toes.
I appreciate it, man. Thanks for keeping me on my toes.
But I definitely feel like there's quite a bit of... Well, and actually
with the advent of cannabis legalization and also the legalization of
psychoactive mushrooms, for example. And also when people... I'm going to throw a curveball
here that's related, though. I do feel that because of these legalization efforts,
people are asking questions that I think will or that do lead to much more profound
points. For example, speaking of the pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical divide,
what does it mean to be intoxicated? And are all intoxications the same? Patently not.
If you're driving under the influence of like robitussin or if you're driving under the
influence of cannabis, and to what degree even, people start asking these questions about
inebriation and physiology and our interaction with various compounds that I think...
Like I said, those will lead to much more salient points about, well, what is the limit of
human understanding about that? And what populations of people are more or less
sensitive to certain compounds or that sort of a thing? That was always actually one of my big
contentious points about like with cannabis. Some people think that you're able to
completely accurately or with a great degree of accuracy, you can know what cannabis cultivar
assembly is growing and what the effects are going to be on your body or psychotropically,
simply through smelling it and maybe other sorts of grading like physiological morphology and that
sort of a thing. But hybridization, that kind of throws it out of the window. And so, whereas
things might have been true thousands of years ago for certain plants, or in this case cannabis,
it might not be the case nowadays. But because of marketing and also various traditions,
like sometimes people hold on to traditions that are, or they might even glorify traditions that are
promulgated as being more significant than they actually are. Or they are significant,
but they require a comprehensive aspect. Like one of the things about, and I lived in China
for two years, one of the things about traditional Chinese medicine, like for example, yinbao,
I think it was called, yeah, white powder. Yeah. There's this powder that I came across,
there's this medicinal powder that's used for wounds and for healing of wounds. And it's not
very popular from my understanding in the West, but it's incredibly useful and it's used all the
time. Neem in India is another example of that, where like a lot of people in India, they don't
in traditional Chinese medicine, Ayurveda and other sorts of philosophy. I'm not trying to
de-scientify it by saying that there are philosophies, but I think that there's a real
importance that a comprehensive system is being utilized. And that like you say about isolating
certain compounds, well, certain compounds have direct effects that are very useful in a singular
way. But there's also cases where you want like multiple compounds or multiple effects at once,
which is kind of, you know, to bring it all around full circle, how I look at IPM,
integrated pest management. You know, you can, it's true, you can use one or two things to great
effect by themselves, but wouldn't you want to use as many advantages as possible at as many
degrees of intensity as possible? I would say yes, right? So, and I think that a lot of times
people will focus on facets of traditional Chinese medicine, Ayurveda or Qigong or something like this,
where like a big part of it, there are parts that people are just not considering, like the way that
people carried themselves, the way that people worked, what the average like sort of lifestyle
was for people who are practicing these sorts of things. I think those are all very important
factors to consider as well, you know, like health and wellness with their physical activity and that
sort of a thing, in addition to, you know, rather using herbs or what foods you eat, because like I
was saying about sequestration, you know, those predatory mites will feed on pollen and those,
that pollen has phytochemicals that have a demonstrable beneficial effect for them,
whereas other ones might be toxic, right? So like the food that we eat is also perhaps
uncontroversially going to have an effect on our own physiology, right? So I really appreciated that perspective.
Yeah, most definitely. I mean, I would go so far from my herbalist lens to say that
in a manner, whether it's medicine, whether it's IPM, whether it's our diet, I mean, sure you
you could eat one of these newer like emergency foods, you know, lifeboat foods, you could, you
could eat that for probably your whole life and you might have some complications, but it's going
to keep you alive, but that's nowhere near the same quality of life that you would have as if you
had a well-rounded diet of fruits and vegetables, you know. So you could take that singular approach,
but I'm with you in that the holistic approach that includes many different angles and
many different approaches is always going to be superior to a singular approach, regardless of
what you're talking about when you talk about life in general. Yeah, definitely. And like the context
of people too, right? Like again, it gets contentious, but like some people, you know, have genetic disorders
and like it's very, it's either very hard or impossible to use certain techniques to
alleviate the symptoms or even, you know, cure the actual problem. You know, we don't have the
technology for that or we don't have the ability to do that or maybe in some cases we have ways
to alleviate, but you know, for various reasons we are either unaware of it or maybe certain people
still can't utilize those techniques for various lifestyle reasons or yeah, it gets very complex.
And I'll admit I don't, I'm really speaking about something that I don't have
sort of a professional or, you know, high level of education on. Is your tablet in there?
You're definitely on the right road.
But you know, whether you have a professional opinion or not, you're definitely,
the hammer meets nail. You're, you know, you're on the right track with your line of thinking.
I appreciate that. Should we talk more about banker plans?
I was interested, that's, I was just going to bring this full circle. I'm interested in,
I don't know if there's a lot of research in it yet, but I'm trying to understand more on the
banker plant subject about how to provide a more holistic environment for the predators.
I know explosive embers are often touted as the one for predatory mites, but there must be,
that's why I brought up molding earlier, is that there must be more to it. There must be more plants
maybe for predatory mites in particular, but also for these other predators
that are going to increase our ability to have this holistic approach.
And I'm personally really interested to see where that sort of line of research goes.
I don't know if you know anything about more banker plants, but
that's kind of the tip of the iceberg for me on this subject.
Well, one of the, you know, we were talking about fire ecology earlier,
and one of the sort of, there's sort of a point of contention that has to be acknowledged,
I think, of whenever we talk about cultivating plants in general, and that's that human
cultivation efforts, you know, they can't help but have an effect on the world and on the specific
area. And there are people out there, I think, who are very, I guess they have sort of a fetish for
naturalism, and what that means for them is going to be different for different people.
But essentially, trying to be as natural as possible. But what even is natural when we're
talking about cultivated plants, especially plants that we've been cultivating for literally
thousands of years, literally millennia. Sometimes the cultivated like version of a plant is the
only version is the closest, you know, version of that plant that's even in existence, that
species, and that the uncultivated wild populations don't even exist anymore,
or so far removed that they're essentially, you know, not even the same thing, really.
But so like when we're using when we're trying to cultivate plants to use like as like a natural,
we're getting some,
sorry, I'm not muted. You were not muted.
I said just quickly, because someone was like, we need our dab music. So this this is your dab
music, the mighty fantails everywhere.
So anyway, Matthew, you can speak over there.
Possibly.
I yeah, so so when we use plants, whether plants that we cultivate in the crop,
or whether we're adding plants around to have a certain effect, we can absolutely have problems
where in which we can't use plants. So I think that's a really good point.
Absolutely have problems where in which we upset the what we would call like the natural ecosystem,
but even that sort of a, you know, sort of an artificial construct, right as a concept,
because plenty of times, like what do you call an invasive organism that escapes its
its native territory, because that native territory is being destroyed by humans.
Right? Is that invasive? I suppose kind of but invasivity typically refers to human sort of
caused invasive like like bringing a plant or an animal to a totally new place and kind of
facilitating it either minimally or in a maximal way like cats and dogs, for example, which have,
especially in the case of the former, huge deleterious effects on local flora and fauna,
but particularly fauna. And so like, I guess you have to make the concession that pretty much no
cultivation of plants is really natural. Especially where agriculture is concerned,
even just the building, even just the clearing of land, you know, to cultivate plants is not
natural, right? And that can have a bunch of effects. If you're an apiarist, for example,
and I think Cascadian, you know this about me, I talk about the honeybee quite a bit,
and how the honeybee has a bunch of problematic effects for native pollinators,
just pollinators in general, because it's a super generalist, it will go after a bunch of
different flowers, which is incredibly great. It's good for it. It's a very successful adaptation
or series of adaptations, but ultimately you can depress the amount of nectar and pollen
that's in the natural area if you're indeed allowing them to enter into those areas that
aren't cultivated. And so in the same way, plants can have these sort of unintentional consequences,
especially in mass. And I guess I would ask people that in the same spirit of like trying to be
sort of natural and trying to have environmental consciousness when planning your integrated pest
management strategy, you should consider that, you know, just your simple act of nature of like
controlling pests, which many which are themselves invasive, has various effects on the ecosystem
locally. And when you plant a bunch of plants that are not native to the area, you know, you might
introduce various microbes, you know, unintentionally. And for a lot of people who are
growing plants or trying to source cannabis plants, especially from their native territory,
or from or rather from places where they either grow wild, or they've been historically cultivated
for millennia, there's also the possibility for, you know, gathering plants even in the seed,
there are seed endophytes that might be there that, you know, are kind of native to a certain
area. And they might actually be beneficial, but some of them might be pathogens too.
Yeah, that was a little bit long-winded, but hopefully that kind of
sort of zeitgeist is getting communicated that like, all human interaction with the natural world,
you know, is sort of fundamentally sort of disruptive in some way. And it's really how
we are able to manage that, that I think is going to be really important, especially
in the next several decades and centuries, because, you know, we're getting more and more people,
and how we preserve the natural ecosystems will be an intense challenge, I think.
I'm actually glad that we're talking about this, because one of my pet peeves is the disconnect
between the cannabis community and the herbalist community. Being a member of both, it really does
not sit very well with me, because I see that in a lot of communities, but they don't talk.
Sorry, you said something. I'm sure that you're trying to figure it out.
It doesn't sit well with you, because what?
There's no communication between the cannabis community and the herbalist community. It's very
limited, but the amount of overlap.
Right. So just quickly, think of all the communities that are little silos, like,
and that's what I've been focused on. You have the university plant science researchers in the
cannabis community, I mean, the KNF community, and so many communities that are like,
oh, you guys should be talking to each other.
Right, right. So in the herbalism world, we struggle with this concept that you were talking
about, about plants.
About what plants?
Cultivating, about growing the plants, because in the herbalist's lens,
the most superior plants for making medicine are wild plants.
Wait, sorry, you broke up again. You said wild plants, right?
Wild crafted herb is superior to cultivated herb when making herbal medicines.
And wild crafted herbs come from their natural habitats, grown by themselves with no human care.
And herbal farmers are trying to emulate this system to
bring about the ability to cultivate that superior quality.
So they're trying all sorts of things like making larger plant rows that are eight feet wide and
letting the plants literally fight it out for survival, or drought stressing the plants
intentionally to increase secondary metabolites, or trying to foster a habitat that mimics the
natural habitat that these plants are found in.
And the success is limited. So as hard as we try, I don't know that human cultivation will ever,
as far as the medicinal compounds and the secondary metabolites in the majority of herbs,
I don't know that we'll ever be able to match that from a cultivation aspect compared to what
is found in the natural world where we're not tending those plants.
And just like to explain more, why are wild crafted herbs superior?
The theory is that they have to fight every day of their life. They have to struggle from
germination through seed production, and they have to really want to live where cultivated
plants from an herbalist perspective are often seen as pampered. We give them compost, we give
them water, we give them mulch, we make sure the aphids don't eat them. And all of these
pressures make the plants more cozy, where when you compare it to a wild plant, they've had to
fight off the aphids, they've had to struggle for water, they've had to drop leaves for their own
mulch. And each one of these processes increases those secondary metabolites that when we ingest
them are the medicine. So it's pretty inherent just in the way that they're treated. And that's
really what I'm getting at is that the wild plants have to fight for it. They have to beat out the
other plants, they have to push through the debris, they have to fight off the bugs or deal with the
bugs because there's nobody there to get rid of them. And so that's the way that they're treated.
Do you think the cannabis community can take advantage of that with pests? Be like,
yeah it's got a lot of pests but it's also got more secondary metabolites.
So my thinking about cannabis is it's highly cultivated these days, at least the cultivars
that we often see. I call them commercial because they're not land-raised slash heirloom
um they've been generation after generation they've been pampered. So I've often wondered if
those plants would generate better medicine if they were abused more. This is something I've
actually done in in my personal grows. But on the flip side there's the farmer's mentality and
cannabis farmers are often concerned with yield and not concerned with or traditionally have not
been concerned with the amount of secondary metabolites. And potentially they've been
misguided to think that a 110% healthy plant is going to make better medicine than a plant that
struggled and say might have only reached for comparison's sake a 60% or 70% of what we would
define as optimal health. Several times I've had my grow go sideways and I finish them anyway
because I am curious to see if the medicine is quote unquote more potent or better medicine
even though the yield totally got its foot chopped off. It's something I'm still
trying to puzzle out for myself but I have I have a hunch that a small amount of stress
and sacrifice of the maximum yield would lead to a more medicinal finished flower.
That's my hypothesis and I'm currently working on... I think most people have a similar hypothesis.
I'm currently working on trying to gather evidence for that hypothesis.
Yeah I mean there's a sort of an intuitive sense right that since you know typically
the compounds we want in plants that do have some sort of physiological effect,
whatever that effect might be whether it's positive, negative, or a little of both depending
on what and how and who. I think that makes sense but you know at the same time I mean you're right
there's a couple of different things you've mentioned that are really critical to consider.
One is the you know how the process of cultivation can either sort of mimic or
improve upon hopefully the production of certain compounds in plants. We see this in grapes and
peppers when we stress them out. Jack in the comments is mentioning about stress tolerance,
heat stress, dryness in the soil causing differences in like sugar acid ratios in the
grapes or causing capsaicin to increase. Mechanical damage to plants can also have
various effects and truly plants who detect you know fungal pathogens or even non-pathogenic
fungal and bacterial colonies in themselves and around themselves can stimulate an immune response
as well. In fact it is the immune system that modulates the microbiome of all organisms that
have them. This is a fundamental aspect of hollow biome theory and it makes a lot of sense right so
organisms that can either modulate or avoid or suppress the immune system of a host which sounds
kind of you know it sounds not great right but this is how endophytes are able to get into plants
right they have some way of mitigating that immune response and other factors and then they can
either have beneficial sort of neutral as far as we can tell or detrimental effects which are also
kind of hard to quantify and there could be a little of all three of those things going on
but it makes intuitive sense right at the same time though like even in an ecosystem and I think
this another person in the chat was talking about this I want to make sure I get their name right
Ivan I remember the first name Ivan Garcia Ivan Garcia was talking about how even wild plants
Ivan Garcia we all feel for you Ivan's in Texas and evidently things aren't so good in Texas
cannabis wise right now so Ivan you have the empathy of the entire chat right now we're here
with you Ivan you know even in even a natural ecosystem there are like you know predators and
parasites and pests and things that can modulate that too but I think that the the theory the
inherent idea that like plants that have to do more to like survive better have I guess increases
to their fitness that could be beneficial to somebody consuming them I do think that there
is a risk that that thinking can become sort of I don't know if you're familiar with vitalism or
vitalistic thinking but essentially that's this idea there's like an inherent quality or trait
to something kind of like a spirit almost of even inanimate objects and I think that there that
that becomes a little bit less I think valid to me but I do think that cultivation in of itself
it's going to be very hard or probably impossible without some very sophisticated methodology to
bring commercial cannabis and also other plants that matter to the forefront in a certain level
quality and I'm hoping that as we're able to to take a look at like the genetics of plants
and see exactly how those processes can be first of all how they develop and second of all how they
are elicited you know maybe there are some techniques that we can use that would allow us to
essentially make something that's reasonably the same but I also hope that we don't lose like
the native populations the natural populations because not only are they great resources for
breeding and that's also human exploitation as well but you know I also just don't think they
deserve which is also a human concept and construct I don't think they deserve to be
outmoded completely because they still have a usefulness for the ecosystem
or in the ecosystem rather of course. So Matthew can you talk I mean kind of
the bigger conversation here is IPM but can you talk about the cannabis plant by itself
can play some serious defense so can you talk about the plants kind of
internal defense mechanisms against all types of attacks? I'll do my best absolutely
so I'll start with things that are not unique to cannabis
which will be a great foundation oh a cascadian was talking but he's muted
I was muting myself to get out of the way to let you talk so go for it
oh okay I just wanted to make sure I appreciate it so plants have what's called an innate immune
system humans and other animals have what's called an adaptive immune system which I've often
characterized as immune system 2.0 it sort of is an addition kind of and this is just conceptually
speaking to the innate immune response it doesn't mean that plants don't adapt or they don't have
an immune system that can adapt to things it's just the naming schema so hopefully that doesn't
cause too much confusion so plants have a bunch of different ways to defend against pests whether
they're microbial or they're an arthropod or a mammal or something like this some direct
obviously some direct examples that people are going to be familiar with are even things just
like the fact that they have you know an epidermal layer you know the fact that they are
so vascular plants right they have the phloem and xylem channels that bring up water and they can
transfer sugars and other nutrients through those channels and they have to be able to protect those
channels because insects for example like the hemiptera all of which that have a sucking
piercing mouth part you know they've adapted to literally tap the plants for these nutrients so
obviously that's a very important thing to defend against and hemiptera are all over the world
and they've been around for hundreds of millions of years so how do they do it so for example
when an aphid puts its stylet into a cannabis plant or any other plant for that matter
into the phloem channels plants can erect a bunch of different defenses they might already have
things like trichomes which can be glandular or non-glandular and they can do everything
to like they can for example if they're glandular they can have secondary metabolites that are toxic
they can simply be adhesive and pin the arthropod and keep it from being able to move
it either will pin the insect down the arthropod down and kill it in that way by keeping it from
being able to feed or maybe something else feeds on it or they're actually toxic and they will kill
it outright they can be non-glandular and still do damage there's research about how
the predatory mite phytocilius persimilis which is a type 1a predatory mite it specializes on
spider mites exclusively however it was found that the persimilis mites did worse in hairier
cultivars of tomatoes why well it's because they uh they have to move more and certain trichomes
even if they're non-glandular they can still secrete compounds that are not great for the
physiology of the arthropod that's moving along them so not only do they have to move through
this basically thicket forest to get to wherever they're trying to get to which of course is more
energetic when it gets down to it there's like physics that gets involved here right so like
the small little mite only has so much energy and it's kind of like on a battery that's rapidly
depleting right and so it has to expend a bunch more energy to even like move around
um you know think about like the difference between just running on pavement versus running on sand
versus run trying to run through a very thick forest these are very different environments
and so adaptations towards them will help out but if you're not if you're not adapted to it
and even if you are you might still expend a bunch of energy so non-glandular and glandular trichomes
can be disruptive uh in and of itself of themselves and then assuming an organism like an aphid gets
through those barriers they have to go through the epidermis of the plant in the case of like
caterpillars for example their mandibles might wear out over time just believe it or not there's
studies about mechanical leaf traits where leaves that are more thicker and robust and they're more
strong for generalist caterpillars for example certain caterpillars might not be able to
uh basically their tools their mandibles will wear out quicker than they will on more supple tissue
and so there are tons of behaviors that arthropods move or that arthropods have developed to sort of
limit these weaknesses like maybe they uh only go after the supple plant material maybe they only go
after the tops of the plants or maybe because of that the plants the plants that they go after
produce compounds that are really toxic in the top and not in the bot in the in the older leaves
so maybe they only go out for the older leaves so there's a bunch of different sort of um
facets in that way uh but back to the aphids so if they're feeding on the phloem there are
plugs that the plants can make that will shut off the sieve elements so in other words it's like
taking a hose and turning off the valve or blocking the valve physically so there are
things like that there are also effectors what are called effectors that the um that both plants and
pests can produce uh that augment each other's physiology so for example when an aphid stylet
pierces um a plant there's uh there are mandibles that open it up and then there's sort of like a
kind of like a proboscis essentially that moves down into this into the phloem sieve elements and
starts to drink up the phloem and when it does that aphids also release two different kinds of
saliva they release a sort of hard sticky saliva that kind of cements them in place
and they also release sort of a more liquid like saliva that is full of in some cases viruses this
is how the viruses get into the plant it's also why aphids are so great as vectors for viruses
because they um they don't they because of the precision of the stylet they actually don't uh
they don't destroy a sort of clumsily a bunch of different cells and set off like a cellular um
alarm because of the destruction and the lysing of the cells you know other cells will detect that
and then you have an immune response that occurs because of it so because they kind of pierce
individuals they can pierce individual cells or that sort of a thing um that just makes them that
much more precise and it also keeps the immune response from happening so quickly they can also
suppress the immune system as well by secreting proteins and enzymes and that sort of a thing
they either break down or disrupt the various immune responses that might tell the plant to
produce more maybe a redox reaction or maybe the lysing of other cells or possibly the production
of different compounds and that sort of a thing um yeah i mean i could go about this for a long
time but hopefully that gives at least a little bit is there any particular thing past that that
people are interested in that was a pretty solid summary i was actually paying a city of los angeles
parking ticket while you were talking and uh what what what's so i also have a two and a five-year-old
that i need to give some attention to in about five or ten minutes but uh yeah just ask your
question but in the plant world uh what's like the most badass plant you know of that can take
care of itself like we're talking again i get back to the ipm and like cannabis is like i have like
i'm pretty good at defense but like what plant is just badass when it comes to i don't need any
help from any predator bugs or anybody else like i'm pretty self-sufficient in terms of
you know defending against pests and pathogens
i would say that i mean i can't think of a particular species off the top of my head
there's a ton of different ones i could bring up but my favorite ones are plants that tend to just
like like their adaptation is kind of what i referred to earlier they um they can be totally
defoliated or maybe even they can be they can be um eaten all the way down to the soil level and
they just come right back up they're undaunted it doesn't matter like a pest can come in and feed on
the entire plant and maybe has like a crumb um corn corn maybe they have some sort of bulb
that like houses all of these sugars and you know energy for the plant to just regrow plants that
can just regrow after damage are well it's really helpful because other organisms won't go after the
plant in the soil potentially or at least the same ones won't so in a way it can escape herbivory
to a certain degree um there are also like i mean that's kind of like giving up maybe to some people
a little bit that might be kind of cheap that's sort of a cheap response um but sometimes that's
the best response is having like basically what amounts to a very cheap to produce um structure
and then being able to just rapidly regrow after being attacked in that way a lot of plants have
some level of this but some plants do it really well um you've got like uh well you've got plants
that are incredibly toxic hogweed actually um if i'm remembering it right yeah hogweed is really
really really bad really really toxic humans can have incredibly bad reactions to it um
and a lot of organisms just stay away from it in general because it's so toxic
um it's actually an incredibly invasive weed too and if i look it up just to make sure that i'm
quoting myself right uh is it hogweed am i right am i saying the right one
it might not be hogweed actually poison hemlock comes to mind that's another one that
i don't see very many things touching giant hogweed that's what it is there you go yeah
yeah and then another one that comes to mind you'd be hard pressed minus minus actually
ripping it out of the ground or completely cutting off the water you'd be very hard
pressed to kill a willow willows are pretty i would agree with that they're very stolid uh plants
um another one that comes to mind the common name they they are arguing like mad over the
scientific name but the common name is the himalayan blackberry that is all over the west
coast if that thing touches the ground it's gonna root and it's gonna grow and you can't eat it fast
enough oh man that's so serendipitous that you mention it because um i have a blackberry bush
uh that's very much like that and i've always called it the immortal blackberry bush because
of that exact trait and the the entirety of those like currents that um that are in the west coast
are very much like that they're just they're immortal i keep repeating myself but it's like
yeah like they'll touch down they'll they'll spread everywhere you couldn't defoliate it
defoliate it fast enough for sure um i wish that there was some way that we could uh
sort of bring those traits over to a lot of other crop plants and maybe that's maybe that's one of
the solutions to um environmental problems with cultivation like especially where pesticide
application is concerned but also with biocontrols and when we apply biocontrols if i can get on a
little bit of a soapbox here we are using we are taking you know oftentimes exotic organisms and
putting them in to the other territories right um and that can have an effect we definitely do
we do a lot more testing about that kind of a thing nowadays so that we don't have like a
um a cane toad problem like australia did um but it's it's not gonna get everything of course
and that's not me taking a dig at the usda or or anything like that um it's just simply the fact
that you know we are dealing with biological organisms that change over time and it's hard
to predict exactly what those effects will be but if we could make our plants so um uh
what's the word resilient then you know that might allow us to like not have to worry about
certain pests so much but then you run into the problem of what if they escape cultivation and
then wreak havoc in that way so it seems like there's always going to be advantages and
disadvantages to every technique just quickly uh can you guys hold down the fort for like the next
15 20 minutes yeah have some fun with your family oh yeah all right i'll be i'll be back all right
cascading i'm gonna make you you are now the host oh boy and uh i'll be back oh i i'm gonna
yeah my my two-year-olds and five-year-old uh need some attention all right go for it man and
in the chat people were talking about thistle oh yeah thistle bermuda grass bamboo uh japanese knot
japanese knotweed especially i would say that one is horrific um poison ivy behind the weed
isn't for sure those are all very very good suggestions so matthew i was curious my question
for you was um can you elaborate on the the predatory mite types like you've mentioned 1a
and 2 and 3 and 4 i think there's only it only goes up to 4 right yes can you can you teach me
why or how those groups are those types are made or what makes them types or
yeah um yes i can definitely do that and i actually have something i can teach from
here as a resource let me uh screen share it really quickly but um all right so essentially
the predator when i say predatory mites i'm actually when i'm talking about the types i'm
actually referring to um a specific family and that's the phytocet there are other predatory
mites out there like the aniste which are the whirligig mites those are a different family
and the lelapidae which are the soil predatory mites that people often think of
when they're thinking of like hypoaspis smiles or stradiolalaps schematis and that kind of a thing
but i do have on my youtube channel which i'm typing in right now i have a playlist about
the phytocet and i talked about there's a study by mcmurtry um that classifies the phytocet in
particular and i'm just trying to make sure that i have um the graphics because i went to the effort
of putting them in so i'm going to use them here and i'm going to screen share awesome um let's
see here okay can you see it and can you um can you make it so that when i speak people still see
it i can shut up yeah well no if i speak they don't see it i think right or can you see it right
now are you able to see the screen are you are you able to respond
sorry yeah i can see it i can see your whole screen okay i'm just waiting for the youtube
to catch up to make sure that it transfers over right but it's good on my screen okay well let
me know if if you aren't able to see it on the on the video but we're good we're good okay cool cool
so um this video is called the mite classification system review on my youtube channel xanthanol
but it's referring to a research report called the revision of the lifestyles of phytocet mites
akari phytocet and implications for biological control strategies this was by james a mcmurtry
in my opinion most importantly not to like play favorites or anything but this guy is
big when it comes to predatory mites so if you want to look up his research
i would be i would incredibly um i would say it's an incredible resource let's put it that way
um this abstracts actually by itself really great but there is a uh graphic yeah right here this
table here that's a little bit helpful this is the old and the new system um so in the old system we
had type one type two type three type four and we also have the same in the new system and in the
new system uh we have some subdivisions which is the main uh sort of difference and so as we increase
in number we become more general um generalist and as we decrease in number we become more specialized
specifically on spider mites not just a specialist in general but on specifically spider mites so
type one mites are specialized on spider mites and there's a 1a 1b and 1c there's type two which
are also pretty much only specialized on spider mites although i think neosilius californicus is
one of those odd ones that also feeds on pollen whereas while not being a super general like not
super generalist whether while not being a generalist in the same way that type three and
type four are when you say when you say that they are um specialized for they're specialized for
spider mites as a food source that's right okay right so for so like persimilis is a type one
mite phytosilies persimilis um neosilius californicus is a type two um amblysea swirskii
and neosilius cucumaris are both type three mites but one of them is a type 3b and one of them is a
type 3e why does that matter well in general for a lot of applications it might not matter at all
but if you remember i was talking about how persimilis mites have trouble with
hairier more pubescent tomato plants and you know the e the a b c d and e refer to different um
environments that these mites do the best that's why it says subdivided by or subdivided according
to habitat type four mites are like the type three might or are well they're not like type three they
are primarily pollen feeders um and generalist predators so the difference between type three
and type four is kind of like the difference between being 60 percent pests and 40 percent
pollen and the type four kind of reverse like more more so um they're they're both omnivores
but one of them feeds more on animals and the other one feeds more on plant material
if that makes sense yeah yeah definitely so um let's see here and i go through this paper
so like if we look at the type look at the type one or yeah it's still here yeah so type one
lifestyle specialized mite predators um we go here to type 1b this is specialized predators of web
nest producing mites so the type tetra nike d the spider mites and the type 1c oh i misspoke earlier
that's embarrassing but yeah the type 1 mites are actually specialized on all kinds of mites not
just spider mites my mistake um but i'm used to thinking about the type 1a mites so in specific
um let me let me look at that right here let's make sure that i say the right thing here
oh and uh in the video i talk about the complex web uh type so there's a there's a man named saito
he is japanese and he has looked at mites for a very very long time he's a specialist on mites
and he's written a lot about spider mite behavior and physiology and evolution
um oh we don't have the a here that's so weird oh yeah here it is yeah so subtype 1a goes for
tetra nike's in particular so that's like the genus of the two spots spider mite and the type 1b
goes after um the other web nest producing mites in general so the whole family of spider mites
the tetra nike d type 1c goes after the tide which are a particular kind of mite that i think a lot
of people aren't very familiar with so i'll skip that because i don't see it coming across a lot
cannabis so here type 2 lifestyles are selective of titra niked mites which is kind of a semantic
difference between the two but it's really just a difference of um of like lifestyle
so you see here mcmurtry and others in the third paragraph they talk about how
neoselius californicus is a control agent of tetra niked mites but it's also got some
interesting traits that makes it more relevant to other pests as well so it kind of was hard to
classify it uh let's see here type 3 generalist predators um type 3a generalist predators living
on pubescent leaves okay so these ones are mites that they do well on hairier plants
little known fact um the swarskii and the cucumaris they both lay eggs on the they'll
lay eggs on trichomes not glandular trichomes but non-glandular trichomes they do this because
it keeps the eggs from being preyed upon what preys upon predatory mite eggs like them well
if you can believe it thrifts do in fact western flower thrips will feed on spider mite eggs if
they're not protected by the adults and the web so believe it or not some of these pests will
actually go after each other um which is pretty interesting to consider because when you think
about it the pests don't they're not like all on team bad guy and all the ones that we use for
biocontrol are on team good guy it's not that simple um you'll even run into situations where
i talked about immune suppression and immune system elicitation earlier there are cases where
spider mites um well or white certain species of white fly like the silver leaf white fly when they
feed on some plants they'll elicit an immune response that's actually negative for other
pests like spider mites so they're not affected but the spider mites are affected so just a little
fun thing that happens sometimes that's that's fascinating you know we always think of pests
and predators but it's really like a king of the hill sort of concept where even the pests are
going to eat each other yeah absolutely thrips are actually omnivorous and they well not all thrips
but uh western flower thrips are omnivorous and you're right like they'll definitely opportunistically
feed on predatory mite eggs or pest mite eggs and that's why um that's why when i mentioned the
predatory mites might change how they lay their eggs it's exactly because of that because um
that's just the behavior they've developed over you know millions of years uh 3b goes after so
they like to be on glabrous or smooth leaves um e subtype e is a predator of soil and litter
habitats but that doesn't mean that they stay in those areas you'll notice in the first paragraph
um this group includes neoselius um are in uh are in noceous and blesseous and uh proprioceopsis
yeah i don't get as much uh training with the other ones or it's not as common for me to go
after those names uh but neoselius and embolaceous are both the predatory mite genera that are
swirsky eye or cocoon maryson swirsky eye respectively and although they're quote unquote
generalist predators of so from soil and litter habitats they they will uh exist on the phyllosphere
in the foliage all the time so it doesn't mean that they only live in one place it's just that
they're adapted to those places um and of course the the laelapidae aren't here because they're not
part of the phytoseidae family they're a separate family but they tend to have mites that like to
stay in the substrate in the soil and that sort of a thing type four are pollen feeding generalist
predators um euseus and iphysius i think iphysius is a predatory mite genus that's available
commercially um but i can't remember exactly and the genus name might oh yeah iphysius degenerans
so degenerans i think recently got a genus change since this research report was
published and that's another thing just as a side note sometimes you'll read these research reports
and you'll have to do some investigative work to know whether or not the names have
changed since the publication in this case the publication is dated at
uh i think this was the 90s
it's not showing up i at least i don't see it uh do you see it
i don't i don't usually it's there yeah right but um i'm pretty sure this was in the
mid to late 90s so just as a contextual point um and then i also have i also have
i also have in this playlist uh
where is it
it's not up there in the tabs
yeah okay this video um this also takes from the the previous paper that we had
oh is this a new this is a new paper right yeah there's there's been a couple of different
publications on the on the subject oh uh let me just um go through this here i think there
was a particular part yeah was it here okay cool so there's this graphic this kind of explains um
like the difference between uh californicus and swirskii in a very very basic way um so
yeah let me move this actually here so i can have it with my other um videos to refer to okay
so like here there's a bunch of examples on the bottom from left to right we have uh spider mite
russet mite thrips larvae because they have wings pollen and i don't remember what this was
actually it might have been nectar let me let me uh i'll get back to you about that one
but you can see how like the californicus goes after
most of the same things that the swirskii does but not everything
and you know like so sometimes those complex uh monikers can be really confusing in that way
because like if you don't know what pests you're dealing with and you don't know what predatory
mites what predatory mites you have available and what they go after it can be incredibly difficult
to create an ipm strategy that's going to be efficacious because you have to know all the
different interactions and then one thing that and i don't i'm not seeing the chat right now
but one thing that i know um a lot of people like to ask is whether or not predatory mites
are um whether or not they'll go after each other what's called intra-guild or intra-guild
predation depending on what exactly you're talking about and it's the case that no that doesn't that
doesn't typically happen so you can release californicus and cucumbers and swirskii and
persimilis altogether but they're not really going to interfere with each other very much
partly because some of those don't even go after uh my uh the same kind of mite at all but also
because um they're just like commercially or not commercially but they've been they've been
researched and they don't actually have these effects which is really beneficial because
sometimes it's been it's more beneficial to use swirskii over cucumbers um some of the reasons
you might use one over the other is well cost for one it's easier to produce some
over others sometimes there's patents or there are restrictions against um
supplying certain biocontrol agents uh across certain borders for biosecurity reasons
i know that for example um in europe they utilize biocontrol agents that they can't use in the
united states of america because the usa has um laws against using those biocontrols because they
are considered to be a potential risk because they might escape cultivation facilities and
sort of interact with the ecosystem which on the one hand people don't like because
that of course ties their hands behind their back for using biocontrols but on the other hand you
know it's hard to like argue with the idea that you know if you think it might escape and cause
problems then why would you not restrict it so there are some issues with regards to that
actually does the chat have any questions i keep asking but um i haven't got a whole lot of
response but i really appreciate that breakdown that helps a lot yeah i'm glad um i think i have
oh here's the pollinator okay here's the video where i go after the pollen diet the ultraviolet
radiation so i do have a video on this um man i'm gonna have to sit down and watch your whole channel
i hope so i'm gonna have to watch them all you gotta watch them all um yeah i i appreciate that i
i hope that lots of people watch them i feel like it's a lot of good information and
i don't think that you have to have a phd or even a you know ba bs associates you don't have to have
any degree you don't even have to have a high school diploma to understand some of these things
i think much like you were saying about like the intuitive nature of um wild crafted herbs having
certain qualities based on how they've existed and lived you know similarly i mean that's intuitively
it makes sense right um you don't have to have higher education to understand that concept and
to be quite honest a lot of research reports are are written i mean it's not theoretical physics
right uh it's not rocket surgery or or brain science um what gr420 asks uh for thrips with
the overlap of both i'm assuming they mean swarskii and californicus is that the other
example from that that slide would those both be better than a single predator
uh for what for controlling thrips all right yeah so i would say not necessarily
um i would just use a swarskii personally but you know from a holistic perspective you might
want to have a preventative against spider mites so in that way i would apply might apply them
uh prophylactically but for thrips in particular no not necessarily well they also asked is there
is there any treatments that can be used alongside them to affect other life stages
um oh that's a great question um i like to use a combination of entomopathogenic fungi
like buberia bassiana so that's going to be disruptive for all life stages and the cool
thing about them is that it doesn't affect the predatory mites there's been studies about
whether or not there is um interference and it turns out surprisingly to me it's just not the
case at least it doesn't have a lot of deleterious effects that we can tell in those research reports
but again sometimes there are just because they don't die doesn't mean that you don't have sub
lethal effects right so like somebody in the chat was talking about um bacillus thuringiensis
on caterpillars and i think they said that uh they applied it and it didn't have um it didn't work
like the caterpillars continued to feed on their plants and that can happen because
a really important crucial element of using bacillus thuringiensis is one using the right
kind which is bacillus thuringiensis kerstaki which is against which is for lepidopteran pests
so caterpillars of moths and butterflies but also the reason why it works is because um
the bacteria produce what are called cry proteins cry and the cry proteins are what are toxic to the
caterpillar and if the caterpillar is young then they're much more effective but if the larva is
much more uh developed if it's been able to molt two three four five times or whatever then the
effect is much less lethal but it can still have effects on the adult at the end of its life stage
if it even gets that far so what do i mean well for example maybe the moth is kind of wrecked
a little bit internally physiologically there might be some disruption maybe it is not as good
at flying maybe it is negatively affected in other ways like it can't produce as many eggs
or maybe it has to work harder or something like this maybe it's getting a
it's not getting much of a head start as a caterpillar that was unaffected by a pathogen
when kind of like flying around or trying to find food or trying to find something like this so
there are sublethal effects that can be useful oh and another thing is that moths uh one one
common effect is that like maybe their their weight is affected so that translates to like not
having as many fat stores in their body and other sorts of things that they would use to power
themselves because they are they are again flying and they're a very small package and anyone who's
ever you know flown like a drone like a micro aerial vehicle would know is that you know those
things last like 30 minutes to 45 minutes and then you have to charge them again so you know
the same thing here they have to have a lot of high power a lot of energy for them to be effective
and if you like reduce that by 50 even if it's not lethal that can still do some damage um if that
makes sense but yeah oh wait go on oh i was just saying that yeah it does it does make sense
yeah so anyways this this video since i have it up um
goes over this research report about how a pollen diet confers ultraviolet b resistance in
phycidinides by providing antioxidants that was what i was talking about so when i said there
was a physical effect um there was there was one uh one pollen that had that like physical that
physically blocked kind of like a physical sunscreen blocker the uvb and then another
one i think diffused it i believe i have it here um yeah so yeah peach pollen uh try p
kumaroly spermidine um
yeah there were uh catechins in pol and t pollen which are also good for people is my understanding
and epicatechin-3-gaylate uh down here in the violet highlight here which had high antioxidant
capabilities so yeah all of these compounds that i've kind of highlighted uh had beneficial effects
for the most part i believe so it sounds like they're it's increasing their ability to fight
free radicals that's generally what they mean by antioxidants in my understanding so that that
they're undergoing the damage of the uv but then these these constituents are allowing them to
fight off what would be the reactive oxygen species created by that exposure oh sorry um
here in this paragraph on the in the top uh i didn't see it at first i made this video like
a year ago or two um it says your uvb absorbing compounds were higher in the peach pollen than in
the tea pollen uh peach pollen compound seven which is this one here eight metho metho zyke
zykemp for all methoxy camp for all three and then the o which i think is omega
sephoricide um was the major antioxidant and then he says here peach pollen also contains
substances that can shield against uvb fluorescent substances which were compounds two and three so
this one here one omega uh uh ferro ferro ferroly glucose right yeah and one omega
cis ferroly glucose all right so these are pretty related compounds here um and the flavonoid
glycoside which is compound number one uh oh wait this is one not eight my bad but yeah so so some
that's why i was remembering that one of them had a physical effect and one of them had more like
what you're describing kind of well in this case i think it was a diffusive effect if i'm remembering
correctly um and and it looks here and this effect can even be transferred to the anti to the eggs
of the mites as well um so females that feed on the correct pollen can even transmit this uh uv
resistance to the eggs which is also i would say really really helpful especially if you live in a
place like i do uh where the uv index is always almost always at the extreme level which is
southern california um so yeah just some things to consider carotenoids are also helpful as well
um
that's that's just fascinating man right i thought so
i don't know if you're ready to switch topics yet but there was definitely ready
there was a question in chat i'm gonna i'm gonna paraphrase a little bit mac um
what what is your as an ipm specialist what's your preferred method for controlling spider mites
do you have a do you have a preference for a predator or a particular set of applications
for conquering spider mites
yeah i mean context will dictate but generally speaking i like to use uh
phytostelius persimilis i like to use the persimilis mite
persimilis mite um believe it or not although it might not be rated in certain labels buveria
bassiana has been confirmed in certain laboratory experiments at least i think some field experiments
if i remember right to microcise or infect spider mites i wouldn't rely on it totally but it's one
of those things where if you can reduce the population by like 10 or 5 or 20 in addition to
predatory mite release um and sort of like other other techniques uh then you can achieve a great
level of mortality and control but generally speaking my go-to is persimilis for biocontrol
if that's um uh that's amenable if you have the resources to use them because if you're at high
if you're like at a scale where that doesn't make sense then there is that issue although
um that's becoming easier and easier to do i know a couple of different companies that utilize um
micro aerial vehicles or drones to apply predatory mites and other biocontrol agents
like in an airdrop and it really saves you time on uh well personnel and logistics
it also makes sure that the application is more even um and there are a few other
benefits too but it's essentially way less expensive and way more um sort of uh
even of a distribution of these mites for example have you seen that before
i was just letting my mind wander down a different rabbit hole it's kind of related
have you ever seen the application of swarski mites with what i could only call like a leaf blower
uh yes in fact i've done so oh man you've had the pleasure i'm jealous i've i know it's very
common in apple orchards to to apply swarski mites with i i don't know the actual name of
the piece of equipment but it looked a lot like a leaf blower yeah i um i know i know somebody who
who jerry-rigged a makita was it a leaf blower it might have been a leaf blower i think it was
but they jerry-rigged one to to apply predatory mites um and it was effective although i will
have to say that the attachment required a little bit of um elbow grease to to really like make sure
the mites shook out and everything uh copper biologicals i trialed a um older model of their
air bug system which i thought was pretty well it was interesting but i thought that it was kind of
like well the battery pack was super heavy i'll have to say that um but yeah no those sort of
mechanisms i think are really really cool and i like to see them um be more more useful but cannabis
being what it is with the inflorescences and that kind of a thing i feel like you have to be very
careful because oftentimes i mean these mites were with the with the filler material so you don't want
to get that all over the flower material of course right that's that's a practice you'd
probably want to do pre-flowering absolutely yeah okay well chat room you got any more questions for
us here uh mike dupree asks um mick dupra maybe uh can frass increase terpenes and stress the plant
in a good way um this was a this was a while ago um and i guess you could call it that the the
chitin in frass so people ask this all the time but the chitin uh makes up the bodies of fungi
and also the exoskeletons of arthropods so plants detect the chitin and then they have an immune
reaction to it which i suppose you could call like a stress response right and in that way you
can elicit an immune response that can have much beneficial effects um like the increase in
terpenes that's sort of a thing i never really remember um explicitly any research in that stead
for cannabis particularly but if anyone in the chat knows any i know jack is somebody who often
has those research resources at his fingertips uh feel free to share them with the chat
okay peter i'm trying to figure out how to there we go give you back privileges there you go
we managed to float it while you were gone
we are out of questions all right well i think with that uh should we should we call it a day
and uh because i i now i gotta cook dinner for the kids um i just threw that i just threw the
laundry from the washing machine this is dad dad life washing machine of the dryer
let me check the car let me check the chat real quickly but i'm i'm totally down to
end soon i just wanna i want to be vigilant would chitin from crab meal have a similar effect
joseph shara asked i have no idea it should it it should yes um yeah i think it's important so
and just for people who are curious why it works um many plants uh in fact humans and and i think
the basal ancestor of all animals actually has the ability there's a gene that's considered to be
sort of existing since the ancestor of all animals at least it's been lost in other
lineages of animals but we even have the ability to break down chitin um so you know so like for
example if you have like a shrimp shell that you accidentally ate or something like this
um or if you have or or if you don't you're you're a fan of shell food um we can break that down as
well so we have ways of doing that too but plants do as well they produce titanase which is an
enzyme that breaks down chitin they also produce other compounds that break down chitin citric acid
is one kind of chitinolytic compound it's not a chitinase but it has a similar effect
awesome mick dupree asked a question about mushroom chitin is if it's better than crab
chitin and personally i think that would come down to a sustainability
perspective as to which one is is least destructive i like your interpretation of that question i agree
it's it's from a physical chemistry standpoint or a biochemistry standpoint i don't think that
there's a huge difference but there very well could be from an environmental sustainability
context which i really appreciate you bringing up and speaking of mick uh i did do a little bit of
uh i did get uh the acela stuff so give me a call tomorrow and with that no we will uh
end it with little mighty fantails but uh i appreciate matt rustle who is here hours ago
matthew cascadian uh the entire chat community thank you all so much and uh
we will pick it up shortly and uh any last words thanks for having me man no problem and uh
everybody have a good saturday night you're very welcome i'm really happy that you guys
enjoyed the ipm talk i'm happy to talk about more check me out on youtube at zenthanol
sink angel on instagram uh sink angel and zenthanol on twitter and uh give me your ipm questions
uh i'm all for free exchange of knowledge yeah give him your ipm questions but feel free to
follow me at cascadian grown on ig all right maybe check us both out on a podcast upcoming who
maybe so see you buddy it was a pleasure matthew thank you all right and with that
we will kill the youtube so thank you everyone have a good saturday
