Shit's spinning.
Oh.
Welcome, we're back with another episode
of the Friendly Cannabis Show.
And let me get up to this comment up here.
Where'd it go, where'd it go, where'd it go?
Old fashioned Coughly Pot.
The Friendly Cannabis Show sounds better
than the Unfriendly Cannabis Show.
Hell yeah it does.
So besides the font and the type,
I just couldn't fit unfriendly on there.
That's what, that was originally what I was going with,
but we switched it over to the Friendly Cannabis Show.
YouTube man, so you'd probably get more viewers
if it was unfriendly, cause we all like that,
you know, that friction.
You probably would too.
Genius, Mackie, genius.
Oh, it's a good idea.
Hashtag website already taken.
So welcome everybody, thanks for joining us today.
Very happy to see everybody joining us in chat already.
We've got Blaze Daily, love to see you.
Buddy Kilowatt, Texas Weed Hopper, Hillbilly Herb,
Mighty Jalock, Jalock?
Lawrence Melnick Music, I like music.
Thank you everybody for joining.
I really do appreciate this and it is great
seeing some of you here, actually all of you here.
We've got some of the High On Homegrown crew today
from perseesgrowroom.com.
Couple gentlemen I've had the pleasure
of chatting with many times
and I could say a lot of good things,
so this would be a never ending introduction.
I will just go around the horn
and let them say hello for themselves
cause they're rather entertaining too.
First up, don't you, you guys love my introductions here.
Beautiful, so professional bro.
I know, I try.
John Finnegan's out there, he's like,
man, I wish Mackie was as good as Chad was.
No, I've been called entertaining now,
so this is gonna get real good here, so.
So see, what you guys don't actually see
is on the other side of this camera
is I have the cue card person that's just
Where?
Where?
I haven't updated to the teleprompter yet.
This is a low budget show.
Yes, yeah, yeah, that one.
Repeat the line.
Repeat the line.
Oh shit, no, okay.
So yeah, back to the introductions.
Mackie, please say hello to everybody
and tell them where you're from.
Hello everybody, I'm Shane Piddy from the UK.
Things ain't good over here right now, send help.
You know, so yeah, I'm Mackie from persysgroceroom.com
and the host of the Cannabis Podcast High on Homegrown.
I know there's a lot of people out there in the chat
who already listen to the show.
So hello everybody, thanks for joining us.
Stay, get some weed and shit.
Consume it in some way, whichever way you prefer.
And let's have a session and just have a laugh.
You know what I'm saying?
Heck yeah, good advice, good advice.
And you know, I always tell guests usually on the show,
it's okay to swear, it's okay to smoke.
And I'll tell you guys the same.
Oh, speaking of which is right,
like sometimes we go off on tangents
and we speak about things that could potentially
get you flagged on YouTube.
So do we need a safe word or something before we go forward?
Just say peanuts and we'll change the subject.
I'll wave the peanut, I'll wave the peanut.
This is the white flag.
Okay, okay, we're on it.
There you go, lads.
Now we know what the score is.
Oh, perfect introduction.
Let's go down below him.
Bubble Hawk, how are you doing today?
G'day guys.
Good, my name's Bubble Hawk.
I'm from New South Wales on the East coast of Australia.
Known for our drop bears and no ropes.
So yeah, doing well actually.
It's currently what 10 past seven in the morning.
So I'm sufficiently high for this time in the morning.
Doing quite well.
So thanks for having me.
It's good to jump on and have a chat.
It's always fun.
That's awesome.
And yeah, I really do appreciate
the time zone difference here.
I know it's getting late in the UK, but in Australia,
you guys are already in the future.
And we got a few people joining us in chat as well.
So that's pretty cool to see.
That's dedication.
As I've said to the other boys,
I'm not allowed to give you any results
for any sporting events or any lotto draws.
I'm just, it doesn't, I've been told
I'm not allowed to do it.
It ruins the time continuum.
Not happening.
No, I've watched Back to the Future.
Don't, don't do it.
Yeah.
Don't do it.
And next to you with the awesome graphics,
he's already smoking for the day.
He is in Prohibition Land, USA.
Oh my gosh.
You gotta be talking about me.
Hi.
Yeah.
Prohibition Central down here in the Southeast USA.
And Bubble Hawk, look, I was listening really careful
to your introduction there.
And you just said nothing at all about stock markets.
So you and I need to talk.
Yeah.
Hey, look, Canada Smoker's gonna find a loophole.
You know what I mean?
I was gonna say, that's the one loophole
they haven't told me I can't address yet.
So you never know.
Ooh, ooh, ooh.
Hey, what is Bitcoin trading at now?
Yeah, oh, well, yeah, he's a good point.
I'm gonna have to go and bring it all up.
Stop checking, bro.
Anyway, what you saying, Monkey?
Sorry.
Oh, anyway, sorry, Monkey.
You're down in the Southeast US.
You have prohibition land for sure.
Just kind of hanging out here.
I think you guys are probably gonna be more interested
in a little bit of what Mackie and Bubble Hawk have to say
because they're in a different country.
I'm in the same country as most of you guys.
Dude, it's a completely different world.
It's still, again, being in Washington,
one of the oldest legal recreational states,
it blows my freaking mind that there are still places
in this country where it's just not cool.
Not like it's not accepted, but still there.
It's just not freaking cool at all.
Like, you will get locked up in prison still?
Yeah, it's crazy, man.
True, true.
Well, I mean, I joined Percy's.
I mean, I thought I was gonna be the unique one,
the American, the only American
over at an overseas growth site there.
So here I am joining Percy's and I find out that,
most of our members are from America anyway over there.
So it's kind of crazy over there though.
But yeah, I mean, it's,
I try to equate America to people
who don't live in America to Europe.
I mean, living in a state in America
is like living in a country in Europe.
Europe operates very much like the US does
using the EU and everything else like that.
So it's interesting because again, everybody, not everybody,
I hate to over generalize like that,
but most people think that, oh yeah, the US is legal.
Right.
Now, if you wanna go by physical footprint,
how much physical area in the United States is legal?
About maybe half of it is, geography is,
but nah, we're nowhere near legal yet.
No, and that, again, just is kind of mind blowing.
And I guess because this is going to be a fun
and random episode,
I'm gonna throw up the first question here.
Or actually it's not a question.
It's just more or less a comment.
And I don't know if either of you could speak to it,
but Australian survivors better than US survivor?
Anybody in chat agree with it, disagree with it?
Well, in my opinion,
from the stories I've heard about the things
that happen in Australia,
it's like if you're surviving in Australia,
you are hardcore.
That's right.
I'm gonna assume the Australian survivor is the winner here.
I mean, we have some scary things down here
in the Southeast US that we have to deal with.
You know, snakes, alligators, things such as this.
But I've heard of a few things in Australia.
Now I'm gonna give it to Australia.
Tell me about the drop bears, bro.
Wait, I wanted to use this.
I wanted to use this as a contest
for all of the American residents.
Sorry, guys.
Okay.
But USA only in chat.
I'm gonna keep my eyes on chat.
Let's do it.
USA only.
The first person who can tell me what a drop bear is
will get a 10 pack of the Afghani number one
times skunk number one from myself.
I'm in chat, can I play?
Yes, you can.
I'm from America.
Can I play too?
That's one thing that we do not do over at Percy's.
We do not take prizes from other people.
Oh man, you guys are happily covered.
Yeah, we're so good.
But yeah, no, Bubble Hawk.
I remember speaking on the show and I'm like, drop bear.
I'm like, what the hell is a drop bear?
And nobody's guessed it yet in chat.
So I'm still waiting for them, but I'm like.
That's all right.
I'll give them a bit of time to work out what one is
before I actually explain them.
But they are.
Yeah.
We've also developed this theory
that like all of these things
that are apparently in Australia are in fact, not even real.
It's just when you're in Australia,
you're in a citizen of Australia,
they make up all these stories
to prevent other people go in there.
That they don't wanna share it.
They just wanna keep it to themselves.
So they've got these spiders that can bite you
and take off your leg.
Alligators, crocodiles, drop bears, the nope ropes.
You know, it's scary.
I don't like it.
That's right.
It's nothing but high quality food, orgies.
Everything's fantastic over there
because they don't want us.
I can tell you right now.
90% of the bad, nasty animals that I talk about
are 100% real.
John Blaze just had a great comment there.
Did you see that?
Americans go to Australia for their survivor.
Australians live there.
Yes, John.
Yes, exactly.
I mean, as a kid, you're taught to check your boots
every time you put your boots on
because you know, the one time you don't,
sure as shit, there's gonna be something in there
that just wants to ruin your day.
See that arachnophobia, bro?
Do you know how old this is?
No, not just spiders, man.
I've had little snakes in boots.
I've had all sorts of things.
Yeah, oh yeah.
So red belly black snakes and brown snakes.
Brown snakes, not so much,
but red bellies have been known to curl up inside boots,
especially like those big gum boots and that.
So.
Man, bro.
Yep, yep, yep.
There we go.
Evil024, if you are in the US, let me know in the chat
and then hit me up in the DMs on Instagram,
Chad.Westport, and I will make sure to get that out to you.
If we don't hear from you,
then we've got small teams as the runner up,
but a drop bear is another name for a koala.
I didn't see we did that earlier on.
Yeah, ShowNuff got that first, I think, bro.
ShowNuff's a koala.
Oh yeah, yeah.
ShowNuff was way up in front, yeah.
Was that the first one you guys saw?
I think so. Yeah, ShowNuff.
Way up high, right under Hillbilly Herb.
Hillbilly Herb's a, yeah, that's right.
Oh shit.
Do you see it? Koala.
ShowNuff, here I am looking at,
I was distracted by Hillbilly Herb's comment.
Boom.
ShowNuff, I'm sorry, I suck at this.
But I mean, it's typical though,
of tourists going into another country saying,
oh, that's a cute little animal.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, but nah.
Oh, he's so cuddly.
I bet you he's gonna love,
look like I'm gonna hold him and be so cuddly.
Yeah, yeah.
Same with kangaroos, man.
I can show you videos of people getting the shit
kicked out of them by a kangaroo.
Dude, we have people here that get kicked their ass
by grizzly bears and bison
because they wanna get a closeup selfie.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Here in the UK, we have killed anything
that varies in this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They've put bison back into the wild.
They're rewilding the UK with bison.
And they haven't been in the UK for over a thousand years.
So I didn't even fucking realize we had bison here.
But that's crazy, I think.
I did say an article about that.
That's awesome, bro.
Can you confirm or deny this, Bubble Hawk?
Koalas all have STDs.
Bubble Hawk gave them all STDs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's a pro.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can't blame me for that, man.
That's their own fault.
But yeah, it is a problem that they do have issues
with STDs.
And it is because of the way that they,
the way we only have like sort of small colonies of them
in different areas.
The inbreeding, if one of them happens to pick it up,
it becomes, it just rattles straight through
the whole sort of whole community of them.
So it's, yeah, it's not great.
But it doesn't seem to affect them other than,
you know, it affects their health, obviously,
but not to the point where we have to put them down
or anything like that.
They, you know, they just become more drop bearish.
A little bit more cranky.
Just seeing here, it's like people have gone there,
they're full of gonorrhea, they get chlamydia.
And then, what was the other one that said?
But they're so cute.
You know, koala population is dropping off due to herpes.
It's like, do they have all of these?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, they do.
So haven't they heard of condoms?
You know what the problem is?
Koala man, we, Potemponic said that.
We just gotta keep them out.
Potemponic said they're a koala brand condoms.
I don't think you want them, a brand of condoms.
I don't think it'll work, man.
Yeah, clearly.
They don't seem to stop many diseases.
They're not helping much, so.
No, but they, I mean, look, there's a lot of things.
I don't know if you've, like, if you've heard foxes,
I mean, a lot of people, I would assume, have heard foxes
and how they scream or they sound like a woman
being murdered sort of thing.
So koalas sound kind of like a cross between that
and someone trying to start an old tractor.
So it's a weird-
Can you try and give us, like, the sound?
I'm not even attempting it.
Do it, come on, man.
It'd be the last time I'm ever invited on a live stream.
So I'm not gonna attempt it.
But it's like a really,
it's kind of like a squealing growl sort of thing.
It's really weird if you've never heard it.
And this is where tourists kind of, you know,
you'd be out in the middle of the bush
enjoying a nice starry night,
and the next minute,
hearing a couple of koalas going to town on each other.
And it's, yeah, it's an experience.
Go into town on each other.
So eloquently stated.
I'm Australian, bro, we're not known for eloquence.
Oh, that's awesome.
I was about to say you're known for,
that's not a knife, but I won't go there.
So, yeah, I know you want to reach you and just.
You know, it's funny because he copse,
he, you know, that's been rolling around for so long.
And for those who don't know,
we don't call shrimp,
we don't call them shrimp, they're prawns here.
So just, you know, the old shrimp on the Barbie.
No, it's a prawn,
prawns is the easiest way to make yourself out
as a tourist.
And that's the show for today.
Thanks for joining us.
Everybody's learned the most important thing we need to,
is not another shrimp on the Barbie.
Stop saying it.
I'll sit down for dinner and say, now that's a knife.
You're not going to know I'm an American.
That's like that Simpsons episode.
You know, you've played knifey spoony before.
I remember that one shit.
Oh God, I just, okay, I'll keep going off track here.
I'll bring it back to,
I'll bring it back to a little bit of cannabis.
Monkey, you were talking that earlier that
when you joined the Percy's Grow Room,
you kind of expected to be the only American on there,
but you quickly found yourself inundated
with Americans over there.
And this is a, you know, primarily UK based website.
But Maggie, I had a question for you and, you know,
Monkey, you probably relate to this.
I used to relate to this,
but do you think that a lot of people in the UK
are still hesitant to get online or to do a Google search,
join a forum, use a name?
How is that atmosphere there?
Is it a little bit more relaxed or is it still like,
they know, they know.
Hmm.
Is that what?
Half and a half, Maggie?
Ah, yeah, I just,
I don't really tell anybody about this shit.
Sorry, I got distracted because I put the wrong link.
I've shared the StreamYard link
instead of the YouTube link.
I'm like, fuck, better fucking delete that, you dickhead.
What are you doing?
That's okay.
Everybody has to go through the waiting room
before they get into the screen.
Cool, cool.
Sorry if you've had people joining us there.
That was my bad.
That was the, you weren't full.
We just had a link for the YouTube.
Hold on, sorry, sorry.
No worries.
And I have a tendency of asking really long-winded questions
usually with at least three somewhere
buried in all of the words.
Okay, let's go again so we can make it sound
like I was prepared for it.
Let's go.
Yes, okay.
So, Maggie, with,
no, I was basically just kind of asking,
you know, before things were legal here,
a lot of people were hesitant to join like IcyMag
or Overgrow.
They didn't wanna use their name
or some people would go to the library
so they didn't have their IP address.
Yeah, yeah.
With, you know, a lot of American-based people
on the Percy's Grow Room Forum,
do you think that might be kind of contributing to that
as far as UK-based people?
Is there still that fear?
No, I think Instagram has eased things up more than anything
because you go to Instagram
and there's so many people selling shit.
It's like if they were looking for you,
then you must have done something very wrong
because if they wanna catch somebody
for selling cannabis anywhere,
then they can just head to Instagram and get those.
Very true and it's, you know,
it's kind of applies to here,
at least my logic, my thought, you know?
It's like, it's always the biggest and loudest
that they're gonna try to make examples of.
A lot of times, you know, it's like the bumblebee theory.
If you're not fucking with the bee,
the bee's not gonna fuck with you, you know?
Exactly.
Like, mind your business, do your thing.
Everybody's cool.
Is that kind of the unwritten rule?
Like, has it, has, I know the laws haven't changed,
but has the attitude changed over time there?
I think we are just as cautious as we always have been, man.
Everybody is scared of each other in the UK nowadays.
You don't tell anybody anything.
Even though that it's legalized for medical use,
people still don't talk about it, you know?
And if you even see in the newspaper sometimes,
and we cover it on the news on the show often,
where the police issue articles in the newspapers,
you know, if anybody is smoking cannabis in your area,
then you can call the police and report them.
And this is where, and it's like, what the fuck, man?
Yeah, there's so many medical users in the UK now.
What if one of these people,
that gets reported to the police,
is an actual medical user who pays for their prescription
and all this shit?
It's just like, you can't trust people.
I mean, that's my perspective of it, really.
I suppose it's different from many people,
but I am more quiet than ever about this shit,
because you have to be.
Yeah, totally understandable.
And is it a case, I know in the earlier days here,
when we had medicinal cannabis only,
sometimes that would happen, you know?
There would be the phone call and the cops would come,
and then they basically take everything,
and then you can prove yourself in court later
that, oh, it was a mistake.
They don't really listen at the time.
Do you see that scenario playing out there?
We've had people on the show that it's happened to,
like legal cannabis users who,
it was Liam, Liam Lewis was his name,
when he left, you remember?
He's from the Shetland Island, way up north.
Yeah, he uses cannabis for a few different issues.
A medical user has a prescription,
has seen the consultant, pays the money for his medicine,
and it gets shipped into him from the mainland UK
to the Shetland Isles, and he was intercepted on the way.
The old bill found it, and he didn't get it.
It went down to the police station,
and he didn't get access to his medicine because of it.
It usually, because of COVID,
they couldn't get a courier in,
and they had to send it in the regular mail,
so they caught it in the mail, even though, like I said,
it was all paperwork was done.
They confiscated that stuff.
Had to go through all kind of rigmarole to get it back,
and all kind of stuff.
And then that's horrible.
I mean, you can almost look at it
as somebody's prescription coming in the mail.
They certainly don't mess with that
other than cannabis.
Yeah, they mess with the prescription.
I mean, it's from a doctor, and it's legal.
It's fully legalized.
No, but if it was pills, though,
they wouldn't have touched it.
Right. Exactly, yeah.
Yeah, that's if it was insulin for somebody's diabetes,
they won't touch it, but it's cannabis.
We're still in that twilight zone
where there's rules in place
that the police are not aware of,
and then the patients are still suffering for it.
So even though it's legalized like that,
you should still keep quiet, man.
And somebody said there in the chat as well,
they're a legal user in the UK.
Here it is, it was Viking Pop Wine.
What's up, bro?
He said, I got medical scripts.
I in the UK, and I keep it quiet.
You have to.
You have to, man.
It's the only way to stay safe.
You can't trust these motherfuckers.
The police ain't got a clue what's going on.
It's ridiculous, man.
And there's so many interconnected agencies
that aren't prepared
because this question hasn't really come up.
It hasn't been tried in the courts.
Well, it may be legally okay
because you have the prescription.
Well, what does the child welfare services think about that?
What does your job as a truck driver think about that?
There's a lot of other things that can affect
that just aren't ready, like you said.
They don't have an answer because it hasn't been pushed.
And that's tricky too,
because it's like you wanna educate people,
you wanna get the word out,
but you also don't wanna put a target on your back.
So it's one of those catch-22s.
It's like, I'm either advocating or I'm growing.
Yeah, well, you can advocate and grow.
You just still have to be quiet about it.
I mean, we, especially,
well, I suppose, and Boba Hart too,
because it's still illegal for him.
All three of us here are involved in cannabis illegally
and we're on a pretty popular podcast.
I mean, we've got 200,000 downloads this week.
I'm saying people are like,
woo, I'm getting in trouble.
Shit.
So, well, we still stay quiet.
It's like we don't share personal information
on the forum or on the podcast.
We stick, I wouldn't say we stick strictly to cannabis
because we don't speak about that all the time.
We go off on many tangents,
but we don't talk about our personal lives really.
And we try and keep our anonymity.
And if it was properly legalized,
then we felt a little bit more free
like some of the places do in the USA and Canada.
Then it would be nice to be able to sit here
with my camera on and shit like that.
Still, we've got to hide behind the avatars for now,
but one day it will change.
And you'll have to warm up to it
because it's not an immediate,
the day the legislation changed,
the day you're like, I'm okay.
I was on there, we've done it before,
and I put a mask on.
And for like two weeks after, I was like,
hey, do you see Mackey and his gimp mask?
Okay.
To be fair, that mask was pretty gimpy, bro.
Why am I not surprised?
It wasn't even the one with the zip on.
It wasn't the one?
So you have more than one.
It was the one with the snooker ball in the gob,
you know the one?
I remember the squid game, the TV show.
It was a front man mask from squid game.
You say no, like you haven't seen squid game?
No.
But you had cut the mouth and eye pieces out big enough
though that they were different.
And that's what made it gimpy.
All right.
Looked like Batman from Wish.
You look like the guy out of Pulp Fiction.
You know the one.
Yeah.
Bubble Hawk, you know, you're down in Australia
and things are, you know, kind of similar to Mackey
or are they?
I want to get to you real quick
because I know it's the middle of the morning here
and you've got to run here shortly.
So I want to give you a little bit of time
to kind of tell us, you know,
is it more tolerated than it was before?
Is it communities?
I think socially, yes.
Legally, it's not.
When it comes to, like, I mean, we have medicinal now
and there's plenty of clinics that you can go and get.
We've had medicinal for a few years.
It's only really been in the last maybe two
or three years that it's really taken off
and people have sort of understood
that they can go and get it when they need it.
But the process is expensive and it is easy
but it is expensive.
So, and you're paying pretty well street prices
for it anyway.
And a majority of it's imported.
So there's not a whole lot being grown in Australia
that's staying in Australia.
There's a massive export market for it at the moment.
So a lot of our stuff goes to Europe.
Well, a lot of stuff grown here goes to Europe
but as far as the legalities of it go,
our biggest issues at this point are driving
because even as a medicinal user,
you can still lose your license
if you go and lick the test.
There's no defense.
So it's the only legal medicine,
prescribed legal medicine in Australia
that you can lose your license for.
It has no defense for driving.
So, yeah, so I mean, I've been, yeah,
it's that we've been fighting this one
ever since they brought medicinal in
because they started using these lick tests,
which test for about 10 nanograms of it in your system.
And as we know, as smokers,
it's going to stay in your system
if you're, even if you're high or not, you know?
So there's been plenty of times
where guys have been done four or five days
after they had a smoke.
And then on the same token,
I know guys that have ripped three billies,
jumped in the car, gone for a drive,
been pulled over five minutes later
and not even nothing, nothing's come up.
So whether it's, you know,
the efficacy of the test, I think is a big thing.
And the fact that they go, oh, it's random.
It's not random.
There's nothing random about it.
When we had, because we have Mardi Gras here,
which is basically our big celebration.
And that's up at Nimbin, pardon me.
Nimbin has like one main street
and the cops set themselves up either end of that street
with these testing stations,
testing every car that comes through
and claim it's random.
That's not random, that's targeted.
It's a hundred percent targeted.
They know this stone is coming up.
So they know that they're going to pick someone up.
So they set it up like, you know?
So yeah, on that side of things,
that's probably the hardest thing
people are dealing with at the moment.
Socially, yeah, it's more accepted,
but every time one of our local governments,
state governments, and even on the federal side of things,
every time someone brings up legalization,
it's just instantly shut down.
And so it's been really hard
to get any sort of movement on it.
But we have had the Legalize Cannabis Australia Party,
which had a really good run this year.
They spent pretty much zero money
on any advertising coming into the election
and picked up more votes than the Clive Palmer Party.
And he spent close to 10 million or something like that.
Wow.
Yeah, so that was a big fuck you to them.
So that was great.
But yeah, look, the only place here that it is legal,
it's technically, it's not legal,
it's decriminalized essentially, is in the ACT.
And so the ACT is a tiny little territory
in the middle of New South Wales
that's basically Canberra, so it's our capital.
That's where all the politicians and everyone are.
So they've been doing a trial there for a few years
where you can grow two plants per person,
four per household, have 50 grams of dried cannabis,
150 grams wet cannabis.
The driving laws are still the same.
And federally, it's still illegal.
So if the cops deem that they wanna give you a go,
they can just charge you under federal law
rather than under state law.
Right.
Hell, man, 150 grams wet.
Dude, you couldn't even chop one plant.
But I've got, yeah, I'd be screwed.
One auto, I'm done.
Thanks for coming.
No.
Thank you, drive-through.
No, wait, don't drive.
Believe it or not, your limit, if it's 10 nanograms,
is twice the legal limit in my state here.
Right.
Which is bullshit.
It's five nanograms, which I could piss
at any moment in time.
More than that.
So do you use the lick tests where you are as well?
Is that what they're using to test it?
Or is it?
This is why there hasn't been a lot of prosecutions
or people charged with it
because there isn't a conclusively reliable test yet.
They were doing blood for a while,
but a judge ruled that taking blood
is leaving a sample of your, basically your body,
your property in their evidence,
which is for the particular charge against the law.
So they don't have a truly recognized solid test yet.
WSU, the university in my state,
they've been working on something, the bastards.
But they do have a good agricultural program.
But yeah, so they've been working on something.
And that's the thing.
It hasn't been able to stick.
And further to that, and only kind of the real stoners,
for lack of a better word, will understand this.
One joint's gonna affect me differently
than a person who hasn't smoked
or maybe smokes on special occasions.
So it's like, regardless of the level,
where is that level of impairment?
So that's been our biggest argument
is that the tests are testing for mere presence.
They're not testing for impairment.
And that's, I mean, I know I could sit down
and go through two grams, hit a couple of dabs,
and yeah, I could drive.
I wouldn't be, I'd probably be impaired.
But there's other times when, yeah,
I could just have a joint and I'd be fine,
completely fine to drive.
But if I get pulled over, done.
And as a medicinal user,
my tolerance would be higher than majority of users.
And no one's saying that we want people to go out,
get high and get behind the wheel of the car.
No one's saying we want impaired drivers.
We just want common sense.
As a medicinal user,
knowing that it's stored differently in your body,
then it's, you know, you know that you're risking,
you're risking your license
every time you get behind that wheel.
And being that we live in a country where,
it's 20 odd Ks, 30 Ks, kilometers
to get to the closest town.
So there's no public transport.
All the public transport we do have is unreliable.
And you catch a cab,
it's gonna cost you 50, $60 to go that distance.
So you need a car, you need some form of transport.
And, you know, the people that are being pulled over
and they're being charged and they're losing their licenses
are majoritatively from these rural areas.
You know, you don't hear much of this happening in the city.
I'm sure it does happen, you know,
and I'm sure there are people being pulled over
and tested and all that sort of thing.
But it's rare that you hear as much of it.
You know, it happens more at rural
and that's where it matters.
You know, it's where people really do need these licenses.
There was an instance at the last Mardi Gras last year
where I think she was 85 or something like that,
an 85 year old woman got in the car after she'd had it.
She'd go, she suffers from arthritis
and she'd had a joint the night before,
got in a car, was driving into Nimba to do her shopping.
And the police knew her, they knew she was a local,
they knew that, you know, chances were
she was gonna come up, made her lick the test,
took her license and stopped her from driving.
So they don't just take your license.
If you come back positive,
instantly you can't drive for 24 hours,
lock your car up, leave it on the side of the road.
And so this 85 year old woman had to leave her car
on the side of the road.
You know, she's gonna lose a license,
which means she then has to rely on other people,
loses that independence.
And at 85, you know, that's a big thing.
She can't go and visit her friends.
She can't go and do that.
And that's, it's just so many wrongs.
Well, it's just, yeah, it's just wrong.
It's just so infuriating to,
especially the fact that if you're on methadone replacement,
so heroin, you've got a defense.
You can go down to the local chemist,
you can have you hit a methadone,
get in the car, drive home, you get pulled over.
There's no consequence there.
And so, and but cannabis, different story.
Wow.
It's shocking, man.
It is shocking.
It's really the only word you can use there.
It defies logic.
Yeah.
I challenge anybody to say like,
you know, this really makes sense.
Yeah.
I'll say it, but I won't mean it.
But yeah.
I know there's politicians out there that would say it.
Yeah.
And have some kind of excuse for it as well.
Yeah.
Cause they read from way long ago that that shit, you know.
It's the same.
Somebody has to think of the children.
It's always the same rhetoric.
And you know, the fact that they pick, you know,
they're hunting us down cause we're easy targets.
You know, if I keep to myself,
there's very, very few people that know what I do
and why I do it.
And it's really only the people that need to know.
But that's to save my ass because the last thing I need
is someone coming and kicking my door in.
Over what?
You know, four plants.
I'm not selling anything.
I'm not doing anything wrong.
There is no victim in this crime.
There's no, you know, victim.
It's a victimless crime or whatever.
But they will, if they get a sniff of it,
they'll come in, they'll kick your door in,
they'll take everything.
They don't care.
There's, you know,
they did it to friendly Aussie buds as well.
And he's a complete medicinal user, had one plant.
And yeah, they kicked in full swap gear,
the whole lot for one plant.
Scary man.
That's traumatizing.
Like I don't care who you are.
That's fucking traumatizing to be chilling out
and having loud grown ass men with fucking guns
running through your house.
It's traumatizing even if that shit doesn't happen.
And we've all lived in that situation.
Like anytime you sit in there thinking, you know,
is that hard knock at the door?
Yeah.
Right?
Who the fuck is that?
Shit.
I'm not expecting anybody.
Nobody called.
No man.
Yeah.
And then, you know, you look out there,
what about, see please, how you feeling there?
Scared.
And then you answer the door to them and they're like,
we just want to talk to you about a missing dog
down the road or something.
You know, it's nothing related whatsoever.
And you're like, fuck sake.
That's happened.
That's happened to me.
Like a couple of years ago, again,
10 years after it's been legal and okay.
It was, there was a random like 911 call
from the neighborhood and they couldn't figure out
exactly where it was coming from.
So they were just knocking on, you know, each house,
be like, hey, everything okay?
And I'm like, oh, why are you here?
I hope it doesn't smell.
No.
Yeah.
There was one here about, oh, maybe six months ago,
maybe a little less.
And a school kid got off the local bus and went missing.
And it was cold.
It was raining.
No one knew where he'd gone and the police got involved
and they're all searching and the, you know,
the mother and the father had split.
So two different homes.
Anyway, the police found the kid,
went to go and tell the father, look, you know,
we found your kid.
Here's the good news.
Smelt cannabis, kicked his door in,
charged him because he had a room locked
at the back of the house that had a few plants in it.
So they've gone there to tell him, oh, look here,
you know, we found your kid.
Great news.
And then they're ready to go, oh, by the way,
come over here, put these silver bracelets on
and off you go.
Thanks for that.
Weedus, yes.
Weedus, he's like, I remember that.
I think I was, yeah, like on the air too.
So even more so.
It's like, are they watching?
Do you want an autograph?
Can I help you?
Yeah.
Being stream snarked, Chad.
That's what's happening.
I know, right?
Well, that's kind of, that's, I mean,
it's good in a sense that you're kind of able to do it
if you're on the down low.
It sucks in the sense that it's happening rural
because I know in America, particular populations,
usually not the wealthy type,
have been targeted specifically because again,
it's, you know, it's like you said,
you've got, if you've got a roadblock
on each side of the street after the event,
just fucking pick the car with the Grateful Dead sticker.
You know?
You're in your money.
So I've definitely seen that.
Yeah, so it's a sad state of affairs,
but you know, there's too many growers here
for them to charge everybody,
but there's too many people afraid to stand up
and say something to enact change.
So it's just the continual rhetoric from the government
is, oh no, it's bad.
Oh no.
But we've just opened a new facility down in Tamworth
that can grow 250,000 plants a year,
and we're selling that all to Europe.
So it's okay for the government to do it,
but it's not okay for the citizens to do it for themselves.
You know what I mean?
There's just a whole, it's yeah.
That's one of the things that probably frustrates me
the most is that there's just that double standard,
the massive double standard.
And it really, it stinks of the government
trying to make as much money as they can
before the inevitable happens,
and even trying to work a way
that when the inevitable does happen
and we do get full legalization,
how are they gonna tax home growers?
You know, how are they going to still get their money?
Because once we're able to do that,
you know, big pharma loses money.
The government loses the tax money coming in
from big pharma because obviously
they check their taxes on top.
So it just this whole cycle of, well,
how are we gonna continue to get our money coming in?
That's the bit that pisses me off
is it's not about the health of the patient.
It's not about people.
It's not about your rights and of which we have none
because we have no Bill of Rights down here,
but it's about the money and it always has been.
And it's just, yeah, infuriating,
but, you know, hopefully we've got some change coming
and people are starting to see the benefit.
People are starting to talk more about it.
So there is change on the horizon.
It's just getting some progressive members of parliament in
to enact that change.
That's the problems we have at the moment.
It sounds like a realistic roadmap and that's good.
You're right, there's double standards everywhere.
I mean, you know, these other two guys
are surrounded by, you know, monkey.
You're living in the country where the more than half
of the population has access to legal cannabis.
Exactly.
Yet you don't.
And then Mackie, you know, speaking of like government.
Don't do it, bro.
We'll get to this later.
We'll get to this later, but you know,
GW Pharmaceuticals, which is now Jazz Pharma,
one of your like head parliamentarians,
I believe is what on the board of this place.
Man, I can't even remember the details of it,
but it's crooked.
There we go, that's all you need to know.
Yeah, I mean, Theresa May is involved with the guy
who runs British Sugar
and British Sugar own GW Pharmaceuticals.
And there's another chick as well,
who was pretty much the person who made the rules
about drugs in the UK.
Can't remember her name.
I know someone's gonna drop that
in the YouTube chat pretty soon
because everybody's switched on, you know.
Who was that chick's name?
Anybody in the UK, you remember?
Everybody hates this woman because of, you know,
her position, but she made all, the drug czar,
I think that was her correct title.
She was the drug czar.
And her husband also had a lot to do
with GW Pharmaceuticals.
Theresa May's husband, he's on the board.
That was from children's, sorry.
Farm mafia, GW Farm mafia, I like that.
It wasn't Nancy Reagan, Hillbilly, no.
Nancy Reagan just said no, that was her deal.
Nancy Reagan was the one who gave us just say no.
It's all crooked, but it's like any other
group of politicians, crooked.
You know, you just can't trust any of them,
you can't trust them, unless they can make
something beneficial out of it, then, you know.
Boner.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They'll never legalize fully in this country
because of that as well.
It's gonna be a long time.
This is one of the reasons why it's been
illegal for so long is because people high up
in government make money off it being illegal.
When they can, when enough of them can get
their fingers in the pies where they can make money
when it's legal, then things will change.
But only because it's good for them,
not because it's good for us.
Right.
And that'll be interesting too to see how,
you know, as other countries and, you know,
even like Germany and countries in that immediate area
go legal and develop their programs
and have things like Flower or have things like cafes.
It'll be interesting to see how, you know,
the UK or England specifically approaches it
based from the pharmaceutical side.
Because from everybody I've talked to,
that kind of seems like the route they would go.
They're almost waiting to develop the pill
that would give you the same benefit as like smoking flower
or eating an edible right now.
They'd rather wait for that than say,
okay, have at your, you know, have your brownies.
And they're gonna have the patents of it
and stick it in a pill and sell it out to everybody
like they did with Cetevix.
Because that's what GW Pharmaceuticals
made for a long time, didn't they?
Yeah.
Cetevix.
And they were the biggest exporter of medical cannabis
in the world for a long time as well.
But that title recently changed.
I'm thinking it's possibly Canada now,
I ain't really sure.
Imagine.
That's the thing, sorry, they need to stop messing with it.
It's the point of the whole plant.
The whole plant together,
accumulated with everything in it is what helps.
Not just one specific compound.
Like the terpenes have a role.
The cannabinoids have a role.
There's a whole host of things going on inside that plant.
And we as stoners and medicinal users understand this,
but the government realises that they, you know,
they can't just let it be a free for all.
Because if they did, people get healthy.
There's no money in healthy people.
And you bring up an interesting point
that I kind of want to jump down
like the Pandora's hole with.
And I'm sorry, because I know your time is limited,
but I'm going to open it anyway.
And you're all welcome to stay.
But I've always been a big proponent,
you know, full plant medicine.
The whole plant makes my body feel different
than an isolate versus, you know,
any edible, any other form really.
So I like my flower and I believe in whole plant medicine.
I was listening to a podcast the other day
and I really wish I could remember it.
And the guy was kind of actually being
a little bit snarky about it, but it fucking made sense.
Like he talked about, okay, you know,
we talk about full plant medicine.
The flower is the answer.
That's not a medicine because from every grow
to grow to grow, there's going to be slight differences
like difference in the terpene profile
or the percentage of cannabinoids,
just little nuances that even if you're growing
the same plant will probably differ.
So when we talk about it as medicine,
we really do need to get down to the isolated things
and just strip everything and then recombine it.
And I was kind of like, I don't really like that answer,
but I actually see why they're saying it.
So what do you guys think about that
as for like isolation versus full plant medicine maybe?
You say, Mookie, you wanna go first, bro?
Yeah.
Well, it gotta be full plant medicine for me.
I mean, anybody who's been a home grower
for a while understands there's just
a completely different experience
from that whole flower that you pull out of your tent
versus this vape cart that you bought over
at the dispensary and it's been recombined,
distil it with some flavors.
That being, and as a medical user,
and I am a medical user, I do use cannabis for pain.
And the relief that I get from whole flower,
complete whole flower is completely different.
Vape cartridge might take the edge off of it,
but it doesn't last as long.
Yep.
You know, that's the easiest way I can explain it.
Now, fully, I believe the whole flower
is where it has to be,
but I'm afraid that the pharmaceutical companies
wanna turn it into white powder.
We do have crystalline, the THCA crystalline,
which is a weird thing to sell at the store.
I'm like, here's a little vial of white powder.
It's like, how did we get there from flower?
Like seriously, how did we get there?
And most home growers, I mean,
if you show them that little white powder
versus a nice beauty, crystally bud,
they're gonna take the bud every time.
I mean, it's we know, we know what we want.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm with you, it's whole plant for me.
You know, I'm a big believer in the entourage effect
and terpenes and everything else.
All the other compounds have a massive, massive hand in that
and stripping them away creates more issues.
You know, you're not getting the full benefit of,
but as a home grower, we see that
because we grow it ourselves.
We grow strains specific to our conditions that help us,
that we know help and ones that harmonize
with our endosystems.
So it's like, I agree that probably is a place for isolates
and things like that, because there are people
that would benefit more from an isolate in certain areas.
But personally, I full prefer a full flower product
and a full plant product than dealing with isolates.
How about you, Mackie?
Well, it's horses for courses,
like Chobot said there in the chat.
I mean, it's a difficult one really,
because I think most people who use cannabis
in the first place and now cannabis
has become their medicine.
I think they just prefer the flower
because that's the best way.
We've been consuming cannabis for a long time.
You know, we grew up with that way essentially.
But over the last 10 years,
a lot of things have been added
to the ways you can take cannabis.
You can get like fine extracts, 99% pure THC,
of any cannabinoid.
So in some ways that's good for people,
especially when they're using it medicinally,
because it's been proven different cannabinoids
do different things to different people.
When it could do something completely different
to somebody else, everybody's endocannabinoid system
is completely different and say 10% THC
against 20% CBD would have a different effect on them.
So I think finding the right balance for them,
what suits their endocannabinoid system the best,
you know, it's gonna be like a key to a lock kind of thing.
They're all separated into their different powders
or liquids and then you can mix them together,
have them in a vial.
Like this is the exact terpenes and cannabinoids
you would get from smoking White Widow.
That would be the shit.
And then you could get like flavorless neutral herb
that's just like, has nothing,
just looks like weed, drop your shit on it, let it dry.
You can get that almost stuff now, Mackey,
in some of these dispensaries.
I mean, you buy things that'll,
they'll call it White Widow in a dispensary,
it's a vape stick, but it's isolate
that's been added back with terpenes extracted
from who knows what.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, that's it, who knows what, that's the thing.
When it's cannabis, it's the same terpenes.
But it's not the same.
It's plant, yeah, plant derived terpenes
is still not cannabis and it's still not even hemp.
Some people wanna do like hemp derived terpenes.
You know, it's like some licorice flavored things
are made from beetle fucking shells and shit.
You never know what you're gonna get.
I don't want more terpenes coming from that, man.
I was shocked the first time I learned about that stuff.
It's like, what do I need to ask for here?
I want the good stuff, you know?
You know, why are M&M's so crunchy?
Ladies, you know?
Ladybugs.
I do have to go though, guys, I'm sorry.
Sick, Bobo, sick.
I'm so sorry, it's been absolutely awesome.
And thank you so much for having me.
It's been a blast.
And anytime you want me, just let me know
and I'll try and get a cover so I can be here longer.
Awesome, dude, thank you so much for, again,
making the time and at the time
that you did make the time for us today.
So I will definitely see you around.
We'll speak to you tomorrow, Bobo.
Yes, I'll be up again early tomorrow for our show.
So, but yeah, awesome.
Thank you so much for having me, guys.
And we'll talk soon.
See you, bye.
Be careful out there.
Later, man.
Yes, that was awesome.
I'm glad that he was able to get in here
for a little while.
I appreciate that.
It's like six o'clock in the morning for him or something.
Yeah, dedication.
That's all you guys need, dedication.
And then, you know, that's good.
He probably bounced because I still have a couple
more wormholes to jump through.
And you know what?
I'm actually really glad that I asked that one
because, you know, this is a progressing industry.
It's a progressing, you know, train of thought.
There's more science and studies and concepts every day.
And, you know, again, I have been full plant medicine,
but when this person said, well,
medicine is specific to, you know, the dose of everything.
And if you truly wanna make a medicine out of this,
you have to get it to that form.
And that's only gonna come through isolation.
And recombination.
But the reason why, you know, again, I'm glad I asked is,
you know, you kind of mentioned it there, Mackie,
is we don't know everything.
Like we don't know how the endocannabinoid system
is truly working for a variety of conditions
and the variety of people that are using it
for those conditions.
We don't truly know all of the terpenes, esters,
thiols, you know, cannabinoids, all of these things.
So I guess it would be kind of ignorant to almost say,
well, it has to be the recombination that's gonna do it
because there is, and I think what Bobo Hawk was saying
is that there is a synergistic effect to some of these.
And I'm spitting as I'm talking, I'm so excited.
Let's talk about them terpenes, man.
Yes.
But yeah, there is that synergistic effects
in between things that we don't even know.
But finally, now the research has been done,
that's where things are gonna change the most.
Because for a long time, I mean, like 100 years,
pretty much, all the science done with cannabis
has really been, you know, in the shadows
where nobody's allowed to do any proper research on it.
The scientists can't do any studies on it,
shit like that since, what, 1926 or something like that,
I can't remember the date.
But nobody's allowed to do scientific studies
with the plants.
So there's still so much we've got to learn.
And it's gonna happen.
You know, only the UK does their proper studies.
Oh yeah.
Our studies have to be done by us.
You know, we can't trust anybody else's studies.
We're the same thing.
I mean, Israel leads the way as far as like
actual human clinical trials with cannabis.
So, you know, Israel is a great place.
Uruguay is getting into it, Spain for a while.
One of the universities there was doing a lot of work.
Look what we found, and we'll be like,
now we'll do the study ourselves.
You gotta be wrong.
We'll find it ourselves.
It's ridiculous, man.
Exactly.
Why do we waste so much time like that though?
It's ridiculous.
We don't, man.
It's them fucking crooked ass motherfuckers.
It's everybody else that wastes his time.
It's the Illuminati.
Yeah.
Somebody mentioned the Illuminati earlier in the chat.
Did you see it?
Did you see it?
They're here.
Triangles everywhere.
I know.
I'm gonna load up an article here
that actually kind of, you know,
it speaks to what we were saying just a second ago.
I'm just gonna read an excerpt from it.
It's a long article and it involves Dr. Ethan Russo,
who was kind of the guy behind GW Pharmaceuticals,
getting Sativex, you know, federally approved,
getting Epidiolex.
He was running those.
So this is a man who has spent a lot of time
in the pharmaceutical space working with cannabis
since the nineties.
That's kind of been his jam.
Taming Terpenes came out in 2011.
That is an awesome paper to read.
Again, it's 11 years old.
So we've learned even more than that.
But just to kind of the point here,
and this is from MIT Technology Review,
cause I get geeked like that sometimes.
But anyways, I'm just gonna read a paragraph here
then I'll set it up.
But it says,
da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da da.
An absence of proof may only mean
that we haven't been looking
or that it's been too difficult or expensive
to do proper research, which is totally true.
But it says,
because while detailed peer review science on say,
the efficacy of Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine
is easily accessible.
I know I said the word.
No, bro.
I'm just, I'm just, we don't have to,
we're not talking about that.
But the fact that you can go and look at information
about the vaccine, it's easily accessible.
You get reliable information about marijuana,
seems really hard to find.
So this is the most commonly used illicit drug in the world,
but the plants therapeutic uses haven't been widely studied
in human subjects.
And it kind of goes on.
But when I read that, it kind of struck the chord.
I'm like, we have all this anecdotal evidence
of real people with real results in cannabis,
yet we continually say, well, it hasn't been studied.
It hasn't been looked at.
We don't know the full effects,
but yet there's new medicines coming on the market daily.
And even in the example that I gave, like immediately,
like three years ago, it wasn't even, what's that?
You know what the problem is?
What?
You can't grow those medicines in your back garden.
See?
Decentralized medicine, man.
That's what cannabis is.
That's, I can't argue with that.
Yeah.
You know?
I can't argue with that.
That's the main problem, you know,
because it helps with so many things.
We've all seen it, you know,
we've all heard stories about it with pain or inflammation,
you know, epilepsy, Parkinson's,
there's so many different things.
It's like every day, the list gets longer
with something that helps in some way
when cannabis is used, you know?
And you can just grow that shit in your room
or in your back garden.
You don't have to go and pay a bill to get it.
You don't have to pay a stupid amount of money, you know?
So they can't produce it in their labs, man.
That's a very good answer.
A very good answer.
I just wanna show the article real quick.
It's freaking fascinating, but the actual article
is the feud between a weed influencer
and scientists over puking stoners.
So that's a rad headline for MIT Technological Review.
But it basically, it talks about cannabis hypermesis syndrome
and it's a really awesome read.
Alice Moon, she was the social influencer
who lived a lavish life networking with Califuck,
marketing and weed, dude.
Like you guys piss me off, fuck off.
Sorry.
Anyway, so yeah, one of the glitzy people
and went to fancy dinners and ate edibles
and make cute little videos about it.
And then all of a sudden she started puking all the time.
And it actually does not sound like a good,
a fun thing to have happen, but she kept getting sick
and now yada, yada, yada.
Anyways, I'm sorry, I'm just paraphrasing.
Go up to the title.
Yeah, read this.
It has Ethan Russo is the person who was working
on this peer review paper and it almost basically
just got sabotaged because of this person.
It's interesting to read the behind the scenes stuff
that goes on when we actually do try some of these studies.
But cannabis hypermesis syndrome,
I've smoked myself sick before.
And honestly, I think it's something pesticide related
in the flower or like neem.
Neem seems to be the popular one in concentrates
that was making people sick.
Even now that Delta H can even be added to it now.
And all sorts of things to buds, man.
Delta H so unregulated, you don't really wanna know
what you're getting if you're smoking Delta H.
Then there's some people, I don't know,
it doesn't happen often.
It's just like scaremongering shit,
maybe from the big brother, from the ministry of truth.
But they sometimes spray a new chemical on buds
so it smells and it's got more crystals on it
by the look of it, but it's just really just sprayed stuff
that's dried on the buds.
That happens sometimes.
You're talking about that old sprinkling your buds
with glass thing they did back in the UK.
Sugar water, man.
Was traumatized from that.
Because there was a point where they did sprinkle some glass
on buds in the UK back in the early 2000s, I think.
And there was like a shit load of bud back up.
I'm not infected with it because people were smoking it
and it was melting as it was being smoked.
And then like glass crystals were forming in their lungs
or some shit.
I never really experienced much of it myself.
So you have to be skeptical.
But that's a story.
Somebody said that once.
And they mentioned it and oh, that's another reason
why I had pulled up the article is one of the things
that Ethan Russo was looking for was a genetic predisposition
to this, like in your endocannabinoid system.
And I'm trying to pull up the percentage
because that's what they, God,
that's what they were trying to do is they had this,
like this lady now has a big group,
talks about cannabis hypermesia syndrome.
And they had a bunch of obviously people in it
that experience it.
And they wanted, Russo wanted them to take genetic tests
to see if there is a marker or something predisposed.
And oh gosh, I'm scanning right now.
I'll find it here in a second.
But there was an actual number that they came up with.
But again, it went from like the potential of 300 being,
300 people being tested down to like 27
because there was a little spat between this lady and him.
Oh shit, of course you can never find it when you want it.
I fully understand that when you're alive,
you can always, it takes forever.
Yeah, I know, see, I need the old days.
I still do print stuff out and sit on my chair
and use a highlighter to find stuff.
And that's how I remember.
My memory retention is not good,
but my note taking is, makes up for it.
So hard to do though, when it's on a fricking digital thing,
but oh well, everybody should look up that article
and read it anyways, because it's interesting.
That's, you know, that is one of the things
that we'll need to address as we move into a legal system
or just into a more excessive accepted system
in other areas of the world.
There are gonna be bad actors.
We need to not spray certain things.
We need to avoid concentrating others.
Oh yeah.
That's right, man.
Improper regulation would stop that.
Yeah.
It's one of the stupid things about the fact
that it's illegal here for so long in the UK.
It's the only people who are suffering
really are the consumers.
And, yeah.
But that even comes out the legal market though,
because as I said, we have a legal medical cannabis use
in the UK, but some of their medicine,
their flower has got to them and it's been moldy.
There's been people out there smoking moldy buds
from the new legal market.
It's government grown moldy buds.
Yeah, I don't fucking know.
We've made it safe now.
Yeah.
We've added a special mold for you.
You can't grow it at home because we do it for you
and it's better and safer this way.
Fuck off, cheeky bastards.
Yeah.
I say to monkey all the time, man,
regardless of what happens in the UK,
whether it's illegal or legal,
or you need a license or you don't,
it's like, I will do exactly the same
as the thing that I do right now.
There will be no change regardless of any of it.
I just like to go to the coffee shop now and again
and share a smoke with my friends.
That's the only thing I'd like.
If it stayed as it is, then it wouldn't affect me too much.
But we would like to see the medical program
get sorted properly.
The people who need it for medicine actually get it.
The people who can't grow their own.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or afford it, even if they did have a store
that they could go into.
That's a big issue right there, man.
They say it's legal and they say it's affordable,
but that's so debatable, affordable.
Yeah.
Affordable is a relative term.
Yeah, and especially when you're sick, man.
I mean, sick people generally do not have
excess cash laying around.
You know, at least the ones that I know
because they're too busy trying to get better.
That's where all their money goes.
Exactly.
Chur bro, Chur bros here.
What's up, Chur bros?
Just to shout out to you there.
Who was it, it was Jill, wasn't it?
There must be thousands growing their own in the UK
living with the fear that,
I'd say it's gonna be close to like half a million
or something.
I don't know.
We got like 70 million people here in the UK.
So if I think one in 140 people are growing,
I would say that's definitely the case.
So that's a lot of fucking people.
That's a lot of people growing.
So what, you know, monkey, what is it in your climate
or your area that seems to be the sticking point?
Is it like the will of the people?
Is it the politicians?
Is it just not even an issue?
People are talking about other stuff and could care less?
Like why the holdup?
Most of the people down here that I know
and the polls that I've seen in the deep South,
we follow the rest of the country being, you know,
somewhere between 60 and 70% in favor of recreational.
Oh, wow, okay.
Which is usually the lower of the two.
Medical use is usually always higher or polling higher.
Yeah, I mean, it's so we're right there with everybody else
as far as the polls go.
The state that I'm in right now,
which I'm not gonna actually-
You don't have to give yourself away at all.
Say exactly too much about that.
The state that I'm in is somewhere in the 60s
as far as people saying that they want recreational
cannabis acceptability.
But I believe, and it's gonna be only my opinion here,
it's a combination of politics and religion.
And that's just the poison pill down here in the deep South.
When you religion and conservative religions
and conservative politicians come together
and form a stranglehold and convince people
that this is the way it should be.
And I believe that that has to be broken
because people may say on a private poll
that nobody else has to see
that they're in favor of this being legal,
but they're not gonna go out there
and they're not gonna stand out in a rally
and tell their politicians to vote this way
because they don't wanna be on the record.
Yeah.
And welcome to the deep South.
That's the way it is here.
People act totally different behind closed doors
than they do actually in the public side.
It's a good point that you bring up.
That happens often,
when you're writing your congressman or your representative
or you corner them on the way
to their next meeting or whatever.
They'll be like, yeah, I support that or I believe in it.
I see the efficacy, blah, blah, blah.
But yeah, when it comes time to be on the record
with that hard vote that, yeah,
a lot of people don't make that hurdle or that switch.
Right, and unfortunately,
I've had friends from church, friends and whatnot like that.
And their attitudes will be completely different
when you get them off the record,
talking to you in your own home or their own home
when nobody else is listening.
And if the same conversation comes up in public,
oh my gosh, it's a completely different story though.
But it's peer pressure.
I mean, in a nutshell, it's peer pressure.
Well, I mean, they're really fighting for their job there.
You mentioned again, politics and religion
and oftentimes, particularly in the South, those two mix.
Yes, this is my kind of conversation now.
What are we talking about here?
Yeah, like you can't be.
Two of the most dangerous subjects
we can get on right here, politics and religion.
And they're my favorites, man.
I'm one of them horrible people.
Peanut!
Well, see, good job we got that.
Sorry, bro.
And everybody who didn't join us from the beginning,
peanut is our safe word.
Why is Chad showing his nuts?
There he goes, the safe word.
It's no longer safe.
It's gone.
It's gone.
Oh, shit.
I was gonna ask.
Down here in the South though,
if we could ever get people to honestly
just vote their own heart, you know,
and forget about what people expect them to vote,
I think we would be just as progressive as a lot of places.
Yeah, well, hopefully soon.
And you know, it really does all start with voting.
You gotta vote for the people you want to represent you.
And whether you think you're throwing away a vote or not,
hopefully it adds up or encourages the next person
to vote for that party or that person the next time.
So.
Yeah, well, I mean, if people don't understand
how much the Deep South is the prohibition of states,
let me go ahead and name a block of states
as I go around coastlines for you.
There is no recreational legality
in any of these states, okay?
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, or Texas.
Nothing.
Just chill.
I just took the entire quarter off the South right there.
And there's a few states in the middle there,
and you're not gonna have anything recreational legal
in there other than.
Oklahoma.
Oklahoma.
Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, I mean,
and that's just the way it is down here.
It's just, it's peer pressure.
When one finally goes, I think the rest of them will fall.
I think the domino effect will come in
and the domino effect will be the almighty dollar.
Yeah, always.
You know, Florida tends to be the one
I think people look to there.
The fact that they don't have it recreational yet
does kind of blow my mind.
And the medicinal programs they've tried to pass
have all just been like, really?
That's cute.
Not a real system.
They won't actually let them go into operation really well
is the deal with Florida.
I mean, it's crazy.
And they say that they're decriminalized,
which means that, yeah,
if you get arrested in Florida with up to two ounces,
you won't go to prison,
but you'll be fined up to $2,000.
You know, so you'll get a misdemeanor
and it's gonna be pretty expensive.
And you have to remember Florida did, I believe, okay.
I don't wanna say Florida did this.
I don't know what they did,
but of course the people in Florida
that are most likely to be arrested with that
are gonna be the spring breakers.
And there's no spring breaker out there
that's got two grand to pay themselves out of jail.
Yeah, it's like, yeah, you can go there.
Oh, it's decriminalized.
No big deal.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, well, you gotta be smart.
Hopefully, you know, a lot of these too
and personal possession cases,
unless you're a dick or being a danger,
a lot of time cops will just kind of, you know,
put it away, throw it away, give it to me, see you later.
But there's always that chance of, you know,
they're having a bad day, you say something wrong.
And yeah, once you enter the system,
you're in the system, which is stupid over cannabis.
Magic word, you know, if they're having a bad day,
something inside of me just tells me
I don't wanna bank my wellbeing on it.
Did you have a good day today?
Totally.
Is there a lot of interactions in the UK like that, Mackie,
between, you know, kind of officers and the citizens?
There's barely any police left in the UK, mate.
The government's taken cuts from everything for so long.
There's nothing left for anybody.
You pay all these huge taxes and it don't go to shit.
Smoke them if you got them, then, right?
Yeah, that's what they're joking about all the time.
There's nothing in the police station.
They're all empty.
And it's shit, you know,
you don't want it to be like this, man.
It's a shame.
I mean, it's not like I want people being caught smoking
or using cannabis in any way,
or any other drug for that matter.
But it just feels like, I don't know,
the country's falling apart sometimes.
And cannabis can save the fucking day.
It's not only will it stop all the police wasting their time
on all the cannabis busts that they do,
that it will reduce the shitload, you know,
raise a shitload of money from taxes
to give more money to the police
and they can fight real crime then.
Yes.
And that's something that's not been happening
in the UK for a long time.
And people are sick of it.
Yeah, yeah.
There's, you know, Amsterdam.
I looked over, I'm like, I got my,
we both have talked about the Prix DME place.
The Prix DME.
Prix DME.
I was like, I was wearing my hoodie earlier.
I've got my Prix DME hoodie.
Booyah.
I miss it so much.
Miss it so much, man.
You know, the only time we've ever watched
any of their movies, The Fast and the Furious, you know.
Oh Lord.
The one with the American one in.
Yeah, the American one.
They're all so fucking bad,
but it's not so bad when you're on the top floor
of Prix DME smoking some silver haze.
You can just sit there and watch a shitty movie.
This is true.
This is true.
I watch it.
It's on.
Prix DME, for people who haven't gone,
it's this big, like four story building in Amsterdam,
kind of right by the train station.
And I just totally spilled my coffee.
Straight down to Damrec.
Yeah, where you can, you just go and sit and smoke
and they've got a full menu.
You can eat some food and it's just, yeah,
four levels of couches and people smoking.
So it's pretty awesome.
I was trying to get to my,
I was trying to get to the ashtray here,
which I love so much.
Nice.
So Prix DME in Amsterdam has got that,
but the reason why I loved it so much.
Beautiful.
You see, they have a sense of humor as well.
Let me put that on the bottom of it.
That's giving you permission there.
I bought the hoodie, man.
I bought the hoodie.
So that's good.
But I, fuck, why was I going there?
Oh, Amsterdam.
Oh man.
I forgot.
I got a banana milkshake,
strawberry and banana smoothies.
Holy shit, man.
Those are good.
Next time you go there,
go pick up one of those.
And then grab your weed and grab some hash.
Ask them for a bong, take a bong.
Just go sit upstairs and do nothing
for the next couple of hours.
Watch your Vin Diesel movies.
You know what I'm saying?
I miss it so much, man.
It's been like three or four years
since I've been to Amsterdam.
Man, I, fuck, I was gonna make a point there
and I just really wish I remembered it
because I was kind of, I was like,
hey, you're pretty smart, Chad.
No, no, just joking.
Just joking.
Oh man.
Man, I had the vid this week.
Oh Lord.
What's that?
I had the vid.
Oh, you did?
Yeah, of course, man.
After two fucking years, mate,
like I was never expecting to get it at this stage.
But then the boy caught it at school,
brought it home, passed it on to the wife
and then the wife passed it on to me.
Damn, I was pretty ill for a few days there.
But I've got better.
You know, I feel a lot better.
But today, I lost my sense of smell and taste, man.
Just can't.
Can't taste this weed, man.
Can't taste my weed, man.
So I'm smoking the shit stuff, isn't it?
Not the good stuff.
Might as well.
Smoked the bammer.
Smoked the bammer.
This'll do.
Not the lemon tree today.
No.
Save the good stuff.
Kind of maybe a question along those lines.
We got a question, Drew, a masterpiece.
Nice.
Maybe one of the top 10 breeders
or maybe a couple of your favorite strains
that you have found over in the UK.
And then I'll go back down to you as well, Monkey,
because even regionally in this country,
there's different tastes.
So always a good question.
Always interested to hear what you're smoking
and excited about.
Other than your swag right now.
You, Monkey, you answer, no?
Well, I mean, top breeders.
I don't really know.
I wouldn't have a top breeder that I actually go after.
I've got breeders that I grow a lot of stuff from.
Seedsman has really great lines
that I've used a lot of.
Bongo Bulk, one of our sponsors over at Percy's,
Bongo, their stuff is great.
Really good quality stuff out of that.
I've also grown a lot of Barney's Farm.
I don't know why, but I just started going with Barney's
and I've gotten a lot of really good results.
And if you're asking for something
that I keep wanting to grow again and again and again,
it's Pineapple Chunk by Barney's Farm.
Everybody's got one that just clicks
and there's no reason why, that's mine.
There's a few here for me, man.
I mean, my top three changes
to five different strains every week.
Exactly.
But some stand out.
It's a bit jar if I really.
You know what I'm saying?
Well, one of my favorites right now
is Lemon Tree from Barney's Farm, man.
Cause that's the shit that is, that is tasty.
Yeah.
And then a good one, which I've had for a while
is a CBD Cream and Cheese from Seedsman.
That's real tasty, lovely strain, man.
Mainly because of the taste more than any high
or effective care of it.
But that's what I like about cannabis anyway.
It's all about the taste for me.
Yeah.
I mean, cannabis at this day and age,
if it's a THC dominant variety,
it pretty much should get you baked.
So anything on the menu is gonna get you baked,
but it is, it's about the delivery now.
It's like, well, it's gotta taste good.
It's gotta, you know, smell good.
That's another one, man.
Fucking Jack Herra.
You're not making me blush.
Is it cerebral high?
Is it body high?
Where's it gonna hit you?
How it's gonna make you do?
So Mackie, you like the lemons.
You like the lemon.
I like my fruity weeds, man.
That's my shit.
My favorite flavors are usually fruity.
I don't know, I like that sweetness.
I like a nice sort of taste as well.
You went after the super lemonade is pretty good too.
Yeah.
The most lemony one that I've grown
has gotta be the Jack's cleaner too,
which was from a sub cool back in the TGA days.
That one, I still have it around.
Man, it's so acidic.
It eats the rubber rings off of the ball jars.
It's that awesome.
I'm gonna go with my COVID nose
and grab that jar of weed over there
and see if I can smell it.
Let's do it.
Right, man.
I would be farting under the covers
and just laughing my ass off.
So let's see here.
This is a little bit of that Jack's cleaner too.
Right?
If there was a smell-o-vision, then it would be rad.
Color looks good though.
Oh no.
Thank you.
I can never get these things to focus right.
Oh no.
It's all, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Webcams, don't know just do it.
You know, it's just.
Oh man.
I'm much better with my camera work.
I'm the only fan.
So anybody into long hair and spatulas, hit me up.
I'm gonna pick up my bucket of weed here
with my CBD cream and cheese
in which I'll pick up pretty much every day.
Take a nice sniff off.
Did you spill it?
Hmm.
I can't smell a thing.
Oh.
Absolutely zero fucking nothing.
I fought for a split second.
I, ooh, but no.
There's no smell.
There's no smell.
I wish you the best.
I, there was another.
That's fucking shit.
Oh my God.
I know there was another, one of the guys from the,
there's a, the do grow show,
which are popular webcasts over here.
Kind of one of their technical guys.
One of the big brains there, Guru.
He had it last year, but lost his smell, lost his taste.
And he was talking about, it's like,
my only pleasure in eating is texture.
I find the weirdest texture of whatever.
And then that's how I make myself eat.
Cause yeah.
Still makes me not want to eat mushrooms.
Oh God.
No.
Yeah, I guess it would be a plus Mackie.
You know, at least you won't taste those nasty mushrooms.
Ugh.
Time to eat your broccoli.
Damn man.
I could try some of them crawfish now.
You love so much monkey.
No problem man.
Go for it.
Yeah, they were delicious.
They're just, they're just shrimp with legs.
Come on.
There you go.
The sea locust is what they are.
Small freshwater lobsters, shrimp with legs.
Yeah.
We had a question here.
Who was it from?
About the plant number thing.
Who was it?
I saw that.
I didn't want to put that one up there
put you on the spot.
Oh, you can ask us anything man.
Behave.
I'm still good.
All right, everybody.
Boxers are briefs.
Get your questions in.
We're accepting questions.
Set up a panel bro.
Set up a panel.
Yes.
There we go.
Bola not.
The Bola not.
Do you worry about plant count?
No.
I don't usually need to grow enough,
but I don't think that that is.
I mean, people take plant count as a big deal
and it really isn't.
It's floor space that's the most important.
Exactly.
That's how we address it at Percy's.
Yeah.
But there's been people here in the UK
because there's been a case here in the UK recently,
just about a month ago,
which was pretty much a game changer, right?
This guy was growing cannabis, not just for himself,
but he was providing to people in his area as well
to help them with cancer
and different ailments they had.
And he was caught growing.
He had, how many was it?
Was it 56 plants or something like that, Monty?
Can you remember?
It was a significant number.
He was making RSO.
He had a full kilo of cannabis, like dry cannabis.
He had 56 plants.
He was supplying to people.
And we know this because the people he was supplying to
sent letters into the judge at the court,
telling them how much his medicine has helped them
with their conditions.
And the judge, I mean,
the minimum sentence was supposed to be 15 years
or something like that, with that amount of plants.
So they had that amount of cannabis supplying people.
That's 15 years,
but he only got six months community order.
So he doesn't even have to go to prison,
does some community service for the next six months.
And the judge said,
but you should be hailed instead of being locked up.
And that's a massive game changing case here in the UK.
Because if anybody who's a home grower now,
regardless of anything up to 56 plants, in my opinion,
they can be like, yes, but this guy,
where did that guy get that?
But you're gonna do this for me.
I'm only supplying myself.
He was sending out to other people.
I've only got 500 grams.
He had a kilo.
The game changes after this.
It sets precedent in court.
At least we've got that to fall back on now in the UK.
But plant numbers isn't the crazy thing.
You should concentrate more on floor space.
And that's how some states are,
well, at least as far as like licensing goes,
it's not a plant count.
It's a canopy space.
Yeah, it's square footage.
You can see a green or you can venge for six months.
They can do some breeding and do a pheno hunt
for a thousand plants if you want to.
You know, just all in little tiny pots,
let them grow up, kill them up as they get older,
you know, get rid of the shit ones and keep good ones.
Well, why can't you do that?
I know, I wish.
Again, man, it's like, I wish there was a program here
where I could have 99 plants
and then turn over 95 of them to give to medical patients.
I would do that in a heartbeat actually.
Cause it would allow me to play around
with some of those things and hunt a few things.
I don't need all of it.
I don't think there should be any restrictions
on it like that until it comes to the point
where you're selling it to the consumer.
And then when you're selling it to the consumer,
you need to make sure that it's checked
to make sure it's safe.
You know, if you have employees then,
cause your farm gets so big,
then you need to have certain things in place
to make sure it's safe for the people who work for you.
You know, just treat it like any other businessman.
You're not furnishing it to miners and things like that.
You know, you're being responsible.
Yeah, we had the Cole Memorandum for, you know, a few years
and then Jeff Sessions who was an attorney.
Oh yeah, remember that guy.
I know, that guy's a dick.
What a dick he was.
Yeah, but it was, it basically,
the Cole Memorandum laid out like eight rules
to play nice for states who have legal systems
and then there wouldn't be federal intervention.
And that was pretty much it.
You know, monkey, it's like, you know, don't sell to miners.
Don't, you know, backdoor it.
Don't be a criminal organization.
Don't also sell guns.
So they were basic, like, okay, yeah, that's reasonable.
That's fine.
I'm not, some regulation is welcome.
So like, don't get me wrong.
But it can't go wrong.
Don't be like Thailand.
Yeah, it's legal.
We do whatever you want.
And now we're gonna have to make the laws?
Yeah, well that's Colorado.
Thailand's gotten really worse.
I mean, lately Thailand's even issuing
memorandums to police officers.
You can't smoke in the police stations.
Going like, oh!
Nice.
They didn't even have a minimum age for purchase.
Remember, he said,
but we've had this stashed here for 20 years.
Right.
Yeah, the evidence room all of a sudden got a lot smaller.
Well, I have to defend him in a way
because it was, it was, it'd been kind of something that,
you know, you would do with your family.
Okay, it's legal.
Just use your best judgment,
but you can't do that when you're dealing with the public.
Best judgment?
Oh my gosh.
So tell me, yeah, weeds legal in the United States.
Just use your best judgment.
My gosh.
Oh no.
No.
Comment here from Chris is,
there's a letter asking Canadian and West Coast USA
to stop exporting to Thailand.
That would be kind of funny.
Yeah, it's like, you guys grow the fire.
We're just starting.
It's still mids, but let us have our day too.
Yeah, man.
But it'll be some good shit when, you know,
when they get their act together,
got all the right structures in place,
all the right infrastructure,
then it's going to be a pretty good market over in Thailand.
We recently spoke to Breeder Steve about it, man.
Yeah, tell us.
That's something actually I wanted to kind of transition to
before we go for the day,
is you guys are doing some pretty rad things
as far as, you know, your own podcast and the forum as well.
So maybe we can spend a little time
talking about those two things.
Sure, man.
Yeah, tell us about the-
We will try.
Breeder Steve, yeah.
First of all, tell us about the Breeder Steve interview
and the connection with Thailand there.
What's he working on?
Because that guy goes big.
He's a, you wanted to talk about him, okay?
No, go ahead, Mackie.
He's just got some companies there that he's working with.
Because he said there was something about
he can't start a company over there just yet
because they want to try and keep it in Thailand
or something.
Yeah, they're trying to keep the money local.
They don't want to kind of bring in
too much foreign people yet.
But obviously there's people who need to learn
how to grow out there.
So he's helping with that kind of thing.
And I think he's investing some small things over there too.
But go listen to the interview,
which is on our YouTube channel, High and Homegrown.
We've got youtube.com slash high and homegrown.
And you'll find the Breeder Steve interview there.
And then you can listen to it and hear what he's got to say.
Yeah, you hear all about it.
And then you can go into everybody that's listening.
These are in the show notes below.
So just go down there.
You find the Instagram for everybody.
But you find that YouTube page and the forum as well.
But still sticking with the podcast for a while.
Can you just run down a few of maybe
the guests you've had recently?
Because anybody who hasn't been
to the High and Homegrown page,
hasn't checked out the interviews.
What I am is a, I'm a fucking shameless hustler, right?
And if I think, oh, that'd be a cool person
to get up on the show, then I send emails.
And if that don't work, I'll find them on social networks.
And if that don't work, I'll go to their house.
I don't really go to their house.
But you know, I just hustle, man.
And just keep asking and asking and asking.
And if you don't ask, you don't get.
So ask anybody.
So because of that, I've managed to get Tommy Chong
on the show, he's like a regular guest now.
He comes out every other month.
And we just sit there and just check some shit
with Tommy Chong.
Then we have Jorge Cervantes,
who's been on the show many times.
Steve D'Angelo, Ed Rosenthal.
Elaine Ingram, Dr. Elaine Ingram,
for you know, the soil lady.
She's been nice, she's super cool.
Dr. Bonnie Goldstein, she's cool.
And this is a real monkey.
These are all like household names that we know and love.
Yeah, it's like, the only person we haven't,
Peter Greenspoon.
Yep, Greenspoon.
We had a Frenchy on before.
Kevin Jodorow.
Yeah, Kevin Jodorow.
Frenchy, wow.
A crazy amount of people, man.
Have you landed Dr. Ethan Russo?
No, I haven't even tried, bro.
So now the mission begins.
I know, right?
The problem is when we go to an Amy interview,
we really don't wanna forget anybody.
But that's the thing is we've done so many,
we can't remember them all at this point.
Yeah, man.
That's true.
We've been doing it for like two years now.
We've even done Chad Westmoreland.
Yeah, many times.
It's always great to have you on the show, man.
It's fun.
And you guys actually do a variety of shows too.
There's kind of the focused interviews
that you will do each week, but you also,
and this will kind of transition a little bit
into Percy's Grow Room, but you guys actually,
I really like your approach to dispensing information.
I like the way that you do it
and the accessibility for new growers.
Thanks, bro.
Dude, my pleasure.
I'm glad that you're doing it,
particularly in that area of the world.
It all starts with education, but yeah,
maybe you could tell them, or, Monkey,
maybe tell us about kind of the different shows.
What is the format over there?
Well, our regular format on Sundays,
that's gonna be our news show.
And that's just basically where we try to pick out
news articles, cannabis related,
or sort of related in some way in a cannabis field.
And then we try to focus on various areas around the world.
And we'll touch your way today and Australia tomorrow
and sometimes Spain and the US, Canada, whatever.
But when we do a show,
we don't just wanna read the article.
We kind of wanna talk about,
hey, how do we feel about this a little bit?
Is the article on point or how do we feel?
What's going on?
So that'll be the beginning of our Sunday show.
And then we'll transition into Grow Guides.
Grow Guides seems to be one of our more popular things.
Now, Mackie will all agree with me.
After you've done Grow Guides two or three times,
I mean, going through,
Grow Guides will bring you from germination to harvest
basically, and we'll do like a small section each week.
And after you've done it two or three times,
it's kind of hard to go back and do it again.
But it still seems to be the most popular thing
that we put out for downloads these days.
Interviews are popular, but Grow Guides,
people just wanna know it and we keep it simple.
That's what we do in Grow Guides.
We don't wanna make growing cannabis difficult.
We wanna show you how easy it is.
Keep it simple, make it fun,
and you'll always continue to grow.
And then the other part of it is interviews.
And interviews, Mackie said it perfectly.
That's always been his,
he told me this from the very beginning on the show,
if you don't ask, you don't get.
And that's his, and I'll have to give him credit
for 99% of all the guests that we have on interviews,
it's his work.
He works his ass off to get them on there.
And he gets some great guests, but you know-
Sometimes literally.
I've done shameful things.
But he really works hard to get them on there.
But some of these people that we get on there,
you know, it's amazing.
I can remember the interview we did with Dr. Grinspoon.
It was so freeing to sit down there and talk to an MD
about how to use cannabis responsibly as a medical patient
and not get any bullshit from anybody.
And he just kind of, oh yeah, well, this is normal.
This is how you should be doing it.
This is all good.
And we're like, wow, it was so freeing
to get that kind of information out there.
So when we get these kinds of guests,
those are the kinds of information
you want to make sure everybody has access to.
And then we get Dr. Goldstein out there
and all the other people that we've had on there,
the D'Angelo's talking about-
Mr. Groh, yeah.
Mr. Groh, member, Jordan Ritter, Chris Trump.
All of them.
I can't name them all, the high ladies.
Oh my gosh, they were all so much fun.
Every last one of them.
But yeah, we just like to talk to people in the community.
Steve, good old Steve and Steve.
Steve and Steve again.
And Kevin and Elaine.
Elaine, I'm like, yeah, seriously.
Who's this guy?
What's that guy?
Oh my gosh.
I was just going through my favorite
to name them all.
Oh yeah, I know, they even named them.
Best episode ever.
It's a burr.
It's been a long time now.
Yeah, there it is.
Yeah, we were just like, I don't know, 100.
Well, we're coming up to our 100th episode very soon.
Like in two weeks or something.
Like at our 100th live stream.
We used to do a different format way back in the beginning.
When we, you know, because it took a while
before we actually found our legs
and found out what people wanted.
And we used to have a certain format
where we had like seven different sections of the show,
but it went on for a long time.
And now we just have the three sections really.
But the interviews ain't part of the Sunday show.
We do two interviews throughout the week.
One on a Tuesday, one on a Thursday.
And then they get edited and sent down
on the YouTube networks, the podcast networks,
which are on all of them.
Just search for High on Homegrown and you'll find us.
Yeah.
And our interview style is a little bit different.
We don't really wanna put our guests on the spot.
We just wanna get to know who they are.
And so it's more of a conversation.
We wanna have a session with our guests.
We wanna know who you are
and tell us about what you're interested in, you know?
So, and if you download our interviews,
that's what you're gonna find.
Just a conversation between good friends.
Yeah.
And I enjoy that too,
because you do get a lot of those things
that you don't hear,
or you know, you get to learn something about these guests
that you wouldn't ordinarily get
if you're just sitting there.
Okay, well, can you tell me about the rhizome
and the biosphere of the, so yeah.
You're like, what?
Tommy Chong drives home on a flat tire
cause he doesn't change anything on his Tesla.
That's what we found out.
That's right.
Yeah.
And we just go on some,
it's a places where the conversations don't usually go on.
You know, it's just a,
it's conversation more than an interview.
And people are like,
they're always surprised when,
and shocked when the interview comes to an end,
they're like, oh, that was great, man.
Enjoyed that.
Can we come back sometime soon?
We're like, yeah, whenever, shit.
Keep the link, click it whenever you like.
You know, we're most likely gonna be in the Zoom.
It's all good.
Yeah, definitely.
And that's, I found myself, you know,
dropping in as often as I can.
And when I'm welcome, always a good time.
Always a good time.
She alerted in the chat there,
said 24 sessions for the 200th show.
It's like, oh gosh.
Yeah.
Can you do the 24 hour session one time, didn't we?
Oh, you did.
24 hour live stream, mate.
Did you guys do it in shifts or how'd you do it?
No, no, no, bro.
24 hours straight off.
Oh gosh.
Three of us made it all the way through 24 hours.
And one of us had a little nap and one of us,
one didn't make it.
It was hard work, man.
It was hard work.
But somebody's got to do it, right?
But it was good fun.
We had a snail race throughout the whole lot of the thing.
That was good fun.
Seriously?
Yeah, people who showed up, we just put their name on.
You could stone us in the room.
A 24 hour snails race just sounds ironic.
So you gotta start with that.
It was good fun.
It was good fun.
But I don't think we'll be doing it again.
We're a year older since then, you know,
it's a lot of time.
I'm kinda old now, I can't do 24 hours straight anymore.
It's a whole 4% of my week.
No, man, can't do that shit.
It hurts a lot, you know?
Never say never, but not anytime soon, put it that way.
No, no, I don't.
I've seen a couple people do that.
Eagles Gardens has gone on the marathon for like 420s.
And I'm just like, I'll pop in in the evening,
I'll pop in in the afternoon,
I'll pop in again in the morning,
but I couldn't, oh my God, stay there for the whole time.
So, oh, go ahead.
No, I'm sorry, you can go.
Oh, no worries.
I was just gonna say, you know, again,
I'd love that you guys do keep it simple
as far as the information that you're getting.
And I understand why that is a very popular part
of your content,
because there's always new people that wanna grow.
There's people who resonate with the delivery
that you guys offer, myself included.
So I appreciate that.
And it's not only limited to the podcast either.
You've got the perseesgrowroom.com, correct?
Yeah.
And that's in the link too,
but maybe can you guys tell people other than Monkey,
expect to find some patriots there,
but what can people find over on Persees?
A place where people grow cannabis or personally use,
that's what the Persees means, by the way.
Cause this was a UK thing, I think,
and a lot of people don't understand
what Persees is all about,
but Persee means personal.
Okay.
So it's people who grow cannabis for personal use
or Persee growers.
So that's one of our big rules is we have a,
well, I'm gonna say plant count,
but basically if we think you're growing for commercial,
we can't have you.
Right.
We're gonna stay under the radar
for all those people who are not growing,
who are allowed to grow above the radar yet, you know?
So we stay below by making sure everybody's just growing
for personal use.
It's safer that way.
Yeah.
We're a multinational.
If it's an English speaking country,
we probably have members.
And if it's non-English speaking,
we could possibly have members.
We on occasion will have people post in different languages
that we have to translate or something like that.
Not real common, but we welcome anybody and everybody.
We absolutely don't care who you are,
where you're from,
as long as you wanna just learn how to grow weed
and you're gonna behave yourself, welcome to Persees.
That's right.
And don't take all those pounds and dollars
out of the legacy market,
go to the wrong crowd.
Yes.
You don't know what they're doing with it.
Yes.
So if everybody can supply themselves
and then maybe just give a little bit to those folks
who need it for medicine and things like that,
help out family members, that's always sweet to do.
You know, just try and keep weed safe and clean
for everybody.
I like that.
That is another excellent point of,
or another purpose of HomeGrow too.
You're not supporting other things that,
you might not want your money going towards.
Yes.
And above all, particularly as a medical patient,
you know what's in it.
You know what's in,
you don't have to worry about what's coming out.
And we did kind of have a medical related question here
and just kind of off the top of your head,
again, it's probably gonna be everybody's body
is a little different,
but what would y'all grow for fighting chronic fatigue?
For me, like the kind of the energetic for me
is usually some of like the more lemon leaning strains.
I don't know if that's same for you, Mackie,
but like my morning strain will be that Jax Cleaner too.
It just gets me going.
So I don't know.
Do you guys have any recommendations
or anything you personally enjoy for when you're sleepy
or just to go?
Lemon tree and lemon tree.
I like the Jack Herrera myself.
Okay.
Okay.
It's a good middle of the road thing.
It's not too racy.
It'll get me in the right mood and just get me moving.
Okay.
And I think one of the common, you know,
common things among all three of those really
would probably be the presence of limonene terpene.
Yes.
So, and that's usually a lot of times how I'll recommend,
you know, people will approach me, you know,
what can I take for this?
Or what can I take for that?
And, you know, it will start with a particular strain
because it may be high in one terpene
that I think may help them.
But if they find that that particular strain works
for what they wanted, then I try say,
okay, well, this is the dominant terpene.
This is usually beneficial in situations like you report,
go look for strains that are high
in this particular terpene.
I usually approach it that way versus like,
well, you need, you know, the OG Kush
or you need, you know, whatever it is.
Blue cheese.
Mm.
Blue cheese.
Can you tell us about the UK cheese?
Are you experienced?
Well, yeah, I've grown the UK cheese a few times.
We also had Milo Young on the show,
who is the guy who took cheese from being just a plant
and bought it into seed for the first time.
Is that Big Buddha?
Yeah, Big Buddha.
Yeah.
I've got to email out to that guy, but that's awesome.
He had him by episode three, was it?
I think, Monkey.
Yep, it was real early.
Yeah, man, because blue cheese is one of my favorites.
It's a fucking exceptionally tasty strain
and I enjoyed the high off it too.
So it's one of my favorite strains, man.
So we had him on the show, spoke away,
he sent me some beans, a gruesome, delicious, incredible.
I like, like you've already said many times,
I love my fruity strains, man.
Yeah.
Let's see here.
I had homegrown, what's the name of the channel?
It is down in the comments or above the comment section,
by the way, all the links to YouTube and whatnot.
I'm going to try to just, I'll just pull it up here.
Luton cheese there says, Deidre's neck.
That's it, that's the shit, that's the original.
Now, is there a big,
is there really a big difference between Luton cheese
and the big cheese and the blueberry cheese
and Exodus cheese?
Like-
Not really.
I mean, it's just a thick pungency,
but when you add like the blueberry to it,
that's different to normal cheese.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But it was just because it was from cutting
for a long time.
You could only get it from the cuttings.
There was no seed, but Big Buddha changed that for us.
Nice.
Yeah. Thank you to him.
And that was when my first trip to Amsterdam
was when I found the Big Buddha's cheese
and at Katsu coffee shop.
And we kept, I kept going back for that.
Like I'd buy a gram and I was like,
hoo, hoo, yeah.
And we, yeah.
We keep going back for that one.
So that was unfortunately not anywhere
in the Netherlands this time when we were there.
At least the coffee shops.
He seems to have lost popularity.
I mean, he came in the days where
there wasn't as much variety around,
but since there's been legalization in the US,
there's been an explosion of different flavors.
It's crazy the difference now,
the variety that we have.
And I think with like Star Dog, obviously,
wedding cake, all these big, big,
big flavor strains that have come out since blue cheese.
There's just a lot more flavor out there,
which when the cheese came,
it was one of the most tastiest strains there was.
And it was so thick and ripe with terpenes.
But then other strains started to do that too.
Cause it kind of got mixed in there.
So what, and this question, I'll go to both of you
and maybe we'll start with Monkey,
but what is the hot, hot, you know, the new, new,
the Instagram worthy, what is the-
Lemon tree.
What am I seeing more pictures of on Instagram right now?
Or yeah, I mean, just like, what is the in fashion
or the hype strain at the moment in that area
or just, you know, the South in general?
I just hate to even say it, but I think it's ruts.
Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. It's just everywhere right now.
Everybody seems to be wanting that one.
Yeah. That's definitely.
I wish I had a better, more innovative answer for you,
but unfortunately we're pretty normal down here.
Everybody's just, yeah, that's what they're looking for.
Yeah. Well, it takes time for things to travel.
You know, ruts was out here on the West coast for a while
and you know, maybe it's moving its way East.
I don't know, but I'm just using the example
of like some of the thug pug and like GMO stuff.
Like that stuff was big in Michigan for a while
before it hit the West coast.
And then the West coast was all about the GMO
but it's actually been out for a while over there.
So I think things work that way sometimes.
I've run into some different ones
on the medical market here every now and then.
I have friends that'll share a little bit
of something from the medical market here.
And I found some things I wasn't even familiar with things.
One was kitty sprinkles.
Okay.
It's an honest strain, look it up.
It's Leafly has it, you'll find it.
And the other one was pillow factory.
So, I mean, I'm more into old school strains.
So they start giving me these weird names.
I'm going like, okay, this is like designer strains.
XYZ breeder cross, you know, purple punch
with something in it's calls it this kind of thing like that.
So we're starting to see,
we're starting to see even that down here now
to where you're getting the state growers
starting to breed their own things and name them.
Nice.
Yeah, that is another benefit about the proliferation
of cannabis and the ability to grow.
I started making seeds a decade ago
because I just wanted to have seeds to grow in the future.
I didn't know if I was gonna be able to get them.
And I think a lot of people start that way
and then you realize it's fun
and you can find some good things
and it's just snowballs from there.
How about you though, Mackie?
How about the hot, hot strain?
What are all the kids smoking these days?
Fuck knows, mate.
I ain't got a clue.
I don't go out there.
I don't leave the house.
I ain't got friends.
Shoot.
It's like I always just smoke my own
and right now out of my stash.
Lemon tree is fucking delicious, man.
But when I go visit friends,
usually the star dog is still quite popular here in the UK.
Whether it is star dog or not.
That is what it's called.
That's a whole story unto itself right there.
Yeah.
I'm a little suspect of some of these Spanish seed companies.
Haribo is another popular one
which seems to be popping up a lot.
Haribo.
That's not one that's hit here.
But when you say that,
it makes me think of those gummy bears.
Like a really good gummy bear.
It's a really fruity kind of strain.
So Haribo seems to be a popular one too.
It's just not good weed, man.
Sometimes it can smell good and look good,
but it's because it's got the plant growth regulators
in there, the PGRs and shit.
Yeah.
That's a big thing that concerns people in the UK, I think.
They don't know that there's something wrong with that weed,
but they know there's something wrong with that weed.
They don't know what it is unless they will grow it.
Then you know what normal bud is supposed to look like.
Yeah, good point.
And that's, again, something that the legal market
does bring, it brings exposure to variety.
And people are able to see that, yeah,
there is more than just a couple tastes out there,
a couple effects, but also what it can look like.
PGR bud, that you used to be stoked,
because PGR buds are usually very dense, very rock hard.
They're super tight.
You're like, dude, this is the bud that keeps on giving.
I've been taking off of this little gram for like five years.
But it's not good on the body.
And that's the good thing about growing your own man,
is you know it's not PGR, you know it's got no pesticides on,
you know it's been grown with some good nutrients.
And you know the history of the plant,
you know the history of the buds,
and that's why it's always best to grow it your own,
in my opinion.
And if you can, of course,
there's some people who don't have the luxury
to be able to do it, regardless of if it's legal or not.
Some people can't do it physically, they're not well.
So they're not able to grow their own weed.
And this is what we should do sometimes, help people out,
if they can't do it and you can spare a bit,
you'd help those people out.
Definitely, and sorry for the big smile there
in such a actually serious statement.
It was a good statement.
I was smiling, I wish Bubble Hawk was still here.
I mean, we already covered that, you know,
you don't say it's not a knife,
you don't say it's a shrimp on the Barbie
because they call them prawns.
So I'm not gonna sound like an idiot anymore when I do that.
Let's see, where'd the comment go?
And this, maybe this is another,
cause we always like the toilet goes the other way.
That's what we think up here,
but I wonder if they rub their stems
in the other direction too.
Stroke speed.
Yo, what's up Woody?
How's it going bro?
That's a Woody comment for sure.
Oh shit, yeah, it's been fun seeing a lot of the people
that I've seen and talk with over in your chat.
Yeah, we have an awesome community, man.
They're all good people, we massively appreciate them.
They come along every week to the show on Sunday,
just so anybody who's listening, who wants to listen,
we stream every Sunday at nine o'clock UK time.
What time is that for you again, Monkey?
Well, it'll be four o'clock Eastern,
three o'clock Central, two o'clock Mountain
and one o'clock Pacific.
So there you go, all the way across the US.
Skills, see you.
Skills, man.
Join us on Sundays if you can, that'd be sweet.
Sunday, Sunday, Sunday.
Monster truck rallies.
Yeah.
I was saying something else and then that jumped in.
I forgot what I was saying before.
Wow, yeah, we have good people, that's right,
who follow us every Sunday, man.
They come along to the show and they watch it,
enjoy it, chat in chat like this.
We put some information across, at least we try to.
And we have some, just some chats in the middle.
Good times, man.
People seem to enjoy the laid back format.
We try to do it in a non-threatening way.
The same thing that we do over at Percy's.
We want people to feel welcome to be there.
We don't want to intimidate anyone.
No, and it's always fun listening to the conversations too,
because like you said, it is, it's just chilled,
it's laid back, but it's actually informative,
which is a benefit too, you know?
I don't just need to waste my brain.
I also want to fill my brain.
So I get comic relief, which is always appreciated.
Everybody needs to smile and I learn along.
And I really do enjoy the articles that you do on Sunday,
because it is kind of a good launching point.
I had also, I had thought about sending all of you
that article that I brought up earlier
about the cannabis hypermesia syndrome,
but that thing is like a 10, 15 minute read.
So I don't want to put you guys through that.
It's not a, it's not a brief article.
It's good to just sum it off at the start, you know,
when articles that big,
usually they just repeat themselves anyway.
Yeah, yeah, no, these, this, this was deep, man.
I was, again, everybody, everybody needs to go read that.
Let's see.
Nope, that's still, let's, I'll put that in chat again.
That's your YouTube link.
I'll pull the link to that paper again,
one more time up in chat.
But before we go, I like to give everybody, you know,
kind of a last chance to shout anybody out, you know,
let people know where they can find you.
Tell us what color socks you're wearing,
whatever you want to say, whatever you want to say.
So let's, let's start with you, Mackie,
since it's later in your time zone right now,
you'll be going to bed first.
I don't go to bed, it's for the week.
I don't know anything to add,
I just thank you everybody for joining us.
You know, I hope you've enjoyed listening to us chat shit
for a few hours.
It's always a pleasure.
I always enjoy doing this kind of thing.
And thanks to you, Chad, for having us.
And thanks for coming on our show all the time
and chilling with us.
That's fucking sweet as well.
We like it when that happens.
Yeah, it's my pleasure, man.
And it's, it's, again, it's always fun.
It's, it's hanging out with friends.
So I dig, I dig, man.
And how about you, Mackie?
Again, you're also a big part
of the High on Homegrown podcast.
So you guys are the Bert and Ernie,
the Bartles and James.
I don't know which one I would be, Bert or Ernie.
Give me the sidekick role,
because actually Mackie is the brains
on the whole thing like that,
and puts it most of the work down there.
Yeah, we're all in trouble.
That's what I have to say there.
No, I mean, we, I welcome everyone
to come and join us on Sunday over in chat
or High on Homegrown live,
or download us anytime you want,
because we're always there on any platform.
Yes.
By all means, if you want to just hang out
and talk about cannabis, drop by Percy's,
because we have a great community over there.
No dicks, absolutely one of the rules,
in the rules, no dicks allowed.
You will be banned if you're a dick.
So bam, done.
We're a multinational community, though.
The only thing in common we have
is we love to grow good weed.
Indeed, percysgrowweed.com.
There you go.
And if you want to check me out,
the only social media I do is Instagram,
and it's monkeydewgrows on Instagram.
I don't post a lot,
because I'm usually doing a lot of other different things,
but occasionally I will post.
Awesome, and those are down in the comments too.
I kind of, I put y'all on blast down there.
No way.
Yes, I like to get that stuff included.
And we're actually, we're getting a lot of comments in here
about Breeder Steve.
I could have listened to Breeder Steve all day.
Oh, he's fine, man.
Yeah, we have three episodes.
Yeah.
Yep, go check out the channel.
I just posted the link up in chat.
Yeah, I think we've got about six hours
of Breeder Steve content for you.
Hey man, he's got that soothing lullaby voice.
What can you say?
The radio voice.
Yes, yes.
He's a super cool guy as well, man,
and he's very experienced with all of this shit.
And the way he can describe the taste of the flower,
I mean, I swear I can taste it when he's doing it.
Yes.
When you do what, the million plant C-pheno hunt?
You gotta be pretty good with your descriptions, man.
Well, cool.
I think we will wrap that up for today.
We're pretty much right at two hours.
I wanna thank everybody in chat for watching
and everybody catching this one on the replay.
Thank you so much.
We should enjoy your support for the channel,
for the community, just for the cannabis plant in general.
Man, we're all trying to get people growing.
Majority of us believe-
Like the streets.
Yeah, it's just the plants is medicine, man.
So just trying to spread that love.
Growing, half the medicine is growing it, man.
You gotta grow it.
Yeah.
And you'll find it transitions into other thing.
Once you start growing this plant,
you realize the safety, for lack of a better term,
of growing it your own and consuming it your own.
Next thing you're growing tomatoes
and you're growing peppers, carrots, peas,
lettuce, Swiss chard.
You're connected to the earth all of a sudden, yeah.
Yep, yep.
And that's-
Fantastic thing.
That's a great thing.
Can't beat that.
With that, oh, one more thing tonight,
7 p.m. right here on Future Cannabis Project.
We are doing a community fundraiser seed auction
for Nick Rysden.
So if you guys wanna come back, seven o'clock,
everybody be here.
We will be auctioning some seed packs.
We got Mean Gene from Mendocino coming in.
Peter gave me a whole list of people
that I'm spacing on right now
because they're all like, damn, damn, damn.
So we're gonna have some good stuff up
and available tonight.
So everybody listening, come on back.
We'll be here at seven.
Nice.
Yes, and for that, everybody rock on.
Have a great rest of the weekend.
Goodbye, everybody.
Goodbye.
Hug a tree.
See you later, guys.
