Three, two, one.
And we are live on YouTube. All right, everybody.
Welcome. Friday 2pm, our cultivation roundtable.
That is me, Peter Saveri, and we are talking to breeder Steve. Thanks for joining me, Steve.
Thanks for having me, Peter.
So you're in Vancouver right now, right?
I'm in Okanogan Valley, about four hours east of Vancouver.
Got it. That's yeah, British Columbia distances. That's like right next door.
That's right. Central BC.
So you, why don't we kick it off with, you were kind of in the Vancouver scene in the mid 90s, right?
So do you want to talk about kind of what was going on?
Was it all indoor grows? Was it outdoor grows?
What were the genetics that were, I kind of view that as like one of the stops on the Silk Route of kind of 90s cannabis scene.
And so what was going on?
Well, you know, wherever there was a permissive atmosphere towards cannabis during the Prohibition era,
you'd get little bubbles for a while, like Amsterdam or Vancouver, where they would be seen as the more permissive places.
And in the case of BC, when I moved out there from Ontario, it was the only province without anybody in jail for growing.
They were just giving fines, whereas anywhere else in Canada, you were going to jail for growing.
So even personal, it was ridiculous.
So once you get that, you get a real, you know, cluster of people with an interest that really push it forward.
And it's a very cosmopolitan city, Vancouver, the whole world's there.
So it's a real melting pot of cannabis genetics amongst human genetics.
But everything, you know, was available there.
And Vancouver became really a central place for it.
And this is because, you know, it was just safer to work there than anywhere, you know.
So once things got better in the States, as they're getting in many of the States,
then you see, you know, much more innovation happening there now because the people don't have to hide, you know.
So it's easier to really develop it once you can get it out in the sunshine, which brings you to the indoor-outdoor, which of course there was both.
And BC's really, you know, not a great place for outdoor cannabis.
It's really not. It's just too far north.
And there's always some early stuff that'll work, but it's never going to be dynamite.
So in the case of extracts and that, it'll probably have a home for a while.
But it's just not the top place to grow outdoors.
And I think indoors was invented in the Pacific Northwest because of that.
You'd have growers moving from California to Oregon and Oregon to Washington.
And then, wait a second, it doesn't finish up here so well.
And they had to start trying to figure out where are we going to finish this herb?
And they had to grow it under lights.
And also you had to hide it from the man and from the thieves.
So having it under lock and key in your basement was the best chance you had of getting off your, you know, decent flower.
So in BC was right next door to Seattle.
So what was your setup?
Well, mine was always about pursuing, collecting and testing.
Like I just love looking at everything I can get my hands on.
So and in my breeding program, my plan was always what I did was two generations indoors over the year and one generation outdoor.
So I do one generation selection crop outdoor every summer with everything.
And then I would do two more selection crops of it indoors over the other eight months of the year.
So that made things like sweet tooth and shish kaberry very easy to grow for people, whether they were sticking them inside or outside.
They had a very good chance because things that were just selected indoors for many generations, often you put them outside and they don't stand a chance.
And a lot of the stuff that was bred for early outdoor just isn't worth growing inside, you know.
So if you if you play, you know, everything's a compromise.
If you were designing racing sailboat or a cruising sailboat, you can have the fastest or the most comfortable or anything in between is a compromise one way or the other.
And there's a lot of this in cannabis where you have certain traits that really are mutually exclusive, like early and potent.
You never have the most potent plant be your earliest plant or your most potent plant be your heaviest plant.
You know, there's a there's always a tradeoff.
So certain things you can get away with, you know, having maybe a potent sweet one or a potent purple one.
But even though I generally find a potent and purple, they can be you can have a potent purple, but the most potent tend to be green.
And it's just there's just a bunch of traits that you can't make simultaneously.
You're always trading off. So for outdoor plants here, you know, it's a struggle.
Why do you have any ideas of why that might be? Why the color like a more purple, velvety color is less potent?
But I've seen I've had some potent purple ones, but never the most potent.
And most purple ones, I find they just don't have much kick.
You know, you're sacrificing the good looks like a really attractive bud.
And the purple has a distinct flavor, even if you know what I mean.
You can taste the purple pot and it just doesn't associate to me with ever the hardest hitting ones.
There's always exceptions to the rule. So you definitely find some purple ones that have a punch, right?
A purple punch or whatever. But I guarantee you find the strongest ones will not be the most purple ones as far as flat out potency goes.
Right. So when you were first on the scene in Vancouver, I mean, you didn't have kind of the blockhead or the shish kaberry or any of the stuff you're known for.
So what was on the scene at the time and what was kind of your source material to play?
Well, let's start with that. What was on the scene?
When I got there, I think the popular stuff was a BC big bud.
Just very common, big yielding commercial plants.
Champagne, which was a really neat rock hard one that had something of a whiff of champagne about it.
It was interesting. I really did like the champagne. I haven't seen in a long time.
Dutch treat. I used the Dutch treat to make a big treat and then blue domino.
It's the same father as sweet tooth, shish kaberry and plum bud.
Would have been with a Dutch treat mother made the blue domino.
Those were the ones I remember being most common for indoor growing.
And then for outside, they had texada time warp, mighty mite, luskety purple.
I think those, I can't remember.
What else would there have been?
Those are the most common, I would think.
You would also find the different scentsy ones like northern light haze and stuff like that.
What was the lineage of some of that stuff?
Dutch treat, I assume, was coming in from Amsterdam genetics.
Vancouver is a Pacific Ocean away from Southeast Asia.
What did you notice about these genetics like the BC big bud, the champagne, the time warp, from where it was originated from?
It would all be a little different.
The Dutch treat, I couldn't tell you exactly what was behind that.
It was an unusual plant in that it was very quick to finish.
It had great bag appeal, but it didn't have a lot of turps.
It was not really odiferous.
People liked to grow that because it was easier to hide it.
It didn't stink.
The Dutch treat was popular.
It also was an easy trim because that one had very short sugar leaves.
The sugar leaves, once it dried, they almost just seemed like part of the bud.
It was something that was pretty easy for the home commercial guy with eight lights or whatever that wasn't looking forward to trimming his 10 pounds or whatever.
He was like, okay, I'll just take the fans off and it passes because they're frosty little short leaves that just kind of mesh into the bud when they dry.
The big bud was big bud.
The BC big bud was probably, I'm guessing from maybe Seattle or somewhere, the big bud was American to begin with, I believe.
It probably came up to BC before or after it went to Holland.
I don't think the BC big bud would have come from Holland.
It would have been an earlier version probably.
What else?
The time warp and all that, I really don't know.
I didn't pay a lot of attention to the outdoor genetics because I wasn't as excited about them.
I came from southwestern Ontario and you can grow better than indoor outside back there.
It's 40 second parallel, which is the same latitude as the northern Cal southern Oregon border.
If you can compare BC outdoor to northern Cal, that's kind of the difference.
Southwestern Ontario was a lot better place to grow outdoors.
I didn't have to use specifically outdoor strains back there.
Pretty much anything that was for indoors would work outdoors back there.
When I came to BC, the outdoor was a bit of a letdown.
I wasn't shocked, but of course it was all about just the safety of being able to grow here compared to Ontario.
Because Ontario, just a personal crop could land you jail time.
That's actually interesting.
Were you growing in Ontario?
What were the genetics there that you were playing with?
You didn't always know back when I started.
It was in the 80s.
People would bring back seeds.
I went to smoke some great weed when I was in Maui for spring break or whatever.
They brought some seeds back.
You'd just be like, Maui.
You don't know exactly what was behind anything.
We did get, we started getting some Dutch seeds.
I remember one pack that a friend brought me back from, it was called Dr. Indica.
I don't think it was, it was just seeds from a coffee shop or something.
They called it Dr. Indica.
That was late 80s, I guess.
There wasn't, people would order some, I think, from SSSC, which became Sensi.
But that was, there was really maybe two or three seed companies at that time.
They weren't very widely available, let's say.
If you found something in bag seed on your travels or whatever, you brought it home and gave it to your friend that grew or mailed it.
We'd have seeds to try from a number of places.
The first thing I grew and harvested butts from was from Jamaican seed, of which I was getting logs of it, compressed logs in the can of Jamaican.
I planted 2,000 seeds at a friend's place in the country whose mom was kind of a crazy, cool little lady.
She's like, yeah, you can start them here, but you got to take them somewhere else.
So I started 2,000 seeds there.
And then one female, once they got to be about knee high, one female was showing ahead of everything else.
And I told my friends, I said, listen, I just want to take that one.
You guys can have the rest of the plants.
So they're like, sure.
So I just took that one plant that was flowering first.
And then I took it down to Medway Creek, which was near where I spent my youth.
It was where I spent my youth even.
I dug a hole and filled it up with compost and potting soil and bone meal and put that one female there.
And lo and behold, a few months later, I had my first fully butted plant.
And I never really saw that exact plant again until the first outdoor plant I saw in Columbia.
And I was outside Pereira, Risaralda, and that's a very popular Punta Rojo zone.
And I went to this friend of a friend's farm, and he's got one plant out in his yard.
And I'm looking at that plant, and I walk over to it, and I can smell it.
And I'm like, that's the first plant I ever grew.
And I'm looking at it, like in the shape of the sugar leaves, and they're not very sugary, but they have a very distinct smell, very pink pistils.
And I realized that Jamaican seed I had must have had some Colombian heritage.
There's lots of Colombian moved through Jamaica, but I can see that Punta Rojo.
And I just said, is that Punta Rojo?
And he's like, yeah.
I said, geez, that's the first plant I ever grew, and I never knew.
But it's so funny to close the circle like that 30 years later.
Whoa.
So I've had fun with them.
I've seen so many.
The thing that I'm really getting off on now is continuing to collect things from all over the world.
But under the R&D license in Colombia, growing out a living library of it once a year, and inviting contributors and clients to come down, have a look and see.
And every year it gets better.
But you see, because you try and time the planting of it.
So if you have plants that are finishing in 180 days versus 90 days versus 45 days, that you stagger the planting long enough that you can have this block that has all the African varieties, all the Asian varieties, Middle Eastern varieties.
Just the whole world, plus all the modern stuff, plus the hemp stuff, and really have a living library of cannabis genetics that the people that are really into cannabis genetics can come and experience firsthand once a year.
It'd be like a pilgrimage to Mecca.
Where have you ever been able to see the entire gene pool in one field simultaneously finishing?
So I want to get to kind of what you're doing in Colombia, but I want to stay back in the 90s.
Okay, okay.
So we will get there.
Because actually people in the chat are like, we want to hear about the million seed search and all that stuff.
So you kind of set the table of what you were seeing in the Vancouver scene, the fact that most stuff was grown indoors because outdoors just wasn't feasible really.
When you started breeding there, what were you using as kind of your source stock and did you have any specific goals or were you just...
Different ones, yeah, there's different goals.
And so what I started with, when I came out, I had one line of seeds that I'd been keeping, that I'd been making myself from Ontario and I called it Jolly Rancher.
And so that was the first thing I used as a pollen parent.
And when I got to Vancouver, I made a point of buying clones from everybody that sold clones.
And there was lots of people that sold clones, but I just wanted to collect everything I could find.
And of course, you'd find some overlap, but if you just picked it up for everybody, before you knew it, you had 100 different females going.
So I'd say, okay, I'm going to take my favorite five out of these first hundred lines I've collected and I'm going to hit them with my stable male, the Jolly Rancher.
So one of the plants that I had found buying clones actually was, I asked them what do they call it?
And they said, the only thing worth growing. It didn't have a name other than that.
And the guy had had the cutting for something like 17 years then, and he'd got it from somebody that had had it longer than that.
And I don't know exactly how old it is, but I knew I'd tried the guy's bud and it was always kind of immature, puffy red hair, but it was sweet.
And you could say, oh, there's something to this one. It's sweet, but they just never finished it.
So I was like, let me get some clones of this.
And so when I grew it out and let it finish, even outdoors on my balcony in Vancouver, the first time I finished it was on my balcony in Vancouver.
I was like, holy shit, because I'd let it go until it was really, really ripe.
And it smelled unmistakably like a ruby red, sweet pink grapefruit.
And I would ask 20 out of 20 people come over blind. I wouldn't say anything.
I'd just say, what does that plant smell like?
Everybody said, it smells like a red grapefruit.
That's the sweet pink grapefruit.
So the first time I made seeds with that, I called sweet pink grapefruit.
And that was with Jolly Rancher Dad.
But then I just, I used the same, let's call it the grapefruit cutting.
Because that really is a clone only, the grapefruit cutting.
So the next one I made with that was crossed with Northern Light Haze from Sensi.
That was a very, it was the Northern Light Haze cross grapefruit gave me, I grew 500 of the F1s.
There was two recessive ones that looked like haze, but were a little bit sweeter.
And the other 498 looked like the mother, exactly.
Like a very stable, wide leafed line, except for those two recessives.
And one of them I just liked a little bit more than the other.
Because I was like, I have to pick one.
And I shared that cuttings with people.
Because I said, you know that, and that became known as the sweet skunk cutting.
And that's kind of a funny story in itself.
There is no skunk in sweet skunk.
So it's amusing that way.
But the, it stood the test of time.
And that one, I never worried about making more seeds of it because it was the recessives.
And I thought, I'm not worried about stabilizing that as a seed.
I'm just going to give everybody that cutting because I want to paste that weed everywhere I go.
I just want more people growing it.
And I didn't worry about making more seeds of that sweet skunk.
But I made sure the cutting got out there.
And I'm really happy it's around.
That's what a 25-year-old cutting now.
And it's not going out of style any time soon.
It's really, really a heady thing.
Whereas then the next time I crossed the grapefruit, I hit it with a blueberry dad from the blueberry indica line.
Which was just a phenomenal male.
I didn't even keep any of the blueberry females.
They were totally lackluster.
But that one male was just a super compact dark purple top.
Like a bunch of tight clustering grapes.
And the resin on it shone metallic.
Like it was this chromatic looking resin.
It was surreal.
And this dark velvet bud.
And it smelled like blueberry jam.
And I actually clipped the top and left it in a coffee cup for a week or two.
And then I put it in a bong and hit it.
And it tasted like blueberry jam.
That was really a spectacular find, that male.
But the point with crossing that with the grapefruit and others, the grapefruit in that case, I really wanted to make a pure grapefruit seed that reflected it.
So I wanted to choose a male that was very different.
And easy to separate.
So what I did was I crossed that with the blueberry.
And then while I made inbred lines, I also made back crosses to the mother.
And that eventually, you know, the first time you do a back cross, second time squared.
The third time you've cubed it.
And the cubed version was a sweet tooth three.
And I believe that was the second homozygous cannabis after scout number one.
And it was really true breeding.
Like the sweet tooth threes gave you a nice even crop.
You could grow it from seed.
Rather than clones, it would still look like you grew it from clones.
So that was a goal with that grapefruit in that project was to take a clone only and make it into reliable seed.
Can you define homozygous and what its relevance is in breeding?
Sure.
That's well, heterozygous is basically an unstable line and homozygous is a stable line.
So you're going to get a very homogenous or homozygous zygote.
Right.
So the zygote.
It's just a it's a fancy way of saying it's stable.
Okay.
Got it.
Okay.
So with you've kind of gone through some of the different cultivars.
As you move.
So you went from Vancouver to where?
What was the next?
I went to Switzerland after that.
The other neat thing, Vancouver is where I started growing aquaponics.
And I've never seen anybody do it with cannabis before.
And I hadn't even seen anybody do it.
I've just read about it.
And I thought, this sounds great.
So I got into aquaponics growing there actually quite strongly.
And when I moved to Switzerland in 99, I'd gone over there on a consulting gig.
And.
Was this a cannabis related consulting gig?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's right.
It was a cannabis consulting gig.
So I went over there for two weeks, totally opened my eyes to what was happening.
And Switzerland has 36 cantons, which are quite autonomous in the way of states.
And they can really interpret laws or enforce them to their own.
You know, choice, let's say.
So the certain regions, certain cantons in Switzerland were very open to cannabis.
There was no laws against growing cannabis there.
There was laws against selling it as a drug.
There was no hash bars.
There was no pre-rules.
You know, but a plant, they say Swiss botanicals are, you know, big thing in Switzerland.
We're not going to outlaw any plants.
We can outlaw uses of plants, but not the plants themselves.
So it was actually the perfect ideal when I went there and saw it, is that you could grow just like tomatoes.
Just open a business and go ahead, get your field planted, your greenhouse, your warehouse.
You know, if you do a warehouse, you need an electrical inspector.
But it was no cannabis license per se.
You know, it was just a business license.
It was just boring the way it's supposed to be.
It was mind blowing.
You could go to a supermarket and in the springtime where they had the dusty millers and marigolds and tomatoes and peppers,
they had a huge selection of cannabis cuttings and hemp cuttings with the little plant tags and the photo of it saying finishes mid-October, plant in full sun, good drainage, blah, blah, blah.
You just, it was just normal.
And it wasn't a big deal.
Nobody really cared.
People are quite introspective there and they're not too concerned about what you're doing.
They're always, they just think about what they're doing, you know, and that's fine.
Everybody just wants to be left alone in the ideal world.
So the thing was, I was like, I have to do this.
I've always said if I could come somewhere and open a business and pay tax to breed in the wide open, I gladly would.
And when I realized I could come there and do that, I didn't take very long to make up my mind that I was coming back and getting my own farm going.
So it was, that was 99.
And so there, I assume, you know, you brought your kind of body of work with you, right?
Like you brought the stuff that you had bred and then kind of what new blood did you add into it and play around with?
Like Switzerland is a totally new world.
Yeah, I was continually seeking out new stuff.
I didn't use, you know, probably you'd use 1% of what you look at or less, right?
But I had some neat American stuff.
People would send me seeds from all over the world at that point because I was getting, you know, known for making decent seed.
And a lot of people are like, go, go Steve.
And you're wide open.
You can go for it.
They're cheering you on from the sidelines.
I really had a lot of support from, you know, members of the community.
So they would be sending me harijuana from California.
There was a guy, Seuss, and I'd got some seeds through somebody that had supposedly been trimming for him.
And I used one of those with the P19 that was the mother of the blockhead.
And the father was the same father as the Sweet Tooth 3, which was BX2P1.
And that was just a powerhouse of a plant, that male.
And to make Sweet Tooth 4, it was the same male, but with its sister, which was BX2M1.
And they just looked like they were made of dark green cardboard.
Like they were just such thick, hardy plants.
They were impervious to mildew.
They were really neat plants, actually, the BX2s.
Anyways, the blockhead was a neat one, that P19.
It was a different, I think it has some Korean in it or some weird taste that I hadn't had in other cannabis.
So, it was kind of a neat family there.
But it was potent herb, and it really spun people out sometimes.
It was almost a bit much, whereas the Sweet Tooth and the Grapefruits, they didn't put the hurt on anybody.
And the Sweet Skunk, people smoked those.
They're very social.
They're a relaxing, happy kind of smoke.
And it's nice to have the one that's got you feeling like you were basing for three days, you know.
That was the blockhead.
You'd be looking out behind the curtains at every car that drove by freaking out.
It just had a weird, weird potency to it.
It was strong.
And the hash from it had a very different consistency as well.
It was really odd stuff.
It was so...
Like we were making ice hash conch out of everything else.
In a good way or a bad way?
Yeah, but it was good in that it didn't look like other ones.
Some hash sort of has different characteristics from the different varietal hash.
And the Blue Satellite hash beside the Shishkabooey hash beside the blockhead hash, you could visually tell which was which any time once you'd seen them.
They were just so obviously different.
But the blockhead, you really couldn't touch no matter what.
It just ran on your finger.
It had a very low melting point, let's say.
It was just greasy.
And even if you thought, okay, it's cold enough, I can pick up that piece, it would still just melt on your hand like you tried picking up oil.
It was really sick.
But a really heart racing type of stuff.
It was not a relaxing smoke.
It was a real boom.
Right.
So one thing you had mentioned that a lot of what you were breeding and growing yourself was not like you were trying to hit the commercial market.
So it was more like for personal enjoyment.
So what's the flowering?
I feel like, you know, if you went into the commercial beast, you know, Vancouver scene, it's short flowering cycles, things like that.
So can you talk about kind of like from the blockhead, the sweet tooth, the shishkabooey, like how it flowers, how it yields?
I'll tell you this.
At that point, you know, it was definitely a commercial seed bank.
And even though it started out as a real labor of love and a hobby going for the tasty ones, it became quickly apparent if you're running a seed business, you have to have heavy, heavy plants with bag appeal.
That's what sells.
If you sell seeds, that's 80% of your seed sales is your big yielding one.
And that's one of the reasons shishkabooey is so well known is because that and sweet tooth were really made to be easy beginner plants that I wanted to encourage people so that when they went out to grow their first plants that they thought, wow, these are easy to grow and they get a big yield and it's decent herb.
You can have the greatest, tastiest and strongest herbs, but they're generally not big yielding ones.
So you've got to find some compromise there because the people want to see that they're getting a yield too.
I remember one grower from Texas, I think, sent me pictures of he bought his wife a new Cadillac after switching seeds.
He's like, I didn't change a thing in my garden.
He says, other than the mother.
I bought a $60 package of shishkabooey seeds and I doubled the yield per night.
He says I was still harvesting in the same time, but I was getting double the yield per night.
So he's like, I bought my wife this new Cadillac and I got her the license plate that said shishkabooey.
He sent me a picture of the plate.
I was just laughing.
So is any of the stuff that you're known for stuff that you personally don't really smoke a lot of, but because it hits the commercial appeal, like bag appeal, yield, high THC, whatever?
Yeah, I would say mainly with the shishkabooey.
To me, shishkabooey is a fantastic hash plant.
It gives me about four times the yield of hash that sweet tooth does.
And sweet tooth would be a fairly average hash yielder, let's say.
The shishkabooey is through the roof.
It has very large glands.
So even the 190s would be full melt.
You would get really humongous resin glands on it sometimes.
I've never seen anything give up hash the way the shishkabooey did.
There was an unreleased shishkabooey 4, which I still have a jar of seeds of.
And that was from a really strange mutant plant.
It looked like a palm tree and it didn't have buds.
It just had a calyx between where these big leaves came out like fronds.
And there would just be a fat calyx there.
So there was no real bud to speak of.
But these fat leaves, top and bottom, were resin.
And that yielded twice what a regular shishkabooey did,
which still yielded four times more hash than anything else I grew.
So I was always loving shishkabooey as a hash plant.
I was never really a shishkabooey bud smoker.
It's a very common bud in Canada now, particularly in the legal market,
which is funny because it is a knockoff version of it that they have, I believe.
It's not directly from me for sure.
But it's still got a bit of a following.
But the thing is, it's very easy to grow.
And that's what keeps it in people's gardens is they go,
wow, I just can't help but keep it because there is a following for it.
There's people that want it.
And it's just easy, easy to grow and get a good yield.
So when you have a plant that anybody can pull these rock star yields off with,
that's what really excites the seed market, let's say.
They want generally commercial.
I was always a bit sad because I had some really favorite ones for flavor,
like tropical treat and tropicana.
And rosebud was a nice one.
But rosebud I put for a dismal.
People said, you know where you put harvest time and the yield and stuff like that?
I put dismal for the yield because it was just popcorn.
Like even on top of it.
But it was really gorgeous chocolatey flavor to it and an attractive plant.
But you know, you weren't going to get very much yield on it.
Maybe 100 grams a square meter or something.
Whereas you have other stuff that was five or six.
It's a big difference.
Hey, Steve, this is Tom.
I'm not sure what's happened to Peter.
Oh, yeah. I see you now. I see you now.
Hi. He seems to have gone away for a bit.
I've got a question for you.
Did you, would you grow specifically for hash?
And if so, how different was that process?
And did you get a lot of people, a lot of hash makers who were hitting you up
for seeds specific for hash?
Absolutely.
And that shish kevary was really the spice of life crown jewel hash plant.
And that went to even down to Morocco.
There was seeds going down there.
And I know a lot of the seeds went to Spain and got reworked into other lines
that made it down to Morocco.
And I'm just seeing the text here.
But anyways, yeah.
I, if you're doing a seed production run, by default,
you're doing a hash production run.
You're going to crush up all that flower bud.
And I always loved that about seed production runs because people would look
at, you know, say, oh, look at that big greenhouse.
That's a lot of weed.
And I think I am going to smoke every resin gland in that greenhouse
because I'm not selling the flower.
I'm crushing it up and selling the seeds.
So I like that's, you know, as a chronic head,
the idea that I keep all the resin in the crop for personal has a lot of
value.
Can you hear me?
Yeah.
Can you hear me now?
I can hear you.
Okay, great.
So would you, you also make ash?
Yeah.
So can you talk about that a little bit?
What's your process?
And we've had a lot of hash makers on here.
Well, I'm sure I can't add a lot to that discussion,
but I'm a big fan of dry sift.
Like the traditional, the old school.
Traditional dry sift to start.
And then they use a vacuum and a 25 micron screen.
And I vacuum the fine dust out because if you were doing water hash,
the water gives you that pull that pulls any of the fine dust through it.
Right.
But if you're doing it dry and you just let the bottom layer sit,
you've got all the fine crap in there. Right.
So I use a 25 micron and I vacuum through that sometimes even the 45
micron, because I rarely even keep the 25 for anything.
And then if you want to go a little step further,
which I don't do very often,
but once in a while I'll go a little further and do some static.
So I worked on a design of a larger scale one for a constant flow,
something that could handle 10 tons of flour an hour, you know,
to take it in fresh, fresh,
frozen screen, then freeze,
dry what's screened before either squishing it for
rosin or keeping it as trikes.
So I'm a big fan of the solventless process.
I'm totally happy to have great solvent extracts too.
And that plays a perfect role in all the leftovers and lesser fractions of
your solvent list. But the solvent list is really the cream,
the best grades of that for my taste.
All right. Just quickly. I don't know if you guys noticed, but I,
my internet connection crapped out. So you, you guys were still going.
Yes. Oh, cool. All right.
I got a little message from YouTube that said you are the host now.
I got that one too.
I'm just not pressing any buttons.
Let me just see if it's still, yeah.
My, my internet connection for the past couple of weeks has been a
nightmare. All right. We are still alive. Yeah.
That's awesome. Okay.
So, so where'd we leave off? You guys kept going. So, so you were,
just quickly when you were in Vancouver,
you were just growing in your apartment. Is that like,
what was your setup?
I was there. I had an apartment with,
with one four 30 in the closet and the other one was in the basement.
And I was, I was, I was, I was, I was,
I was living with my wife and I had a big old house with one four 30 in
the closet.
And then a big terrace that I had about 40 plants on.
And then I moved out of there after my first year and I got a house in
the house. I did 1500 plants in the backyard.
Well, I had three growers in the basement.
About 14 sites.
So that was a, it was the backyard.
It was a concrete backyard around a pool.
Drained in full of plants.
I'm guessing the backyard must've been roughly half an acre.
And you had 1500 plants.
Yeah.
Cause I would start them from seeds and I wouldn't put them in bigger than
one gallon.
So I could have lots of plants because I was all about thinning them out.
So I would maybe start 1500. I think, and I think in that one,
I even finished 1500. I think the last year I was there,
but they were just, you know, beds of little plants, you know,
so all around the backyard. And it was so many,
and there was only a couple that I put into bigger pots and grew a Christmas
tree out of the rest. I just had them like soldiers, you know,
in square pots down the,
but I remember it was halfway between downtown and the airport and
helicopters bringing people from the airport to downtown would come over the
backyard as like sightseeing tour.
And they'd all look and wave while I was watering the plants.
At one time they kept so low,
they're like blowing plants over and I'm giving them the finger,
like get out of my yard. It was crazy.
The pool we actually had planted like a red and yellow bullseye,
an artist I knew Lincoln Clark's painted it. He called it fire and water.
So I had this house halfway between,
we called it the compound or the Hudson hotel.
And it had a big wall around the backyard and no lawn or anything.
And then this big pool in the middle. And it was just chock-a-block with her.
The downstairs, the basement was all going to later.
We moved out of there into warehouses and other rental houses.
I think at one point we had like four or five houses going where I had a
strain in each of the different houses, like making strawberry blonde here.
It was a, it was an interesting time. I remember at one point,
I think I had three houses on one street.
And you'd never put more than eight lights in the house.
And other than that first one, but that was a bit nutty.
And then I would just have them like every three or four blocks.
And you're an organic guy. So, so you were growing your one gallon pots.
Yeah.
I found there used to be some,
and then you then moved out to Oklahoma, all three of these buildings.
In the first year.
They were Gilroy.
Oklahoma was the second oldest.
And the first thing I built was an aquaponic because I was still,
The aquaponics was right away.
Like you just jumped in.
I wanted to set that up before I got to BC.
I was like, first garden I'm setting up
when I get out there is aquaponics.
So actually made a deal with a grow store there
that a friend of a friend,
I was telling them about this aquaponics, my friend.
And he said, oh, that sounds neat.
And I said, I've got a design, I'm gonna build one.
And he says, oh, you should tell my friend
at this grow store.
He'll probably say, if you build two,
you can keep one and build him one
so he can have it as a demo unit in the shop.
So I did that.
So I went down and built one in the shop,
loaded it up.
And then, cause he had everything there,
lights, fans, pumps, all the stuff right in the shop.
So I just got some lumber and whatnot
and built one in the shop.
And then I took all the gear to build mine home.
So I got a free unit right out of the gate.
And that was in the apartment when I first moved there.
And the next year when I got the house,
then I had more room to set up,
full rooms of aquaponics downstairs.
It was gorgeous.
And the aquaponics room was delicious.
So talk about some of the cultivars you're known for.
You in that setup had it growing in aquaponics,
soil and hydro.
So can you talk about kind of how maybe something
expressed itself differently?
Like something you noticed where you're like,
the hydro is doing this, the soil is doing that,
and aquaponics is doing this,
and everything else is the same.
Well, the neat thing with hydro and or aquaponics
is you can see the roots better.
In the soil, you don't see the roots so much.
And in the varieties, you see a huge difference
in the amount of roots they put out.
Sweet skunk would choke out tubes with roots.
It just was a prolific rooter.
And it continued to grow roots the whole time.
Whereas the plants that were more
what we always think of as indica,
I know you're not supposed to say indica anywhere,
but you know what I mean.
Those just didn't have the prolific rooting
of the sweet skunk.
And I pretty much follow that along with all indicas
and sativas, if I may,
that the rooting on them is quite different.
So there is even a market for roots,
let alone that they support the rest of the plant.
But I know there's people trimming roots
and sending them to be made into salves
for skin creams and topicals.
So they're harvesting live roots for that.
So in a aeroponic system, whether it's aquaponic or hydro,
you have that possibility to look at the crop
underneath the table rather than just the crop on top of it.
That stood out to me always
was the difference in roots between those.
Yeah, sorry, I crapped out again, but now I'm back.
I have a question.
How do you tell a good root, a healthy root?
What are the signs?
Do people assess them visually?
Yeah, visually, if they're white
and a lot of fine hairs.
The fine hairs are where they're really feeding,
but if they're starting to yellow,
then your roots are not as happy.
And if they're slimy,
they won't have that white fur that you want.
The fine white hair that they grow,
it's like little cilia, maybe, I don't know,
technical word for them,
but you know when you see the healthy white root,
then you're just like, okay, that's really nice and healthy.
And if it's not a healthy root, it's quite apparent to you.
So let's, people are asking to stick on the aquaponics.
So the plants are eating, as my one-year-old says,
fresh poo whenever she has a nice steamy new diaper for me.
So they're eating fish poo.
So then it becomes important what you're feeding your fish.
So what do you like to feed the fish
like tell me food source and specific nutrient
that it's delivering to the plants?
Well, pretty much any of the things you feed them
will have a range of nutrient.
And it's a much shorter list to tell you what I don't,
I'll do it both ways, but I'll start with saying
what I don't like to feed them
is a lot of flakes and pellets
because the flakes and pellets,
you think how nasty you open your kid's goldfish food,
those flakes smell nasty, right?
And the same when you get a bag of those green pellets
that they put the float around the fish farm,
those smell horrible too.
And they're often made from dead parts and whatnot.
Those are really the low grade food.
And if you overfeed them, especially with those,
and you have that stuff floating in the water,
you can taste it in the flour later.
I call it pellet tea.
I'm like, what did you feed this pellet tea?
They're like, I don't know what you mean,
but I know it because I can smell
that horrible fish food smell.
What you wanna feed them is real food,
whether it's frozen or fresh,
krill, worms, feeder goldfish, feeder guppies.
You want algae eaters eating algae.
I had maybe 10, 20 kinds of algae eaters
eating different kinds of algae.
Yeah, so actually this gets to what kind of fish
you have going,
because I hear carnivorous fish and plant eating fish.
So what are the carnivorous fish you have?
The best range is to have as much as you can,
as many niches filled there.
So the carnivorous fish,
I would have an assortment of cichlids,
both South African and Central American and Oscars.
The Oscars were incredible.
Those things get so big so fast
because they eat an enormous amount.
Under the gravel, I had eels,
I had little crayfish running around.
It was really ridiculous, the diversity of stuff in there,
because we'd have living plants that floated,
living plants that grew from the bottom into the air.
I had a 400 watt halide going over the 90 gallon aquarium
so that that puts the light in.
Most aquarium people want to keep their aquarium
away from sunlight
because they don't want the algae growing in it.
But we want the algae growing in it
because that's free nutrients.
And that's the basis of life on the planet
is light hitting wet rock.
And these things start to grow.
And it's just beautiful.
Once you get it set up nice and balanced,
it'll continue on.
And I had the one garden run three years
and it had a float switch,
just like a horse trough to add water to it.
So whenever, if every time the garden
was watered every 20 minutes,
then the level would drop about a quarter
of the way in the tank.
So that's where I set the float switch or the float valve.
So that for three years,
I never had to add water to the system.
For three years, I never drained the system.
It was only when we moved at the end
that that system got taken down.
But it's just a perpetual system.
And that takes out the watering.
I've got a really bad back,
two double hernia, it sucks.
But people in worse pain,
but even anybody that's got back pain
knows what I'm talking about, it sucks.
And I don't like lifting pots around and watering.
So I fucking hate doing it by hand.
Whereas in the aquaponics system,
I can set up and grow clones in the trades of Oasis
or whatever, put the cube into some gravel
and grow the plant there.
And I've done to pull it out, shake off the gravel.
It's just easier.
And I'm a big fan of easy and not a lot of waste.
And that's just a really great closed loop system
that once it's healthy,
it's really almost hard to make it unhealthy
because a good bacteria dominate
if the conditions are right.
And it takes the aerobic bacteria
that make those conditions.
So you have to have a zone.
I call it the mother marsh, my zone,
the old bioponic system I designed
was those rocks have to get wet and then dry
or nearly dry.
So they need a lot of air.
So you want a mother marsh that gets,
it takes all the drain water accumulates there.
And then the float switch comes on
and drains the whole thing.
And then you get a lot of surface area
for the good bacteria to grow.
You've got nitrosomas and nitrobacter.
The nitrosoma makes the ammonia into nitrite
and the nitrobacter makes the nitrite into nitrate.
And nitrate is what the plant's able to take up.
It's much more available to the plant
and much less toxic to the fish.
Even if you didn't have plants there,
that mother marsh area would keep the ammonia levels
down for your fish tank.
But with plants growing out of them,
they really keep it down.
The water's going back to that fish tank
really, really clean after getting filtered
by all those plants.
It's like the biggest, best aquarium filter in the world.
And in Columbia, the reservoir I'm running right now
is 3 million liters and I've got crocodiles in it.
It's got ducks.
That's bad ass.
We go fishing in it.
It's a dream come true.
So I know people are on the edge of their seats
with the Columbia stuff, but we're not quite there yet.
So just quickly, Pot TV asked,
so in your small, not your 3 million liter aquaponics setup,
but like in your Vancouver setup,
do you have issues with humidity when using aquaponics?
No, because I keep the reservoir outside the room
and the system itself is not totally sealed.
The table is quite sealed actually,
but I would have plastic right up to the base of the plants.
So there would be black and white plastic over the table
and then sealed right around the base of the plants.
So the water in that on the main flowering tables
is quite separate, but where the mother marshes were,
they were open hydrotons.
You'd have three gallon hydroton mesh pots
that were sitting inside cut holes
in the top of a big rubber made
and they would have wicks down to the bottom.
And those would be filled up with lava rock
or hydroton as well.
But I really a big fan of keeping your reservoirs
and open water systems outside of the garden.
So I would always build the reservoir outside the garden.
And if you have a good climate control,
which in a showpiece room,
you should be able to dial the humidity
and temperature pretty good.
I had digital CO2 in that room and it was,
you could set it and forget it to whatever you wanted.
So I think I cut out at the part where I asked you
kind of differences, same genetics, same variables,
except for aquaponic soil and hydro.
Did you answer that question?
Kind of something.
Partially, I partially answered it,
but I am thinking of another difference
I would bring back to that.
And that is one of the finished bud.
And as you know, or hopefully know,
and I know there's some dispute about this,
but to me it's indisputable,
but a herb that's really well-grown for smoking
should have depleted most of its food
by the time it's done and dried.
And you wait for the fade in the plant.
And then you get a plant that burns much cleaner
with a lighter ash.
And I found, you can get a very light white ash
with hydroponics because it's very easy
to flush hydroponics.
Soil's a little harder to flush
because it's a sponge that holds this stuff.
So if you're making a nice organic soil,
the part of that,
you know, some people want to reuse and reuse,
and that's fine too,
but they don't always burn quite as clean
as something that's leached really, really bare.
And aquaponics is interesting in that
it's not force feeding the plant
with the high osmotic pressure
of all the minerals you can force into it.
It's just letting it take what it needs
from a very low concentration
that's constantly available.
So you don't have to switch to just running water
for the last two weeks or anything to help them use up.
The plant basically chooses to stop taking up a bunch
and you'll start getting that fade.
And that helps you get bud that burns with a white ash,
not even gray, but white.
And it just, when you get that clean a burn,
then the last toke tastes as good as the first toke,
you know, whereas if the plant's got darker ashes
and it's overfed and it's suffering from excess consumption,
when you're smoking, you light it, okay,
you taste some of the varietal flavor right off the bat.
And then it starts to taste a little harsher
and harsher and harsher and tarrier, tarrier.
And halfway through the joint, if it's still even lit,
it doesn't taste nearly as good, you know?
So I found that with the nice thing with both hydro
and aquaponic is it is really an easy one
to get a super clean finish.
And soil, I find you have to work at flushing it a bit more
and or dialing your mix so you're not feeding it so much.
And I know there's people that dispute this,
but to me, it's just, you know, self-evident,
the difference in the quality, in the texture of the smoke,
the temperature of the smoke.
There's ways of looking at the product
that people aren't looking at yet.
So it's safe to say aquaponics
is your favorite grow style, grow medium.
Well, honestly, my favorite is straight in the field.
But if I'm gonna set up a system,
particularly a recirculating system,
I'm all over the aquaponics.
I haven't grown indoors since 2002.
To keep that in mind, I stopped growing
under lights back then.
I actually just started plugging a few lights in
for seed production down at the farm.
But really for production, I'm all about growing in fields.
I really like farming with tractors
better than greenhouses and indoors and stuff.
So you're a straight up sun...
Field grown, baby.
I love the field grown.
Yeah, well, I'm okay with amending the soil
and building the soil and bringing life to it
and, you know, cover cropping.
There's so much you can do to make the field better.
And the fields I've been working the last couple of years
have got better over the last couple of years.
So it's really nice to see that ongoing improvement.
Whereas if you're just salting the land every time,
you're not making it better for the long run, you know?
Right.
So Buddha Boy says,
"'Potent Ponics' is a great resource for aquaponics."
You know Steve, right?
Yeah, they had me on there twice, I think.
So what's an aquaponics topic
that you and Steve were mind melding over?
Oh, I don't remember exactly.
We talked about everything under the sun.
I really don't remember specifically
what we talked about.
Or how about forget him specifically,
just like a recent conversation you've had
with somebody else who's really into aquaponics,
kind of what was the thing you were talking about?
Well, mainly just the diversity.
That's what I stress with people is, you know,
you can try doing it like a monoculture
where you're doing all one type of fish
and no plants or anything else.
Like all tilapia or something.
Right, and you can do that.
But a lot of those ones,
I don't think you're gonna see
the same rounded texture of the plant.
If you're just feeding pellets,
it comes through in the water.
If those fish are eating other fish
that are eating plants that are growing off the algae,
you know, it's just all happening in there.
And I was able to throw a cheeseburger in there
rather famously.
I would do it to blow people away.
I think I had somebody from high times
or something one time.
And I'd already done it just to amuse a friend one time
because there was a dairy queen across the street
from my grow shop when I had the aquaponics business.
And I would go over, once we got all stoned,
and say, oh, you want some burgers?
It's about lunchtime.
And they're, okay.
So I'd go across the street and get a bag of burgers.
Come back.
And while they're all blissed out,
they're staring at the fish tank beside the garden.
And I had the fish tank on the desk
and we all sat around that when we seshed.
And you could see the garden was all behind glass
beside you.
And so we'd be sitting there and they'd say,
well, tell me again, what do you feed these fish?
And I said, oh, whatever we're having.
And I'd just throw a cheeseburger in the reservoir
into this beautiful aquarium.
And the people are just like,
throw a cheeseburger in this gorgeous aquarium?
And I said, just watch the clock.
60 seconds, you can't see any cheeseburger.
They'd just tear it apart.
The little fish would get all the little bits,
but I wouldn't feed it a cheeseburger every day.
Most days I fed them maybe a hundred feeder goldfish
went in that tank almost every morning.
And it was funny because the warehouse attached to mine
in this warehouse area,
they were importers of tropical fish
and they had an enormous amount of tropical fish next door.
And they supplied all aquarium stores.
That's convenient.
Oh, it was so easy.
So I'd go over and smoke a fatty with them in the morning
and they'd give me a hundred feeder goldfish.
It was a very symbiotic relationship.
I love barter.
I live by it for sure.
But that was the,
seeing what a difference,
like as I did have clients that tried to take it home
and sometimes they would try and modify it
and say, well, I just want the flowering tables.
I'm not gonna use some other marshes.
Well, it doesn't work with that.
You modify the system, it doesn't work.
So, and other ones that would say,
well, I don't wanna mess with buying the frozen shrimp
and all the live food or whatever.
So they would just feed it pellets or flakes,
but they would put too much in.
So it'd be floating around on top of the water
and their pot would smell like that.
It would smell horrible.
And so you can screw up aquaponics.
You can screw up anything.
But the stuff that tasted fantastic
was the stuff where you had a jungle in the aquarium
and it wasn't just one thing getting one type of food,
but it was really a living,
living closed loop ecosystem.
It was beautiful.
So Stoney Baker MDS,
how do you avoid all the nitrogen
and late flower and aquaponics?
Well, it's such a low level that it's not,
when the plant wants it, it's taken it.
And when it doesn't need it, it's not being force fed.
So it's not like you've got
2000 parts per million fertilizer in it.
It was running 75 parts per million.
So it was very, very low what's there.
And there was never a problem with there being too much.
In fact, sometimes when they were using it at peak,
when they were at peak growth times,
I would have to supplement the water
by taking a spoonful of worm castings
and putting them on the base of each of the plants
where the plants were in the hydrotub, the little rocks.
And if the whole room was trying to be green
and bushy at once,
then it was time to give a little top up on those
because it didn't make enough nitrogen
to feed everything at once
through the size of the garden to that tank.
But overall it gave them enough to live by,
but not so much that there was an excess ever.
You could increase it a bit.
Same for flowering,
is I used to make Steve's special blend,
which was a dry mix of about 17 organic things.
And I would stick some of that in a nylon sock,
tie it off and drop that in the tank.
And it was heavier in a flower based feed
because it was designed to be used with compost,
which had your end.
So when I put the special blend in a sock in there,
it would start growing algae overnight
and all the algae eaters
would just be huffing on it the next day.
And you'd just see them lined up like piggies on a trough
and they would just be huffing a cloud
out of this nylon sock that had alfalfa meal
and rock phosphate and Langdonite
and God knows all kinds of stuff.
But that gave it a real boost during flowering,
I found to put that little sock in that tank.
And how long did you leave it in?
Was it like a 24 hour thing or?
No, a few weeks I put it in there.
Once they started to show flower,
I would probably drop that sock in there
for two or three weeks
and then take it out closer to the end.
And you don't do that anymore?
Well, it's quite a different scenario.
I'm not doing it with an aquarium anymore.
You're going more commercial large scale.
Yeah, more industrial now.
Then let's get to,
I think everyone wants to hear
about what's going on in Columbia.
So let's talk Columbia.
What, how many acres do you get to play with?
Well, of available land I have to plant right now
is about 2000 acres.
And there's, the thing you gotta understand Columbia,
there's classification of psychoactive plants
versus non-psychoactive plants in their definition.
In their definition, psychoactive is anything
that has a combined total of 1% THC CBN.
If that combined THC CBN is 1% or more
it's classified psychoactive
and you're reliant on getting a quota
for a number of plants you wanna grow for production
or for R&D or for genetics characterization.
So you're reliant on these quotas
which are a real hurdle and headache, but we do get them.
But they don't give you always what you want.
You might say, I wanna plant 20,000 seeds
and pick out the favorites from this new generation.
And they say, okay, well, we think you can plant 5,000.
So next time I'll ask, okay, these other 15
I still need some plant.
So in the psychoactive has to be fenced.
So we have 24 hectares fenced, which is about 60 acres
that I can use for psychoactive right now.
And my psychoactive quota this year
is for about 104,000 plants.
So some of that's R&D, most of that's production
for export to Brazil as well, actually.
But I didn't get as many as I wanted in the R&D quota.
So we're apply for a supplementary quota
so that we can keep continue planting the seeds.
But I'm working out this living library
where we stagger plant, living gene pool of cannabis
so that somebody can come down and say,
we plan it for everything to be done mid October
or end of October, whatever we aim for.
The beautiful thing is there,
I can plant every month of the year,
every day of the year, we can plant harvest.
And there's only-
Can you quickly explain why that is?
Yes, it's 12 hours all year.
So it never stops flowering.
There's a rainy season and a dry season,
but 80% of the annual rain where I am falls in May.
So, and I've tested genetics down there for four years
and trying the same stuff starting in different months
and finishing in different months.
And during the dry season,
everything you can bring will finish, anything.
But during the rainy season,
I thought it would be a lot less.
With actually about 80% of the genetics will finish
even in the rainy season.
Because even in the rainy season,
they might get torrential rain for half an hour
and then it gets hot and sunny again and dries out.
So it's surprising how resilient those plants are.
There's definitely 20% of the genetics
will not work in the rainy season,
but I was surprised that 80% did.
But the reason I'm there is to do affordable meds en masse
and to really make a difference
in not just to be able to grow pot for the rich world,
but to be able to make affordable meds for everybody
so that people can stay medicated for change, you know,
not for a hundred bucks a day,
but for 50 cents a day or 25 cents a day.
And so the idea here is that
as soon as you remove supplemental lighting,
whatever plants is there will start the flowering process.
That's right.
So plants that we bring down that are photosensitive,
that we would typically use indoors that are vegged,
you know, with 18 hours and flowered with 12 hours,
those plants need to be vegged with supplemental light.
So we have areas for keeping plants in veg,
whether they're mothers or juveniles of those varieties,
they get supplemental light from 6 p.m. till midnight,
and then they get moved,
the plants from the juvenile area
where they're kept usually six weeks
for most modern hybrids,
they would go to a flowering field
after they've spent six weeks in veg and small pots.
And once they're put in the flowering field,
they flower really quick.
And the light is very intense there.
It's stunning actually.
I was really,
the thing that surprised me most
about flowering on the equator was
anything you think of as an eight week finishing plant,
like an eight week flowering plant, 60 days,
they finish in six weeks.
I can't explain it.
I don't understand why,
but there's not room for them to swell anymore.
The calyxes are swollen,
the pistils are gone,
they're fat, finished flower in 60 days,
or in 45 days,
if they were a 60 day indoor stream.
So it's shocking because a lot of those,
which I am turning over a number of those,
that's eight crops a year outside, right?
On the same block.
And just quickly,
is this one contiguous property,
or is this a cross property spread out
in a bunch of different microclimates?
No, that brings,
we'll get to the microclimate part next.
And what part of Columbia,
like what's the nearest city or town?
Los Janos.
This is in the Eastern Plains
and the closest city is Granada.
And that's not really a city,
but it's the closest.
How do you spell Los Janos?
L-O-S?
L-O-S-L-L-A-N-O-S.
Los Janos Oriental.
Eastern Plains.
So that's-
Aridan?
You just put Los Janos, if you want.
That's the plains.
So I was looking for an area,
you know, I did a lot of homework
before I chose that area,
but I really was ultimately looking for something
that can be mechanized.
So I want to be able to grow with combines
and plant with seed drills.
So I can't be transplanting juveniles
into the field forever.
That's not, was never the plan.
As we develop plants,
we like from seed and stabilize them,
we'll be able to sow the fields like corn
and harvest them like corn
and process them like corn oil.
And that's where we get a really affordable commodity oil.
Los Janos is one of the biggest sections of Columbia
as far as climactic regions.
It's a huge amount of the land mass there.
And it's one of the only flat ones.
Most of Columbia is quite mountainous.
I'm just looking at the map.
Is it near the Venezuela border, the Brazil border?
If you went, you can see Bogota and Venezuela.
So if you go east of Bogota,
you'll see east, southeast is Vila Vicencio.
Yep, I see that.
So that's the capital,
that's the main city of the area I am.
And we're about two hours south of Vila Vicencio.
So that somewhere.
See under the Elk.
Kind of right there.
Yep, so like right in here.
Or sorry, right, yeah, right.
Yep, okay, cool.
It's interesting.
If you look at the whole map of Columbia,
it's almost a bullseye where we are.
But the interesting thing was
you brought up the climactic zones.
And one of the fascinating things that I love about Columbia
is the climactic diversity there.
And they are one of the countries
with every or almost every
top in climate classification zone.
So you've got oceanfront deserts
and mountaintop glaciers and everything in between.
So it's really diverse and beautiful
for the flora and fauna.
But there's also through university partnerships,
there is the possibility of doing test crops
at their plots in all the different 11 zones.
Agriculturally, the country's divided
into 11 climactic zones.
And when I wanna register cannabis genetics
and do a characterization of them,
that characterization is only valid in that climactic zone.
So my zone where my main farm is,
where we have the 2000 acres to plant is,
main river is Orinoco.
So we're the Orinoco Basin.
But if you went to the Savannah outside Bogota,
you have entirely different climate.
And even they raise different cattle there.
They'd have the same kind of cattle you might see in Canada.
Whereas in the plains where it's much hotter,
they'd have Brahma cattle
and stuff that you wouldn't see in Canada.
So it's really, really different.
And the North Coast has different areas
from the Guajira, the Sierra Nevada,
over around Sucre and Cordoba is nice.
Antioquia is a different climate entirely
than the Cafeterio, the coffee zone there.
And a lot of the companies went and set up
around Medellin.
And I believe it's a beautiful city and everything
and a nice region, but it's the wettest place.
Like it rains all the time.
And it's totally mountainous.
There's no flat places to plant a field.
It's all mountains.
So I thought, yeah, I don't wanna,
I didn't come down there to focus on a lifetime
of horticultural labor intensive farming.
We got labor, horticultural,
where horticulture meets agriculture right now
where we're starting plants and pots
and then putting them into a field.
But we need to be straight agriculture.
And that really comes down to having the acclimatized seed
that you can straight up plant.
And in the case of high CBD or other non-psychoactive
as they call them, those don't need to be fenced.
So those we can just go to town and keep planting those,
but it's just not efficient to do it from cuttings.
And we were literally restricted to only growing
from cuttings for a while.
So we're awaiting the final permissions
that will allow us to keep seed for planting.
And at which point I'll have silos of seed
ready to plant out the rest of that farm.
And the 2000 acres plantable,
that's not leaving the title
and that's not even all the land on that title.
That's just what we've got allocated.
But the plantations are really big around there,
the Fincas.
So it's very, I can add 2000,
as long as I've got the seed and the processing capability,
I'll be able to just keep adding on as much as we need.
The scalability in the plains, it's just like Iowa, right?
So there's no shortage to how much you can plant really.
You just keep going.
Whereas if we were in a wet mountainous greenhouse
where a lot of the companies up there failing,
even if they can't get a crop off,
they've got too many problems with mildew.
Whereas where I am, it's too hot for mildew.
That's the easiest treatment for mildew.
And I have mixed feelings about sharing.
I used to really be open about sharing everything,
but now I see some companies, particularly in Canada,
that were really evil companies
that were lobbying for arrests.
And the dispensary people that made it even possible
for them to have a public company growing pots.
So I thought it was very ungracious
of these pro-crim companies.
And I was watching them fail crop after crop
on massive scales from mildew.
And I thought mildew is the easiest thing.
And old me would tell everybody,
and now I'm gonna tell you,
because if you're still listening this long into the thing,
you're into it.
But probably none of those dirtbags are fucking listening.
Let's hope.
But the thing is mildew dies at like 34 degrees Celsius.
So if you can hold your room at 35 degrees Celsius
for 10 minutes every day, it'll be gone.
And then you maybe do it once a week, once every two weeks,
just kind of as needed.
But heat treatment is the easiest way to not have mildew.
It's not a question of what you spray.
It's nothing to do with that.
You should be able to grow a good crop
without spraying anything on it, anything.
That's the best.
But if you need to spray something,
hopefully it's nice and clean.
Because lots of times we do have to spray for whatever.
But I would be hard pressed to do anything
that wasn't fully bio.
I'm really into that.
But my ideal is let's keep everything healthy
so you don't have to spray for bugs, for mildew,
for anything.
If the plants are really healthy plants,
they're resistant to a lot of things.
And down there, like in Canada,
you don't have a problem with spider mites outdoors.
But in the tropics, spider mites are a problem outdoors.
There's no winter to kill them off or anything.
So you'll see which varieties they go for.
And they often do go for the sweetest, tastiest ones first.
But I've definitely found some lines of seed
that spider mites won't touch.
They'll eat everything around it except that.
So what are some examples of what they stay away from?
I've got to complete the analysis
of the terpenes of those lines.
But I've found two lines out of hundreds
that I've looked at that are virtually mite repellent.
So whatever the turf profiles are in those plants,
you could literally make a spray with those turps
to keep mites off other plants.
Because I watched the mites eat everything around them.
Because I'd say, don't spray.
I just want to see which ones they go to.
And often I'll keep the ones they go to
because I'll find that they find the plants
that are the sweetest first.
And I like sweet plants too.
But I also like plants that don't have any problem
with mites.
And if all I'm doing is growing a molecule,
then it doesn't really matter at the end of the day
how much I like the turps on that plant.
If it's just going to be a ton of THC, period.
It's a ton is a ton, right?
So I want ones that aren't going to require
a lot of attention.
I like plants that are erect.
I can't use plants that are floppy and need tied up.
So there's certain traits I'd look for as a field farmer
that wouldn't apply if you were an indoor guy.
If you're an indoor guy,
you wouldn't maybe care if the plant was a little bit floppy
because you're going to put a scrug net over it
and it'll hold itself up.
And you don't mind that it's a little bit
vine-like in its growth.
Whereas for me, if they need a stake, I can't use it.
I need things that stand up on their own
in full wind and full storms.
And the next day they're still standing, you know?
I can't have stuff that's laying in the mud.
So I look for things differently
because I'm just in a different paradigm
of what is useful to me.
Okay, so what's the kind of the setup?
Like, do you have greenhouses where things start
and the supplemental lightings in the greenhouses?
Or is it indoor?
There is containers set up with shelves for cuttings.
There's mother areas, which are outdoors.
There is one greenhouse where we do keep
like a veg library.
There's a male section that keeps the males there.
And there's a section for psychoactive
and non-psychoactive mothers.
And then psychoactive and non-psychoactive males.
And there's a bunch of tables that we'll use often
to start flats of seeds, like really long tables.
You'll have to check out Instagram for either me
at Okanabizinc and at Medcancoal.
And you'll see more pictures
of what the operation looks like.
But I would say 99% of the mothers are growing outdoors
but they have lights on poles to keep them in veg
for their supplemental 6 p.m. till midnight.
And they also have tall black curtains around them.
So there's mother blocks outside
where there's a hectare of one mother.
And there's maybe 8,000 mothers in that hectare.
And that'll keep growing for taking cuttings
is we're taking cuttings from outdoor mothers.
And we keep them about four months
before we change them over.
And we've got quite a number.
You know, I don't think that's even ours.
I think that was just some form photo that they used.
Try Okanabizinc.
Because I was putting up those pictures more
than the Medcancoal.
What is it?
Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh,
Yeah, O-H-C.
Whoops.
There you go.
The top one.
Okay, so what are we looking at?
There's a flowering, that's a flowering block.
So there's no lights, no lights on that, right?
There's some chickens running around on their mothers.
Those are some BC outdoors.
There's a fogging Boveria and some other bio goodies
into a freshly planted block.
Aha, okay, so here we go.
So they're in soil.
There's a juvenile.
So that's a juvenile area.
So you can see like the clones are fresh planted there
and then there's sections.
So they'll get older.
There's a section going out every week basically, right?
And then here they just got planted outside, right?
That's it, that's it.
That's the sort of hybrid system
where you're going from horticulture to agriculture
which is not as efficient as just planting seeds
in the field.
And I have actually been showing them a bit.
All right, see that looks like a mother area.
No, it's under shade.
So it's under shade, it's juveniles.
There's juveniles, they have a movable shade cloth
so that if there's young ones underneath it
it'll actually be double shade.
Then after about a week, you take off one layer.
And then after that, we just slide it away
and give them full sun.
But they still have the lights on poles there.
Keep them in bed.
Lots of chickens.
There's some more mothers.
The...
So these are the moms?
Those are, yeah, that's a little mother section.
And those are the lights, those on the poles?
Exactly.
Got it, okay.
So, okay, because you had mentioned your aquaponics setup.
So what percentage, what's the split between stuff
that's put in the soil and stuff
that's in your aquaponics setup?
Well, as we grow, we're constantly installing lines
into new blocks.
And there is a, I wish,
I'm not looking at the pictures right now myself.
I wish I had them handy.
I should have prepared some to make it easier.
But where the main reservoir is,
there's a man-made hill with another 4,000 liter tank,
maybe your 10,000 liter tank on top of that.
So it can, from that, it can go to gravity
to all the different blocks.
And at the blocks, you can also put up a mixing tank.
So if you wanted to mix a guano tea or something,
that gets siphoned in when it waters the block.
So you can do your bio-fertigation via the irrigation lines.
Now I'm aiming to put them all subterranean.
I believe is the best use of them,
about 15 centimeters underground.
But we're doing some comparative trials right now.
But I think the subterranean irrigation
is gonna be the way to go and to continue on that way.
And I've showed them interestingly enough,
if they look, we just plant seeds in the field
and no transplanting or anything.
I say, you'll see that they take better
and they use less water.
So I've done a trial with them where we just said,
look, you put a row of clones out and put a row of seed out.
I said, you can water the clones, but don't water the seeds.
And sure enough, the seedlings,
because they put down such a taproot
before they start to grow up, they find their own water.
So we're realizing if we can grow entirely from seed,
we can cut back on infrastructure
as far as irrigation goes.
But still to maximize output,
I'm a big fan of the subterranean irrigation.
Sorry, so going forward,
you would like most of your stuff
coming from seed versus clones?
I would do 100% of the production from seed.
Right now, I legally have my arm tied behind my back.
I'm not allowed to grow production from seed,
but as soon as I can,
which is just another set of paperwork I'm waiting on,
once I get that ability of the plants we've been breeding
that don't need lights,
that take three or four months on 12 hours without veg,
I don't intend to be vegging plants
prior to planting anymore.
The idea was always to acclimatize stuff
to grow directly in the field from seed.
And what you have to remember with CBD particularly,
there's no equatorial CBD varieties.
That's when they say you've got to plant
equatorial CBD varieties,
they're saying you've got to plant unicorn teeth.
They just don't exist.
So you have to acclimatize CBD varieties
by crossing with equatorial ones
and hybridizing and finding the plants
that have the growth characteristics of an equatorial plant,
but have the chemotype of the CBD type that's low THC.
Because all the equatorial plants around the world have THC.
And if we have to be less than 1%,
and they're talking of dropping that to 0.2,
which really limits you.
Wow.
That's below what the US is.
I know, it's to make the Europeans happy,
but it's ridiculous.
If some companies want to adhere to that,
to supply certain markets, let them,
but don't make everybody because it's so stupid.
There's no need to have this THC phobia
and it just entrenches it when they make bad regs like that.
But it dangerously limits what you can use
in the gene pool there.
And that's how you run into big trouble.
You look at bananas and they have a problem
with all the bananas in the world
and they're all Cavendish.
It's one cutting that everybody grows.
And once that one cutting is susceptible to something,
it wipes out entire industry.
So with the hemp, you've already limited,
cannabis is a very diverse gene pool.
But once you say you can only use 0.2 THC or less,
wait a second, now it's not such a diverse gene pool.
There's a very few that fit that description.
And the ones that do are inevitably not equatorial plants.
So they're not acclimatized to the photo period
or other external pressures.
The types of mold that attack the plants
or fungal issues I get there
are things we don't have a problem with in Canada
because it's too cold.
And those pathogens just don't exist here, but down there.
And the same with mildew doesn't exist down there.
So in Canada, people fight mildew.
Where I am, I don't have to fight mildew.
There's no mildew, but I have other problems.
It never ends.
There's always something, right?
All right, so you arrive in Columbia
and I think of it like a DJ showing up
to play like somewhere where you bring your own vinyl,
you have your own record collection.
And then you also meet the local scene
where they have the local music
and the stuff you've never seen or heard before.
And you're like, this music's amazing.
And then you also have people,
a lot of people are sending you their seeds
to basically see what happens.
And you're totally willing to be like, I'll give it a go.
Let me plant some and see how it expresses itself.
And so can you talk about kind of what's been going on?
Well, with Columbia, when the regulations came out,
there's obviously, like in Canada,
they gave the companies a little window.
If you've got a license in Canada,
you have 24 hours or 48 hours or something to bring in
and declare your genetics one time
regardless of where they came from.
After that, you can only get them from approved sources.
So in Columbia, this was a time called the Puente Semi-Era
where you're allowed to declare your sources of seeds.
I made an enormous collection
because I've been collecting for decades.
And I also had people sending me seeds.
So we received a ton of seeds for this project
and I have a formidable collection.
I think it was like over 2,100,
maybe 2,154 or something like that.
Who are some of the people who sent you seeds
that you're most excited or were most excited to pop?
You know, it's hard to say.
There's one fellow from India
that sent me great seeds from Malana, postmarked Malana.
So they would have local lines
from up the mountains in Northern India,
but he also sent me some Southern India ganja varieties.
I've really enjoyed Indian varieties over the years.
Really neat African ones.
I got a whack from Nigeria I'm pretty excited about.
Now I'm assuming some of these
are on the same kind of latitude, right?
Yeah, I'm a three and a half degrees latitude,
three and a half degrees North.
So anything in the equatorial belt,
let's say even like 12 degrees or less,
it's super interesting.
Even anything in the tropics,
like Mexicans and Jamaicans are fun for me
to try in Columbia.
It's fun for me to try anything there.
I really get a kick out of looking at the different plants,
but what I need for production
is something that takes three to four months
with no lights that I can just direct so in the field.
And so I'm mostly looking at tropical stuff for that.
But for CBD, I've got CBD lines that are 24% CBD,
but they're 5% THC.
And they're no good as far as lights go.
Because if I just put them out in the ground,
they would finish eight centimeter, eight inches tall.
They would just be a little pogo stick, right?
They won't grow any veg time if there's no light for them.
So I need stuff that grows without lights
and that requires hybridization and that requires time.
You've got to do a few generations
before you get the ideal plant worked out there
that has your high CBD and low THC
and works in that environment.
Or even similar environments,
because around Columbia, the lighting,
photo period doesn't change a lot,
but the climate does for temperature and moisture.
So there's deserts and there's jungles.
They've got a huge range.
So it's a great country actually
to be able to do those kinds of experiments.
And that's a lot of fun for me.
I really enjoy doing the R&D.
The production's cool.
It's cool to do it, but it's laying bricks after a while.
And it should be anyway.
Once you get the plants working that work for you,
then it's really just a question of repetition
and planting, harvesting, processing
the same block of plants every day.
And I do alternate the blocks.
And we put in my crotalaria as a cover crop.
So if I grow mothers for four months in one block,
I'll grow crotalaria on it for another two
or three months after that,
before I plant ganja on it again.
And what's the crotalaria do?
It's a nitrogen fixer.
And it's just to keep ganja eating pests
to starve them out, right?
So when you do crop rotation,
part of it's for what the plant can do for the soil,
but part of it's to discourage the pests.
So if you have, you know, aphids going for your mothers
and you think, okay, well, if you just plant more mothers,
you're just keeping that food source there for the aphids.
But if you move the blocks around
and put different crops in that those pests don't like,
then they've got to move or starve, you know?
Right.
So there's, in Canada, they recommend with hemp,
there's a four year rotation that they recommend.
And it's got oats, beans,
and I can't remember what the other one was,
but there was a very good rationale
between or for the order of what they do it.
And it was that something that comes after doesn't need it
and something that comes before prepares it.
It was actually, I think I read it
on the University of Manitoba hemp website
or the government of Manitoba has a good hemp website,
but it's worth looking at actually,
if anybody wants to check that out.
But crop rotation is a helpful thing.
So what about local genetics?
So you brought your record collection.
Tell me about the local scene.
Like what have you discovered about the people
who have been growing there for decades
and what they've been growing?
Like what, like Colombian gold, right?
That-
That's one of my all time favorites is Colombian gold.
So have you found the world's best
Colombian gold in Colombia?
I've found a respectable lines.
The best I ever had came out of Barbados in the nineties
that I had the seeds and I grew those seeds in Vancouver.
They took 16 weeks under light and yielded pencils.
But they, and then I realized,
I didn't know what they were until they were done.
And then I was like,
these are Santa Marta golds I think.
And then that was later confirmed one time
in a visit and Sam the skunk man came through
and was like, oh shit,
those are the best looking Colombian golds.
And I said, I've already crossed those down once
with sweet tooth and or shish kabiri
at that time for tropical trees.
So I regretted not keeping the first Colombian gold
I had pure and I should have.
And I probably tried 10 different sources
of alleged Colombian gold seed down there.
And I've, of those,
one of them was quite what I was looking for.
Other ones, you might find one or two plants
that were close to the original,
but the last batch that I tracked down about 200 seeds of,
and I believe those are exactly what I wanted
for the old Colombian gold.
And that is truly one of my very favorite cannabis
of all times.
And one of the things that attracted me
to Colombian in the first place.
And interestingly enough,
where the area outside Santa Marta
where some of the very best gold came from,
probably the best gold is a field
that I get to use again with the same tractors
that plowed it in the sixties and seventies.
So that's really cool.
That's like going back to Burgundy
after they ripped out all the vines
and bringing people to work back in there.
But it's just a hoot to me.
And when I met with the government even four years ago,
I said, you've got to look at these genetics
as a national treasure that they are.
Like this is the patrimony of your land.
And they've got centuries of history at least.
And he said, it's been almost wiped out
and it polluted with other genes.
And there were spraying Paraquat down there long ago,
but they really almost lost it.
And it was really harder than you think
to find good Colombian gold these days.
And I was very happy when I did find something
that I thought was as close to the original
as I'd seen again, because that is known throughout Colombia
as the most mold resistant plant.
And that is a lowland plant because in Santa Marta,
well, you have this year in Nevada's there,
you have access to highlands,
but they're quite humid up there.
And the lowland is actually most of the time a bit drier,
right around Santa Marta definitely is.
And if you go up to the interior,
you don't see anybody growing it.
You would see them growing mango beaches, really common.
And it's my least favorite Colombian wine.
I've been introduced to other ones that I'd heard of,
but not seen.
And some I've now seen that I'd never heard of,
like Lejanillas.
And that's, it looks a bit more like the Manizales Black.
And the highland Colombian varieties
are definitely different than the lowland Colombian.
And they all have different merits, I suppose.
But for me, for straight up aroma,
if I had to pick one Colombian gold,
Santa Marta gold is really the flagship
of the high notes there.
And the second one I would pick would be the Punta Rojo.
And I would put Mango Biche at the bottom.
And I don't hate it.
I just don't like it as much as the other ones.
And there's something I really don't like
about the mangoes smell of herbs sometimes.
I don't know.
I find that it's always in herb
that doesn't really do it for me.
There's just something about that for me personally,
or maybe different for other people
where they really get off on that one.
But for me, it's kind of like,
as soon as I smell that other herb,
I'm like, I've already knocked it down to a B at best.
So I feel like, and correct me if I'm wrong,
but the microclimate, I mean, obviously not all of Colombia,
but in different areas is kind of like Bordeaux for wine,
where you could grow exceptional cannabis.
And is Colombia viewing itself as a location
to grow quantity and blast it into isolate
and sell it globally?
Or does it want to have the finest Bordeaux
to export to world markets?
I expect we'll see a change towards that,
but to start out, they've made it entirely about extract.
So there's actually no legal way to sell flour.
You have to process it.
There's no way to sell flour.
So you can mill it and then it's processed.
Now, are you allowed to smoke samples
of what you grow on site?
No, you're not allowed to smoke anything there.
There's no rec component to this yet,
or adult use, let's say.
There will be, because it's always just the foot
in the door with the med, right?
There will be.
And the cool thing in Colombia is,
and they've had this a long time,
protected in the constitution,
is everybody's allowed to grow 20 plants.
And personal possession is not illegal either.
Personal consumption in the streets is illegal.
You can get a very expensive fine
for smoking a joint on the sidewalk.
But as far as having some on your person
or growing some at your home, it's not illegal.
And it's protected in the constitution.
In Canada, you're not even allowed four plants
across the country, only in some provinces.
With four plants is jack shit,
especially if you've got four adults
at home that smoke pot.
So Canada's four plants is drastically insufficient.
In Colombia's is at least a little better.
In Canada too, if your neighbor can see your plant,
it's illegal.
So if your neighbor complains about your plant,
you can get a fine.
It's just stupid here.
So in Colombia, 20 plants and no limit on who can see them
or how big they are or anything like that.
So Colombia has very,
they didn't have any stores you could go and buy it.
There's no dispensaries there.
And that's certainly there are people that would love that.
But it's just sort of so ubiquitous now
that if everybody's got 20 plants that wants them,
they share buds with their friends that don't.
There's not a huge demand for it.
And the price is already really quite low.
The range of pot prices would be bushweed,
which is decomposing brickweed for maybe $20 a kilo
or frosty, frosty greenhouse
that would pass for first world weed anywhere.
And that's going for maybe 400 bucks a kilo.
And that's considered top dollar in Colombia.
But you can come up here, that's considered pretty cheap.
That's under 200 bucks a pound
for frosty beautiful wedding cake or whatever.
So there's lots of American Colombians
that go back to the States and get seeds
and come back to Colombia and grow them.
You can get all the latest and greatest there
once you've got a lot of aficionado friends.
We're selling bulk flower.
My flower in the field is testing up to 31.
Well, we've had three batches crack 31% in the last year.
On average, I think we're hitting 24%
and milling it for sale to other processors.
And we're selling that milled THC flower
at a hundred thousand a ton, a hundred thousand US a ton.
That's 10 cents a gram.
And the CBD we're selling for $40,000 a ton.
It's pretty cheap for the quality of flower
that we end up tossing into the mill.
You just think those buds are spectacular.
So even if I can't try the flower we grow in the field,
there I can grow my 20 plants outside of the farm
where I stay nearby.
So I have the same genetics growing
for my personal enjoyment without having,
risking the license to turn it into a bong party at work.
It looks like we lost Peter again.
So who's buying this?
Talk about the business model and what happens,
who's turning it into isolate
and then where does the isolate go?
Well, it's just begun.
So the first lots have gone off.
There's four processors in Columbia that we are supplying.
And the first two have received their first lots.
The other two have not.
We wouldn't be selling any in bulk yet
if we'd got the financing together
in time to have our own processing facilities up to snuff.
But because we just have a small lab scale processing
for now, we can't handle the volumes that we can grow.
So the ones, I'm not sure how much of those deals
are public knowledge yet.
So I kind of don't wanna name them
just because I don't wanna speak out of school.
I wish I knew if I could or not,
but I don't handle a lot of the administration
of the business.
Well, can you just speak generally to what's the goal?
What's the game plan?
What's the growth strategy?
Well, ideally, I would like to be processing it
and selling it for the lowest possible price.
And my pricing strategy to start with
is to get a product in the first world
that is my miles and smiles program, I call it.
So we did develop world pricing
or overdeveloped world pricing of a dollar a day
based on 30 milligrams a day.
So that's one, if you had one gram of distillate at 90%,
that would be 900 milligrams.
Average 30 days in a month, that's a month supply
if somebody is using 30 milligrams a day.
In Canada, they're paying way too much for that.
And I think if we wholesale that at $15 a gram,
even Canadian, then that could be retailed at 30
and that's a dollar a day.
And in the developing world,
we can do it for half of that price right out the gate.
We can always sharpen the pencil and go lower if we need to,
but that's already drastically cheaper
than anything in the legal markets now.
And that's-
So what sort of markets do you think,
like when you look at the world,
how do you see it developing for these products?
Well, I know that a lot of the bulk CBD we're selling
is getting made into isolate and shipped to the US.
There's some talk of Europe, but Europe's more complicated.
I'm happy for the Colombian production
to stay in Latin America if possible.
And our first THC production quota
is based on supply contract we have in Brazil.
So our first product for THC will all be going to Brazil.
Hopefully, next behind that really hopefully
is the Colombian domestic market,
which the regulators neglected to include
because they really saw this as an industry for export
and they really didn't pay much mind
to how it could help the locals.
But now they're starting to work on
releasing a domestic paradigm
so that people can get medicated in Colombia.
So whether we have distillate vape parts, topicals,
we're doing a topical study
with one university for rheumatoid arthritis.
I'd like to see a little range of products out there.
I would like to see an oral oil,
whether it's soft gels or drops.
I would like something vapable,
some vapable concentrate with that's a dab source
or whatnot, I would like to see that.
Because of course, a lot of people
that like a good strong hit or need a good strong hit of it
for whatever else, we go to the dab rig.
Even sucking on those little distillate pens
just doesn't quite get you there.
It's too little, too slow.
I want a dab every now and then
that I can feel it my whole body right away.
So I would like to see high grade dabs
out in the medical market there sooner than later
and at a world beating price.
I wanna make sure that we always have
the best value offerings in the market.
And if we're able to expand
have our capsules from Sydney, Australia
to Stockholm, Sweden, let's get them out there.
Have consistent brand, consistent product
you recognize like Tylenol or aspirin, wherever you go.
So ideally you wanna come out
with your own finished product at that level.
But as we're starting out and growing the business,
we gotta sell, if we've got more bulk flour
than processing capacity,
we've gotta sell some bulk product too.
And that's fine.
And I've talked to some distributors
for finished product and said,
I would give you this incredibly low price on this
if you only double your money.
I don't want you marking it up 10 times
but if you wanna double your money on this
let's work together.
And we'll still, we'll come out with stuff
so undercutting like Canadian market, for example.
It's ridiculous.
It's just a crime what they're charging.
And even in the UK, CBD oil
I've seen some absolutely horrendous pricing there
by Canadian slash Dutch companies
but they're charging epileptic children
5,000 US a month for one gram of CBDA.
How do you sleep at night when you do that?
You know, like that's, oops, you're cutting out Tom.
You've got no sound.
Oh, sorry.
It sounds like the temptation to disrupt the Canadian
and US markets will be too much to resist.
Plus so much money.
Yeah, well if the US is not federally legal.
Yeah, the THC won't be going to the US anytime soon
but CBD is already other people have
or other companies have done deals there already
under the Pharmax so that they can ship CBD
into CBDA into the States.
I think it's inevitable
that the States will fully legalize at some point.
And you have to remember cannabis is supposed to be fun
and flavorful.
And you think of coffee,
you have coffee from all over the world.
We celebrate it.
Same with wine, same with tobacco.
Maybe you don't get the Cuban cigars in the States
but you think if we told wine drinkers in Canada
they could only drink Canadian wine
they'd be up in arms like motherfuckers.
And there are lots of us drink lots of Canadian wine
but if you said you can't drink French or Californian
or Italian or Spanish or Australian
we'd say, what the fuck are you crazy?
I like wines from all over the world and it's different.
You know, that Malbec from Argentina is a little different
than a Malbec from Niagara.
You know, it's not even in the same wheelhouse.
So you have to remember cannabis has to be celebrated
like that.
I'm a big fan of the trade, not aid model.
So when you think of struggling countries like Afghanistan
where you're spending billions of dollars to try
and make some semblance of peace over there
fighting all these poor people.
You think if we spent that buying hash directly
from Afghan farmers.
That was, that a hundred percent was my solution from.
Yeah.
I was like.
Stop sending them weapons.
Just send them the money and take the hash.
What would it cost us to buy the entire poppy supply
from Afghan farmers?
A couple of billion dollars.
A couple of billion dollars.
That doesn't go to the factories
of the military industrial complex.
Well, what's interesting.
Cause I looked it up.
We buy most of the opium or the, you know
the source material for our prescription opiates
from Australia.
And I was like, Australia could probably survive
if we bought a little more from Afghanistan
cause we do need it for products.
Yeah. And they'll plant hash if you want them to
like they'll plant whatever you're buying.
Right?
So the hash and opium they're grown in marginal farmland
that best, which is why they grow those plants.
They're very hardy plants.
And I've actually through two different groups.
I've been in discussions with Afghan government
about setting up a processing center over there
and buying hash directly from farmers.
I said, I won't use seized material.
I don't want you robbing poor farmers
and stealing their hash and then selling it to me.
I said, I want to make co-op deals with villages
that they're going to supply us with the hash.
And we're going to process it to a standard
that's acceptable to various international markets.
And that would do a lot more to bring peace to that area.
I believe then all the drone warfare you can muster,
you know, you've just got to give the people
something positive to do.
And you will drive out the bad actors.
They will drive them out themselves, you know,
because if they're only tolerating them
because they're paying them something for their product.
If we say, how much you're making growing for the Taliban?
Okay, we'll pay you 50% more to grow for us.
Well, they'll fucking kick them out themselves, you know?
I think there's, and that's just one example,
but, you know, Nepal, how much money does Nepal get
in humanitarian aid?
And it's not that it doesn't need it, it needs it.
But if hash was legal and temple bowls could be exported
to coffee shops all over the world,
well, Nepal would be looking up, you know, things,
because the money is going to the farmers too.
It's not just going to the corrupt politicians
that are siphoning it all off on every silly project
they spend half the aid money on, you know?
I would way rather get them all involved
in the legal cannabis market, bring them into it
and celebrate what they do and what they do best.
And every region has different specialties.
Lebanon's getting in on the action now.
Lebanon's been in on it for a long time.
And Lebanese has some distinct things about it
beyond the cedary smell and taste of it is the CBDV.
And you don't get CBDV in a lot of cannabis.
And that's one of the few vines that you get that.
And I'd heard, I don't know if it's true or not,
but I'd heard is one of the supposed medical uses of CBDV.
Have you heard anything about that before I say?
I know people are exploring it,
kind of the other more obscure cannabinoids.
Yeah, the thing that I'd heard about CBDV,
which I thought if there's any truth to it,
it would be hysterical, is supposedly the female Viagra.
I have no idea, but it's worth a study I think.
So that brings me to kind of with your breeding,
what are you exploring?
Like, are you trying to find minor cannabinoids
and tease them out?
Are you trying to find chemotypes,
kind of specific profiles of all the terpenes
and cannabinoids?
What are you trying to do?
Certainly isolating certain ones
is definitely of interest to me,
but overall blended chemotypes have a lot of appeal too.
And I've seen more and more demand for people
that want a full spectrum product,
that they want a four to one or a 10 to one or a two to one.
Excuse me.
Even with the epileptic kids that I've heard
and the families that have been using that,
there's about 70 in Columbia,
and they had found anecdotally that they found
a two to one was the ideal ratio.
That CBD helped on its own and THC helped on its own.
But if it was two to one, CBD to THC
was the absolute lowest incidence of seizures.
So if that's what works, that's what works.
You gotta say, okay, two to one is a great chemotype
for this batch of patients.
Now we have to acclimatize that
because we might have a great two to one
that's from a Northern climate or from indoors,
but it's not a tropical plant.
So anytime you get to the chemotype that you're looking for,
whether it's by isolating the minor cannabinoids
or giving a specific blend of them
and or blend of terpene,
then you have to still have to acclimatize those.
So the acclimatization strategy is always key,
but always looking at the chemotypes for different uses.
And as I'm supplying genetics to nurseries
in more legal places,
the first deal we've made was with clonetics,
both for some of my old classics
and for the new med can varieties we're developing.
That's distribution is locked up for Canada,
Australia, New Zealand nurseries right now.
So if that nursery producer says,
oh, I've got a client who's dead set
on having something high in lemonene
and it's three to one, what have you got?
And I say, well, if we don't have it, we'll make it.
We really like to think,
the way I think of it is I've got this huge palette
of colors to work from,
and it's the best palette of colors.
And I can draw on that to make any shade of anything.
And I don't feel limited to just pursuing
two or three paths.
I really like to keep the door wide open
to what is required and what people want.
And I think from a production point of view,
what people are going to want
is gonna be sterile versions of those plants.
So once you've got the plants you want,
then you wanna work on making sterile versions of them
because the sterile plants won't take seed.
So if you wanna grow a field with no seeds in it,
even if the neighbors have hemp all around,
you need to have sterile plants.
So that's gonna be the real,
one of the notable features
of the current cannabis genetics renaissance
is that you're seeing so many more people involved
in cannabis genetics research now than ever was
on a more professional level than there ever was,
more academic level, let's say.
You're gonna see a lot of advances
from plants you don't need to trim
to plants that can't be seeded
and plants that mites don't eat,
plants that are very, very resistant
to different fungal issues.
It's, I think we're gonna see an enormous leap
in cannabis genetics just in the next five years.
Like there's gonna be more happening in cannabis genetics
in the last five years than has ever happened
in cannabis genetics.
So Steve, a subject that comes up all the time,
especially here in California with the craft growers
is the subject of appellation.
And with your global perspective,
it's really great to get your views
on what you think the potential is for cannabis appellations.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's a total parallel to coffee and wine that way.
They're flavorful intoxicants.
And there really is a terroir.
When I was making wine for 15 years,
I had a winery here after I came back from Europe
and people said, what did you do before this?
And often I'd say,
oh, I was always cultivating flavorful intoxicants
and just watch people look at their wine.
But the terroir is a real thing.
And you can take the same, and even the water,
it's like, I've seen the difference.
You can put the same clone with the same fertilizer
in the same rock wool, but in two different water zones,
one with hard water and one with soft water,
you can taste the difference.
They're both general hydro rock wool
grown under the same light, same cutting.
You'll taste the difference if one's from a hard water
or a soft water.
And with terroir, it really is what's in the soil
and the mineral content of the soil
will affect the flavor of the plant a lot.
And it's the same with wine.
If you're Merlot's growing on gravel
versus Merlot growing on clay, it's there in the wine.
You can taste the difference.
Once you've experienced the difference,
you'll always know it.
And if you grow cannabis on limestone or cannabis on clay,
if it's the same cutting in the same weather
and everything, you would still see a big difference.
And if the weather is different, it's different again.
So how is this gonna happen?
Like over time, will there be a global consensus
on Appalachian standards for cannabis?
How is that gonna happen?
I hope so.
I hope so.
And in a lot of cases, it's kind of a moot point
where we all mix our own soil up and everything.
If you're growing in containers,
you get all, it's kind of a moot point.
But I think if you think back to the import cannabis days,
where you knew the taste of a Nepalese hash
against the taste of an Afghan hash, right?
The Missouri Sharif has that peppery black taste
and the Nepalese is very chocolatey.
And it's partly genetic and it's partly terroir.
The same with Thai stick.
You can grow Thai in Mexico,
but does it taste the same as the Thai from Thailand?
I doubt it.
And you're always gonna see it.
You had Acapulco gold and Colombian gold,
genetically perhaps distinct,
but there's a regional flavor and regional specialties.
And that holds true in a huge amount of the world.
Cannabis is fucking everywhere.
It really is.
And I think the regional stuff is great to be celebrated.
It's nice to have a clean look at the plant,
whether you're growing it in hydro or aquaponic or whatnot,
and just say,
listen, I don't wanna concern myself with the terroir.
I wanna get right down to the varietal flavors
of this plant, you know?
And really get to know the genetics flavors on its own
without the side influence of the soil in that.
But you know, it's part of the whole package.
You don't grow, you know,
the world's top cigars aren't coming
from hydroponic greenhouses.
And the world's best wines aren't made
from hydroponic vines.
They carry a sense of place,
which is totally related to the mineral content
of the soil they're planted in the water that they get.
So if it's rainwater, it may not change as much,
but surface irrigation can really be a difference, you know?
Oh, you're muted again, Tom.
Yeah, no, I'm here.
You were talking sterile before, right?
Are you talking in tissue culture
or are you talking about something else?
I'm not talking tissue culture.
The sterile plants that I'm referring to,
that I've seen and that I'm endeavoring
to reliably produce, right now,
I've only about 50% success rate,
but I need it to be at 100.
But those plants have no pistils.
They're female plants with no pistils.
So you can smother them in pollen.
So they're barren, basically.
They're barren.
They cannot get pregnant.
That's it.
So is this something new or has this been a...
And is there a word for that?
The first time I saw it, it was in...
Well, the sterile females was essentially it,
but there's different roots to it, I've found.
And the first plant I found were in 96.
And there's hormonal ways of inducing this.
And some people aim for polyploidy mutagens.
Others go for monoploids.
I think the monoploid is the way to go.
There's also the possibility of doing it by a gene editing,
but I'm not as happy about that.
The problem I find with gene editing that scares me about it
is that there's been instances of the bacteria
used to cut the chromosome,
is it ends up occasionally inserting its own genes
into the organism.
So you end up with a transgenic plant,
even if you didn't mean to,
because maybe you think gene editing,
oh, it sounds nice and clean,
but it's not as clean as it could be yet.
And it's still in its infancy, I think.
But let's say there was a gene for hermaphrodism
and you had a great plant.
You loved that plant,
but it threw some bananas at the end every time.
And you're like, I can't keep this plant
because I hate hermes.
But I don't want to lose it
because it's the only one I've got that tastes like whatever.
So you say, if only I could get in there
and just remove the hermaphroditic trait,
that would be great.
But if in doing so you introduce a foreign gene,
then you may regret it in other ways down the road.
So for me, the jury's out on it in a way.
I'm all about learning from these techniques,
but I would be really loath to release anything
done that way without knowing a lot more about it
because I'm not convinced it's all ready for release,
but I'm totally convinced it needs to be studied.
So the concepts here is basically sterile females.
And then you could plant a field full of sterile females
and never have to worry about the hemp farmer
down the street, impregnate,
the fox that has come in and impregnated.
But-
The sterile plants, you put them out,
they cannot make a seed.
They're incredible.
And there's actually two types-
But what you're saying is that we don't know,
it's like every pharmaceutical drug commercial,
like this will solve problem A,
but you'll have anal leakage and you'll die.
No, no, this is a,
I was only talking about that in reference
to gene editing as a pathway.
The other ways of doing it through mutagenic breeding
really is not gonna have any risk of transgenics.
There's nothing about that.
The other, the hormonally induced ones,
the other way of doing them that's not hormonally induced
and does bring you back to the tissue culture angle
is pollen culture.
Some people do it as an anther culture,
but you could take a single grain of pollen.
Think how much grains of pollen you'd have
in one gram of pollen, it's mind boggling.
If you think of those grains of pollen as a haploid seed
and you raise that grain of pollen in its own test tube
into a calyx and from the calyx you initiate green growth
and start a new plant.
That plant is a haploid.
It doesn't have a mother and father, is only the father.
So it's a haploid.
Cannabis is typically diploids.
So it's got two sets of chromosomes,
one from the mother, one from the father,
same as you and I.
Are we talking somatic embryogenesis?
Well, yes, somatic embryogenesis is a calyx culture.
That is calyx culture.
But growing, you can do calyx culture from,
somatic embryogenesis is when you do calyx culture
and you encapsulate it for a synthetic seed.
So that's the somatic part.
You want it sleeping.
So you're taking, you're making tissue culture dormant
for a little bit and encapsulating it
is somatic embryogenesis.
But that starts as calyx culture typically.
But calyx culture is usually,
a calyx is a adventitious root.
So when you look at the bottom of your trunk,
right above the soil line,
there'll be some little white bumps on the bark.
And if you buried them, they would grow into roots.
So those little bumps are called adventitious roots,
also known as calyx.
So if you sanitize the surface of that and took a razor
and nicked off some calyx,
you could propagate at a cellular level and raise up,
you could put those calyx in a blender
and make it into a million little calyx cells
and grow them in a suspension culture.
And then as they get to a size where you want them
to have some green,
because it's very easy to have them growing in the white.
The trick is to get them, and different for every variety,
but to get them to initiate the green growth.
And you typically would do that by changing the spectrum
of the lighting over your bioreactor
and hormonal initiation.
So once you've got those little artificial seeds
in suspension, you could start encapsulating them.
But that has nothing to do with the sterile females
other than the calyx culture could be initiated from,
if you're doing it just from a mother,
you're just making cuttings of that mother.
But if you're doing it from a single grain of pollen,
you've got, you're doing it from a plant
you've never seen yet.
And when you grow that plant out
from a single grain of pollen,
not a lot of people are doing that.
I know, I think I know two other groups
actually doing pollen culture right now.
And this is something that you're researching.
Yeah, this is something we're playing with now.
Because I think, and I really want,
I'm working on the financing in-house testing
because right now for sequencing, I have to send it out.
So we can prepare the samples,
but we would send it out for sequencing,
but it's quite expensive.
And especially when you want to sample high volume.
So let's say I want to sample a million grains of pollen,
you look for a specific trait.
That's a bit cost prohibitive,
sending that out at 1500 bucks a pop for a sample.
So if you can get high volume sample in your equipment,
which is very expensive,
but if you can get that and run it in-house
and keep it busy, then it makes sense.
So sifting through and weeding out plants,
even from seedlings.
If you've got a million seedlings started,
you can take a little punch out of the second
or third leaf that's growing from each one.
And you could say, okay,
whatever trait you're looking for,
if it was purple or green or sterile and non-sterile,
you could separate those plants out,
male, female, or hermaphrodite.
You can separate those plants out at a very young age.
And if you're looking for one that's say the highest
in CBDV, which one, if you have a known marker for CBDV,
then you're saying which ones have the best concentration
of that marker, which ones are really gonna push the CBDV.
So you can start, once you can start isolating
your selections through lab-assisted selective breeding,
even without doing any transgenic madness,
you can have some really stellar information quickly
from large batches.
And that saves so much time.
You still wanna take the contenders and finish them off
and see them under real conditions.
But just being able to thin the herd out
by looking under the hood, that's a huge advantage.
So with the creation of...
What happened?
He just froze up.
He said, with the creation of...
I wonder what he was going to ask.
With the creation of...
What could it have been?
With the creation of a large regime
of pollen-based...
Is it production or basically breeding and genetics?
Yeah, it's more of a breeding thing
because those pollen grains are gonna make a haploid plant,
which has a single chromosome rather than you and I have,
we're diploids because we got one strand from our mother
and one strand from our father.
Whereas that one only has the strand from the father,
never met the mother,
and we went ahead and took it to the next level.
So starting with haploids,
you can use that and cross it to itself later
and make a double haploid.
And it's got the identical two strings of genes.
So there's different pathways you'll see people using
to get to the sterile females.
The important thing to remember,
which I was about to touch on earlier,
but we switched gears somehow,
but there's two types of sterile females in the world.
We see Parthenocarpic, which is the virgin fruit,
which is the only way I'm interested in,
that will not take the pollen.
And then you have Stenocarpic plants,
and that has little aborted seeds in it,
and that's useless for us.
So that's like the seedless watermelon, seedless grapes,
and you get those little white pips in them and stuff,
but they don't develop a finished seed.
But nobody wants thud that's all polluted
with little white seeds, right?
So it's not good enough that they abort them later,
which is Stenocarpy.
We don't want them to make them in the first place.
That's Parthenocarpy.
And that's the big dividing line.
I've seen a lot of breeders fail to make sterile females
using polyploids,
and polyploids are how Stenocarpic plants are made.
So where are people using these procedures in the States,
or how widespread is this?
I've seen one American and one in Spain,
and then us in Colombia.
So there's, I think there's three labs working on this.
And the main challenge, the cost,
would be the cost of doing this, the lab costs?
I don't think so.
For the straight up sterile females,
you don't have to spend millions of dollars.
The first time I saw it was in 96,
and it was out of somebody's basement.
I mean, you could make these,
it was like, you know when the first sterile females came out
is when people started trying to make feminized seed.
And it was before anybody was using silver even,
and people were using other hormones, ABA, gibberellic.
And it's basically just a freaky little, oops,
I'm back.
Hey, hello?
Did you freeze on us now?
Oh, dear.
Wow, well, we're waiting for Peter to restart his modem,
and something happened.
Here comes Peter.
We might have just lost Steve.
Okay.
But we're at two hours and 20 minutes in.
We lost him like a minute ago or like 10 minutes ago?
Just like 30 seconds ago.
Where did you guys leave off?
What was he dropping knowledge on?
Was he still talking about sterile females?
Yeah, yeah.
All right, we'll see if and how many people are still tuned in.
We have 155 people watching now.
I've had to reset my modem like five times.
I think Steve is resetting his modem now, but I appreciate.
Yeah, Friday afternoon.
Yeah, well maybe we can let me text Steve and see if we could bring someone else on.
I sent an email to this guy Rick, who's Brother Grim, Mr. Soul.
Brothers Grim Seeds.
Everyone just give us a couple minutes.
We'll see if Steve comes back in.
But maybe Steve's still talking and doesn't realize that he got-
His camera went sideways.
So there might have been an earthquake in Columbia.
I hope not, but it looked like it was shaking.
I don't know.
Yeah, here we go.
Here comes Steve.
He's back.
All right, everybody, start cheering.
Start cheering.
And here comes Steve in five, four, three.
And there he is, Steve.
The 160 people who are still watching were like, where is he?
No, the battery just died.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, so why don't we go?
You got a couple more minutes?
Sure.
All right.
So I got cut out, but were you guys talking about sterile females?
Because my question, I don't know how much of it you heard, was what's the form factor,
like if people can create sterile females, what's the form factor for the sterile females?
If people can create sterile females and you could plant a whole field of it,
is the form factor, like could you create seeds where if I pop those seeds,
every female is sterile or is it tissue culture or do you have to have one mom?
That's what we're working on now.
The best I've done is 50%.
So I get 100% female seeds and only half of them had pistils.
But I want to release those with 100% without pistils.
So you can make a selection right now with only getting half as sterile.
You can make a selection and propagate those in tissue culture.
But ideally, I would like to be able to make the seed 100% sterile so that they can just
go straight into the field without having to be propagated in any way, shape, or form.
Got it.
So yeah, Jack Greenstock said, crowd erupts with cheers.
Steve comes back.
So some of the people are asking, and this gets into kind of your personal business model,
where can people buy your seeds?
15 years ago.
I haven't been selling seeds in a long time.
All right.
I do look forward to releasing some more.
But I'm really working hard to do everything within bounds.
So I think what's going to happen is by the time I can legally ship my new seeds from
Colombia, they'll probably get imported to Spain and distributed from there, which might get.
Right now, I'm not selling any seeds right now.
I'm working on them because I want what I come out with to be really exciting.
I haven't released seed in 15 years or longer.
I want to make sure that what I'm bringing back out is going to be super exciting.
Now, what's your relationship?
It seems like you have a bunch of consulting projects going on.
Is it MedCan?
Is that the company?
Yeah.
It's not a consulting gig.
I co-founded that with a couple of guys.
That's what I was going to say.
You have an equity stake in that.
So that's you and a couple other partners.
And did you raise a bunch of money?
What's kind of...
I partnered with guys with the idea of being responsible for the finance and admin.
And I do strategy, design, planning, training, and execution, as it were, all the operations.
And I don't do much in the fundraising side.
Although occasionally I get called in for the odd meeting or go to the odd event.
It's just not that interesting to me.
I don't follow the pot stocks.
People talk about pot stocks.
I think the only pot stocks I'm interested in are the seed stocks.
The actual genetic stock.
Not the stock market.
The stock market and the cannabis market are often confused, but they're certainly different.
And we're not.
We're a private company.
And the primary focus is this Columbia farm?
Or do you guys have stuff going on elsewhere?
Well, yeah.
With MedCan, we started as a Colombian concern.
And we now have just started to get ducks in a row, let's say, for Ecuador, Peru, Mexico,
Spain, and Portugal.
Wow.
So we will have production and labs in those five countries as well.
So MedCan will be in six countries, I would think, over the next year or two.
And do you create six Steve's or how do you scale that model?
Well, I really love finding other Steve's.
I have to create them when they don't exist.
But I really have had a lot of...
I've been really fortunate that there's a lot of people that are passionate about cannabis
that really want to work with me.
And I don't have the struggle to find talent that some of the other companies do.
I have a hard time who I'm going to say no to, because there's always more people that
I want than I can actually use.
And in the case of Columbia, I may have great friends with huge experience in Canada and
the US, but it's really, really hard to get them employed there because of work visas
and stuff like that.
That said, I have recently brought an American friend that has a lot more training than me
in molecular genetics.
And he was growing spice in the 90s, early 2000s.
He'd come to visit me in Switzerland.
He's a longtime spice fan, spice grower.
He was growing aquaponic sweet tooth in like 2000.
And now he's spent the last 20 years getting degrees and studying molecular genetics.
He said, Hey, I want to do a PhD on cannabis.
If your company can sponsor me, I'll do it with you guys.
So we were able to bring him in.
So it's really fun to build the teams.
So with him specifically, what kind of problems do you want to task him with solving?
What's his first project?
Find his powdery mildew resistant genes?
He'll be looking at that.
The fungal resistance is a big part of it.
But also the sterile females is, I said, that's really got to be a strong focus on each of
the pathways of doing it to chart them and what's good and bad about each of the pathways
we found towards doing that.
The fungal resistance goes on outstand.
That's really key always to watch.
But as far as like if I send out prepared samples to be sequenced, I can't read the
information that comes back.
So I require a genetics interpreter that knows how to look at a sequencing analysis and say,
OK, here's what you're looking at and explain it to me.
And they can decipher that.
So he's really gifted at that sort of thing.
He showed me a lot of the work he's done has been in tracking specific markers in lettuce.
And he would attach a glow in the dark gene to the thing he's looking for.
And then it would make it very obvious because all the lettuce sprouts that had it glowed
in the dark.
That's transgenic lettuce.
But we don't necessarily want to eat that lettuce or smoke it.
But to be able to work under the hood like that, not just to look under the hood as an
asset, I don't necessarily want to make transgenic cannabis with me, but I want them to be able
to help me identify and track markers for the development of traits.
Got it.
Are you exploring auto flower?
I mean, I guess Colombia is so unique in terms of the 12 and 12 that go ahead.
Yep.
Bathroom break.
All right.
Stay.
This is our commercial identification moment.
Tom, you want to drop some knowledge?
Drop the door for the cat or dog.
He's back.
So I was going to ask about auto flower, but then kind of in Colombia, it's like 12 and
12.
So as soon as you take away the supplemental lighting, it's like built in auto flower.
Yeah, everything's an auto flower.
What are you seeing in the auto flower world right now, though?
Is there anything that's interesting or are you just completely oblivious to it?
There's a lot of people that are doing work with autos and I haven't been.
I always found them lackluster and I know that they're better than they used to be.
And I'm glad there's people working on them.
But really, my greatest passion in cannabis aromas and flavors is out of the equatorial
lines.
So I just want to focus on those myself as much as I can.
Like I have to do some.
I have to use plants from all over the world to bring in other traits.
There's lots of CBD auto flower, whereas there's not lots of CBD sativas.
So you may end up bringing some CBD auto flowers, but then trying to get the auto bread out
of them so that they just take 180 days to finish or 120 days to finish.
I think of a lot of the equatorials as really slow auto flowers because they'll flower in
180 days no matter what you do.
They'll just keep...
But they won't all stay in bed.
Some of them will, but they won't all stay in bed.
A lot of them, they're just programmed to finish over a certain amount of time.
And I think of them as slow auto flowers.
Got it.
All right.
Well, Steve, I am cognizant that we've taken two and a half hours of your time.
And Tom, how many people are still tuned in?
Because I'm actually not.
About 135.
All right.
So two and a half hours in, we still got 135 people.
So everybody, I appreciate it.
You are watching.
If I can get to it, just give me one second to cut to our closing slide.
Right there.
Breeder Steve.
I appreciate it.
Hey, my pleasure.
There he goes.
He's off.
That was his mic drop moment.
All right.
Thanks, everybody.
Thank you, Steve.
Thanks for...
