Hello, everybody. I guess this is where I say we're going to talk to Russell from Chaunetics.
And here he is.
Hey, Ron.
How are you doing this morning?
Pretty good overall. You know, there's some, you know, it's just like everything in life, ups and downs and just, you know, keep grinding.
Where are you located at?
We are. I am in a small town called Willow Creek, which is on the eastern edge of Humboldt County in Northern California.
Central California. Northern California.
Yeah. Humboldt County is like super north California.
People often think of, say, they say San Francisco, the Bay Area is northern California.
But I'm like, no, go six hours north of that. And then you're in actual northern California.
Yeah. I lived in Arcata for a while.
So, yeah, pretty. Yeah. Arcata is nice. It's changing rapidly now.
Oh, I can't imagine. I haven't been there for years.
A lot of developments. You know, Humboldt State is now Humboldt Cal Poly. It's a polytechnic institute.
And Google's like bringing in a fiber optic cable from Singapore to Eureka under the Pacific Ocean.
Wow.
Yeah. The tech industry is sort of like now, like they're like, we have parasitized Silicon Valley. We need a new hub.
Right. Yeah. Well, that means you're going to have your hands full pretty soon.
It'll be so packed and it's not going to do any good to the neighborhood, I don't think.
Probably not. Except drive, you know. Yeah. A lot of the locals are complaining.
It's hard finding places to rent because the property values are going up and all of the developers are buying up all these houses, you know.
It's not good for local rental prices for the locals. Yeah.
Tell me a little bit about what you're breeding, what lines you're working, how many lines do you work at a time?
And tell me a little bit about yourself and how you go about that.
How? Yeah. The process. OK, well, it's right now I'm pretty fractaled out, so to speak.
So my whole trajectory in the breeding industry is to I'm trying to produce a lot of different lines.
And then I'm going to I'm going back and selectively finding interesting selections from different lines and working those.
And then I'm allowing people that want to pursue breeding those lines.
I'm offering them, you know, packs at reasonable prices so they can hunt through those lines.
Basically, my this the inception, you know, I've been breeding for, I don't know, a decade on and off.
And then the last number of years, I have some close friends that are into concentrate production.
They're like, we you should focus on concentrates, you know, and because that's there's a huge market for that.
And we're growing a lot of for concentrate. So if you could just help us breed some genetics for that.
So anyways, I work with them with there was a strain called the slaps slaps as runs, grease monkey.
And we did this big selection with like 50 males. We found like a really awesome slaps male that met all of, you know, checked all the boxes.
And so that was the slaps was the inception of the main breeding project.
And then basically the slaps got crossed into a bunch of genetics that we liked, like the gelonade and the gelato 41 and the orange.
Barney Farms, the gelato 41 was no, it was, you know, the one from the cookies family, whatever that was, we got it from the the Tert mansion.
They had the cut of it. And so, I mean, I'm sure there's, you know, it's like the I think it's the Bacio or whatever.
But yeah, and then the white runs to I got the white runs.
And and so the slaps breeding project took place and then I got involved.
My buddy Asher gave me a bunch of genetics from mean gene freeborn selections and also from Oni.
So I had the trapaya and I know that trapaya was great for washing.
So I hunted through quite a few different males of the trapaya.
And then I made a trapaya line that, you know, like the same with a lot of the similar cuts, like the gelonade trapaya.
And I used the poochies papaya. Some of them are interrelated.
They're a little trapaya over that or back crossing.
And then probably my my most exciting one was the the I like the freeborn selections.
I love mean genes, Terps. He has some of the loudest Terps in the industry.
So, but the problem is that they're outside to his stuff.
Jackson's stuff works really well outside.
Yes, I was hoping to get him on to talk to him about how he goes about his breeding program, too, to see how because I do all outside breeding.
Yes. So I do, too. I do. Well, I shouldn't say outside, outside.
I use, you know, micro greenhouses. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. It's like but it's there's no supplemental lighting. It's the sunlight.
Yeah. And it's the outdoors. And yeah, for sure. I think it helps with the seed vigor.
I'm and I'm pleased with the way that's going. You know, and I try to use a lot of microbial inoculants.
I've been reading a lot about how the endo endo fights the endo phytic microbes, you know, colonize on the seeds.
And that actually helps with seed, the robustness of vigor of seeds.
I can work both both ways. It can work against you, too.
I usually when I'm working with stuff, unless I've done it in the house, I always do hit it with hydrogen peroxide, completely clean it up and then add some of my own back onto it.
Do you grow in organic soil or do you grow in pots?
Yeah. I mean, I we have made in the in the greenhouses.
I have to grow in just pots and use organic nutrients.
But, you know, if it's out, if in the fall, I will collect pollen.
And if I have plants like right now, I have a big can't see it behind me.
But over there is, you know, are a bunch of plants in the ground for the fall since it's just the natural photo period.
And then I'll selectively pollinate those plants. So I will use the fall, you know, as much as I can.
And those plants are in the ground. And then for the rest of the year, I'll be using greenhouses with pot.
You know, I have raised beds in one one greenhouse and then other ones. I use pots. It's a combination.
How cold do you get?
How cold does it get right now? It's probably like forty nine, fifty degrees out in the night time temps.
I mean, it's been an exceptionally warm year this year.
It's been it's been like for October. It's it's kind of freakishly hot now.
It's like it's been in the 80s and 90s where normally this time of year it's been it would be, you know,
in like the 60s and 70s with nighttime temps and the low 40s, you know, high 30s.
I have I was looking at photos from October of 2019 and I have frost.
I have these photos of frost all over, you know, the outdoor plants.
So we have big we're in an area, I guess you have what's it called?
Diurnal, a large diurnal temperature swing, you know, where there's a 50 degree difference between the daytime and nighttime temperatures.
Sometimes I love that. It's great for the plants. Love it.
I mean, it's good for growing the plants. Yes, we yeah.
We're I do. I'm in a like you can see behind me, like, look, my wife's garden.
It's just like blown up, you know, like those flowers.
Like it's yeah, it's it's it's a great environment for growing.
It's a really unique microclimate, actually, like a really super unique microclimate.
I have all sorts of crazy plants here.
Like I have a tea tree plant that was 25 feet tall.
I'm growing tea tree. I'm growing wasabi.
I had a yerba mate tree, but the dog I planted the dog.
It was taken off and then the dogs trampled it.
But anyways, it's just a really yeah, Willow Creek's a super unique microclimate for like because it just doesn't.
And then there's citrus. You can grow citrus here.
It's just like it's like it doesn't get cold enough to fuck shit up quite like it will elsewhere.
But anyways, I'm kind of digressing.
Yeah, the equator or something like that compared to where I'm growing.
I'm growing like so far north, like everything I breed is for like 40 degrees and north. Right.
Yeah, that no, that's great. Yeah.
And that's that's an awesome level of hardiness as well.
That's I have a buddy that's kind of like that.
He's up at higher elevations and he does some breeding like cold, cold weather crosses early finishers, you know.
Yeah. Where are you located? I'm in Edmonton, Alberta.
Oh shit. That's fucking cold. Kind of like the North Pole. Right.
It frosts every single morning here. It frosts.
We've we got minus five, which is like twenty five degrees, twenty two degrees about two weeks ago for four hours.
I've got a thermometer and my plants are still going.
You know, I've got them just just dropping. And I'll tell you what, I'll go all organic soil.
But the turps that you get in the fall, my fall finish organic bed soil is just I planted some seeds direct to the ground.
Grew them all the way out to completely done from from not I didn't touch them.
I didn't fertilize them. I didn't water them. I didn't do anything.
I planted them in the ground. We grew all the way up until you harvest the excellent nugs, you know, wind and rain and everything.
And I can grow them outside here without touching it.
So that's for me, that's a market changer, because when people when I can grow stuff outside,
that's way good enough to grow to make really nice free rolls out of that, just the best, the best bud off of that.
People could grow 40 acres of machine, plant it, walk away and you machine harvest it, do bring it into a wet, a quick wet trim and dry.
And then you could it's not triple A bud, but it's close. It's pretty darn good.
Yeah. And the amount of the labor cost. No, I hear you, man. That's awesome.
Yeah, no, no, no, no, nothing. You just you work your soil in the fall.
You put your compost down, you get your soil good. And then June 1st, you just stick seeds in the ground and you watch them grow.
It's a beautiful thing. Are you doing mainly regular seeds? You're doing any feminine?
I only do feminized. I occasionally will do regular. But I hear I hear from what you're saying is you breed regular.
I've done both. Oh, the the stability that I get in a female that I know her and I've been using her for a long time.
I'll reverse. I got like a cherry pie that's that's over 20 years old and a really old white widow.
And some things that I do, I'll take these modern strains and I cross them into that.
Yes. F1, I grow or I or I first before I do that, I sell the plant.
Like if if you give me a seed, I'd grow it out once to look at it and go, oh, I really like what I see.
Then I would sell that plant. I'd get 300 seeds and I'd run a population and then I would do my pick.
I would do the shift on that and pick what I wanted to work from.
And then I would take those and I would go F1 to that and then see what I get.
And I'll either back cross that against the original and to try to see what I get from there.
Or I'll go one more step and F2 it to that.
That'll grow out a population and I'll do another shift. And so I'm working 30 to 50 lines at any one time.
And so I'll work all those lines out and then I'll either do back crossing selves or line breed them one way or another.
And I'm moving forward. So by working that I'm able to get 200 to 250 turns per year, whatever that might be.
Yes. I can finish a lot of stuff pretty quick, but because I've been doing this for a long time,
I've got all these ones still making the jump, jump, jump, jump, jump. So they're getting better.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. That's really exciting. Yeah. I've been I started with three bottles.
Yeah, I've been doing a little bit work with autos. That was the first big jump into feminized breeding was with with auto flowers.
My buddy Nat from Humboldt Seed Company, he showed me how to do that whole process with, you know, reverse.
What's that? Eddington? Yes. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yeah. He yeah, he helped me out a lot.
And so that was cool. Yeah. I've been doing a little bit of work on autos and with the grease gun.
I talked to Atlas Seeds and they let me just reverse their auto.
So I made a bunch of grease gun auto seeds and just made I made some selections to try to keep the populations more homogenous.
And now I'm working on developing new autos where I'm crossing the photo photo period varieties with the auto flowers.
And that's a little bit more complicated than because you have this, you know, sort of range between auto, semi auto and photo period that you have to then hunt.
You know, that process of then selection for auto flower becomes a little trickier.
So I think that's that's really interesting to me to, you know, dive into that process for sure.
How do you do your selections? I've worked with some autos.
I was talking with Joe from Atlas and and those guys that grow up here in Canada.
And we were talking about ways to select the way I select is what I'll do is let's say if I'm doing an auto project, I'll have 24 targets.
And then I'll take 12 and I'll reverse 12, three weeks ahead of the others or three or four weeks ahead of the others.
Right. And then of the targets I reversed, I'll go through those and I will sift those females that I have reversed for one or two that have the terpenes that I want or the structure that I want, whatever I want.
That's my shift and I'll get rid of the other 10. So, yeah, I'm truncating the genetic right there.
Yes. Yes. That's the correct way. Yes.
And then I'll take that and I'll go back against the 24 strains that I have are 24 phenotypes or their autos and I'll go against those 24.
And then I'll go after that seed is already on board and it's matured. Then I'll look at those autos.
And if I got the right structure, if I got the disease resistance, if they won't mold or mildew, you know, the buds got enough air and it won't rot, not too tight.
You know, I just do all my shift then. And so I may only keep three plants worth of seed out of that. And then I do it again.
Yes. Yes. That's the correct way. I mean, that's what you're describing is the proper methodology for basically narrowing the population to provide a more uniform auto flower.
And that's what I was trying to do, too. You know, like basically find the flowers that have a very similar structure. We're trying to, you know, keep the population tighter.
So when people grow it out, there's not a lot of phenotypical variation between them.
And you can get huge, huge terpene variations in autos. You can get a little smell from, you know, bowl cleaner up to whatever. It'll have lots of that auto funk, which I hate.
Oh my God. It's like, what is that? It's like the rooter Alice gene, the same terpene profiles like in all of the autos. It's so weird.
You've got to get it. It'll keep showing up. Right. And working and working and working to get that gone. Because I've been working on a mid-auto. I call them mid-autos. Some people call them partial autos.
I've got 130 day auto flowers that I can plant outside and 130 to plant right in the soil in 140 days. They're done, but they're six feet tall or seven feet tall or eight feet.
Yeah. Yeah. And I'm getting able to kick off really good and get some really good tests out of those. And so I'm working on those, too.
Nice. Yeah. I'm trying to, I'm working on this auto flower project for con again, concentrates. I'm trying to, you know, I have this honey bananas. That's pretty hot in the concentrate industry.
So it's a really, you know, just really, really loud terpene profile. So it's really, it's fluffy too. So as far as concentrates go, it'll be good for, you know, if the auto's got a whisk open, you know, more open bud structure, it'll be better for concentrates.
Yeah, I did. I just did a bunch of fresh frozen from, from some autos that I did just to see how ridiculous I could get. So I went and I grew these autos got like 10 of them in a row. I go, okay, I'm going to see what kind of returns I get on there.
So I grew them up. I just chopped them straight down out of the garden with I've got like a three foot machete. That's for Christmas tree trimming. I used to own a big Christmas tree company. And I just took the plant held it up and went whack, whack, whack, whack stem it all. I cut it all into like two inch little chunks.
Put it right in the thing. I got my drill motor and went like a little bit and agitated and did one wash and the returns were ridiculous. The terps were ridiculous. So yeah, I think that a person can can be pretty brutal with that with the concentrates.
Yeah, but it's really easy. And then just machine harvest it with some sort of a combine to go into something that just chops it just like a silage chopper, or something would use for that, which would beat it up, of course, but when it's fresh, it's not and then they could just do like a jumbo wash.
Colorado some years back when the whole process started when they were harvesting its scale for CBD with the combines
I was like what the fuck? Yeah, but it's there's they just accept it's like that
It's scale you accept some loss, but the cost of production is way lower way way lower
And I think that that the growing habit like I've worked with a lot of genetics and I see
like inside of our liver we have
DNA that's there, but if we eat a lot of
Toxins let's say things with lectin in it
peppers or something our DNA will actually the way it's all in a row, but it will twist itself in a way to
Put itself to another thing which will make your your body will adapt itself
Fighting that poison to cleaning that poison off and the plants have that as well, so when you grow in a different
Terroir climate you you pick up some of these different things that that
You see the trichome heads form differently
30 degrees north 70 degrees north you know or 60 degrees north that one section here
I'm up north and I grow trichome heads that come out, and they got a little bin and they wash off pretty easy
But I pop off yeah, but if you grow the same thing down in Southern, California
Like right on the Mexican border the whole plant looks different the more
Morphology of the plant looks different. It's got like it looks like elephant ears and the bun right is that interesting
Yeah, so fascinating the epigenetic expression based on like biotic influences
Yeah
And then as you as you build and your line breeding it as you go out
It will pick up more traits from your local area
And so it'll actually get itself better and better and better growing outside
And then when you then when you go go further with it. It just gets better
It's got these things that wake up that maybe you're sitting there sleeping, so that's why I've done. I call it
It's like strip mining and you're saying you do a little bit of that too
I think is you get genetics from other places, and then you bring them back home
You grow them out, and then you cross them against stuff that you know and that way you're able to
That and you're able because you know that genetic, but you don't know the new ones you're able to get buy a bunch of
10 packs or whatever and run them and then you're able to strip mine the genetics and you're able to go through a lot
That's why I do so many lines because I'm basically just doing
It's what these guys do with the looking for Bitcoin or whatever they're bit mining or whatever yeah
Yeah, I'm a bit mining. I'm a bit mining
Yeah, I know that's a that's a good way of looking at it. Yeah for sure yeah, no I have
My biggest problem is that I'm like partially autistic and I can't even describe everything I'm doing
I'm doing a lot, but I can't quite like
elucidate it in the moment when the
Interaction is occurring, but you know I agree
I'm doing a lot of projects like I have the the ones I the African American
I just said I didn't want to mention really quick with mean gene stuff the the goal with
Mean genes breeding projects is I'm trying to get his turps to wash
So what I did was that I took Wilson which is Masonic's Wilson. It's like a good
It's a it's very sandy, and it washes very well
Hey guys found I found one of his selections that doesn't have much of a terpene profile
But it it washes really well, and I found a guy named
And I crossed it in with mean genes like grape ape lime pops and lime one grape soda scum
Root beer somebody's got one out root beer. That was like really good. I just tried some of that
Yeah, so Ron and Russell. Can I cut in for a second if you guys don't mind? Yeah
So I I got some good news
So we we figured out the technical difficulties and we do have our original guests for the day
We figured out the technical difficulties and we do have our original guest for the day to come and join both of you now
So I would like to introduce doc ray to the stage. Welcome doc
Hey doc
Unmute him London. Yeah, you're muted there doc. There you go. There you go. Hey guys. Good morning
I'm in Humboldt County
It's foggy and cropped over and I've got a little stone this morning couldn't figure out how to open this app up
Old and technology challenge that whole night it's good to see everybody this morning
I'm rolling a fatty and got a fresh cup of coffee and glad to be hanging out with you guys this morning
You guys to always always a pleasure
Pleasure well, hey doc. Tell us a little bit about yourself
This is our first time meeting and I was excited and sad in this morning
but now I'm happy again, tell us a little bit about yourself and
Where you're going?
where I
Get in a game for 52 years now smoked my first joint
1970 grew my first plant in 72, so I've been cultivating for five decades now
you know and
Watching from where it went in the 70s to where it is. Now. It's you know, just it's changed so
Much the landscape of the cannabis game is so when I first originally got into the game
I was like a lot of people I was just looking for an alternative to alcohol and all the other crap that was out there
and I started
using the plants smoking, you know that
Kind of the tail end of Nam as it was winding down some buddies were coming back from Vietnam and
One of my partners that I'd smoked with his big brother had come back home from the war
You know, he was cultivating on the backside of a lake and that's kind of how I got started with it in 72
Drug me off with him one morning to go, you know go fishing in the morning and I got exposed to my first outdoor
Hidden, you know outlaw crop ever back then and I fell in love with it and now we're the decades
I've just refined my craft, you know got better at what I was doing and the last
40 years about I've been breeding specifically in the medical thread for
pain control and cancer patients
I've been a childhood epilepsy breeder for over two decades working in CBD genetics specifically and
Most recently the last 15 to 20 years I've
isolated and been working with
plants in
Post-traumatic stress guys. That's what my focus is and you guys if anybody knows the blue skunk
It's known for its therapeutic qualities and values
That's one of my genetics from 17 years ago and the more current stuff
I'm working with is like true one-to-ones stuff like that and all that kind of jazz and most people probably know me from the
Adult market as I'm on the dock by Turks and docking Bentley on that side of docking Bentley as well
Which is the big thing that high times has been on for a year or so now
But that's me in a nutshell. I've been smoking the plant my entire time. I
Read specifically for myself didn't really bleed read for other people until recently
You know that kind of say to my own thread doing medical work and staying in that thread over the last three years
I've become a
Adult recreational high, you know going and competing in competitions and doing all that kind of stuff
But that's pretty much me in a nutshell
I'm a beat up blown up old vet and like to say to myself don't really like a lot of people like my plants and
I you know grow fire. That's what I do. I'm proud of what I do
Yeah, very proud of what I do now
so even gone from being an outlaw to
Considered essential like a lot of us have over the last couple of years with the pandemic
From being outlaw cultivators to essential and making the world move. I'm super excited about that as well
So glad to be with you guys this morning and anything you want to know just ask and I'll answer it as best as I can
So well, I got it. I do got a few questions. How do you go about let's say, you know for me
I've been breeding for about the same time about three years less than you
I started growing in 75
But I when I when I'm gonna breed something I've bred
commercial tomatoes and and and and flower seed and stuff and
Had nursery at scale and did a lot of commercial nursery production
So when I go to a breeding project, I have a I have something in mind, right?
I make a plan like okay
I want to go from here to there
Let's say like I was talking to Russell earlier and he was talking about he works on some stuff for washing
So so, you know that seems to be a new thing and and what I'm thinking is
Production out there. It costs a lot of money to grow indoor and so
They're doing a lot of great things with light depth outdoor. They're doing fresh frozen and stuff
What how do you go about a plan? Let's say
Because I've got genetics to go back
You know way back
And I'm sure you do too
It's our little bag of tricks and I got about 22 of them that are my go-to girls, right?
I I have certain ones where I know everything about that genetic inside and out and it helps me to get like if you gave
Me a seed to say hey try out my new one
one of your one-to-ones growing house, but
Yeah, I'm trying to find something for autistic kids. I have a granddaughter that's got some issues
and so this is something a
Near and dear to me if I could find something to help that I would but so I I said a plan tell it
Tell us a little bit how you set a plan
If you're going from A to B and you get a new genetics from me or Russell or from somebody and you grow it grow
It out to see and then you like it when you start to go somewhere with there
How do you how do you formulate a plan?
Do you work with males and females or do you go female to female when you're looking for mining for a genetic?
Tell us a little bit about
Yeah, my process was all self-taught, you know
I mean like pre books by a few years and like the book started coming out after I've been at it for a while
It's like my process is more about was all internal to me back in the day
You know, it's like I have a lot of data now that I have available to me
That wasn't available to me five years ago. I've got doctors around me now
More refined in my approach, but I still go a lot about what I believe each
Specimen that I'm male and female that I'm working with, you know, which what I'm looking for
I'll go like with the one I've been working on for the longest like my blue skunk's been around for almost 20 years now
it's like that particular genetics was more about what the
Effects of the plant were me on me personally, you know
That's a Santa Cruz blue dream crossed with the old Dave and old Dave is the Humboldt County skunk number one, right?
So Humboldt County skunk number one as we all know in this community is known as one of the best
Medical sedative plants on the planet goes great for pain control. It's great for helping people
They can't sleep all those are like some of the most leading effects on the plant
With those it was really honestly it was as simple as I took lens blue dream with Dave's
Skunk number one and made a baby, you know, and what I was really going on was
The blue dream that you guys know the Santa Cruz blue dream is very cerebral very therapeutic for people with head
Damage is one of the people go to all the time
So it was taken what I knew helped keep me calm with what I knew helped my back quit hurting
Okay now fast forward up
40 frippin years now
I'm looking for specific terpenes that are in the data and I approach it
Oh not I still use the same thought process
But I approach it a little differently because I have the data available to me that I didn't have
back and you know 20 years ago much less 30 and 40 years ago and like when we were working doing the
Razzleberry cush back in the day 30 years ago
That plant was really the breeding the best of best genetics again for what we knew at the time for pain control
When that plant, you know is by today's standards wouldn't even go on a market, you know
It's about a 15 to 17 percent THC. It's you know, but it's also
15% CBG
CBN rich, you know, so and you guys get what I'm talking about, you know, I got buddies that are 400 pounds at six nine
They smoke a half a joint 20 minutes or sleeping like a baby man. That's just part of what this is
You know
So I think our community as we get farther down the road
We have more data backing up what we're saying when we what we're going on what because you guys I'm sure you got get what?
You feel in your heart what you feel in your head when you're smoking it yourself
Those were the things that I'd use forever and ever and ever as a day as my guideline until like, you know
Three or four or five years ago when the data started kind of catching up with what we I
Consider on this group of men, you know, I consider us traditionalist, you know, we're traditional cannabis breeders
Versus this new school where they're breeding when Petri dishes and fricative culture and all this other stuff that they're doing
I could say I'm an old pollen chunker. You know what I consider us we picked our end of my process
You know, I picked my best smells. Okay, how did I pick my best smells?
I went with you know
Who was the tallest in the canopy who was the strongest structure who showed that they were?
The balls first and my boys get it thinned down to two or three out of that one genetic line
Get to the very all right. I'm gonna breathe
I'm gonna broad breed with both of these boys on all of it
I'm gonna isolate this girl with this boy and put it in a single thread all those kind of things same thing with girls
You know if I'm popping seeds, I'm I'm tagging them as they're coming up
Watching them once they all stand up who are the taller ones of the bunch?
Which ones are the most productive as far as growth? I I used plant tape, you know green plant tape and a sharpie
Literally tagged the tag the branch right on what my notes are on it
I keep tag if you look down like my storage room tag after tag after tag of all this information
So that's how I keep up with it and how I still do it to this day
So yeah, I think I answered that they blown up a couple of times
If I get off too far off the point bring me back on that's part of my head damage from serving the country
It's my part of my PTSD and my head damages why I smoke hell of weed
I've been blown up a couple of times. So that's a lot of weed
I I sure like the the blue dream you're talking about. I have that blue dream myself and
From cut from the old days. We read with it at work
We just did one where I found the most stunning Mac that you ever would want to get your hands on
It's not one of not too stretchy, but it was a little bit stretchier than I would hope
But the Mac always is but it's got that that mirror scene dominant, right?
Just super strong mirror scene and the blue dream just has it in the background
Sleeping but it's not there and when yet we crossed them together and we made a blue Mac and I'll tell you what it's just
It's hitting on every note and and the metrics on it are gonna put it right up just under 30%
Which is the right it's only THC but
I've never found this strain. Like you mentioned you working with some that have double digit
ta
CBG and I I've got
The original cherry pie from years ago that I got from Amsterdam always when I breed it to anything
It gives it two to five percent
CBG in the end not CBGA but CBG after it's all cured and we do we do the gem assert test on it
It's got the CBG, but I've never seen anything. That's just loaded with that like double digits
I'd like to get my hands on that because I find the CBG stuff that has it in so calming
It's just like a chill pill
And and if you were going after the if you're going after the PTSD thing, it seems like a blue dream
Across with that CBG thing would get you where you got to go
It honestly has I mean that that plant specifically, you know
This is just an evolved process for 17 years without one plant
that is literally the one that and I and I lover for you know, sue sisley is the
clinical
Psychologist in Arizona at the Scottsdale Research Institute that about five or six years ago sued our federal government
For the VA for cannabis therapy for post-traumatic stress therapy for vets that's really honestly
See it soon put the blue skunk on her list
It kind of snowballed it all over the last three or four years
That was a big big push forward what I had in California though
It was literally tens of thousands of veterans that had smoked this plant the one I'm smoking this morning right now
Calms me down keeps me balanced clears the demons out of my head and you know
20 minutes later your shoulder doesn't hurt your back doesn't hurt. I literally have you know, I've got I don't know a couple hundred thousand
vets that have used that plant over the last decade or so and that's
Traditional peer review is the doctors my medical team of your peer review
Work is starting to show in the analytical work. The data is lining up with it
So now you do the data on that particular plant guys
Literally the number one effect on it calming followed by a second effect balancing
Yeah, it's but you look at that. Okay. Now you look at the okay
Mirsi and humili and all this the lineup of all the terpenes in it. It's just a plant
It doesn't really have any bell ringers to it. And I've been saying it for four years to him
So ladies and gentlemen, you need to understand you can't take big pharma. It can't isolate it
Combination of all 39 of these
It's true the order there and and the percentages they are that create this effect
And if you remove any of that it changes it that's literally
Literally what I'm talking to them about like right now. I had the conversation or a week
This is just where the things move and they weren't listening to us. Honestly guy. They weren't listening to us three years ago
I had the top guy on our team goes, you know, truth of it is doc
I really believe what you're saying has something to do with this
You know, we're never going to be able to put our finger on what it is
Big farmers never going to be able to guys they want to isolate a compound. That's not how this thing works
We all know that you know this group of met this group of cultivators growers old-school practitioners. We all know that
Will the medical community finally grasp what we know? I don't know. It's gonna take them a while
I wish they would understand
Yeah, they're never gonna they're never gonna get on board because they're wanting to sell their snake oil and everything and they wouldn't want to let
other people
Find the medicine that works for them because I've got a thing called
Peripheral neuropathy. It's like if you've ever stand stood in cold water until your feet are burning like they're on fire
That's the way I have to go to bed every night
And so if I didn't train that would just smooth out that nerve pain
I'm able to sleep through the night. I don't even get up to take a leak and
What is that? What is it? I?
Call it yellow blood
I don't it goes way back to some
Oaxacan bag seed that I got and another thing that I cross with the Mendo blue dream that you're talking about
That cut and the two of those made one and I call it blue yellow bud
But it's it's a little bit more complicated than that
But it's not a symphony unless it has all the instruments hitting on the right notes at the right time
And when you get a strain and it's a symphony and it works for you, and it works for other people
You really can't don't mess with that. Just line read it keep it the same and
And then go over it and then you can go over it and then you can go over it
And then you can go over it and then you can go over it and then you can go over it and then you can
Go somewhere I'll find something new you know maybe it's a
Turpine lean dominant or whatever, but like you say when you find the true gold that works on you nothing else really will do
Hey, Ron really matter. Sorry guys go ahead. No. No it's okay. I just had a quick way before I forget the
Yellow, but does it have any humulin in it? I'm just kind of curious
Yeah, not so I do have ones with more more humulin in it
They're just like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more
Curiosity like crossed my mind you know hops is a nerve I and you know it has humulin. I was just kind of curious
Yeah, I don't I don't know. I I'm not sure I love the terpenes before I can smell it in dry bud or in flower
And I know what it is, so it does have a quite unique
Flavor it's and it's not the strongest either. It's all the numerics are only 19% but it's it's that's strong enough for me
It's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's
Good, yeah, I
Think that's a lot of it. Okay. What you guys are talking about this so that's that genetics then right gentlemen
Yeah, we're talking about the blue dream genetics. That was Brad back in 20 almost 20 years ago now coming up
I should they were creating it about 20 years ago
That Santa Cruz cut that moved into Mendocino. That's the same kind of genetics
It seems like we probably are maybe even running the same thread of
Parentage and my
Blue dream is what you're not a doctor and it's the same damn
Here's the truth of it guys is that it's the same damn it doesn't sell by today's standards. It's not purple gaseous process
It's a big yellow bud. That's the team a dominant
Yeah, it looks but but it's chunky frosty comes in at the right kind of numbers, but by standards by the
Traditional or the recreational market now as we're all dealing with it doesn't meet that that's what I think this may be even the same
Yeah
Mine came out of
It originally I think came out I got a
Kaya, sir, we're in trouble because that's
Nando Valley actually it came out of the San Fernando Valley
And I just something that it was right for me, and I just kept it around
You know a couple of strains you keep around you can't hoard strains. I try but
Now I have that one actually so down that it's it it's in seed and I can grow
150 plants in a in a room and it looks like clone
So it's it's like it's been a man race basically so much because I've been so I consider that right naturalized
almost
Landry's because prior to the internet and
Amsterdam you know passing all the eggs around so everybody could scramble the shit out
Of them and then then then doc and I and Russell and everybody would have to unscramble these omelets
At a later date to stabilize it then to make make little strains that were able to go from there
It's the truth. I mean honestly guys that is the truth, and I try I live in the M
Oh triangle I try to tell people that I'm good or you know like in the last 20 years gotten into games like everything
Literally that you see on the market its roots all lead back to this neighborhood in Northern, California
Because there was so much between Amsterdam or the excuse me the Netherlands yeah and North and Emerald triangle back
We're talking 40 50 years ago when that was all happening
It's all the corners to all this stuff that everybody's working with and why I think what you said you're little I called it
I called it blue bud bro
There's no blue blue yellow bud nobody really wanted I call it old man
We'd up until recently because no I was called blue Dave that didn't ring
That's why I went with what the name it was but back then but even just nine years ago
That was my personal post-traumatic stress flower that I really didn't share with people
I kept it to myself if you you know you guys we hung out hey, man
Can I get some of your old man weed all right?
You up, but other than that you didn't get it. Yeah. Yeah, I don't run out. I don't run out
You know I'm just I just harvested for this summer and and having to get some stuff
That's not quite all cured out the way. I wanted because I do give way too much away. You know people come over
They go hey
How about some of that blue dream or I have a wedding cake to that I crossed with the blue dream that is just yeah
and and people just want to take some with them, so I always send them home, but
You got to keep it up part of what we do guys. I mean, that's what I love about this community
It's part of what we do man. You know we've our friends came over even people
We didn't know they liked our flower. We gave them that flowers a gift because it's part of who we were you know
That's just that's how I still approach it
Yeah
We don't really we don't really know each other
But we're all on the same kind of person when it comes to how we handle this plants
We live close together though I used to live in Arcata in
1977 so and was growing I was growing up the Trinity River there and the book in the bush so
Yeah
Doc I'm in Willow Creek
So I'm over on the opposite ends of Humboldt, but we're still in the same County
My shop is down in Phillipsville on the 101 right there
On the Avenue of Giants where we do our production work that but I retired up just south of Trinidad
Oh nice retired to you know
I thought I was retiring every frickin pot grower in the county lives where I live at you know their farms are everywhere else in
The county unless they're in where Russell isn't it's just the drives too hard to get in and out
I've still got buddies that live out where he's out running and can't come over and work over on the ocean every day
You know it's just it's a tough drive between it is that to 299 is a pain in the ass
Honestly, bro
They don't understand what are we 30 minutes as the crow flies?
And it's a serious hour and a half drive to get to eat one another yeah
No without getting off of the blacktop you get off the blacktop good God
How far there is yeah who knows right?
I'm supposed to go down to Meyer flat on October 22nd
I guess GW a smoke break is having a small little event down there
I think Kevin Kevin Jodry is gonna be there at meat and Jackson too, so I'm excited to go link up there
We'll see each other there then oh nice
Yeah
Yeah, the only thing will change it is if I wind up getting drug down to LA for business
But that's I saw my calendar come up come over for the event actually is are you gonna bring seeds to sell I?
Will I mean good?
I love to pick up some packs here genetics for sure
I've got some stuff down in them down in the vault. I'll pull some stuff up and bring stuff with me though
Honestly, but I'm smoking a lot of that new stuff that what what you were talking about Ron that one-to-one stuff that
You know the dagger has that's running right now. Yes
I'm literally just did the Suzy QAM see I smoked it last night. It's amazing amazing
Maybe very balancing very calming. That's the Suzy Q. Which is a high CB's plant
Genetics crossed with old my old hippie trail 74 hippie trail a
Afghani Colombian and Mexican as well we call it back to a and I see yeah
AMC whatever the hell you however you put the numbers, but that three genetics that was that
particular
I've got I just got some Peter sent me some seeds a while back because I I
Sell seeds on dog and then he like instead of getting money
I just it was like well send me a bunch of genetics to try out and
Hoku the company Hoku I guess has a bunch of CBG
CBD CBG crosses too. I'm excited to start messing around with those
I'm excited about it. You know honestly a lot of us get pulled together with what's Peters done
And then finding all they'll like finding Wayne again
You know getting getting the Harlequin guy back and involved and you know we're that so hum see collective the group of us
You know there's a bunch of that's Jerry Savage. It's stewarding that project now, which was
Ringo's genetics you know so we were able to get that one to Russell honestly you need to come over brother
We'll go down to white thorn sometime, and I'll take the end of the stronghold
Yeah, I'm all about it. I'd really love that that would be great
Yeah, cuz I have the same kind of head injuries from just but not not war but being sport too active in sports
Number of like grade height like grade three grade four concussions, so that that kind of one-to-one really helps me a lot, too
What what doc what what do you have in the lines of skunk?
I've got a bunch of old stuff like any of the stuff that I have that was really old
I've selfed it, and I have it like stored away that I do. I'm wondering what you have
Have you done any work along the skunk line to try to get that old flavor back
I actually I actually have that in my
Yeah a little bit of cotton mouth out that girl right there
I'm fortunate enough like you know
Marty yep, and I have refound each other over many many years and Marty has the number 13
I have the number one
Parentages and we're working on figuring out how to bring that back in together
He'd be another cool way to have it what yeah roundtable discussions, but
you know Marty's
13 is right from skunk man Sam and you know and Cooper day old day was my mentor
You know and that was how I got the plant so
Dave passed I guess 13 years ago now he passed and since Dave's passing
I put it on ice, but about three years ago
I started pulling it back out, and I sprouted it with all this stuff that I'm working with right now and a lot of the
Skunk characteristics were so dominant in the genetics that it's come through. I mean you touch it
It smells like a cat peed all over your hand
You know back off of it you smell skunk roll over the top of your head when you step through it all that kind
Of jazz oh, that's great. Well. It's still be determined. I like that
I really I pulled out of the ones we're talking about I pulled that Susie Q AMC cross out
Very dominant in there super super cerebral and the ones that I isolated out of it like in that
Also the Harlequin cross with that same male as well
Picked up just full on the cat pee full on
Touching it smelling it step back off of it smell that frickin strong aroma roll over you one more time as you're walking
Through it I like that one, too. You know I've honestly guys
I smoked my Malawi gold mango cross last night and couldn't get off the fucking couch man a couple pops off of it, man
I was like whoa, baby
It took me all night to smoke that frickin thing and it was like that's another beautiful cross as well that I think Peter may
have sold out of but
You know I think a lot of that stuff that was on
Dagas website there is all part of these crosses that I'm talking about that's all old-school genetics
That's old old stuff crossed with old old stuff, and you know f1's my deal
You know get up and pick out what you want isolate what you want out of it, but every one of those
Groups of one of the big London's got up on there right now every one of those things are part of that group
That's out on my back research that young research deck you guys get it. It's out my back door
It's where I'm working on all the stuff at my place in my backyard
keeping up with it all my
Greenhouse my basement, you know that's my facilities
I work right out of my home and work at my
Facility to do all my breathing in my basement space and my controls
But you know they've changed the games on us as Russell knows you know you can't breathe outdoors
Legally and humble or that whole bunch of bullshit
Technically I well
I might be circumventing
It's okay, I'm wrapped in with the fire department, so I use that as my that's my like you know
Get ace in the hole whatever. I'm just like just leave me alone fuck off
They asked me honestly Russell
They were like the guys that are doing this so I'm see collective deal before they drug me and they're like look old man
Will you quit being outlaw if we break you a place where they'll come inside work within the parameters of the law all right
It's a beautiful facility at White Thor you know and Jerry's such a badass
You know Savage Farms has been doing it for 40 plus years themselves. You know that season tough motherfucker of the game
You know it's like
That whole group of men and women that are involved with that because it's got like the best of the best
You know when Lawrence passed you know Lawrence Ringo when yeah about Charlotte's web and Ringo's gift right
Yeah, I don't stop when he passes like that what you know went quiet and Jerry's brought that back
Thank you very very much. Oh nice. Yeah, I said I used to have Ringo's gift, and I lost it
It was a good one. It's still honestly Dan Hendricks at Hendricks Farms
In the cold storage you could contact them and request that they probably make cuts for you
They want to get them out. Huh, it's cool. Honestly Russell. You need to come over man
Yeah
I do over to make it to make a time and come over and check out what Hendricks has got going on there and north
End of McKinleyville there there
R&D facilities are there beautiful beautiful greenhouse cool research and development building being being used it has been and
Then we're down right on Phillipsville right on
77 where it crosses over the real deal crosses over you know where the Sylvan Dell building is that
Yeah
Maybe maybe
Just this side of Garber about eight minutes
Right there on the corner there going into Phillipsville as you drop down the whole compound is the top is where all the onboarding?
Processing the legal metric dispense the facility that we do it all in is right there. Okay. Yeah
Humboldt alchemy group is yeah collectively humbled alchemy group. That's us. That's us you know and Eric Martin specifically
It's his baby and his life his old man built the building in
1970 you know he was a kid when he was built
It's like he grew up there now where it's 50 52 years old man, and he's running the thing that's just
racially where it's
Transitioned that's I'm part of humbled alchemy group there, and then I work in Eureka on a corner of crisp lounge
That's coming out right now to Russell. You need to come check that one out. That's in Eureka down on
Broadway going on the south end of town right yeah, they're all that's become a we're opening
Hopefully between now and Thanksgiving, but hopefully between now and the end of the year you know it's it's humbled
It's northern, California everything slows down
We're but we're real close to having the first indoor inside full consumption lounge
spent a fortune on
Updraft system and pull it all out so we write it inside and smoke and gonna be a really cool cool environment
That's dope my house. Yeah, my house is one of my home. I call that my home
Where I go and where I hang out and smoke in the afternoons with my buddies and stuff
I'm gonna be right there man, and you should come over and hang out with us one after yeah
Give me get me out of this Bob. I've been stuck
I've been in Humboldt since 2006, but I just been in my little bubble here in Willow Creek
It's too, but I'm like I need to get out and go need to go places
So there's a good water. Yeah, I mean my old partner
In Willow Creek and yeah, we're we ran a facility forever in a day up on the corner right there
Just recently that changed hands, but it's like kind of where we go. He's 73
Yeah, you ready be 65 and I'm tapping out myself
And it's like he's 73 and it's like it's just this is where the thing gets at some point
You think where we were back in the 70s when we were first starting to do this and stuff and just even like him
It's late 60s even man. It was like it's just a different animal
Yeah
We're what I think what I like about what Peter does and like what we're doing right now is we're able to preserve
Where the where it came from by what's being documented now?
That's why I agreed to it was Sir Barry a couple of years ago
You know and hanging out with you guys and getting to see we cross each other's paths now, you know
That's the other part
Actually getting to share space with people when I actually see them and no one
Hell Russell, we're 35 miles 40 miles from each other, you know, don't do the same damn thing forever
Don't really even know each other. Yeah, it's I like that portion of it as much as I hate social media
I like that it allows me to talk to other brothers and sisters that does the craft and believe in the plan
Yeah, yeah, I'll read my old buds here the medical end of a gentleman the medical end of it
I mean I'd get you high as fuck all about but the medical end of it. You're my butt on the ground
Am I fine clear? Oh hell? Yeah
Hey speaking a skunk just real quick. I'm I love the UK cheese
What this is like, I don't know. What about that? I don't know what it is about the cheese, but I
Finally got so the cheese back. I don't know if it's it. I'm waiting to see what's gonna happen
it's I got the seeds from CSI and
You know, it's got some interesting different expressions in it, but I do
For the longest time. I didn't realize the cheese was actually just a few different, you know of the skunk
But yeah, I'm excited for the cheese. I'm gonna I'm gonna start trying to do some breeding with the cheese
It's like the fruity version of the skunk the one that's not so accurate
Yeah, well, I've got I've got stuff pretty darn close to cat piss, but I will I won't say that it's cat piss
But London just told me hey this stuff that you gave the seeds for it's cat piss. It's man. Oh, yeah
It's we're getting closer I don't know that we'll ever get that ammonia
This that ridiculous cat piss smell but I can get I've gotten close to it
I've been working on
And I got some I've got cheese growing outside or harvested cheese
It's been crossed, but I don't know if anybody will get back to it doc and I are the same age
We go back right where we're both 55 just right at 65. I just turned 65 in a month and so
We've seen a lot of stuff. I want to go back to the to the roots and talk about
Brick weed Colombian gold
Tie sticks when they were little skinny ones like your finger and like five inches long
They come in packs of 50 all bundled up, but then then some of the other stuff
But some of the stuff you remember from from the day
Because I I think the tie sticks the Colombian bold and then they came in with the wall hawk and weed and then we started
seeing in the in the
Early 70s we went from brick weed that was brown like hot cured and if it was cured and then then all of a sudden
we clicked into
Good weed and then when I tasted my first Christmas tree sass from from humble in
1976 I basically moved the next year to Arcata. I gotta go find out where they're doing this stuff coming from
The weeds that were going around when you were a kid
honestly have a lot of it in my
chills vault
And it's out of my it's out of my realm and I've actually one of these young guys that's a you know
an embryo specialist but that
Yeah, the cool stuff that I'm still have my hands on is like some Colombian red Colombian gold
I've got you know that kind of stuff still in my freezer
Yeah, what do I do with them? Honestly, that's what I did so old
I'm not a hundred percent sure how to get it to come back to buy ability
And that's why I have reached out to some of these young scientists
Cannabis people and see if they can help me get this stuff to sprout. It'd be cool to see a lot of that come back
Honestly, I've got some that I don't even really remember because of my head damage, but it's got people's names on it
And if it's near like Rhonda 78, what the fuck is a Rhonda 78? I want to find out
I don't want to screw it up. Yeah, it's like if there was a way to be able to sprout those
I'd be super cool to see that how I've been doing research on that doc
You know, I cuz I run the cannabis horticultural association
It's like educational endeavor that I'm doing for like and and and I've been doing research on old seeds
I'm trying to remember which whore there's a hormone
Acid thank you. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, so I think some like really mild
There's some really like, you know PPM concentrations of this stuff that you can use beyond that honestly Russell
I know I know that skill set and I have a real sterile laboratory
I need somebody that can come in and like crack the frickin thing and crack
Stuff like that, it's I gotcha. Yeah. Yeah
Okay, honestly if it was what you were saying
I would already be able I was able to sprout that 70 I got my hippie trail to come back two seasons ago
And got me a good boy out of the group and got a girl for a little bit
It's got it back into my production line. The other stuff's just old, you know, it's like 40 plus. Yeah, that's crazy. Yeah
Zero lock in 40 year I've had stuff too that goes all the way back. I started 31 year old
Stuff is the very oldest that I've been able to get to start
I know that there's people say you can get that older stuff by cracking it pulling the end embryo and you kind of do it
the way they would do
But most of the embros they're all dead
That's just too old unless unless you've had them in the freezer the whole time which none of us have I had it my safe
It doors. That's the best that they can get
I
Got the Panama Red honestly, I've got Panama Red. I got the
Colombian gold Colombian red, you know, there's viable pressure tests. They don't pop their chill
They've been chilled for years and years and years now. It's like the young guy
Connor what's Connors? Anyway, he's one of the guys come from Ithaca. So I met him on Clubhouse
Actually, it was one of those embryo specialists that the one of the big corporations snapped him up immediately
Yes, Connor super smart
Right. That's that's who I was gonna I have asking that's like what kind of water was saying Ross
I've asked Connor that in that space. I've got this really old stuff
I was able to get this one to sprout doing what we were talking about using gibberellic acid diluted down
Just getting it just a crack enough was able to nurse it a couple of them up and got those up and had hope
For it, but the last of all the other stuff
It all went to you know, I got it just didn't do anything they turned to mush, you know
It's like that was just I don't want to take a chance of running the rest of what I have
I stopped and put it away and like maybe one day but maybe it is too long to gone
I don't know Ron. Is it too gone? Yeah, I think so, but you can try it's always worth trying. I do have Colombian gold and
Already going I would
Run
Your your video and your audio has gotten really glitchy over the last little bit
Do you want to try coming in and out again?
Oh for me really quick just because it'll it'll probably reset your your streaming because you're coming in to be glitchy
I just exit or what do I do? Yeah exit and then open the link back up again, and it'll fix it up
Okay, I'll give it a shot
Oh
It sounds clear now, yeah, it sounds okay now I didn't do anything with my wife just
Whatever you did. Okay
Yeah
Yeah, no, I I don't think you'll have I've really really spent a lot of effort and
To try to get a seed 31 years with the oldest
And I've tried a hundred times with older stuff
But I I just always try to by the time anything that I have gets eight years
Even if it's in the freezer or whatever, I'll reset it. I'll do another shift another saw a sort
I'll either back cross it or line breed it usually just line breed it right up through and just keep it
Oh my god glad to just have a lot of it still whether I could get them open or not just to look at them
It's like yeah, they're still in there. You know, I mean the truth of it is is my old outlaw ass
I was always running around someplace. It was hard to keep it in one place, you know
Yeah, thankful to have this stuff that I have
I'm thankful you guys are around
Honestly, cuz I'm caught kind of in between these worlds of like the old school and the new school and all this
You know, the new school is just like it's all this hype shit all the time
But it's like really the old school genetics that are keeping the old school
Genetics that are keeping the diversity and the truth, you know, there's so much we don't want to lose with that
So shout out to you guys
Mentors are gone, right? I mean honestly the guys that the men and women that taught us they're gone
Why say day by day, you know, nobody knew old days real name was Dave Cooper man out of Trinity County
That's the freaking Humboldt County Scott number one, man
You know, it's like he's been dead for over a decade
Believe 13 years. I don't even remember my own head because my head damage has been gone for a long time and
Whoever helped you start brother, you know what? I mean the people that guided us
I felt real blessed to be shit standing with Ed Rosenthal down in Oakland a couple of weeks ago
You know people have a little laughed about it's like you get there's a century between me and that old man
Just between the two of us doing this and most people don't get it. Yeah, and a lot of them are gone
Yeah
I'm thankful for what Peters doing with this kind of documentation and it brings people like me and Ron together and brings Russell into
My world, you know Russell. We're literally a stone's throw from each other
Forever we got it. We got a fine young bucks
I mean, I'm 65 here in just a little bit and and I I'm gonna retire
I I can only grow you can only pull tarps for so long before your arms fall off. That's
You know, I'm just too old but I do love it
I'll just stay with my my one blue dream strain for myself and I'll just fiddle around with some other stuff around the edges
but
You know, we got to find young people that we can pass this talent off too so that they can continue the medical hunt
Because you're not going to get new genetics that are going to draw they're just going to keep mixing it together and
Dominant genes or you know
The bullies in the in the play yard are gonna take over and eventually you're not going to be able to get that that
recessive stuff and that's why I've tried to keep stuff so separate just out of the hopes that someday I'll be able to
you know cross it up and keep some of the the genetics alive because
What are you excited about that's coming down the pipe for us
Ron I'm gonna jump in for a second here because I got a special guest that you guys were just speaking of and I'm super
Excited to see this guy physically because I've had a lot of conversations with them
Connor Steven
It's so funny
Well, what are the that's very synchronistic of you there?
London this is the magic of FCP. We are literally magical
Youngster
Hey, no, it's so nice to see you guys. Thank you for shooting me over the link Peter
But yeah, I'm here at the Arcada farmers market just hanging out. I'm gonna meet with some buddies
from Hendrix and
No, I'm just excited to be here. I haven't been up here for crop tober haven't gotten to visit our cow in a while
So grateful to be back in Cal
all the real ones
Good to see you man. You're literally right down the road from me about five minutes. I'm just up the road
Yeah, am I gonna am I gonna be able to see you today?
Well, maybe are you running around with Jeff and who are you running around with Jeff Dave?
I think I don't know who else is
Is there but they're on the way and just hanging out here and probably gonna go visit the the college for a little bit
You should be here in like 30 minutes. Are you going up to the nursery? Are you coming up to the nursery? Yeah
their place
Yeah, I tell whoever it is to ping me if you're coming over there
I'll put my shoes on and drive around just so we could visit for a minute face to face
The new facility is amazing. You're gonna like the new facility youngster. I need your help man. We're just talking about you
You know, I need somebody to try and see if we can salvage this old stuff
And that's kind of what I wanted that may all know that you know, well, you may not know that
You know, they're the guys that manage my portfolio with me now and make sure it gets done correctly
But all that old stuff that I was telling you about they've got from the 70s and 80s
Would see if you know, I just fucked it up. You can't do any worse than that at least give it a whirl
All right. Yeah. No, I want to help as much as I can and you know, I'm one of the younger ones on the scene
But you know, I got I got a lot to learn but I want to do the best I can for you guys
Tell us it's nice to meet you Connor. My name is Ron. Tell us how you would go about
Resurrecting an old an old seed
I've I've tried in agar gel in different ways the way we do TC and and I've used gibberellic acid in other ways
but how
31 years has been the longest but the that I got to crack never anything older than that and I had to pre crack it
And it was a big deal
Yeah, how do you how would you your plan look like if you were gonna crack doc seeds? Yeah
No, I would definitely I would do some embryo rescue which I have a little bit of experience with
And yeah, it sounds like you already tried the gibberellic acid route to help help with the germination process
but yeah peeling that that
That layer back on the seed and exposing the embryo is really helpful with giving it the best shot that you can
But man, if there's no if there's no life in there you can't you can't bring it back from the dead
that's a tough one if it's been sitting for a long time, but
Yeah
So it's just it just depends on what history that seed has behind it, right
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, sorry guys it's kind of loud in the back no, you're fine we can hear you you're all good, okay, okay
Hey Connor, I'm just curious with with Humboldt State. Are they even trying to do I guess it's humble Cal Poly now
I think I'm trying to develop a horticultural program for cannabis. It seems like they're not but I haven't really checked into it lately
I reached out to one of their program directors because I know that they're trying to have like a cannabis science
But I don't know if it's focused more on regulation and history. Yeah, I'd meeting with a gentleman. I think it was dr
Corva he responded, but I don't think I'm gonna be able to see him this time around
okay, but
That would be awesome there was a horticulture, you know strong horticulture program and you know working with the plant
Yeah, no, I I'm just surprised because their program now is just like for
You know business it's like a cannabis business program with the history and all that but there's no I just with all their you know
Forestry programs and everything else I would assume, you know being Humboldt. They would have a horticultural program
I don't know. It's just me though
Yeah, no I did my undergrad at Cal Poly slow and that's got a that's got a good hort program so
That's why I want to go find out right on man, yeah, but anyways, it's it's getting pretty loud and my girlfriend's pushing me this
Way, so it was great catching up with you guys
I hope to see you while I'm up here for the weekend and much love to all of you. Keep it going
Yeah, thanks Connor. Bye
Yeah
That was great, that was great. Yeah, it sounds like you might be in luck maybe we'll see there we'll see
It's funny. Okay, you know, they're gonna go do the farmers market
Which is packed you can tell the things packed and there's music blaring in the background
We have probably the hippest farmers market in the country at Arcata
If you ever have an opportunity, I highly you suggested in the summertime, you know, it's getting towards the end of it
He's gonna be up at the lab here the labs about five minutes from my house
I'll roll over there and go sit down and talk to him for a little bit. Nice. Yeah
I'm gonna go with
He breeds he's a breeder as well or he's more into the science
He's a scientist scientist. Yeah, he's an embryo specialist. Yeah
Who got him Sargento or one of them got one of them?
Segra got him
For it to be well, he was visiting and I'm like you have to come over for dinner. He's like I'm vegetarian
I'm like I will cook you six course vegetarian dinner, but you need to come over for dinner
He's like, oh I couldn't make it for a day. So it's like
But next time he's up here to visit because your head office is here. So we're gonna have a guy
It's a PhD and and he's does he's the new school like he's probably
He's under 40 and he does
Genetic
CRISPR type
Marker assisted breeding and all this stuff. So it's it's pretty fancy
This copy does and I'm looking forward to get him on to go from the new school you and I do stuff
From the old school way. We have a knack for choosing
That's why we picked shift for the for the show name
Because we just seem to have good breeders and I'd like to get their stuff have a knack for knowing what to choose and
So their genetics are always getting better and and the new guys they use
marker assisted
so they're able to
to chase one where I just use the hose and river water to find out if they're gonna be okay with that for
Bud rot
River water up to week six
guarantee you anything that's gonna rot will rock and
Let it grow up against the plastic on your greenhouses up on top if those buds can go to maturity and not rot
You've got rot resistant there
And so it's gonna be good to hear how how they have in it cost about 20 grand per trait
To isolate with the marker assisted so we're talking about a lot of money can be spent to chase down a genetic
It's not just numerics that they're going after to they're going after
Novel cannabinoids are going after everything so
It'll be interesting to see where they're going to take the market in the future
Because because we're basically we're dead and gone almost you know
We got a few years to enjoy our children and our grandchildren, and then it's someone else's ballgame
What what do you see is the new new that's going to come up here in the next couple of years?
Where are you looking?
First off to ask doc and then Russell. Where do you think?
Where's where's new gonna be in two years? Oh?
I've kind of already done that Ron
I've shifted in with with Hendrix being you know the Hendrix teams all in their early 40s. They're all pros
They're all local boys, and they've been in the craft at least a quarter of a century and they were
Planning on this time of changing into this now that group of men and women okay?
I believe very much in what Dan Hendrix is doing with his program
They represent me and the other guys that I'm really most
Excited about what you're asking about is my relationship with the compound cultivated in those labs
Which is like they're cutting edge with what they're doing as well doing
TC work and moving stuff forward trying to do preservation work as well with guys like Connor
You know this is what I see it going to
What I'm afraid of Ron is that what we used with just our instincts and our feelings and stuff that portion of it's gonna go
Away, and I'm not a hundred percent sure that mother gondas gonna allow that to happen
Okay mother you know sir is or she's a very very powerful plantage
To do and unless they learn how to function in that
I don't know if they're gonna have tremendous success like you and I have because I
Didn't do it. That's what mama told me to do. I don't do anything with her. I follow her
I take what she tells me in my heart in my head when I'm moving through it
I've always bred that way, and I'm not gonna change how I do that
There's no substitute for the knack right if you've got the knack for the for the sift
There's no substitute that but the good thing is is I've met a lot of people out there because I've spoken different trade shows
and talked to a lot of people because I'm in consulting and
There's young guys out there that do have the green thumb. They have the knack they know what to look at
They're instinctively I was talking with the guy from Atlas seed Joe
But he like instinctively has this this vision to where to go
So I'm I'm more encouraged now than than ever that when I ever walk away
You know and leave it to someone else so there'll be plenty of people to take up to take up the fight
I believe there are they're out there now. They want and why I'm thankful what they're doing
They may not see it now Ron. We're gone, but ten years now somebody reads watches this document being this film right here
You know this documentation of what we're talking about and it inspires them to pick it up and go
I met young breeders like that like I don't know if you guys know Flav Meister in the clubhouse around. Oh, yeah
You know, he's a he's a smart smart breeder and very very
Yeah, I wish when the season is our late or late 20s now even you know
It's like I wish where I was in my game where he is now man
Goodness gracious because he's so more dialed in on how he looks at the plant and all that kind of deal
It's really cool to know young men and women that are doing that
I've got friends here that are you know, there's 40s and 50s
They're gonna be doing it for a lot longer that they're really good at what they do, too
There's the young ones will pick it up that wanted I think they're like what Ron said, you know that you're drawn to this plant
Yeah, I've read I've left her many times over the decades and trying to get the hell away from it
Riding off and always brings me back into it the last time is like, all right mother. I get it
I'm a ganja man. I know what I'm supposed to do
I breathe and practice what I do and that's practice the craft and try and teach it out
What I believe is the way she wants me to teach it out. Yeah, just how I looked at it
Business side and the lifestyle side are going to they're gonna do battle at some point in time
Yeah
Try to make a cultivar that you can plant outside and grow I mean I'm breeding for that that you can plant outside and
Maturity machine harvest it and make pre rolls just like they make tobacco, right?
Something that's that stable that that good from seed and and the the craft growers
They're they're never going to go away the people that can pull off that one-off harvest of the stuff. That's so day
It's so rich that's got the right soil under it that has the terroir
Let's say of our they write out for stuff growing outside our Cata
That's there's a gonna always be a perfect for that. But I think big business is probably our enemy
In all of this because some way somehow they'll find a way to
Just screw screw it up, you know
So we should stay away from big business if we can and keep our genetics in the hands of small
One-off operators so that they can you know that if they want to give away a pack of seeds
They can't a big business won't do that. They'll always want to be getting money
It's it. Oh, yes, and no. I mean, here's what happened to me in the last six months
You know just in the last year where my where I've changed within the market
I'm talking to a lot of them. They're not huge operators, but there are pretty good scale operators in this area
And they're coming to we're coming to terms on stuff
You know
I make me certain demands of how I want it to be what you said Ron
My veteran community on my blue skunk if you tied my blue skunk in your wheelhouse
Veterans always have access to that plant in your house
They walk in the door and they don't have the ten damn dollars that your bud tender has the permission to give them that fucking pre-roll
Okay, and that's part of what they sign that paperwork now in order to take that plant into their house
Nobody really has access to it except the farmers that are all growing it with for me this year
My company is buying it all back and we're putting it into all of our brands
That's how we're doing it
But I'm literally talking to glass house and a couple of the big operators now about they want access to it
All right
You can have access provided you do it correctly and provided that you will sign
Paperwork with my lawyers and I got five of the smartest cannabis lawyers on the planet. I don't know
I'm great at what I do
I hire people that are way fucking smarter than I am to do all that kind of shit
My personal lawyer tapped out on my two female lawyers and said I'll sign whatever he wants
I got them on these guys. That's how this thing is, you know, my
Lawyers make sure that whoever comes into contract with me and has it something access to that now
They play by the rules of how I want the planet wrong and that's just how I did it
Because I knew what was gonna come down why I put my stuff under patent
I saw Monsanto do what they did on canola and strawberries rice
Now decades ago, what do you guys what are we talking about 49 to 99 cent wholesale per pound?
Agriculture what the hell are they gonna do on a hundred pound agriculture much less 3,000 pound agriculture
I just saw that 20 years ago
And when I moved forward with this thing after coming back into the game 12 years ago
I already been ripped off, you know, my art my family. I'm talking about the triangle
We'd already been ripped off for so long in our family
so much genetics taken out of our territory and taken overseas and taken to other places in the United States and up north and down
south and
Replicated that people like what how the hell did we you know, you know
The old some of the old Mendo strains found over in Africa being grown. How the hell did they get there?
All right. Well, they came to our neighborhood and took it there, right?
I already saw that Ron and that's why when I brought the new stuff out
You know, they only know this community only knows this side of what my life with the plants been over the last couple of years
You know, I sparked a lot of time getting ready to step back into it and know
What we're up against we're up against a serious opponent. They're not playing around
They're gonna steal everything as soon as it goes federal. They're just gonna have their pat their plant patent lawyers lock it all the fuck up
How and you think you think that you've been able to
Take your intellectual property and lock it down in such a way that they can't
Steal it. Yes
Well now maybe they okay as my lawyers told me they still might get me but they're gonna have to pay to get me now
It's all for sale. I mean honest God they want to buy the genetics. It has a very hefty price tag on it
It's mid eight figures. You can have it. Okay, and that's literally what I told my lawyers there. It's totally available
With certain conditions for whoever wants to step up to it. Here's the truth of it
They beat it down so bad over the last couple years their wholesale bulk sucks, too
They can't do it anymore. They gave you the right checks for 30 grand guys
They can't write a check for 30 grand for a deposit on something, right?
They're going to they're hanging on by a body. They've already damaged it so badly
I talked to a lot of them in the last couple of weeks man
They're all part of that corporate cannabis man, and they heard it so bad they can really admit to it
I told it call them all out on a couple years ago
You fuckers lost 299 a pound wholesale weed in this state and they destroyed it and now they're
Their guys on the other end of it because they're trying to fill bulk out. They can't get rid of it either
Yeah, yeah, they're gonna really take it that the LP is up here in Canada since it opened up. It's legal, you know
And I'll tell you the the price wholesale has dropped through the floor and
And it's it's brutal and it's like a bunch of crabs in a pot boiling and everybody's standing on each other's back
to try to catch a breath of air and
It's brutal for the LPS. I
Really feel for them. I was thinking oh, I might like to get into the space
But the more I think about it is just you know, I got I got the genetics
You know, I can get stuff pushing 30% you know up close and and
But but I I just don't know how that you can make it sell in
flour for
less than $2 a gram
Always I wish that honestly they I am paying that I'm buying my flower back Ron or my
Projects at a thousand dollars a pound if it meets my standard and is you know pass inspection and meets the trim standard
Right buy it back, right? That's what we're given. That's literally three times what the market is right now
That's indoor it's
full Sun outdoor
Various forms of out my flower. Okay, that's a light gap outdoor
Mixed light. I don't care how you do it. But that's my program. It's about terpene specific. I want them to do it their way
I do it your my genetics your way. It's going against what I do
That's how the that's how the brand runs, right?
But really that's what I want them to grow my flower their way because we're not really teaching THC
Education with any of the lines that I run we're teaching the medicine end of it, which is the terpene profiles
That's what all my brands focus on. I just changed how my branding is guys. I don't need you know, you want to change THC?
Education quit fucking talking about it, man
Yeah
I put it on the labels that it has to be on but all the marketing on it
Everything talks about the terpenes are in it the where it was farmed out who the farmer was
Why it's unique that's just and that's my marketing team, you know
I'm taking a they're taking an approach of what I wanted to do and blowing it out
That's again what you guys talk about. I got a lot smarter people
They're way younger than I have to do what they do
I just am driving the ship and creating genetics in my backyard and going on my guts and what the DNA
Tester saying and what the analysis is saying all that kind of stuff. That's all yeah
Yeah, what's it what's your one if you had for Christmas if I want to get somebody a really nice pack of seeds for
Next year for Christmas. What what would you your that you you of your strains? Which one would you recommend it for somebody?
If I can add an extra challenge to that if it's available on daggadot garden at this point in time
It might be a better selfie
What's
Yeah, what's available on
Daga, I'm not a hundred percent sure now what dagga had was all f1 stuff
That was our f1 and f2 mix stuff. That was all literally
What I was talking about earlier is heavy medical stuff with high THC now
That's the stuff that I've been playing with out of that same run of seeds
I'm like one off of that now one more time
That was all really good beautiful beautiful genetics a lot of it was already
Replicating really really fucking close man
I'm blown away at how close they were and I believe that's just because it was such stable stuff that I was working with
You know my 74 hippie trail with Harlequin, for example, you know
It literally just beautiful beautiful plant has a great nose has that skunk ammonia
Smell to it when you touch it, but it's what wrong. It's what you said brother. It's a blue yellow flower, man
You know, if you don't give a fuck about the market you want it for yourself. That's a beautiful one
I personally have isolated that Susie Q cross and that that's my favorite out of it
I think it's most divinely it tastes great. It looks good. The buds look like
Heavy THC buds. They're as big around as your arm if you do it, right
You know that frickin long and it's just a really really beautiful plant. However again
Very very much a yellow blue flower
So if you're wanting it for commercial, you know, it's a yellow blue flower and the Malawi gold mango cross
That's just gorgeous and it goes purple and just beautiful but it's sativa and it takes a minute
But all of those three are like probably out of that stuff that Peter had. Those are my favorites of the bunch
I think all of the crosses are really really good
I don't know if that any of that tried Skywalker pie faces left at that one. That's phenomenal
I'm re-running that again. I'm at three and into that right now and it's like I love how that is looking at it
Hang on. It's pretty it smokes really well got a
Real fruity or aromatic fuel flavor to it's really cool, man
So there's some really beautiful stuff in that run that that is that daggers I'm not again, I don't know what's left there
It's been going for a while with him. He's young beats my guy if you want seeds of mine, that's where they are
Ron, yeah, that's the only guy they have really have dark dark gray authorized or if you want me to say that they came for
me
Gaga love is the only place that has me right now and probably only will it's just how it's controlled, you know
We have that have they there it says Daga their their little
Website there's right there so you can click right on it
And what about you do you have any ones that you you sell packs as well, right
Are you talking to me or Russell Russell, but I cut yeah cut out there. Yeah
You got some packs. What would you say of your packs or the I?
Know you're fighting with Instagram. Yeah, I know for sure
Just really quick in case I drop off my phones at like less than 10% battery. So that if I drop that's what happened
Okay
Right now I'm pretty excited. I don't know man
I've got I've got my hand in a lot of little different cookie jars here with breeding right now. I
I'm really excited about the vitamin. We've I finally named a strain just from back crossing it a few times
It's the vitamin Z. It's it's in a skittles family
It's the ZOZ from dying breed seeds, which is skittles like Ozzy Kush
Which is essentially just like a eddie lep back cross a little fo G back cross
Anyways, that's a Zaws and I crossed the Zaws with the sour banana sherbert from Crockett
And then I back cross that to the Zaws
And then sort of it's stabilized and it's got a lot of skittles and gas turps and I just like the way the high
You know, it's got really really nice terpenes and the high makes it's a really great body high and
I really enjoy that one and I have a whole line of vitamin Z crosses that I've made that I haven't fully tested all of
Them but I'm making them available for you know
It's essentially for people to fuck around with there are a bunch of f1s
Then I know I know based on running all of the other genetics that the crosses are going to produce some really interesting unique
phenotypes and terpene profiles
So that's what I'm really excited about right now and then moving forward
I'm working into this coffee line, which is from green source gardens and he I got seeds from Nick
It's a f8 in the I ran the f8. It's just like incredibly stable. It's really cool seeing an F
I've never run an f8. So anyways, I again I took a bunch of genetics that I
Really love and I crossed them into the or the car cross the coffee into those and those aren't available yet
If you want to hit me up I can talk to you about getting some packs
I've sent out some coffee UK cheese crosses to people just for fun. But and you know, that's long-term
That's more, you know, I'll release that later
I run some of it. But yeah, the vitamin Z is fun
I'm just excited to bring you know
Some interesting new crosses and then work with some lines that I'm you know
I'll make a ton of different crosses than in select ones that I want out of those and
Work start working those lines if I had more space I'd do them all I'd run them all
But I just need more space to do this
But yeah, like the whips the white run slaps
that's one that I've been breeding for a few years for a higher calyx to leaf ratio and
More of a bubble gummy smell the whips has a really amazing terpene profile for concentrate production
It doesn't yield that great. But the the smell you know, it's it's worth its weight in gold. So I really like the whips, too
Yeah, I mean I could go on I got I could go on and on but I just I would like to say, you know
Having access to this sort of old world breeding
Knowledge is pretty crucial as we move forward
The corporate industry is going to try to you know, sort of hermetically
Parse everything out, you know, everything's going to be oh well, we're looking for this terpene. So we've
isolated, you know, we grew a thousand ten thousand plants and you know tested them all and
Selectively bred to increase this terpene and I that's cool and all and that's definitely part of science
But there's something to be said about the you know
The alchemy and art of an individual breeder and the instinct to go in a certain direction
You're never gonna that's never gonna go away that's a very integral part of life and
It's just really important to remember that so that's probably my closing thoughts
Yeah, it is it is I I'm working on
the
I'm done with the runts line for now. I've made what's called super ruts and
Originally I used ruts and then I went back to these some different really really old-school
crazy
skunky
Terpy things and and did stuff with the structure. So I have like the one I've called the mushroom
Super it was a cut that I called magic mushroom. It's got blue Matt
It's got Mendo blue dream in it. But when you go forward it goes into the rut
So I have like 16 different stabilized ruts rooted crosses and now I'm giving it up
I'm stopping with the runts. I'm done. I'm never gonna go back
With all these different ways and it's amazing
But I did a limited time and I got I got these bunch and that's what I'm really excited about
I've got some that is that it's skunkier than skunk number one
It's like it's got the craziest skunk the most lime you in that on the exhale
just so full flavored and
so that those are the ones that are I'm excited about going on with next year and then I'm also doing a
Semi auto
Type run where I've got these that these like 130 day autos
I caught you know that they're there are those but they grow seven feet tall
They grow bud like regular photos, but they're autos
And so so when I've been planting those I've got some outside that I planted direct seed and I live in Edmonton, Alberta
It's like living on Jupiter, right? It's the most
inclement
Horrible nasty place to grow anything, right?
And I planted the seed directly to the soil in June and I harvested last week and it's done. It's finished
It's done. It was there in wind and rain and and and frost it got minus five for six hours
Weeks two weeks before I harvested so it's got cold tolerance. It's got milled mold tolerance. It's got strong stems
It has everything and and you can plant it outside and I didn't fertilize it. I didn't trim it. I didn't top it
I didn't do I just put the seed in the ground direct seeded it and walked away and then came back and harvested it and
And it dealt with the the aphids it dealt with everything and so that that's another one that I'm excited at and
I'm gonna be working on that. So it has been really wonderful talking to all these gentlemen
Is there anything you guys want to say to end it off? We're in I think an hour and 30 minutes
that's when he likes to cut it off, but give us a closing a closing statement, and then I'll let
London come in and close this out
Do it you want me to go Russell
All right, I'll go I'll go oh, you know what doc Russell's phones gonna go dead let him go
Yeah, sure. Sure. I'll go quick. I don't have much to say but you know, follow your dreams follow your heart
Believe in yourself
There's a lot that people try to get you to believe is truth and science
but there's a lot of the esoteric and alchemical nature of life that exists beyond what we know and
If you follow the path that you believe to be the highest truth a lot of times that will come to fruition
And so that I know it's a bit on the other this not have to do with cannabis
But it's just life skills and I followed I've found a lot of healing through herbal medicine
Lots of healing through earth and plant medicine
so, you know, I I won't even get into it now, but there's a lot behind that and so just remember that and
All these people these breeders that are here that we love the planet the plant speaks to us we learn from the plant
So we're here to help the human race, you know grow and experience that in our own ways. All right, that's it
Love it. Follow your heart and be a really good person a
Thank You Russell, it's been great. So if we lose you
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I will I will hit you up doc for sure
If you're cool with it you want me to connect you to buy him by
Yes, put us together bro, please
First off it was an honor to hang out with you guys and Russell
It's glad to meet another another brother breeder up here and humble come over to this side. I'll introduce you a bunch more big guy
Absolutely. Yeah, where the where the last men and women standing folks Russell and I are doing we're the last of the last
When this started many many many years ago when 215 first came aboard there were over
90,000 cultivators in Humboldt County alone
It's a passage of 64. There were only about
9,000 standing and since 64 is coming to play in a record adult recreational cannabis is coming to play. I
Broke my heart yesterday. I found out less than
850 people
still licensed to practice cannabis in Humboldt County
Buddy of mine told me that he's heard at least 20 or 30 of those have gone since that number come out again
They've done it brothers and sisters
They've made Russell and I the last man and women standing in the game of craft cannabis here in the Emerald Triangle
If you believe in what you were doing
Support our practices in our ways and support us at the store
If you're a consumer when you walk in ask for craft grown flower over commercial grown engage the bartender
There and the truth of it is as I like to say if you're one of the last ones standing you're a hard bastard
Well
We're still standing in the game. Yes
Fight for what you believe
Doc ray from Humboldt County. Yeah
Okay. Well, there's our show folks
Doc and everybody's been on it's been a great to have you on the show. I love the roots
We're we're cut from the same cloth. I love the way you're able to protect the veterans to that that says a lot
I'm big into medical too. I'll hit you up for for some of your one-on-one stuff and try it in
Because I'd like to get skunk back before I go
But I don't know how many years that I still have left
But I'm gonna I'm gonna finish them all being a good person, you know, because it's too much big business in here
We we got to pay it for I love what DAG has done
I love what future cannabis project has done working forward and I don't know
how many people
Pitch in towards that but it's it's well worth it. It is. So thank you everybody for signing in
I think London you're gonna come along and give us like an outro to the intro or something like that. I don't know
Yes, I am in three two
