Hey everybody, we are back with another episode of the Friendly Cannabis Show and I am super
stoked for this one because I get to speak with Martin of Martin's World.
How are you doing today, sir?
I'm mighty fine.
Thanks very much for having me on chat.
It's an absolute pleasure.
Good deal.
Thank you.
And I'm glad to hear everything is well there.
It's the evening for you.
It's the morning for me.
But the plant brings us together.
So it's kind of a crazy thing.
Really excited to talk to you.
And this is probably, people have been watching the show for a while.
I get excited when I get to talk to people doing activism, people who have a focus on
like the medicinal side of the plant, the benefits of the plant.
To me, that's really important.
That's where I kind of came into over here, the industry.
But I was a medical patient and I've always kind of fought for education on the medical
side here.
And with legalization, sometimes those things get looked over.
And I think we're at a point in the US where a lot of that is being passed over in favor
of shiny, flashy, hype stuff, things that sell brands.
But that's not why everybody chooses to use this plant.
So I'm glad that you came on today.
And I kind of, you know, this just a real open, basic question to kind of start with.
You know, I said earlier for everybody watching, Martins is a rather accomplished person.
And I could go on and on with the introduction.
But I thought, you know what, let's just start from the beginning.
So my first question is, you know, why cannabis?
Like why this plant out of all the plants out there in the world?
Why cannabis?
Why did that call you?
Yeah, I suppose for me, cannabis initially, I was I was a believer of the reefer madness,
if you will.
I can remember being like 15 on a bus going to school one morning and saying to my cousin,
oh, what are you smoking that hash for?
Because it was all hash that we were able to get over here at that time saying, oh,
it's going to rot your brain.
And lo and behold, it didn't.
I know I'm a couple of maybe days, maybe weeks later, that same cousin, through a bit of
peer pressure, convinced me to try it.
And yeah, that that's why that experience there, it was it was pivotal.
It allowed me, I suppose, to just open me up to myself, really, is what cannabis did.
I think before I ever tried cannabis, I never really I never engaged my thoughts in any
meaningful way.
You know, you just have a thought and an action instantly follows, you know, thought, action,
thought, action, thought, action, whereas there's no thought and ting.
Really having a thought and thinking about what it is you're thinking and playing around
and thinking of consequences and what is it that you're actually doing?
Whereas before cannabis, I was very impulsive, I suppose, is the word.
So for me, it was just a very positive experience.
Now, I would also add that the social element of it as well was very much a big draw in
as well.
Chilling out with the cousin above and because where I was living at the time, I suppose
was being a bit bullied and I was going up to my cousin then to get away from all of
that stuff.
And it was a bit better space.
So I fitted into that, too.
So it gave me that also that social opportunity, hanging out with cousins, having a few smokes
out in the sheds and playing darts or something or watching movies.
You know, that that was that was the thing we did.
And it was it was overall a positive experience for me.
It was never a negative one.
And like even going home afterwards and having a dose of the munchies and just having loads
of buttered toast, like something so simple as like toasted bread and butter.
And by God, man, it was amazing.
It was completely new to me.
Like it was like this.
This wasn't what it was before hash.
Yeah, that's why cannabis.
It was just an overall positive experience for me.
And when I when I actually faced a negative experience, it was because of the prohibition
of cannabis.
And it just it didn't sit well with me.
You know, it was wrong and I could sense that it was wrong and I just couldn't accept it.
You know, it was it was just too bitter a pill to swallow that what I was doing was
wrong and I refused to swallow it.
I still refuse to swallow it.
That's one thing that, you know, it's like I started in my early teens and a lot of people
I know did as well.
I also know people who, you know, they were 20, they were 30 before they started.
But in your teens, you know, they're really foundational years.
And you mentioned reefer madness.
So we grow up believing kind of what we're told, because you should.
And for the most part, things prove true.
You know, you slam your hand in a car door.
It hurts. You put your fork in a light socket.
Not the smartest, but cannabis was something different.
And we you know, we didn't have hash here.
We still have a very lacking hash scene.
So it was flour. But for you, it was hash.
When did flour come around?
Was that as prevalent?
Yeah, I suppose what happened here initially was the hash that was coming around.
It started getting tainted.
It started getting tainted with diesel of all things.
So you would be trying to like before it used to be coming in a soap bar.
You know, soap areas, but it's a very hard type of hash.
And you'd have to hit it with a flame in order to do what we would call burning into a joint.
That was the term, you know, you burn a bit of hash and you burn it into your joints.
But what would happen then is if it was tainted with diesel, when you would go to burn it,
it would just release a load of smoke, thick, smoky fumes.
And when you would try to take a little pinch of it and crumble it into a joint,
it should go into a fine dust.
It would go clumpy and like gooey and stuff in your fingers.
So it was absolutely horrible.
So that was a problem that persisted, I suppose, for the best part of the year.
But slowly but surely, then cannabis started coming in.
And initially it was all just white widow.
And that's all that everybody had, white widow or orange bud.
And it was funny enough, like if it was white widow, it was because it was a frosty nug.
And if it was orange bud, it was because it was a bud that had lots of orange hairs on it.
Like and that was it.
There was no other strains that were around for ages.
White widow and orange bud, and I can guarantee that most of the time it wasn't white widow or orange bud.
It was just the colloquial term used because of how the bud actually looked in a pair.
Oh yeah, we over here, we had our chronic and our AK-47.
It was basically whatever the rappers were saying at the time.
And this was the 90s when Cypress Hill was getting big,
and there really wasn't a lot of names to it over here.
So yeah, a lot of strains got called the same thing for a long time.
And I think we're still trying to untangle that one.
If we were to put a timeline on it then as well,
it would have been about 2016, 17 that that was happening around that time.
So weed started actually becoming a thing.
Cannabis actually started becoming a thing over here around that time, 2016, 17.
Although other people, I'll just add as well, you know, the geographics here in Ireland,
I'm in Cork down the south of Ireland.
It's what's known as the real capital of Ireland,
but the official capital of Ireland is Dublin,
which is up in another part of, it's kind of a bit more to the northeast of Ireland.
And up there, I think cannabis was a bit more prevalent prior to this.
But as all things kind of do, they tend to start in Dublin and then spread outwards from there.
But down here in Cork, as I say, about 2016,
cannabis started becoming a thing when I was about, I would have been about 17, 18 at the time.
Okay. And that's interesting too, for my perspective, just because, you know, Amsterdam, Netherlands,
it's closer to you than it is to me.
Yeah.
But, you know, they've always had, you know, they've had the hashish and they've had cannabis going on.
And, you know, White Widow, Orange Bud, I think of like classic Amsterdam strains there.
But that's really when there was more of a global push.
That's when cannabis was kind of becoming legal in the States.
And I think there was more distribution worldwide.
But, and you mentioned too, the different regions and areas of Ireland.
What are the laws like there?
Is there a patchwork of laws based on your county or your region?
Like the states have individuals or is there just a general national law in Ireland for cannabis?
Yeah, just a general national law.
Yeah. There's just one country and there's just one rule across it then.
And that is that cannabis is illegal, unfortunately.
And I just realized this is all I said 2016, a couple of minutes ago.
It was actually 2006, 2007.
I should have said that.
Okay.
And party tree, you know, just to throw it in there.
Yeah, right. You're forever 29.
Yeah, I wish.
I'm 29.
Okay. So kind of one law there.
And from what I understand too, there is a little bit of a medical program there,
but it's very, very restrictive.
Like you wouldn't want to qualify for medical cannabis.
Is that kind of correct over there?
Yeah. In a way, what's required of you is to be used pretty much like a human guinea pig.
Unfortunately, is the conditions that they've listed for use with cannabis
are what are known as refractory conditions,
conditions that don't respond to conventional treatments.
So for myself, you know, just to give that example,
I've been diagnosed with epilepsy November of 2021.
I suffered with it for since 2014.
It was kind of brought back on actually not long after I got out of prison.
And but I'm currently on my fifth medication now at the moment for epilepsy.
So I have to try to load these drugs.
I have to go through them.
There's two of them.
I've suffered quite bad side effects, one of them very serious side effects.
One drug known as Kepra actually left me in a suicidal state.
It played havoc with my mind, whatever the effects were on it.
I don't know how it actually worked biochemically,
but by God, did it play havoc in my mind?
I was experiencing flash anger, flash rage.
You just look at me wrong and I would almost go off the deep end.
But you and wow, that's just not my character at all.
And this is what I have to go through just to satisfy
the requirements to be able to apply for a medical cannabis access program
here in Ireland as an epilepsy patient.
The other conditions, it's refractory epilepsy.
There's multiple sclerosis, but only the spasticity related with multiple sclerosis.
So if you suffer with chronic pain, but you've no spasticity,
then you've you don't qualify under the listed conditions.
Then also it's nausea that's not nausea associated with chemotherapy.
That's also not responding to the anti-nausea medications.
So three conditions.
And a good friend of mine said, and I don't disagree with the person.
It's almost as if the people who kind of came up with these recommendations
went through the literature and found the three conditions
they can make recommendations for that would benefit the least amount of people.
That's what they've done.
You know, unfortunately, I'm pretty sure that
governments and officials do give a little bit of lip service.
We had this recently in the US where the president said,
we're going to pardon all the nonviolent cannabis offenders.
And federal prisons, it's like, well, you realize there's not any.
You know, so it sounded good.
It made great headlines.
It got everybody excited for a few days.
But then, you know, somebody took the time to look past the headline.
OK, well, what does that really mean?
And it's unfortunate.
I deal in this state where 12 years with adult use program.
Now, we still do not have the right to grow at home.
Last Thursday, there was another legislative meeting.
And just I pay attention to this,
just listening to the rhetoric that's coming from people opposed.
The questions coming from the council members to these people is just like
so far off the pulse.
It's just like over here, you know.
So so that is frustrating to hear.
It's it's it's kind of similar there.
12 years into it, and you still don't have the right to grow.
That's just very disheartening to hear.
I'm just very hopeful that we can get all this like learn from all the mistakes
that have been made elsewhere, because there have been many mistakes made
in attempts to rectify the problems created by prohibition.
And hopefully Ireland, you know, we can take all those mistakes
and repeat learn from and not repeat them.
Yes, absolutely.
And that is a good guide.
You know, we were us in Colorado, did it same day the first.
So we're we're kind of we kind of we're setting the bar and testing the waters.
Nobody references my state when it comes to talking about new legalization
processes. So, yeah, better than nothing.
You know, again, it's silly.
People will go to jail for a flower, particularly in instances like yourself,
where there is a legitimate and recognized medical medical condition.
And even for people who are completely anti cannabis,
I would point you to Epidiolex GW Pharmaceuticals, which is now Jazz Pharma.
They're actually based out of England, I believe.
That's right. Irish company, actually, for mostly three reasons.
I'd imagine Jazz Pharmaceuticals.
And they're so, you know, talking with a few people in that area of the world,
they kind of have the feeling that it's it would go legal.
But under a pharmaceutical setting, it wouldn't necessarily go like the US,
where you would have a adult use store.
You can go and buy flower edibles.
RSO, it's more or less
synthetically derived cannabinoids in a pill form.
Is that kind of what you see shaking up?
Or do you think flower will ever have its day there?
I think there's always been an attempt there to pharmaceutical
is in that kind of a way, but I just don't think it's proven to work.
I think Marinol Synthetics THC that's been around for how long?
But unfortunately, it doesn't work in the same way as a full
spectrum extract containing THC is the main active ingredient.
But having up all of those back up
but phytochemicals, you know, to work in a synergistic way.
Like my own background as well as I've an honors degree in herbal science,
I went to college for four years and done my on my time.
And pretty much every opportunity I got, I done cannabis as a choice
to do projects on whether it be through pharmacology,
whether it be from botany, ethnobotany, looking at the history of cannabis
and bits like that.
But the potential for cannabis and the synergy
that could be happening there with the different compounds, it's it's huge.
But it's also a problem in the same respect that you can't really
nail down what's responsible, because as I said, you can have Marinol
and you can have the full spectrum and you can't really decide what it is
because there's a five to five hundred plus chemical compounds
working together in a full spectrum extract.
So you've got quite quite of an array of chemicals there and you've to go
through an elimination process.
And the lecturer, Wayne said it, and I don't disagree with this guy either,
is that you need one hell of a supercomputer to be able to make
all the different computations needed to determine, you know,
what's having an effect, because everything is having an effect.
And quite often not in these synergistic experiences
and in the body, it's one plus one equals three.
And you're kind of where does this extra one come from?
And that synergy. And it's very hard to explain at the moment.
It is. And the more that we learn about the endocannabinoid system, too,
and how it works, where it works, you know, the different CB1 or CB2 receptors,
it's you know, I kind of think we're waiting for federal legalization
in the US until we can figure out what they call the single dose.
And that is, you know, you grab a beer off the shelf.
You drink that beer.
You know exactly how it's going to affect you.
And that's across the board.
Cannabis? We're never really going to get that with cannabis.
Yeah. Like with alcohol, it's it's it's a lot less individualized
in terms of the effect.
Now, you can have people who do build tolerances to alcohol,
but it's not like not like cannabis.
Like with cannabis, you're almost guaranteed to build a tolerance to it
if you're a consistent user.
With alcohol, you can be a consistent user and never really build a tolerance at all.
So cannabis, it's it's much different to to alcohol
and others, and I had seen it compared like in that
I see cannabis as a tool and it can be used and abused.
And it's a tool that you can use on a daily basis,
or it's one you might only want on a regular basis.
But each individual, you know how to use the tools yourself.
And you need the government to be kind of holding, trying to hold your hand
and giving you no slap on the wrist every time you're kind of
acting against their best witches.
Yeah. Well, stay in the health care system.
No, that's another rant for another day.
How are you know, the the education or the knowledge of other options
or other forms of medication?
Obviously, hashish is is widely known there.
Flower. What about things like tinctures and RSOs or even topicals?
You know, things that don't necessarily produce the psychedelic or psychoactive
effects? Yeah, well, I suppose there is definitely a try.
Even CBD industry here at the moment now where there's a huge interest
in products like that, that you talk about, there are no different topicals,
tinctures, BAMs, ointments and everything else in between.
And there is definitely a much more of an interest now in THC
rich products to using the RSO, FICO,
those different kind of terminologies there.
That's definitely becoming a bit more of
more of a known thing within the community, people looking for them.
But that's also brings with it an extra worry is you've now got more and more
people that are looking for RSO for their sick uncle or their sick mother
or grandmother or whatever the case may be.
And those people then
they're handing over big fistfuls of money for sometimes only like olive oil.
And that's the best case scenario.
When they're getting ripped off, you get olive oil.
Other cases, they're getting synthetic cannabinoids,
which is a very dangerous situation to be in, especially if you're giving it to
an already immune compromised person or a person in a weakened state.
You know, somebody who's about 40, 50 kilos because cancer has been ravaging
their body and actually getting thinking you're getting some THC oil
and you're getting hit with some THC or some synthetic cannabinoid spice.
And that is reality.
Our health service here at the moment, the HSE in Ireland,
they've issued two warrants in the last last month
on synthetic cannabinoids being detected in cannabis products
that have been seized by the authorities here.
That's that's scary, and especially like you mentioned,
for immunocompromised people, you know,
it sucks, man.
That's one thing that really pissed me off when we were still medical in this state.
We're on the verge of going adult use.
There was a lot of information.
Well, a lot of new information coming out about CBD and just, you know,
we call it the snake oil sellers like that.
Absolutely pisses me off because people who are sick
want to believe they are looking for an answer
and they are easy to take advantage of, unfortunately.
And when you can, you know, make it sound great
and do these kinds of things, you can even put in a non cannabinoid ingredient.
But if somebody feels a little tingled, I'd be like, well, it must be working.
That shit pisses me off, man.
And so it reaches it's reached there.
I don't even know where I was going to go with that one.
I get so I get so upset about that, man, because this plant really does
have the potential to help people and it has that.
But people come in with the fake shit.
Yeah. People are desperate out there and that that's their
that's why they get preyed on in that desperate situation.
As you said, they want to believe that what you're giving them is going to help.
Again, it's just crap when they get preyed upon like that.
And then worse is when they actually go and take the take it into their own hands
to procure their own cannabis and then they are caught with it.
And we've had a number of patients being dragged through the courts here in Ireland.
Most recently, there was a lady who was suffering with cancer.
She was using cannabis to help deal with the chemotherapy, with the pain
and other issues there as well, and also using it for its anti tumor effects.
So she believes that cannabis is helping to to keep our cancer
happy and stop it from returning and getting more aggressive around the rest
of the body.
But she got ridiculed by a judge and got told that like,
even though you're medicating, even though you're treating your cancer
and looking after yourself, what you're doing is still illegal.
And I've decriminalized it.
Wow, it's just it's insane.
And especially it's even more insane after we just came through this fucking global
pandemic where we're supposed to be all, you know, lovey dovey for one another
and care for everybody's health and get vaccinated and all of this stuff.
But meanwhile, when you're responsible in using cannabis to help maintain
a healthy human body, no, you're being bold now all of a sudden again.
It's come on.
Like you can't be so fucking hypocritical about these things.
You got to care for a person's life and want them to actually live a good quality
life or you fucking don't.
And if you don't, you're going to be a prohibitionist.
If you do, you're definitely going to be as important
what we're talking about here, which is decriminalizing and legalizing
and affording patients more effective access and not judging a patient for it,
too, you know, because I was having a conversation with a buddy at work the other
day and he was like, oh, yeah, but you don't want just everybody to be able
to go in and get it, you know, a person who can't go to sleep at night or whatever.
And I was like, why not?
If you can't sleep at night, what you want that person to go on and get some
fucking sleeping pills instead from the doctor?
It's like anybody who needs it and who can benefit from it should go and get it.
And I used him as an example.
I said, you know what the cannabis is like.
And I said, you've tried it.
And do you like it?
And he said, no, not really.
There you go.
You're not going to go and buy it if it's legal.
So if you're one example as to why regulation actually works,
if it's for you, you'll go get it.
If it's not, you're not.
It's not going to get more people like just because it's there for sale.
It's like all of a sudden everybody's going to want to do it.
It's it's not right.
And, you know, there there might be some additional people who try it
because now it is legal and they'll decide for themselves
whether they like it or they don't or it's beneficial.
You know, we're adults.
We're able to do these things.
We try new flavors of ice cream all the time.
So, you know, kind of a similar similar situation there.
But, you know, with having to go through the medical establishment first,
trying all these different pills, trying these different forms, a like you said,
there can be unintended side effects, not just physically, but mentally with
a lot of prescriptions these days.
The suicidal thoughts are just it's really scary for people
who have already battled depression or are familiar with depression.
To have that heaped on top of it is it it can crush some people.
But also going through that process, I imagine it's a pretty expensive
and lengthy process as well.
Like are these, you know, trial pills, something that you are still paying out
every month that you have to get?
Or how does that work?
Yeah, I'm in a lucky enough situation where I'm afforded these medications
under what's known as a long term illness payment scheme.
And also I qualify for a medical card in Ireland as I'm not bringing in enough
money on a weekly basis to be able to cover my own medical costs.
Is there very high?
If I was bringing in enough money, I probably would be afforded
medical private medical insurance then.
So they would be footing the bill.
I would hate to be a person out there not having either of these,
because I know myself when I picked up the last batch of medication
from the chemist, a one month prescription was in.
I think it was nearly 500 euro was on it.
But because I have a medical card, I paid two euro fifty or something along those lines.
OK, reasonable.
That's good.
But that's not for you know, that's not everybody's case.
That's not everybody's.
No. And then saying that, you know, the 500 quid has to be paid by somebody.
That's that's going to be me at some point.
I'm a taxpayer in this country and we're still footing that bill.
But meanwhile, I don't need to be using these pills.
If my consultant was able to just let his own ignorance
aside and apply for the medical cannabis access program,
he would see how it was benefiting me.
I've been and I touch wood here.
I don't jinx myself, but I've been seizure free now since April of last year.
And I've not had to take any of the medication that they've prescribed to me
since then.
I only just recently got prescribed a fifth medication there on Tuesday of last week.
And when my my consultant again refused to apply for medical cannabis access
program state and others, other medications there for me still to try.
And he doesn't really believe in cannabis as a medicine as well.
He just kind of made sure he got that in there.
Also, I sent some nice friendly emails over to him
with links to different studies and stuff like that.
So hopefully he takes the time to dive through them.
Yeah, I mean, you got to keep an open mind and you hope these medical
professionals do keep somewhat of an open mind.
Like I've worked with a lot of academics and you have an academic background as well.
Academics don't really want to say yes until it's proven and then some.
So they paint themselves into a little bit of a corner of closed mindedness.
You know, I would hope that you're able to have at least a casual conversation
or the doctor would be curious.
It doesn't sound like they're curious.
Like how dangerous is it to be open with your doctor about like, hey, this this is
helping me. This is exactly what I take.
This is exactly how I do it.
Are they even interested or is there the fear they're going to send you out of the
office and dial, you know, dial the cops?
I would imagine some people could hold that fair.
All right. But I just don't think it's been done at all.
If you're going to disclose your cannabis use to your doctor, I think the worst thing
that's going to happen is they're going to judge you for it.
And I think there's a lot of that going on.
I think there is a lot of doctors out there who do see cannabis as the devil's lettuce,
as just a drug of abuse and nothing else, unfortunately.
And yeah, for those patients, then disclosing it to their their doctors is a
difficult thing. Even myself is outspoken as I am.
I still get a bit choked up when I'm in there talking with the doctor is, you know,
they've got like a bit of a superiority.
They're the guy in the white coat.
You're coming to their office.
They're your consultant.
But that's something you have to remember, too, is that they are your consultant.
They're there to work for you and they should be listening to you as a patient.
It shouldn't be them just dictating to you.
It should be there should be more of a democracy, I suppose.
Within that room, rather than the dictatorship, which ultimately it feels like when you go in there,
that you're in a dictatorship when you're speaking medical consultant is it's their way or the highway is kind of how it feels.
And that's even how other people express it to you.
Can you not go and get another consultant?
Not the problem being that takes about two to three years to get an Antoineau consultant here in Ireland, which just is not good enough.
So we continue just to chip away at this and the one that we have at the moment is the one that we're trying to get.
So we continue just to chip away at this and the one that we have at the moment.
But it is it's it's there is a it's was intimidating to be having a conversation.
I was speaking with my consultant the last day and he was listening.
He was taking it down.
But as soon as he got in, he just didn't even regard anything I'd said.
He had taken in lots of THC oil, CBD oil and whatever.
And it was only just scratching the nuts down and straight away.
All right. You haven't tried this drug.
There you go. See you later.
Out the door two minutes after that.
Yeah. Like, you know, OK, so he took oil.
He took this doesn't ask the dosage, doesn't ask, you know, the effects like the important questions of somebody who obviously wants to learn about it.
100 percent. 100 percent.
That was my feeling, too, as I had actually alluded to him.
I was very concerned about the dosing.
I was very concerned about the inconsistency of supply.
Also, not being able to kind of keep up on top of the dosing that I might or might not be meeting because these products, you know, aren't coming with labels or not lab tested or anything like that.
So I'm working off of an estimate already when it comes to dosing.
And then I'm also looking at my jar and kind of saying, right, I'm going to have to maybe ration my doses a little bit more now this month until the next supply comes in as well, which is.
It's an easy thing to be doing as a patient thinking, you know, considering that seizures could come back at any moment.
And I've got a young child who's a year and three months, and I would hate to be in a situation where I'm having a seizure on him because of not being able to keep up on top of my medicine.
No patient should be having to have fears like that.
But that's that's what we live with here in Ireland because of cannabis prohibition.
That's it's so wild coming from I don't want to I guess I will I'll say from an enlightened position, you know, I don't always consider myself an enlightened person, but in some cases like this, yeah, you know, and you mentioned specifically, you know, seizures and in the US, Charlotte Figge, she was a young child with Dervais syndrome.
And that so Sanjay, Dr. Sanjay Gupta did a special called Weed.
Gosh, is probably 10 or maybe even more years ago now.
It was a three part series.
Yeah, it was a three part series.
And the first one focused on Charlotte Figge.
And that really, I think, turned the tide for a lot of people not necessarily welcoming or having open arms for cannabis, but it opened the door to like, all right, we'll look further.
But that is always what I use for people who are, you know, naysayers who are doubters.
I'm like, if you could watch that and see what this has done to this girl, and you're still saying, nope, lock it down.
You're just an asshole.
Like, I'm sorry, that's my opinion.
And surely for the story, you know, and may she rest in peace.
She's unfortunately passed away since over the cold nonsense.
A second thing got her.
But her story was powerful.
That got in front of a couple of parents over here who were moved by it.
And actually, one of the parents actually left Ireland and went to Colorado with her child.
Tristan was his name.
Yvonne was the name of the mother.
And they lived in Colorado.
I believe for almost a year as medical cannabis refugees.
That's what they were being.
That was the term that was used for them while they were there.
Tristan and Yvonne moved over to Colorado while, excuse me, Tristan's dad and Tristan's brother stayed at home.
So the family was broken apart again because of cannabis prohibition preventing access to patients to a powerful life saving medicine.
Tristan went over, got access to oil through a pediatrician over there.
And the results were day and night.
The difference was remarkable.
The boy who was after losing an ability to walk and talk because of seizures, the damage seizures due to the brain, it puts a child into regression where they lose abilities that they once had.
He started progressing again.
You know, instead of fucking regressing because of his condition with cannabis, he was progressing.
His condition wasn't holding him back.
His condition wasn't taking away parts of him, who he was and who he was becoming as a human at a young age, you know, because many kids who suffer with seizures at that young age, they never actually grow into who they are because the brain is constantly being attacked by the seizures.
But by being able to use cannabis and mitigate those seizures, you allow the brain enough time to allow that person to develop character, to develop personality and all of that stuff, you know.
And that's what kind of a support for that young boy.
He was the first patient in Ireland to actually receive a medical cannabis license.
Then upon his return from Colorado and that in part was because of kids like Charlotte, Charlotte Figgy as Charlotte's Web was an oil that was touted as being probably one of the best over here in Ireland for a while in terms of CBD oils.
But still most parents who went and sought that out then afterwards were ultimately looking for something with a bit more THC in it because even the oil that was being sold as Charlotte's Web is lower than 0.2% THC.
And I know myself at Charlotte Figgy wasn't using an oil of that consistency.
It was a higher ratio of THC to CBD, which was a bit different, you know.
But unfortunately, look, we won't even go into that kind of side of it.
It was a very, very positive story anyway.
And it definitely opened up the possibility of cannabis as a medicine to a lot, lot of people out there.
And the media coverage of it there?
Yeah, there was a lot of media coverage of it at the time.
But unfortunately, just not enough.
You know, as these stories come, it's just clickbait for the journals and stuff like that out there.
The newspapers, you know, sell a couple of copies there to the people wanting to hear about the story.
And then that's it.
Next week, it's not being talked about.
They're on to the next new thing.
Do you know what freaking Love Island is on or some nonsense like that?
It's like, let's forget about the patients out there suffering.
Let's forget about the fact that there's people being dragged through the courts for using something that's beneficial for them.
Yeah, the dude, just the repercussions or the multiple waves, you know, you drop a pebble in water and there's those just ripple effects.
Putting somebody, a family, a father, a mother, a child through the court system for this, just whether they prevail or not in the end, you're demonized.
It's hard not to absorb that into your character and just your perspective on the world.
So you mentioned too, you know, you have an honors degree in herbology.
You studied for four years.
What kind of led you to that?
Was it the cannabis?
Were you looking to learn more?
And maybe what were some other plants that you found that could be similarly beneficial?
Yeah, yeah, I suppose with me and the herbal cannabis or herbal science, sorry, I was doing another course in college at the time.
It was a level six course in good manufacturing practices.
So about manufacturing medical devices and pharmaceutical drugs, all the regulations and rules and different bits of technology to go over that.
And I had an option and I was at a fork in the road.
There was a guy from the chemical engineering department there, and I built a bit of a relationship with him in my two years that I was there doing the other
GMP course, and he was trying to rope me into the chemical engineering, really selling it to me.
Great job opportunities.
And he wasn't lying.
In fairness, I know a few people who were in that course at the time, we could have went through it and they're earning like a nice, almost six figure salaries now at the moment, which is which is quite nice as you know.
But no, I ended up then seeing the herbal science course and after reading the different modules that were there within us, it was definitely much more closer to my heart.
Like it's all well and good having money and having a good paying job.
But like if your heart isn't in it, then, you know, so for me, I seen the opportunity within the herbal science course.
It was a very diverse course, cover many different kind of broad range and subjects, different subjects covered there within looking at botany, looking at human health and nutrition and all of that kind of stuff.
Organic, biodynamic and what was organic, biodynamic and something else that there was all these different kind of modules on different growing practices as well, which led to some very in-depth conversations.
There we had a great lecturer there, Joe, at the time.
And yeah, we had some great conversations there.
And we'd another lecturer as well for greenhouse soils and media module.
George was his name.
And like I was constantly asking him questions, question, question, and I'm pretty sure he knew my questions were all aimed at like learning how to grow cannabis better as I was a bit of a beginner grower at the time.
I was probably about maybe two or three years into growing.
So I hadn't explored or experimented a whole lot.
I just had my heart, heart is as one of those growers by books.
And I just went kept stuck to the basics.
And then once I was in that greenhouse soils and media module, I was just like really picking your man's brain and right.
I'm going to try this. I'm going to try.
I agree.
If one afterwards I started my I don't my first hydroponic grow after that and deep water culture.
And what an experience.
But yeah, it was an amazing course.
I don't regret it for a second.
I didn't end up getting an amazing job or anything after it.
But I certainly have got some skills and knowledge there.
That is incredibly invaluable to me.
Once legalization of cannabis actually happens here in Ireland, then I can actually really cash in on that time that I spent in college.
And unfortunately, until then, I'm just going to campaign as an activist, which doesn't bring in any money.
No, no.
Unfortunately, you know, you took the time to build a solid foundation.
And that's important because a solid foundation is going to be the best to spread this education, to spread some of this knowledge, to share it, because, again, you're coming from kind of the scientific, scientific method background.
You know, there is a process and it can be applied to cannabis and the cannabinoids and then, you know, even further than that, terpenes and all of these other things.
So if you were asking, actually, if you want to hold that question about other plants I came across within that course as well.
During that course, actually, I became very interested in different psychedelic containing plants, more specifically the ayahuasca ones, the mimosa hostilis, the root bark there that contains the active ingredient DMT.
And then all of those other ones that contain the MOI inhibitors.
And I was just always intrigued as to how, you know, people without access to any scientific tools knew to combine the root bark of this plant, the roots of that plant and all of these different things and to make a turn and for it to be passed down then for thousands of years.
So that was a very interesting one.
And looking into the therapeutic aspects of it, obviously, then psilocybin mushrooms were a part of that course as well.
Looking at the the science of psilocybin was a documentary that I had watched at the time where I believe it was part of the John Hopkins trials.
OK, we're administering psilocybin mushrooms to people who would receive terminal diagnosis with cancer and the benefits that are brought to them.
So I had done a project at the time and it was an extract and psilocybin for mushrooms and stabilizing the compound with vitamin C as it's a highly reactive compound once it's extracted.
So I just put a little paper together.
I never actually seen if the extraction process worked, but theoretically it should work.
And I got one of my highest marks, actually, on that one.
I was quite proud of it, like nearly 90 percent or something like that.
Pretty awesome.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Good accomplishment. So it almost sounds like that topic or that subject is more readily talked about than cannabis.
Is that is that kind of true?
Is there more of a conversation?
Therapeutic uses of psilocybin or psychedelics?
There was definitely more of an openness to the converse about psychedelic compounds like psilocybin and even the ayahuasca.
And that's the other one, the Ibogaine.
There was certainly a lot of interest there in talking about these.
Well, yeah, cannabis.
Well, it was very stigmatized, even within my own course.
The name of the course, Horrible Science, it was called.
And anytime you would talk about it to anybody, you get the raised eyebrows.
Oh, horrible science, you know?
And so the people in the course didn't actually like that because not everybody in it was drawn to it for the same reasons as I.
So there was actually a number of petitions.
I think there was two petitions over the lifetime of the course to change the name of the course to apply
applied plant sciences.
They didn't like the whole aspect of it because herbal was a bit tainted, if you will.
So I was unfortunate that that was the feeling.
I had a lecture at one point actually say to me,
Martin, you're after doing a lot of projects on cannabis like you do not want to pick a different plant.
Is it really going to look good?
And you actually read it.
You're doing all these projects on cannabis.
I'm like, I'm just looking at them from there.
So you really want to say this to me?
You're trying to stifle my interest in this plant and its potential,
because that's exactly what he was doing.
He was taking his own fucking stigma, his own beliefs.
He was trying to hinder my my exploration of knowledge.
And yeah, I just was very disappointed in that particular lecture.
I won't mention any names for fear of somebody else out there knowing him.
But yeah, that was some of the stigma that you did receive.
I done some greats.
One project I done on a firm in pharmacology,
and it was my I actually really enjoy doing it
because I didn't have a whole lot of experience and knowledge of pharmacology.
So I learned an awful lot about interactions there between compounds
and receptors, about the different pathways and channels that are there.
And it was really fucking educational, I suppose.
And but for cannabis specifically, and I dove into it on the epilepsy side
because the lecturer had a daughter and I found out that his daughter had epilepsy.
So I was like, yeah, I love it.
And so the the theorized pathways
are the mechanisms of action behind cannabinoids and seizure prevention.
And I can put a whole lot of time into it.
Well referenced like and and the guy like gave me a 55 percent or something like that.
You know, and I went up to my afters.
And I said, come on, like I put my heart and soul into this surely.
And he's like, yeah, but cannabis is in the medicine.
And I was just, oh, my God.
God, can I listen?
I said, yeah.
Yeah. Does it hurt when you sit with that giant stick in your ass? No.
Yeah, there was many things I wanted to say to him.
Like most guys, I just I just bit my tongue and just drove on.
I just like, you know, even work the argument, dude.
No. And and, you know, it's I'm sitting here to just while you're telling this story,
I'm like, and in 10 years time, this guy is going to be thanking you
and in your inbox, you know, tell me about this.
Tell me about that.
People have to kind of blaze the path and lead the way.
It takes brave people to do this, especially in that sort of environment.
Do you look to like Israel or some other countries
where they're able to do some like actual human clinical trials on these things?
How incorporated is that into your program or the studies that you've undertaken?
And with my own research in college, there was certainly a lot of references
to Israeli papers, as as you might point out,
is probably one of the few places where they've actually conducted
pretty good trials, human trials using cannabis,
because they've long had a program there of medical cannabis, too.
I believe like they're elderly population as well.
And I believe that's probably where it's been most studied as well over there.
If my memory serves correct, but like that, I'm I graduated in 2018, five years ago.
So I'd imagine their body of knowledge out there in the body of work.
It's grown exponentially since then.
And I know I have because I still go through it on a regular and off basis.
But yeah, it does seem like Israel is the place to go.
It is a little bit of the center of excellence, I suppose.
Hopefully, America maybe catches up now, seen as the builder last year,
which allows for researchers to use cannabis sourced from outside of the official
source, which was was Mississippi.
Yeah, something like that.
Mississippi booth.
Bad weed. Yeah, it was terrible from from what I can heard of it.
I never actually seen a tank on.
But like stems and seeds.
Yeah, it's what you get off a bad dealer.
And that is where Sweden I've ever seen in my life.
And I've been around for a while.
So, yeah, I've just seen pictures of it.
I'm like, I wouldn't touch that.
And there was extensive studies that you've done using that for years.
And they were tried to draw conclusions using that.
And you're like, you can't you can't draw any conclusions.
No, it's wholly inaccurate.
It's it's tainted science at that point.
You know, it's not even
not in the ballpark.
And there are there has been some loosening of restrictions.
Universities still can't be plant touching.
They can do hemp now, but they can't be like cannabis plant
touching because of federal funding for the dollars.
Around the same time as you, I was in a sustainable agriculture program.
And with our every every state here has like
a couple of colleges, at least in their state.
And one of them is dedicated to agriculture.
And in Washington is WSU.
And so I was taking some courses through WSU soil sciences,
amongst other things.
But they're happy to kind of talk about it
because it presents a lot of new problems.
I'd always have to preface it with tomatoes.
But everybody knew what I meant when I said tomatoes, as long as I didn't mess up
and say cannabis, the conversation could continue.
So there was some excitement there.
But yeah, on the official level, they're they're kind of hands are tied.
Yeah, well, as I said, hopefully we'll see better studies coming out now
into the future, because there's still a lot needs to be done there
in terms of showing that cannabis is beneficial for patients
in some high standard studies, you know, proper double blind studies.
But obviously, even double blind studies with cannabis, it's its own problem,
because how are you going to fake fake cannabis?
You can't you can't fake a flower of cannabis
without a person knowing that it's after happening.
It's oh, you should you should have seen some of the bags I got when I was a teenager.
That was definitely
some catnip, some wet phone book paper,
all the things.
But, you know, I joke about it here.
But unfortunately, in unregulated markets, these are things
that you almost kind of have to deal with.
You mentioned there that there's no testing.
So you don't have a cannabinoid level for what's on there.
You're not even guaranteed it is what you think it is.
That's frustrating for a lot of new people giving something hope.
I worked retail here.
I'd have new people come in.
They've never tried it.
It's all about setting realistic expectations,
because if I just do somebody to the moon on their first experience,
who's never tried cannabis, they might not come back.
So there is a responsibility there.
But I was able to do that responsibly through predictable numbers.
Is CBD something that you just pick up in a gas station there?
Or is it regulated to?
And there's not much regulation there.
Yeah, technically, you could just pick it up at a gas station.
There are gas stations, I suppose, know that do stock CBD containing drinks.
So like CBD has been put into everything nowadays.
So you're getting CBD pillows and shit like that.
Yes, you're not. You're not joking.
As stupid as that sounds, you're not joking.
There is CBD pillows out there.
So, yeah, it's pretty much unregulated here in Ireland.
You can get it everywhere and anywhere.
And there has been problems, Sean.
There's been companies.
Again, I won't name any names, but there's been companies shown to be selling
products that contain no CBD or contain less than the stated amount of CBD
when these products were randomly and independently tested as well off the shelf.
So there is still issues there to be dealt with.
As again, you know, there are these CBD companies.
They know that there's a lot of interest out there.
They know that there's a lot of desperate people out there
who are willing to part with their hard earned cash
in order to get a product that they think is going to help with,
you know, their own symptoms or the symptoms of a loved one.
So unfortunately, you know, you do get chances popping up and
taking advantage of those individuals, even in the legitimate CBD industry,
because, you know, anybody could just start selling it really here, unfortunately.
Yeah. And that was one thing that I was excited about,
about a regulated market here is there would be some oversight.
There would be some testing.
These are things I'm absolutely for, particularly in a medical situation
where, again, immunocompromised people, you can't have aspergillus.
You can't have heavy metals.
You can't have these things in your flower, which some black market
flour does contain.
So that was good to have.
We grow rated over here recently.
There was over half a million given their valuations of cannabis
plant seized and cannabis dried herb.
But the herb itself, the drying cannabis was seen spread on cardboard
on a floor inside in a room.
Yeah, literally just lying on cardboard.
So it looked as if it was being spread out to be dried on the floor
or sprayed or something or possibly sprayed as well.
But for me, what I was seeing in it was an alarm
alarm for concern because the cannabis is it's lying on the floor.
If it was to be any bit, that's going to be a breeding ground
for what you just mentioned there, the aspergillus, you know,
and if you've got aspergillus in your body and if you decide to vape that
instead of combust it,
and that's a recipe for disaster, hitting all that aspergillus
down into the lungs because it'll take hold.
And that's going to be a hell of an nasty lung infection to be dealing with.
Yeah. And one thing that some people can't recover from.
And exactly. Yeah.
Permanent damage from something that shouldn't be a threat to your health at all.
But because of lack of regulation,
it can potentially be, you know, incredibly dangerous to your health.
Yeah. Well, you know, another thing that I've noticed in your career, your life,
I call it the same thing because they, you know, they blend together
much like it does for me.
But, you know, you've been doing advocacy work for over a decade,
but you also while you were in school, I saw that you founded a chapter
Students for Sensible Drug Policy, which is huge here.
Do you want to maybe tell people kind of about that,
how it started there and then what it's doing today?
Yeah, gladly. I suppose students of sensible drug policy
was born because of a friend of mine, a friend of mine that I met through my activism.
As I said, I always felt wronged by what happened to me when I got caught with cannabis.
So I sought out other like minded individuals within my community.
And I found my friend Graham.
And it was legalized cannabis Ireland when I first met him.
It was a little grassroots group here in Ireland
trying to bring together activists within our community.
And Graham later went to college and he went to UCC and he set up
what was known as their drug awareness and reform society.
And why it was called that is because they put forward the name
students for sensible drug policy, and it got rejected because here in Ireland,
there's a group called the Agio and they have a program,
I suppose, adverts out there and it's drink sensibly.
So they claimed ownership of the word sensible
and the Agio had a partnership with the college.
So it seems like, you know, they were playing on that side.
You can't there is no sensible use of drug students for sensible drug policy.
What do you mean?
Does you can't be sensible about drugs?
And it was all the same.
So for one year, their society was actually called the Drug Awareness
and Reform Society.
And then the following year, it actually was allowed to be called
the Students for Sensible Drug Policy that they managed to argue the case
and they won it over.
It was the year following that, then I was starting off in CIT
and a smaller college here in Cork.
And my buddy Graham said, you know, you should set up a society there
in college as well before you graduate, you know, and get it up and running.
I was only doing a two year course at the time.
I wasn't in the herbal science course at that stage.
So I said, fuck it.
Oh, you know what? Let's let's do it.
And I put the application in and put together a constitution and what have you.
And it got accepted.
I was shocked. I was like, happy days.
We've got a student policy society now in CIT.
And our first year then was
a we got like two grand off the college, like 2000 euro
as a budget to work with, which was really good.
We put on some amazing events.
We got some great speakers.
We had cannabis researchers come over from the Canary Islands.
So they made a presentation.
They're talking about their work with cannabis and something that always
rings true to me, actually, from that.
And I think it's worth bringing up here is what that researcher said is
because I think we've talked about the studies as well earlier
is when studies have been done on cannabis and what's happening quite often or not.
And it's in line with the medical cannabis access program, too,
is that these patients who are like bottom of the barrel patients
for research studies, you know, like patients and studies, there's grades,
there's categories, you know, you got your your fucking a patient, you know.
And this is a patient who is just newly being diagnosed,
who hasn't tried any drugs.
And, you know, that's a perfect patient to be getting into a trial for a new drug.
And then you've got your fucking F patients bottom of the barrel.
I talk about these are the patients that have tried all of the available drugs
and are responding to none of them and their condition and their condition is worsening.
And these are the patients that have been thrown to cannabis studies all the time
because, you know, they don't want to risk those grade A patients, you know,
because they're they're going to be prime meat, really, for the pharmaceutical
industry, who pay top dollar for those kind of patients.
So they get thrown those.
And in one of his studies that he done on Alzheimer's, it was
and it always rings true to me, the patients that he was saying
they were the worst of the patients that he could have expected.
They were all right.
Their condition was going downhill.
He tried them on cannabis and he said he didn't get them even better.
He said they plateaued.
They didn't get any worse.
And I was like, oh, my God, what that says to me is like
if these people actually got cannabis sooner, would they have gotten any worse?
Would they be these bottom of the barrel fucking patients?
And we kind of look at them as bottom of the barrel.
These are people.
These are people whose condition was low to get out of control to a point
to where, you know, they're they're known even the cannabis can't even help them.
I can't get them back to where they were.
But maybe if they got cannabis before they got that bad,
it might have been that bad at all.
So that was something that I was, you know, I just stuck at the back of my mind
that we really need to be getting them opening up the doors for opportunities,
for research there and lowering the barriers for
these quality patients to these studies as well in order to benefit.
But, you know, this is just one of the many things that students
with sensible drug policy enabled for me.
And it was huge. It was an amazing experience.
I set it up at the end of that two year course, and then I went on to be
the chairperson then for another four years while doing my herbal science degree.
The society stayed up and running, I believe, for another year
or two after I left college.
But unfortunately, just the modification, the motivation
and the dedication just wasn't there in the committee members
that followed on afterwards.
Unfortunately, you know, just that's just the way it is.
But yeah, what an amazing opportunity.
I think over the five years I had it there, I think we must have got about 15
or 20 grand off of the college for holding events.
And we had speakers over from America.
I don't know if you've ever heard of Valerie Corral from the WAM,
Women's Alliance of Medical Marijuana.
I believe she would have been.
I think she would have been around your neck, though, it's been around.
I remember we went to Colorado.
I think you're next to Colorado. Yeah.
Yeah. Colorado is more in the middle.
I'm all the way on the West Coast on the left, but close, close enough.
Yeah, but she came home.
She spoke about her work with cannabis and her work with psychedelics
to an end of life patients sitting at their bedside, you know,
as they passed and stuff like that, administering different psychedelics
to them at this point as well.
Very interesting stuff, you know, and it was.
Yeah, it was great opportunity for all the different students as well
to come in and listen to these talks.
We had the mothers of those kids that I mentioned earlier as well.
We had the mother of Tristan Yvonne in talking to the students as well,
raising awareness of their campaign.
That would have been 2016 while they were in Colorado.
And as well, we continue to raise awareness of that of Ferritumi and her daughter Eva.
And yeah, students sensible policy, if there's people out there listening
and if you're in college, guys, don't waste that opportunity.
If there's not one in your college, get one set up, because I don't know
how it works in America, but in Ireland, there was fucking money there
to do some amazing things for your community.
You know, get an amazing speakers and hold amazing events
and educate people or just inspire people.
And that's good.
It is it's a worldwide foundation that people can get involved in.
And I'm pretty happy to hear that they didn't shut you down
after the first year, like, whoa, wait a minute, this guy's effective.
He's bringing education and spreading the word.
We need to, you know, cut that guy's budget.
Yeah, no, no, they didn't.
And they actively encouraged that.
I think there was a lot of hesitancy there in the first year
when they were approving it and everything.
I think we really had to prove ourselves that like we were not going to be
promoting drug use.
We were just acknowledging that drug use happened
and we wanted to make it safer for students.
And that was it.
And I think, you know, through our efforts and through our work,
they've seen that being
being done, you know, we weren't encouraging drug use.
We were just kind of saying, hey, drug use happens.
And if you're a drug user out there, you know, you should know these different
things because it's going to reduce the risks of harm to you.
It's not going to eliminate the risk of harm, but it'll reduce it.
And that's a big thing, because if you can reduce the risk of harm,
that means you can potentially save a life and yeah, in life, save my not theirs.
That's that's a huge thing to be able to do.
Yeah. Let's see here.
Dude, man, bro says Wham is in Santa Cruz, which is awesome.
So that's in California on the West Coast.
Just a little bit below me.
Well, we'll take your word for it.
Dude, man, bro. With a name like that.
You got to know, dude, man, bro knows like Bo.
So, OK, so that's you know, that's good that again,
they they kind of kept it going.
You'd be amazed.
There's there's a lot of silent cheerleaders and you probably
you don't see them at the time, but sometimes with hindsight, you see it.
Or as things progress, they will become more comfortable
with their position or public position or even just one on one position.
So hopefully you had a few of those there
kind of help and help and grease the wheels.
You know, as long as as far as like this advocacy to we have here,
it's called the last prisoner project.
Now, very well aware of them.
OK, so good.
I'm glad that you're familiar with them and there are it's still crazy, man.
There are people in jail going to jail for what I have sitting right there.
I'm perfectly legal.
Totally fine. Nobody can do shit about it.
You know, drive six, seven hours.
Somebody is going to jail for it.
Fucked up.
Is is there an equivalent or at least a conversation
like the last prisoner project brings up
in Ireland for like nonviolent offenders?
There's some pretty bad dudes who happen to also sell cannabis,
but there's a lot of really good people who are just helping people.
Yeah, I would definitely like to think that there was there
be more of a conversation happening around that, but unfortunately,
there isn't anything like that happening just yet.
There's one person here in Ireland that comes to mind when I think about it
and that's a senator by the name of Linda Wan.
And she put back past a spent convictions bill there about
two or three years ago.
And in the spent conviction bill, I believe initially she was trying to include
spent convictions for people with drug charges.
So basically, if you were after receiving a drug charge
that was seven years old or more, you could apply for it to be spent
and removed off your record so you don't have to disclose it or anything anymore.
But unfortunately, that was actually
she was lobbied to have that part of her bill removed.
And, you know, I got to stay in there.
Do you know if you're a person who bet your wife
and you got brought up in domestic abuse charges?
You're all right.
You can get off in seven years, but if you got caught with some cannabis
and you got a conviction for that, sorry, you're going to have to live
with that in your record for the rest of your life.
It's it's insane.
You know, you can bet your wife and have a good name in seven years.
But it's not if I can pack a pipe and you're fucked for the rest of your life.
Yeah, I did.
That is so disheartening, because I think
nine out of 10 people would agree that one who doesn't agree
is the person who beats their wife.
But I think nine out of 10 people would agree.
That's just there's some backwards thinking there, man.
And I see here DP710.
He says people still in or still in for life
because of marijuana violations while on parole.
And I wanted to bring his comment up, too, because he does a lot of work
with harm reduction here, stateside and on the Future Cannabis Project channel.
Harm reduction is important.
There are going to be people who will continue to use,
not necessarily encouraging that, but you need to do it safely.
And, you know, there's a lot of fentanyl that goes around now
that gets combined with other drugs.
It's causing a lot of overdoses.
You know, he will supply kits you can test stuff with.
You know, it's I'm an old raver from from the rave days, the 90s.
And we used to have Dance Safe, which was a company you could go in
and, you know, you can test your pills.
But, OK, this really is MDMA or, you know,
whatever it is.
Well, then, I think.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, they are.
There's still there was a there was a crack house law around 2000s,
which made it really sketchy.
Basically, if you were the rave promoter and there were any drugs
being sold in the venue, you're the one going to jail.
Oh, so that put a big crack down on things.
And then, you know, six, seven, eight years ago,
there's less money for enforcement of these things.
So it's just back to the way it was.
But yeah, bunk police.
I see Chase Rita.
Chase, what's up in chat right now?
And we got Mr.
Toad, he's like, oh, wrong channel.
But that's the Mr. Toad. We love you, dude.
We know there's shows going on all day.
And actually, you know, Mr.
Toad is a person here who has done a lot of
patient support.
He worked in dispensaries for a while.
He's got a pretty he gave out a lot of edibles.
He does a lot of breeding
condition specific breeding.
So that was cool for the cameo.
Big up, Mr. Toad. Yes.
But yeah, so so harm reduction again, it's important in that,
you know, it applies to all drugs.
Cannabis, you know, still the same thing again.
Like I mentioned before, I'm not going to give grandma
who's never tried cannabis a hundred milligram edible to try for the first time.
So harm reduction applies.
Yeah, 100 percent.
I would definitely be a supporter of harm reduction,
even when it comes to cannabis as well.
Like I would never state that cannabis is completely harm free.
You know, you can abuse anything, but that doesn't mean that you should ban it.
Exactly. And you know, it's like I fully believe in the plant.
I love it. But I'm going to admit it's not for everybody.
I may want some people to try it.
And, you know, I was I was doing the beard stroke earlier
when you mentioned the gentleman who was speaking about Alzheimer's
and the studies and, you know, the different grades of patients, your A and your F.
And I may, you know, I'll ask you for for that gentleman's name or the study offline.
That's that's something that hits really close to home for me.
Yeah, definitely.
I did the researcher's name anyway, just to give him a plug was
Dr. Moses Garcia Abernankia.
Moses Garcia.
Abernankia. Yeah.
And I believe he was in a university over in the Canaries
and also in the University of Madrid, I believe.
He's working between the two.
Yeah. Spain, they're there.
You know, again, I would probably say like number two as far as getting
like meaningful studies done.
So yeah, the clinic over there is doing some great work over in Barcelona.
It's a pretty prestigious clinic over there working with patients
and partnering, pairing patients with health professionals as well.
Great work being done over there.
And hopefully that spreads over the rest of Europe now soon.
But there is a bit of a green wave happening in Europe at the moment.
We have a lot of countries over here that are actually exploring
a loosening of their laws.
I don't know if you want to get on to that or if you have somewhere else
you want to go with the conversation.
No, let's go for it.
Yeah, but we've Germany currently is probably the powerhouse of Europe.
One of the biggest players within Europe, and they're currently looking at
changing their laws and legalizing cannabis.
They've been talking about it for quite some time now,
and it seems like 2023 is going to be a year when they're going to put forward
their their bill and it could be supported.
But it's still, you know, even looking at it over there,
it seems like there's a bit of a prohibitionist mindset in this,
because in Germany, in their current talks, anyway,
there's going to be a limit on possession of up to 30 grams.
So you're going to be allowed to go to a store and buy 30 grams,
which makes a lot of sense considering over in Germany, you can walk in and buy,
you know, multiple liters of vodka.
And that's totally fine.
But 30 grams cannabis by hey, look, as I said, it's progress.
It is. And that's you know, that's a good personal possession limit.
You know, if I if I can get 30 grams today and go get 30 more tomorrow, that's fine.
Even if you are making, you know, FICO or RSO.
And that's where plant counts and possession really make a difference.
The medical program, like I said, you can't grow in Washington earlier
unless you have a medical card.
I have a medical card.
They're not easy to get anymore, but they they'll they'll give you a six plant limit.
But if you're like, look, man, I need to make FICO.
I need to make edibles.
They understand. So they'll up your plant count to 15.
So 15 is the max you can have here with a medical card.
But no, that is I'm glad to see that there is sort of a green wave
and hopefully the motives or intentions are pure.
Because again, there's definitely a need for that.
There will there will be the, you know, opportunists.
But you know that it comes with the territory.
But spreading the education is paramount to having a better rollout
of these types of things.
Other countries are looking at it as the Czech Republic
are looking at changing their laws.
Malta have recently changed their laws already, and they've now
I believe they've set a date for when the first social club
is going to open up over in Malta.
OK, so Malta have gone down the road of non-profit collectives, social clubs
where they can grow for members, provide cannabis to members.
But there's no open sale of cannabis as such.
You know, you get your cannabis through the club.
Yeah, you kind of given as part of your membership or I'm not too sure
the actual technicality is how it works, but you can't walk into a shop
and buy cannabis over there, unfortunately.
Other places, Spain still has that gray area.
They haven't legislated for it yet, but still Spain is flourishing
with cannabis dispensaries, coffee shops, whatever they're calling them over.
Their social clubs, I believe, is the form over in Spain,
and they've got a good number of them.
Italy are also looking at doing something over here in Europe.
They're looking at trying to get their laws changed.
I believe they're at it for quite some time now.
The most recent effort over there, I believe they got like half a million
signatures on a petition and a petition got put forward.
I think it went nowhere ultimately afterwards.
But there are still policymakers in Italy trying to put together a bill
that will get the cross party support that it needs to be
passed
anywhere else.
Or Ireland, I suppose, to bring it back to Ireland.
We've got a bill here that's looking to decriminalize the possession
of up to seven grams of cannabis.
That's currently in stage two of the legislative process here in Ireland.
So it has to go through five stages.
The first stage it got passed and now it's to go through the second stage,
which is where it gets debated
on the floor of the government's halls above there in the Arrakis.
I love. So for everybody who's watching,
I have a lot of Martin's links down in the show notes,
website, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube,
because he also has a show, so definitely subscribe to that.
But, you know, I was I was cruising through some of the articles
that you had up there and then you just mentioned this one.
And I loved this one.
But, you know, Gino Kelly looking incredibly happy after delivering
the long awaited bill decriminalizing possession of seven grams of cannabis.
He is, dude, he's just on full chill mode.
Like that was awesome.
So I love that.
I watched that live and when I seen him sit down in his chair
and I seen that look, I was like, that's a happy man right there.
Yeah. Good job, man.
I'm sending you long distance high fives there.
So, yeah, that was that was kind of a fun article to to browse through
on your website, and there's some other good ones there.
You know, it might be.
And you mentioned Germany, too, as kind of like the, you know,
the pin that's going to knock some of these other ones over,
because we saw that in the States, you know, the progression of just
the landslide and then when California went, we're like, you can't stop us now.
Yeah, we're not as far as we thought we would be.
But we're not going backwards at knock on wood.
But, you know, I go to Amsterdam a lot.
I'll be there again in April.
That's one place that kind of seems to be going backwards.
It was never fully legal there.
It is. It's that gray area.
It's illegal until it's in the coffee shop, in the coffee shop.
It's legal until it crosses the door.
It's not so that coffee shop.
It's not even legal as such.
It's tolerated.
So that there's like it's it's not even legal.
Like it's it's not even legal.
It's it's not even legal.
Like it's it's in that gray area, completely in a gray area.
So the coffee shops under the gray area rules, they shouldn't have more
than 500 grams in the coffee shop.
And you as a consumer, then over there, you shouldn't have more than five grams
on you. And if you abide by these, then the cops won't come and take your stuff off.
Yeah. You know, that that was kind of the unofficial agreement
that they had over there to allow the establishment of the coffee shops.
The cannabis, it just falls out of thin air, just magically appears in the growth
in the coffee shops over there.
There is no legal avenue for them to actually get their cannabis,
which is it's insane.
But yeah, you're dead right to have gone back.
And I think why they've gone back is I think they just got too complacent over there.
Cannabis was they were just happy with the situation that they were in.
And they just didn't think that they could go backwards.
But they didn't really push to go forward.
So they are like the High Times Cannabis Cup.
Think about how huge that was over in Amsterdam.
Yeah. And they busted it.
They came in with the cops in the very last one that was held over there
and they shut it down.
That was huge for Amsterdam.
That brought in major tourism, like a lot of American tourism, too,
because Amsterdam was a mecca for American stoners.
It really was.
It was more of a mecca for American stoners than European stoners, to be honest.
And they killed that.
They turned that away from what they did.
And I just don't see why.
But then again, you kind of look at how they're trying to position themselves.
They didn't want to be seen as the drug center of Europe.
So there was that, unfortunately.
Yeah, they've kind of lost lost the luster there.
You know, the I guess the global mecca would probably be like Colorado or something.
Now, it's still still fun to go there.
I there's there's some awesome museums in Amsterdam, too.
Like, don't get it twisted, people.
Amsterdam has a lot more to offer you than cannabis and red lights.
So I brought my 13 year old daughter with me to Amsterdam, myself and her went over
and we had an amazing time.
We had three days there and there was so much for us to do.
We went to the all the different artwork museums over there.
We went to the to the zoo and they've got some really cool science
museums over there for kids and stuff as well.
And of course, we went and found the Anne Frank House.
We did. But the Nazis didn't do.
You found Anne Frank's house.
Yes, this is no, no, this is this is bought in the book or the gift shop there.
Yeah, my youngest daughter now actually is expressed interest in that story.
So I'm actually I'm on a mission to pick up that book there soon.
So glad that you.
Yeah, well, again, I remember it, you know, from as a child.
I have an older sister and just the impact that it made on her.
And, you know, the first time that we went there, I'm like, we have to go there.
It's a chilling man.
Chilling.
And it's powerful.
Yeah, it really is moving.
All right.
The experience of going through the house and reliving the story as as you go through it.
Well, yeah, for anybody who's, you know, read the book, but it's, you know,
we walked through the bookcase.
Yeah. The hole in the wall.
We opened it up.
We went in the rooms where they were for a few years.
So, yeah, Amsterdam has a lot of very awesome things to offer,
regardless of what your interests are.
So you get to get the pancakes next time.
Frank's house pancakes are fucking unreal.
And Frank's house is there's a big pancake place like and it's not cheap either.
Like what? They were really good, like really good high end pancakes.
I had I got my pancakes at Barney's Barney's Farm.
They've got a breakfast.
They've got like three shops down on the Green Mile and one of them is a breakfast
spot. So, yeah, we went there.
Yeah. My tartine.
So I had to kind of only get takeaways from those places.
Yes. Yes. Yeah.
No, you can't go in there and sit down.
Oh, man. But yeah.
So so Amsterdam is fun.
And I and I do hope, you know, a lot of that area of the world does kind of convert
or at least relax a little bit, maybe to where it's not necessarily legalized
like it is in the States, but tolerated like it is in the Netherlands, because they
realize there's other lethal drugs out there.
There's other issues to focus on.
There's only so much capacity.
So, yeah, hopefully hopefully that spreads and that all, you know, kind of starts
with your elected officials and who you put in office.
And I kind of came across this tidbit, too, and I thought this was great.
You actually ran as an independent candidate.
I did. And you had an election on a pro cannabis.
I quite love you.
Yeah. Do you maybe want to tell us a little bit about that?
Because that's one thing I haven't heard you discuss on on your interviews before.
Yeah. Yeah. I don't know.
I'm kind of brought her about the election was it was a by election.
So just I seen the opportunity.
And for me, it was just about having the opportunity to speak
on that platform running as an elected position
when the dialect it's it wasn't just for a local election.
This was our national election.
It was to be a TD.
Oh, wow.
It's not the dialogue, which is like a
yeah, one of the higher up members of government.
Anyway, I don't know how to describe it any better than that.
But yeah, it was it was quite an experience, to be fair.
It didn't cost me anything to do it at all.
I didn't cost me a penny.
I got 30 people to go to the local garage station,
and it wasn't to free me or anything.
It was literally to sign a piece of paper to say they wanted me to be
on the ballot for the election.
I managed to do that within the seven day period that I had.
Oh, I got it.
All 30 documents into the local sheriff.
He officiated on by basically looking on my register,
making sure that there were real people and all of this stuff.
Very official stuff.
And he rubber stamped them all.
Gave me the thumbs up.
He goes, you're going to be on the ballot paper.
And that was kind of it was it was it was really a
it was crazy experience.
And then I actually got the run.
So running them, I got to go door to door
as a candidate in the election and speak with people.
And when I spoke, I knocked at the door.
I always remember my own experiences with politicians when they knock at my door.
It's they're coming and they're telling me what their program from government is.
They're coming and telling me what they can do for me and all of this kind of nonsense.
I was knocking at people's door and I was like, I'm going to be on the ballot paper.
I'm an independent in the local area and I want to know what I can do for you.
And that was kind of what I was saying to them.
And if you have any questions about who I am and why I'm running,
I was I've got one main issue that I'm running for.
But I'm happy to be taking up other people's issues as well as I don't believe
I'm being a single issue candidate.
And I'm I'm a member of our community.
I've got kids in my community.
So I've got a vested interest in our community to be doing well also, you know.
So it was a very unique opportunity.
And I loved it.
It was amazing to speak with people at the door and I got to learn that
nearly everybody was in support of a change of our drug policy.
Once you actually got to talk to him about it, if you asked him straight out,
or should we legalize drugs, you're going to get probably a no.
But when you talked about him, talk to him, you know, I'm
I'm a dad of two and I got criminalized for my use of cannabis.
And I'm going to be running because of that.
That's why I'm running in this election.
And they would always kind of be like, oh, yeah, that was wrong.
Yeah, you seem like a nice person.
I don't agree with you being criminalized or locked up.
Yeah, that doesn't make sense at all.
And you really won people over.
So it was it was a huge opportunity.
The election day came and the cunk was on
and I didn't get eliminated first, which was amazing.
I was worried I was going to be, you know, Martin Conn in zero votes.
Right. Right.
Just behind Santa Claus.
Yeah. You know.
But no, it wasn't.
There was another candidate and this guy wasn't his first horse race.
So either this guy had run again before and this guy was running
for a reputable enough party, the workers party
here from Cork.
And I got more votes than him.
I was like, oh, my God, I got more votes than somebody who's been in other
elections and he's an actual fucking like I was just shocked.
I was like, go me like a no offense to that guy.
Like, I'm sure that guy was a nice guy and everything.
So I don't better than him.
He got eliminated before me and then I got transfers.
So I got two hundred and ninety one first preference votes.
And then on transfers, I got eliminated on the second count.
I got a good number of transfers
from your man and I think a brother to like three hundred and twelve
or something like that was enough to go any further.
And I got knocked out at that point.
But the thing was, I was in the cunk center then as well for this.
And I was there on my own.
I brought my dog with me.
So I'm inside a cunk center with all these politicians.
I'm going around my little whip.
And so I had loads of like women coming over to me,
rubbing the dog and stuff, talking to me.
And they were like the ways that the other guys I was running against
having a good chat. Oh, no.
Yeah. Well, it was a good opportunity to be talking to him and being like,
oh, you're married. Is that you?
And whatever. And I get to talk about why I'm running, because
I never missed the opportunity as to why I was running.
I was criminalized for cannabis use.
I was locked up in prison for my use of cannabis.
I was talking about that experience and I'm running like not
not actually be elected, but to have the issue or to have the issue on the agenda.
And they respected that.
They respected that.
And I was doing that for other people, too.
I brought other issues forward to different people there as well
from the people I spoke to.
So I was quite happy with the experience overall.
And if there was an election to be called in the morning,
I wouldn't skip a heartbeat and doing it again.
I would certainly do it.
And do I want to be elected?
I wouldn't miss the opportunity if it actually happened.
I would fucking grab the bull by the horns and I'd give the job 110 percent.
Would it happen?
I don't think there's going to be too much of a chance of me getting elected.
But, you know, if I can stranger things have happened.
Yeah.
And the most important thing is that the issue is getting on the agenda.
You know, it's going to be spoken about that.
There's going to be a candidate up there who's going to be running
with this as an issue to be spoken about.
And if it has to be spoken about, then it has to be debated
by the other candidates. Yeah. Yeah.
If I can get consensus from those other candidates on my issue,
then I'm winning. I'm psych happy.
It is I can like resign from the race.
Now you're all running on decriminalization of the drug user,
legalization of cannabis.
My job is done.
My job is well, and just getting that conversation started.
I mean, that's where it all begins,
because until there's a conversation, people don't maybe just don't even
have an opinion. It's not part of their life.
It's not something that crosses their life until it all of a sudden
is a conversation.
And, you know, shout out John Finnegan.
He had helped me earlier here
with my designation of UK and Ireland, two different places.
But he also says, you know, Martin also addressed the government
on the Justice Committee for Drug Reform.
And surprisingly, most of your suggestions were taken on board.
Can you maybe elaborate on that one a little bit?
Yeah, certainly.
So I'm a director of a group over here in Ireland called the Patients
for Safe Access.
I'm alongside of other directors there.
One of them from your side of the pond, Martin O'Brien,
he's the owner of Foxworthy Farms and
one of the founders of the Barclays Patients Care Collective, I believe.
But yeah, he helped set up the Patients for Safe Access, as he's also
one of the founders of the Americans for Safe Access group over there.
So he helped establish it.
But we got an invite anyway to participate at the Justice Committee
and the Justice Committee were having a conversation about the
the effects of sanctions related to personal drug possession.
So that was the topic to be discussed.
You know, the effects of criminalizing a person for personal possession of drugs.
And to bring this back to something we talked about earlier,
this this Justice Committee was chaired by a man known as James Lawless.
James Lawless was invited to an event by the Students for Sensible Drug Policy
about two years previous to this Justice Committee.
And James spoke alongside.
It was a cross-party examination of their position on drugs
and decriminalization of the drug user, looking at Portugal as an example.
And from that event, James was inspired to hold that committee.
And so, like, again, the Students for Sensible Drug Policy, pretty much,
you know, like a little event and it was an amazing event.
But it resulted in the formation of this committee then
through the interaction that this guy, James Lawless, had at that.
So I just said I'd just make sure I throw that in there,
the Students for Sensible Drug Policy, like, if I can go down.
Exactly. It makes a difference, man.
It makes a difference.
But he held the discussions, he chaired the discussions anyway.
And we got to put forward our different experiences.
There was three different groups there speaking in favor of the issue.
There was myself and Kenny Tynan representing Patients with Safe Access.
We had an independent addiction specialist, Dr.
Garrett McGovern, speaking in favor of reform.
And then we'd met our cannabis advocacy group over here.
It's a group that formed over on Reddit and called Crown.
C-R-A-I-N-N is the name of it.
It's the Irish for tree.
So it's a kind of a take on the trees.
So I don't know if you've heard of the tree subreddit.
If you are on Reddit, you might have.
Well, it's a big Reddit subforum.
So they made an Irish knockoff of that using the Irish for trees.
But the three of us got to put forward our testimonies.
And there was one group there, only one group in the whole of Ireland
came forward to speak against this, like to say that, like the criminal sanctions
are a good thing, like that speaks volumes to, you know, and this group,
when you look at it, then there are a bunch of grifters like they're really
fecking there, but we don't want to even spend too much time.
The group, the committee came up with two recommendations
then from the conversations that were had there on the day.
But we also had an expert from Portugal speaking with us as well.
And Nuno's can't think of his first name now, but if people look up the document,
anyway, his name would be up there.
He was speaking about, again, a positive light of drug policy reform
from Portugal's perspective.
But they came up with 22 recommendations, then the Justice Committee
and all of the recommendations were in favor of reform of our drug policy.
The very first recommendation acknowledged the harm caused to the individual
by criminalizing them for drug use and also acknowledging the ineffectiveness
of it as a deterrent to drug use and therefore calling for a health
led approach free from the the criminal justice system,
which is a true health led approach.
As Ireland is described at the moment as having a health led approach to drugs,
which we don't, we still criminalize people.
That's a criminal justice approach.
A health led approach means if you're a drug addict,
then you would get help if you seek help.
OK, you don't get help by being criminalized.
And then while you're being criminalized, being forced to be,
admit to have an addiction like that's our current approach to a health
led approach to drugs.
That's couldn't be any further from a health led approach.
Other recommendations found in that document included
examining the pros and cons of setting up
collectives for a drug
plant based drugs or something along those lines.
That there was a word that was used there.
But again, this comes off your man, James Lawless.
He was very interested in plant based drugs, not just cannabis,
but talking about again what I mentioned earlier,
some of those psychedelic based plant based drugs.
Ibogaine, ayahuasca, psilocybin containing mushrooms
and, you know, many others out there also.
He was interested in those and decriminalizing them and allowing
for setting up like different cooperatives, collectives
where they're being grown and produced to be shared for people
under a not for profit type of situation.
It's very interesting, very interesting.
Twenty two recommendations that were all really good.
Another one called for setting up of supervised injection centers,
which should have happened here a long time ago.
They were given the green light back in 2016.
But again, because of bureaucracy, because of, you know,
drug users lives don't really matter, you know, that drug users
aren't very well represented, unfortunately, out there
as a minority group.
So it kind of gets kind of gets kicked down the road.
They don't really matter.
Other projects get the go ahead before theirs,
even though theirs was green lighted a long time ago.
Right. So, yeah, I kind of say, you know, to the
after we got recreational, the medical patients kind of fell
to the wayside here.
People didn't really care about them anymore.
And like my cynical take on that is, well, sick people don't have money,
so they're not going to buy your product.
So you just stop caring about them now that you got what you wanted.
And I'm sure there's some truth to it.
But. Yeah, you mentioned prohibition to the effects on society
can be more damaging than what is trying to be prohibited.
And that is a lesson in America.
If we look back at the prohibition of alcohol,
it wasn't necessarily that one day they woke up and all said,
well, you know what? Alcohol is not that bad.
We just make it legal again.
It was the consequences that played out on society that were far greater.
And I hope now it is cannabis and other drugs are starting
to be framed in that sort of conversation.
But it needs to more because, again, the repercussions
are pretty damn serious.
You know, just something as little as because it's a federal charge.
Growing up when I was a teenager, I had friends that got busted
with ten dollars worth of pot.
They could not get a loan to go to college because they had that on their record.
Their entire life was changed over ten dollars worth of pot.
Like I had a golden opportunity through the students
with sensible drug policy, bringing them up again to go to Washington, D.C.
for the the international students with sensible drug policy,
gathering the global one.
So a very big event, a huge opportunity, had amazing sponsors for it as well.
And so there's a couple of others there.
So I was really excited for it.
You know, I was really looking forward to it and then was going through the process,
got my tickets lined up and everything.
And then the visa got rejected
because of a criminal conviction for cannabis.
And so I was like, what a bummer.
And when I when when I realized that my visa was going to be rejected,
just straight up for it.
And at the time, Washington, D.C., it was decriminalized there.
You know, you raised.
I just made no sense.
But if I was to go to the American embassy, it would take a minimum of six months
for them to process my application.
That's a minimum of six months.
And it was exactly five months and three weeks
to the day when I find out about it, you know, I was just like there was nothing I could do.
It was just such a kick in the teeth, really.
It was another one of the lads got to go instead of me, unfortunately.
But like it was even more of a kick in the teeth because that year,
that very same year we won the
the Cat Points, the student sensible drug policy, the track
chapter activity through this thing called the Cat Point system.
So cash chapter activity tracker, cash points.
So the CIT chapter, we were the most active chapter
out of all of the chapters in in America and around the world
that that particular year.
And we were getting granted an award over there, you know, being
the most active chapter and whatever.
And I was a chairperson.
I was the fucking the orchestrator of it all, you know, and
I definitely wasn't responsible for all of the work that was done
because there was some amazing volunteers around me, some amazing supporters.
Daniel, Micky, and there was many of them.
George, just to name a few.
Like we done amazing work that year.
We actually had the college at one stage, funny enough, in all of us
because the college was trying to get people to do surveys.
And we got over 10 percent of the college's
population to take part in our drug
sort of anonymous drug survey.
But just going around talking to people in person, just being like,
will you do a drug survey there for us? It's completely anonymous.
You can fill it in there and I'll come back and get it off you there in five
minutes. And that's it.
You know, you just put it into the pile and that's it.
Done with it.
Like we got a hundred and thirty two people.
And the college's population at the time was about like seven thousand
or something like that.
Right. So the college sent us an email.
And it's like, how did you get so many people to do your
door? One, because they're always doing like your survey and win an iPad.
Right. Well, we weren't even offering a pizza slice.
We just have a topic people are interested in that they think means changing.
So pay attention.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, I missed that opportunity to go over to Washington, D.C.
because of that conviction.
But not only did I miss that opportunity, but I missed the opportunity also
to go to New York that same trip
because the students were sensible drug policy had organized the bus
to go from Washington, D.C. to New York, where the United Nations were sitting.
The United Nations was sitting under a holding a special assembly on narcotics
on your river that I am coincided with the conference of the S.S.D.P.
And that that same U.N.
Assembly, I believe there was a bunch of natives from Bolivia,
I believe, and they had a lot of coca plants and stuff like that.
They were they were campaigning, you know, for decriminalization,
the global repeal of the global prohibition of the coca plant,
because it's doing a lot of harm there to their community.
Because, you know, obviously it's drawn in some undesirable people
to control the export of it because of how illegal it is.
And they don't like that.
You know, if people are going to use cocaine around the world,
it should be done in a regulated, safer way.
And it's it's not victimizing the local indigenous people,
the local farmers there who are just being held on their gunpoint, you know,
and not literally dropping me made grow coca and stays and horrible,
horrible, you know, but I missed that opportunity when I was robbed
of an amazing opportunity to network with
my peers, with like minded individuals, truly S.S.D.P.
But not only that, but the network with the global elites at the U.N.
That was a huge opportunity and to be nominated over such a small minuscule
like this is over here right now.
Like I'm it's disappearing over the thing.
But, you know, it's a little bit of cannabis like that prevented me from doing that.
And at the moment, it's not only prevented me from doing that, but
like just to bring up a couple of other examples that are going on here in Ireland
and to go off a little bit of a tangent, I suppose.
But there's a man in prison at the moment.
And his family went through Christmas recently without him at home.
And it's not because he's passed Wales, because he's behind bars,
because he decided to grow cannabis and to give it to patients.
He was growing cannabis and helping out a number of sick patients here in Ireland.
His name is Patrick Moore.
And his family had to go through Christmas there without him.
And they're possibly going to go through another four Christmases without him.
He got a five year prison sentence for growing cannabis.
And a lot of that cannabis was destined for patients.
Probably sold a little bit to a couple of friends as well.
You know, as you might do, you get, you know, a friend.
But we as a friend, indeed.
Yeah, yeah.
And I know what some people and electricity and stuff and cheap.
So I would never judge a person for that, but for the best part,
he gave away a lot of his cannabis in the form of of oils for very vulnerable
patients, and he helped them through tough periods in their life
when the system failed them.
And he's in behind prison, but he's in behind bars now for that here in Ireland.
So that's ridiculous.
Absolutely ridiculous.
And there's a few, you know, again, on your website in the news section,
there's a few articles with
related stories, just things that blow your mind,
that these these people are behind bars as, you know,
what we would always solve.
They're good citizens.
They just happen to be helping other people with a plant.
So that's yuck.
And I've seen a couple of times here pop up through in chat here.
Oh, let me flip the flip the thing.
A little hashtag free Gary Yords.
I'm not.
Oh, Gary, Gary, you use you.
Yes, yes.
Children UK, big blazer.
Yeah.
Did you have you heard the story of Gary Yords at all?
Oh, no, I'm happy to bring this one to you as well as it was on
on the front of my mind to get it up at some stage.
So I'm glad he came up in the chat there and I wasn't surprised.
He surprised he has.
He was a guest on my podcast before, and he was he be a minute
an amazing guest for yourselves as well.
But unfortunately, at the moment, he's got a three year prison sentence
for, again, growing cannabis.
And he was also given it to patients.
The judge kind of ridiculed him because there was evidence there
that he was, as the judge says, growing the purple haze variety
and selling it to people.
But he actually had a person come and testify in the court
that Gary refused to take money for the cannabis that he gave them,
the cannabis oil he gave him.
He even refused to take money for a train ticket
that the train tickets that he had purchased actually bring the oil
to the person because the person was halfway
or probably across the country over there in the UK.
So, you know, Gary Yords is an amazing he's an absolute legend.
There's a there's a place over there called the Chilling Rooms.
Chilling Rooms is is a famous cannabis
consumption lounge coffee club or cannabis club over there in Liverpool.
And it was originally established by Gary, I believe, as far back as 2002.
I think that's when he started up first and the cops were quickly
in the Boston at the time and he was brought to courts.
I think he might have done a little bit of prison time back then as well for it.
But he never gave up.
He he was relentless.
So he's an absolute hero out there.
And I'm glad to see those comments coming in there to free Gary Yords
because he's definitely somebody that's worthy of getting behind.
Everybody's worthy of getting behind, to be fair.
Nobody should be behind bars for cannabis,
especially with such an unselfish act like that.
You know, you're taking your time, you're taking your resources
to provide this plant to other people.
You're not you're traveling across the country with them,
which in itself, again, is a huge risk to take.
You know, you can get stopped for a number of things
along the way of your travels. But
I wish I wish those things could be tempered when it came to sentencing.
There's been a few rare instances where I have seen things of that nature.
You know, obviously, the 65 year old man is not a big major drug kingpin.
You know, he's lived his whole life.
If you look at the plants, you wouldn't be exactly like the pinnacle of production.
But still, nonetheless, they're going to jail.
And that's you know, that's kind of hits close to home for you, too.
You know, the personalization of this plant.
You've mentioned, you know, convictions.
You've mentioned this a few times.
I would love to touch on some of that.
But one of the things that comes with protests
sometimes is a lot of civil disobedience.
And I just love this picture here.
It looks like you're outside in a common square in the planter with with what?
What is that there?
It looks like a maple leaf tree.
Yeah. So what?
What? Please fill us in on your personal
battles with it, because it's not just the activism, man.
This hits it can't get any closer to home.
No, definitely not.
I just want to point in there as well that the red brick building behind me
in that photo is actually the local guard of barracks.
So the cop station.
So it's literally less than 100 meters there away from the door
of the local cop station. So
how long did that last?
And the hours, I think, you know,
that there was a number of occasions I went down there
in planters around that guard of stations.
So I'm on their toes, really, because that was a part of for me.
I made a promise at the start of twenty twenty one that I was going to hold
a civil disobedience protest once a month, every month of that year.
And I held truth to that.
Every month I engage in a civil disobedience protest in some form.
What one of the months on Valentine's Day, a bit of tongue in cheek.
I said, I'd bring a bit of some flowers to the guards on Valentine's Day.
I brought a tiny little cannabis plant.
It was it was it was actually I was only in court for it there last week.
It was such a small plant that they couldn't even put a value on it.
And I've conviction now on appeal
for cultivation of cannabis plant.
I also took a gram of of CBG cannabis flower.
So low THC, high in CBG cannabis flower.
And I broke it up into a they said nine individual wraps.
I thought there was 10.
So I think the boys talk one or I think what might happen.
They had to use one to test it.
I know they had only nine left, so there was nine in evidence.
I don't know. But it went from 10 to nine somehow.
And you had boys with small.
It's funny how that happens, man. I've seen that before.
It's like, wait a minute. How much?
Yeah, I was surprised when I said he said nine as well.
But I didn't even challenge him or anything like that.
You let that one go and hopefully you get that one guy to work on your case.
I left that one go.
So my whole thinking and all of these on here
is that I want my day in court.
I want my opportunity to stand my ground and to exercise my rights.
As I do strongly believe that the current misuse of drugs
act is a violation of our human rights and our constitutional rights
are human rights under European law and shrines through our constitution here
in Ireland.
So we've got a lot of rights.
There are a lot of protections, but you don't sadly get them given to you.
You kind of have to stand up and exercise those.
And I'm currently in the middle of going through all of that.
Now, I was in one court case the other day.
The judge kind of pretty much sympathized with me and dismissed.
One charge gave me a probation to probation act on the other,
which is pretty much a dismissal as well.
So that case is pretty much done with.
And that was when I sent the loaded joints out in the post.
We sent the joints to every politician in Ireland.
So there was over 200 joints went out.
That was a joint effort.
I myself, the Cannabis Activist Alliance,
which is a group of activists here in Ireland that have come together
and includes a number of CBD businesses that are working to mention relief.
One, there is CBD cafe down in Dungarvan and in Clonmel.
Big supporters of the campaign here.
They're also going through the high courts,
challenging the Misuse of Drugs Act for the supply of CBD.
And then we have R420 supplies.
They're like a smoke supply shop.
They're the official raw supplier, actually, in Ireland.
So together as the Cannabis Activist Alliance, we sent all those joints out.
So the guys donated a lot of CBD flour from their business.
I had some shake as well from some girls that I had recently done.
So I rolled a load of joints.
The boys had a load of pre-rolls and we got together
and we sent them out.
I also went to the shop and I bought a bag of jellies, some squishies.
They were called these little blue and orange or blue and pink
kind of squishy sweet anyway, because at the time there was a lot of
there was a lot of talk in Ireland because Halloween had only just passed.
And Halloween, there's always the fear mongering of the cannabis
jellies and all of this kind of nonsense.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I put a jelly into each of them, knowing that they would send it
to the Forensic Science Ireland to have to be tested.
So to add to the workload.
So I added a jelly into all of them just to double up the workload.
Now they had to test the cannabis and the jelly as well.
So the jelly was not containing cannabis and it was found in all the tests.
But the cannabis was
or the cannabis flour and the CBD flour, it was positive as cannabis.
So, yeah, that was that one.
That was a lot of stuff.
And that was also just to show in there.
That was following on in the footsteps of we've
member of European Parliament and MEP.
And his name is Luke being Flanagan.
He was a TD here in Ireland.
But back in 2002, he done that very same action.
He sent joints to the politicians and joints to the media
from cannabis that he had grown locally in the bog.
It was poor, poor quality cannabis.
He was saying that there's a good document documentary out there.
If you haven't watched it, it's called the Life and Crimes of Citizen Ming.
And it's about his crusades as a cannabis campaigner.
And he'd be a great to reach out and have a chat with, too,
as he's a member of European Parliament.
And he's currently involved in it and putting together a group called Legalize It.
So they're tackling legalization of cannabis at the European level.
But like he's an elected official, I think they get like 600 grand a year
as a member of European Parliament.
Like so it's it's a big bloody gig like and
yeah, I was following in his footsteps.
It was a 20 year anniversary of that.
So we said, yeah, we'd honor it and we replicated it.
And I was in court for 10 recently and it's all done.
No, unfortunately, it's it's not going to be challenged to the high courts.
And but the other one, the Valentine's Day one,
I was in court for that also last week and that now was going to the circuit court
because when I went into that court case, I straight up said to the judge,
I said, judge, look, I mean, no disrespect by what I'm about to say,
but I need to use your court as a stepping stone to get to the higher courts
because I believe that this law is unconstitutional.
It's a violation of my rights.
So therefore, I'm feeling not guilty, but there's an admission of guilt
in my statement. Take that as you will.
And she and in fairness, like she was very respectful.
I think she like I don't know, maybe secretly she supported what I was doing
and hopes maybe I might achieve and be successful in my aims.
And what she said, I see what you're trying to do.
And that's not a problem.
Well, she goes, I'll find and convict him for the possession charge.
I'll find and convict for the cultivation charge.
Two hundred and fifty euro for each charge and six months to pay.
And I said, thanks very much.
I left the courtroom.
I went into an office around the corner and I got paperwork to put in the appeal.
And now the appeal is after being lodged and it'll probably take another year
before I'll be back in court.
The laws could be changed by then.
But, you know, this is the process you have to go through to
challenge the constitutionality of the law.
Yeah. And I yeah.
And I, you know, I see what you're doing there.
And I think hopefully the judge saw it as well.
It's like you're trying to get your day in court, because until
someone in that situation is acquitted, there is no precedent to judge,
you know, future cases off of.
Once you get that precedent set, other judges can rely back to that decision
and use that in their own, you know, rendering of verdicts.
So scary as hell to be the person on the firing squad.
There's only a few people who do that.
But right now you are that person.
And, you know, that's off to you.
And I hope it works.
You know, Keith Straub, he was the founder of Normal here in the United States.
I recently did an interview with him for the Dope History podcast,
and he used that exact situation as an example.
He got caught with a joint and he went to court.
The court was just going to throw it out.
He's like, nope, I want a trial.
I want a jury. I want to do this. I want to do that.
And it was for that very reason.
You know, he needed to get that precedent set.
So everybody who comes after him will benefit
about the buckets of sweat he lost going through that.
So hats off to you, Martin.
And there's another big thing as well that could be ignited from this.
If we get more people over here to challenge the law and plead not guilty,
look for a trial and appeal decisions of the court.
My God, we would mess up that justice system really quick.
And what that's going to do, it's going to get the guys up top scrambling
and going to be like, oh, shit, the fucking the cogs are all getting clogged up
here by all of these cases.
You know, we need to get the gears cleaned off.
And the only way they're going to get the gears cleaned off is going to be
by repealing their drug prohibition and getting all of these cases out of the courts.
They don't deserve to be. They don't belong there.
You know, if if you're a fucking rapist, a murderer, a thief, and you know,
if you're having your case to be delayed because there's
God only knows how many drug possession cases there before you.
It's and that's that's wrong. That's not justice.
So I hope I can inspire more people to come and follow up
in my footsteps, because I'll add.
I've been out of the closet now, so to speak, and I've been a bold,
bold boy publicly.
Yes, you have
for a long time and like again, touching wood here.
I think we've touched wood there.
Don't worry, we're going to run out of, we'll catch ourselves soon.
But I've not been raided.
I've not been targeted by the cops.
I believe there is kind of an unspoken respect that might be there.
I don't know. Is there respect?
Is there a kind of a case of I'm untouchable?
I don't think I'm untouchable at all.
But I think that there's probably cops now and they're like,
oh, yeah, we're not going to get quiet.
That's all I want to leave him alone.
I don't know. I'm not too sure.
But again, they haven't come after me.
And I think if more people start speaking up, you know,
that they're not going to go after you, too.
And safety in numbers.
Yeah, there is safety in number in Ireland.
So that's not going to be the same situation for everybody.
I'm in Cork, so I have the safety of the big city.
So safety in numbers there for other people that might be in smaller
villages or smaller towns and my have you.
And it could be a bit more riskier for those people.
But again, you know, you have the power of your rights before the courts,
the power of appeal.
You'll never have to spend a day in prison because you're a nonviolent
drug offender.
So there'll be no judge in the country who would deny you freedom under appeal.
They won't put you in prison because you're a risk to somebody, you know,
you're not a risk to anybody.
So you appeal the case and you're free to go.
You walk home, you leave, you're done.
Like, you know, so I've shown that that could be the case.
So hopefully more people, you know, get a little bit braver and
a little bit of anarchy there, but civil disobedience, anarchy.
So there's your common sense about that.
Well, that's what we call it.
It's yeah, hopefully, you know, it's coming around.
It does sound like the winds are changing there, at least in.
Opinions, you know, some people may not necessarily openly support it,
but they're less obstructive of the progress and that, you know,
it's a silent start to to a bigger, better picture.
But it's a long road.
And you know this because you've been on that road for a long time
and there's been others before you and there will be people after you.
But you know what?
I hope you see it through because I hope you're that close, man.
Oh, yeah. Well, I won't be giving up anywhere.
I'll be going behind bars before I give up.
And even back then, I'll be fighting.
If I have to be get locked up at any point, I do have a plan there
where I get a six minute phone call every day
and I'll be putting out a six minute podcast every day
because I'll have somebody out there on the other end taking a phone call.
They'll have a hit record.
And every day there'll be a podcast going up from Martin's World,
from behind bars, where I'll be getting my six minutes every day
that the show for my freedom, because it would be injustice if we're behind.
And I'm trying to do my doing my best at the moment to
get other prisoners a voice from behind bars
there, but I've not been able to make a point to contact there
with some of the prisoners in Ireland at the moment.
But we're still working on it, because I do believe their voices need to be heard
as well and the voices of their friends and family who aren't behind bars,
you know, but are also victims of this, too. Yeah.
Definitely, it goes further than, you know, the person behind bars.
It's there's families that are affected.
There are still children being taken away from parents in this country.
Ridiculous.
If that ever happens, call me, I got your six minutes, man.
I'll be your backup.
But that's, you know, it's a pretty, you know, it's a pretty bold statement.
And I have absolutely no doubt behind your conviction.
You know, your track record speaks for itself.
You are fully committed.
But, you know, I have to ask why.
Why would you be willing to put yourself
through this just for a plant?
Why is it so important that you would spend time behind bars if you had to?
Because what happened to me when I got stopped by the cops that time
and the way in which they interacted with you and the way to treat you
and the thought of having your freedom taken away, it was it was very traumatic.
And if I don't do something about it, then I'm just as responsible
when that happens to the next person and the next person and the next person
and so on, because silence is what leads to these things
continuing to perpetuate in society.
You know, if you if you see an experience of wrong in society, then
you kind of have a duty to do something about that.
You know, if you're walking down the road and you see something that's dangerous
and you're going to move it aside and you might have saved somebody's life
if you keep walking and then you hear later on, go down the road and all that
somebody fucking died because of something that was there.
And you realize, should I could have moved out?
I could have saved the life, but I did.
That's kind of how I see this.
I have a responsibility.
I seen that wrong and I can't ignore it now.
And that's just that's why.
And I was 17 when I experienced that wrong.
I'm 33 now and many years removed from it, but I still live with that trauma day
to day. I still fear the authorities, even though, as I said,
I feel like there's a bit of an unspoken respect there.
They don't they don't come after me when I see them.
I'm still, you know, I'm kind of worried.
I should. Are we going to get pulled over?
We should deal with this now.
And there's the butterflies in the belly and all of that stuff.
And I had to spend five days in prison
because of challenging the law.
And when I hear keys rattling, I get flashbacks of being in a cell
at night with a locked door and not being able to leave
having a pot in the corner of the room to shit and piss.
And because that was the state of the prison that I was in at the time
because of cannabis, because I refused to pay my fines,
because I was refusing to show up in court,
because when I was in court and I said to the judge, hey, judge,
I don't feel like I've done anything wrong here.
I don't feel like I should be here. It's unjust.
And I didn't realize that the path, the the process that I should have been
undertaken at that time because I was just too green.
I was too new to it all.
And the judge, you know, he didn't actually guide me in any way.
I already didn't listen to me.
What the judge said to me goes, well, you're in court now.
And when I had to discuss the law, we're only here to see if you broke the law
and you got caught with cannabis and you broke the law.
And I'm going to do my job now.
And that's despite the fact I was saying to him, you know,
that this is harmful to me, that criminalizing me was harmful for me.
Bringing me to court that day was harmful for me, my job opportunity,
because I had to take a day off my job.
Where's my cannabis use?
My cannabis use never interfered with my job.
Fecking my boss smoked it too.
It was really annoying, but I, I, I never, I never held back in the courts.
I always represented myself as well.
For the most part, I believe I had a solicitor once or twice
and it was never a good positive experience.
So I always represent myself after that, then after those bad experiences, because.
The solicitor, he said that he was going to help me
and he went in and he said he was guilty and he got me a donation to the charity box
and he said that that was helping me.
And there's a thing in the courts where you can get an opportunity
to donate into the charity box and you don't get a conviction in the court.
You can walk free.
It's as if you were never there.
I got that nine times.
Yeah, money.
I made over 2000 euro in donations to that charity box,
but two and a half thousand probably in total nine donations and.
Twice a solicitor got me that
and the rest of them, I got it myself.
The solicitor said that was a great job for him.
That was money like well worked.
So like I'm I'm as good as a fecking public defender.
They're apparently going because I could done it myself seven times
and how I done it those seven times I went in and I was unapologetic
about what I'd done, but still the judge showed leniency.
The judge didn't throw the book at me.
He didn't give me jail time or anything.
I always went in and was like, judge, I don't feel like doing anything wrong.
This punishment is going to be more harmful to me.
Yeah, I mean, like I was 17 when I first got caught,
but I was also 17 when my daughter was born.
My daughter was born in June of 2007
and I turned 18 September 2007.
So I was a dad at a young enough age.
My first appearance in court, well, I got caught with it when I was 17.
I didn't actually have to appear in court until I was 18
because there's a big delay within our justice system.
Right. So I got caught with it when I wasn't technically an adult.
But I got tried as an adult then when I was 18.
You did. Wow. Wow.
Wow. Because they'll they'll backdate that stuff here,
I guess, if it's advantageous to them in that situation.
It was the opposite, because wow.
And the worst part about having to go to court at that age as well
are both that thing was that the guards or the cops,
they deliver the summons to your front door to your house.
And it was I was at work.
I was working and I was working Monday to Friday, nine to five.
And I was even working in the evenings delivering pizza.
So I was out for the best part.
It was my mom who received that.
And there wasn't like an undercover unmarked car coming up.
It was the fucking squad car, like with the bells and the whistles on it.
Like they didn't come in with the sirens on, but they're all there on display.
So all of the neighbors know, no, the guards are going in, you know,
oh, geez, they're going into Merton or into Caroline.
So we're John, whatever.
And my mom then like, geez, they took it out.
They took a badly on me because they're all the neighbors thinking
they were always worried about their own image.
But what other people were thinking rather than.
Oh, yeah. It's going on with you, Martin.
Yeah. Yeah. I went through.
Yeah, I went through that one once.
And I was in a very vulnerable place at the time, as I said, you know, I was
the news of our and not the news, actually.
I suppose I would have had a child at this stage.
So that was its own had its own challenges.
But to have this division,
that was like a wedge that was driven between me and my parents.
It put me like already in a vulnerable situation, really needing the support
now of my family, my parents and stuff like that as being a young a young dad.
Now, having like this wedge driven between us where like
they're being judgmental towards me, where I feel like I can't go to them,
where I feel like there is no
I'm like unworthy of their love in certain ways.
Like I was I was a really
it was a really low feeling and I was a really low time in my life.
And thankfully, I think I made it through it, I suppose.
And things are a lot better now.
Funny enough, my mom and dad still don't really talk about what I do.
No, no. Yeah.
It's like there's an elephant in the room and they don't really talk about it.
The social stigma, you know, it exists.
And more so in the older generations.
I was doing a podcast
Marge from the Bite Me podcast the other day.
Oh, Marge. Oh, Marge. Yeah.
Awesome lady.
And one of her questions was, you know, it's like,
so what do your parents think about what you do?
And I was like, well, they know, but they don't really know.
And she's like, well, how does it come up in conversation?
I'm like, well, pretty much my mom's like, so how is your videos going?
How is your article writing?
I say they're going great.
She's like, oh, good.
And that's the end of it.
You know, how are you doing? Good.
OK, perfect. Yeah. Moving on.
But, you know, it's that almost that that silent approval at this point.
They're they're they're coming around to CBD.
Again, CBD has opened the door for their awareness of things.
And, you know, we'll we'll have little conversations based
maybe around CBD or something, but we don't really get into everything that I do.
Yeah, I would love to sit down and actually have a proper conversation
with my parents, because I'd love to know, you know,
is kind of what are your thoughts, really?
Because I have to say to them and their defense, really,
that time when I was locked up for five days,
I was held initially above in the local guard station in a small jail cell.
And it was horrible.
But my mom and dad, my dad particular, like I could hear him actually outside.
And he was being quite angry with the guards inside, like saying, fuck, say,
well, what you have locked up in there for leaving?
Come home. I'll bring him into court tomorrow and he'll be there.
Like what they were holding me overnight because I was refusing
to go to court at the time they were looking for me for three years.
The guards were here in Ireland. Yeah.
But like I answered the door to him loads of times and I just told him I was my brother.
Oh, yeah. It's not here at all.
It's my twin brother.
No, I was like, my brother's actually 10 years younger.
They never even asked for ID or not.
Like, you know, there was that incredibly ineffective over here.
I guess it was it is.
Is Martin there? No, he's not here.
All he's in. Where is he? He's in college.
All right. So, yeah, tell him the guards.
No, for my will. No problem at all.
Can I get your business card now?
You know, yeah, three years they were looking for me and they held me overnight
that time and they brought me into the court the next day.
That was a horrible experience.
The overnight in the jail cell.
They put you in there to take off your shoes
unless you wanted to wear your shoes and then they're just going to take out
all your laces.
And so that's kind of shitty.
They remove like any strings in your top and all of this kind of stuff as well.
But as I said, I was I was feeling incredibly bad in there that night
and I was very vulnerable and I reached a low point
where at one stage I actually took off my socks and I tied my socks around my neck
and like I was just trying to squeeze the life out of my body.
And I was thinking about my spiky fuckers out there and I'll kill myself in the cell
and they'll have to deal with the paperwork and explain this.
And it's all over
drug, cannabis possession charge.
Like and it's going to look so bad for them.
Like and thankfully, I don't.
The powerful images, my kids and stuff like that, you know,
I want to be home with them and stuff that one over and I didn't see it true.
But I really fucking wanted it at one point to achieve that.
That goal of just spitting and leaving the cell in that kind of a way.
As thankfully, I didn't.
But then, you know, the next day I got brought into the court,
go through that process.
The judge says he's thinking, you know, all drugs, scourge, society,
blah, blah, blah, all this bullshit
saying that it was very disrespectful of me not showing up in court.
And he gave me a two month prison sentence then
in lieu of like not paying the fines, not showing up in the court
and all of this kind of stuff.
There was like five charges there, I think, in total.
And then I went into prison.
I was held in this room.
So before you actually go into the prison, you're held in like a little hold
and settled before they put you in.
And I was in there with about six or seven different people.
And a number of them were fucking smoking fags and cider.
Then I don't smoke tobacco.
I don't smoke cigarettes.
I don't mix tobacco with my cannabis cider.
And you're inside like a concrete cell and shitting ways of smoking.
And that was just a horrible experience at that from that point of view.
But then when you're actually getting into the prison, like, yeah,
you have to get naked in front of the prison officers.
You have to have a shower in front of them.
You have to get up on this fucking pedestal thing.
And they ask you to cough and shit while they're looking at your fucking ass.
They're like right out your ass like nasty, nasty stuff.
Like, thank God they didn't get out the rubber glove and go looking like
probing around and there anything like that.
Thank thankfully.
Then then you get given some crappy prison clothes and then you meet with a nurse.
And I thought the nurse of my previous experience the night before
where I was trying to tie the socks around my neck and know that I'm not free
of those thoughts, I'm still feeling that kind of way.
I want to leave here and this is how I'm looking at doing it and whatever.
So I was offered then from this nurse antipsychotics.
I was offering offered sleeping pills from her pills that I've never taken before.
I've never been on antipsychotic medication.
I've never had a need for any of this stuff, but she was there willing to give it to me.
And I said to her, I goes, can you give me cannabis at all as a treatment
that will help calm me down, that will give me a good night's sleep,
that will do a lot of what those drugs are that you're offering there for me,
for me. And she goes, no, sorry, I can't give you that.
Or how so is then put into the prison under suicide watch
where every 15 minutes I had a guard come into my room, knock at the cell door.
You wake up or not. You're alive.
Yeah. What do you expect me to say?
No. Yeah.
You know, that's what I did say.
Look up. No, no, man.
You know, it's like the cool run ins and then you bet you dead, man.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, it was just, you know, but after that first day,
then I kind of snapped out of that
suicide fucking mindset, like, and I just accepted where I was as tough as it was.
And I just try to make the most of it and learn about the learn through the experience.
Look at what was actually going on around me, who was in there, what we did there
for what was like the what's the word I'm looking for there now?
And the reform and what's the prisoner reform
backward where they're trying to get like incentivize prisoners like to reform
to get into the better opportunities in the prison.
When I was there, I seen signs around the place, learn languages,
learn instruments, learn to cook, learn to be a mechanic and stuff.
So all the boys wanted to do was sit in a recidivism.
No recidivism as you commit a crime.
And that was, yeah, coming back again.
But there's like when you're in prison, they're trying to like
risk to try to reform you as a person to make you mold you into a better person.
You know, OK, you're not just there to sit in a cell to serve your time
and then be released back into society.
But they had loads of opportunities is kind of what I was saying.
And none of the prisoners were actually afforded.
And all they wanted was their time in the gym.
That was it going to the gym, you know, buff up and stuff like that,
because inside in prison, there was this mentality that like this is a badge of honor.
Like this is a fucking shit that I got caught.
But I'm here now when I'm going to be here, when I get out,
when I'm going to be, you know, the man from prison and great.
And it's just I felt so bad for him, because I think a lot of these people
did, you know, they just need to fucking more hugs as kids and to be told,
you know, told that, you know, you can do better and you know, and
to help them along a better path in life.
I don't know. I just feel like a lot of them are just last causes.
It's it's a backwards mentality.
But you're right.
Sometimes that life does create that life.
I mean, that's that's one of the the Congress topics of conversation
around, you know, like jailing teens and jailing, you know, the younger people.
It's like basically all you're doing is giving them an education on bigger crimes,
you know, because that some people that is their life.
Some people are able to rehabilitate.
You talk about cannabis as a gateway, but when you're a young teen
and you're getting cannabis illegally from a drug dealer, then the line
that the lines have been blurred in terms of criminality,
are showing the criminal from getting cannabis,
are showing might as well jump this wall and rob that bike
because I'm already a criminal because I'm getting cannabis.
And that's what you see in teenagers today in Ireland at the moment
is that the lines have been so blurred
in terms of criminality that the use of a substance is criminal.
And therefore, it makes it much more easier just to take that next step and say,
oh, well, I'm going to rob that bike or I'm going to rob that whatever, you know,
and then go down that pathway of criminality.
Whereas if these teens, you know, for me, getting alcohol as a teenager,
I just asked my buddy's cousin, my buddy's cousin, I didn't got a frosting.
No criminal criminality for if the cops caught us with that alcohol.
They brought us back to our parents.
And, you know, if if a parent is good, they tell you off as a kid and say,
hey, don't be out drinking, don't be getting brought home by the guards as well.
And that's what a good parent is going to do.
You get caught with drugs, it's a different story.
Yeah, definitely.
It's got it's it's a catch 22, man.
It's hypocritical.
Yeah. The way that they do that.
And, you know, there's, you know, somebody who's been in chat here to,
you know, that was in jail and they talked about the, you know,
the pharmaceutical cocktail that they put him on, whereas
he didn't necessarily need these things, didn't necessarily want them.
It came with all kinds of side effects, but essentially it was almost to really
sedate him while he was there.
You think about a person while you're in prison, you know, you're going to be bored.
So the chances of you saying yes to taking them,
it's going to be quite high and asking for more than and getting different drugs.
And you're coming out of it more than I like than what you actually went in.
Do you know this cannabis consumer and you actually come out a drug addict?
Scary. Yeah, scary.
And there's there's the you know, the military over here, there's fishing over here.
There's there's a lot of professions that drug test, but.
People don't smoke pot because it stays in your system
for much longer than other things, which are out of your system in two or three days.
So it's crazy how people are pushed sometimes
towards something that is much more violent in nature as far as like distribution,
but also just the toll that it takes on your body, which, again, alcohol is something
that wreaks damage on your organs and everything as well.
So that's yeah, I'm a I'm a fly.
That's our national drug.
You can't shame and you can put down a national drug.
You know, it's right.
It's just one drug, you know, here in Ireland, when you go to a party,
people will look at you strange for not taking it.
Is it you're not drinking?
Is there something wrong with you?
You're sick.
You know, it's like, you know, I want to drink.
I'm just going to have a fucking glass of water.
Is that OK?
I'm I'm the driver tonight. It's OK, guys.
Yeah, I get that.
That's the thing. You need an excuse not to drink is the thing.
But meanwhile, it's like shaming you for being a daily cannabis consumer.
I'm just going to step outside and smoke the joint.
What? No, you can't do that here, man.
You're getting drugs while everybody else is doing drugs.
And a druggy.
Oh, shit, man.
Well, we're a little bit past the two hour mark now.
No, this is fine.
We're this has been an absolutely fascinating conversation.
I still have questions down here that I wanted to get to,
but I will save them for another time because I want to give you
a little bit of time as well here at the end.
I want to give you the floor.
I've been asking the questions this whole time because you're fascinating, man.
I love what you do.
And again, hats off to the commitment you've made and seeing through that night,
not pulling the socks tight because, man, look at what you've done since.
Look at what you've done since.
And that's something, you know, suicide.
It also hits close to home.
So that's nine eight eight in the US, man.
If you're having these types of thoughts, dial nine, eight, eight,
24 hours a day, you will reach somebody who can help.
But yeah, look at look at the family you have.
Look at all the good that you've done since then and the progress
that has come because Martin has been in this world.
So I appreciate it, man.
And I do. I want to give you the floor.
Because I know you are actively involved on a multitude of fronts here.
With different things.
So please, I want to turn it over.
Anything that you want to mention or resources
to some people before we head out of here today?
Yeah, no, definitely.
I 100% want to make sure that I brought attention to Gary Udes.
And that's something that we already touched off of.
But it's definitely worth mentioning again.
You know that people need to be made aware of the fact that Gary Udes
is an amazing guy and he's three years now.
He's going to be behind bars over in the UK
and just going to be campaigns up and running.
There's already the hashtags going around free Gary Udes.
So if people are on social media and all of that stuff,
so make sure that they're just posting and sharing those, drawing attention to them.
Others as well.
In Ireland, we've got free Patrick Moore.
That's a hashtag that's getting around there.
Patrick Moore was I suppose he was just doing his own thing quietly.
He wasn't as as as much of as an active part
of the community as Gary Udes was.
So it's unfortunate Patrick doesn't have as much supporters there behind him
as as Gary Udes do, but still I'm going to do my best anyway
to draw attention to the case of Patrick Moore.
Anything else there really?
No, I pretty much we pretty much touched off of everything, really.
I'm just trying to rack my brain.
I was there anything else to go over?
I have a number of more court cases coming up.
Thirty six plans in total.
I planted in that year long campaign of civil disobedience.
It's charges of cultivation are coming my way for those
plants they planted out.
One of them actually planted in the city, the garden of the city hall.
I got some headlines
on that.
I was just getting getting people talking, really, like, you know,
you do jeopardize your freedom and whatever, whatever you like.
But, you know, there's been great people come before me who've done that.
Also, you know, Rosa Parks come to mind there and she didn't.
It wasn't brave enough to sit down in that seat and not give it up.
Who knows what the world could look like today?
So like you said, you know, I'm just going to continue doing my thing
and I won't be ever putting socks around my neck.
And that's for sure.
I'm certainly in a much more stronger mind,
frame of mind, and that's by and large, you know,
because of the community that I have around me and I have to give props
to the many, many people out there, a good few of them in the audience
there with us as well today, members of the Martin's World community,
which I'm not that will continue to grow after this appearance as well.
But the support and the compassion that's there within that community, too,
it's it's been amazing to see.
And I continue.
I hope to continue to watch that grow as within the community of Martin's World.
When I started it off, I started off just to raise awareness
about the harmful effects of cannabis prohibition, the benefits of cannabis
legalization, but a secondary effect has been the growing of this community.
It's growing through a telegram hotbox, as what we call it,
where the members kind of hang out.
We converse 24 seven.
And as people are performing relationships in there, as in after hooking up,
just people are forming friendships in there.
You know, people who probably lived only a couple of minutes away from each other.
They never even knew each other.
And through the hotbox, they've got to know each other.
So that's part and parcel of what I want to do.
We need to create these social opportunities for people in our community,
because as many of us know, we can be quite reclusive
because of the nature of what we do in a place of prohibition.
I know it's probably much different for you.
You can go out and maybe enjoy it.
Although, you know, I have to bring that up in America.
The salon of like social consumption lounges over there.
Do you can't consume where you buy?
No, you can't.
Las Vegas or Nevada is looking to do it.
And again, it's different state by state.
Like in Washington, I have to be in home.
Curtains drawn.
Nobody can see me to smoke.
If I go to New York, anywhere you can smoke a cigarette, you can smoke cannabis.
So you smoke a joint on the sidewalk.
Perfectly legal there.
Here I'd be.
Technically, I should be arrested, but I wouldn't be.
They would be like, dude, put it out.
If I was an asshole, then they mess with me.
But if I'm like, I'm sorry, officer, didn't see you there.
They would probably be like, all right, go about your day.
But yeah, there are no cannabis consumption lounges.
I hope we get to that point.
But again, still still a work in progress.
Yeah, because that's something that I've my sights set on doing here.
No, soon we talked about CBD and stuff like that earlier.
So at the moment, there's a number of high court cases
that are looking to be coming to an end.
To be coming to an end.
And it seems like the CBD site are probably going to win,
which means that the misuse of drugs will have to be rewritten
to accommodate for low THC forms of cannabis.
And with that kind of insight that not too long away,
I'm looking at opening up a kind of a cafe here,
but making more also a social hub to bring together the community
for opportunities like that, you know, behind closed doors,
private member space, bring people together.
Because you look at the way the pub, you know, you go down to the local pub
to have a pint and you can meet your future wife.
Why can't we have the same for cannabis, that people just going down
to the local hangout spot to consume some cannabis,
meeting like minded people and lo and behold, the love of their life is there
and a fucking happy labor after they live,
you know, stuff of fairy tales could be happening.
But we're being denied that because of cannabis prohibition.
So I'm going to continue to fight it so everybody can live their fairy tale
existence.
Good. Well, don't let it don't let anybody call you a lazy stoner.
I'll say that much.
Oh, certainly not lazy and certainly not unmotivated either.
And probably the next time we'll speak as well.
We're expecting to have our fourth child arrived there in the next
next week anyway.
Fifteen to February is the due date.
Congratulations.
Yeah, thanks. Yeah.
I was just hoping that she didn't come running down here and join you.
We just say, I'm going to have the baby.
My water broke.
So we got through the two hours without that happening.
I'm glad, too, because that would be a first.
And I don't quite know how I'd handle it.
I'm like, let me get some more water and a blanket.
No. Oh, shit.
Well, congratulations, Martin.
That is very cool.
And, you know, much success to you
as a person and a family man and to the cannabis plant in the future.
So thank you.
Yeah, thank you.
Thank you for making the time.
And I absolutely look forward to talking with you again.
Give you a little bit of time to enjoy the newborn.
But yeah, and look, anything comes up Ireland related or from over the side
of the pond.
And if you want to get asked questions, you got my contacts there.
So I'm more than happy to to jump on this anytime to do little segments,
which if you do anything like that.
Yeah, that would be awesome.
And I will take advantage of that.
And again, too, for anybody watching live or on the replay,
all of his contacts are down in the show notes, websites, Instagram, Facebook,
where to follow and where to stay in touch, how to help, how to contribute.
All of these things you can find there.
Plus some pretty good news articles.
This is my passion, man.
You know, helping on the medicinal tip, helping to change the laws,
helping improve people's lives.
That's really what this plant should be about.
And for a lot of people, it is for you.
I have no doubt that that's that's what it's for.
So thank you very much, man.
Any any any last words?
Any you want to shout out yourself?
No, just again, thanks. Thanks for this opportunity.
I hope everybody enjoyed the conversation.
And I look forward to seeing some new faces pop up in the different
social media channels.
Don't be strangers, guys.
I'm always open to receiving people's messages and questions of any form.
So cool. Thanks. All right.
Well, hit this man up, guys.
And I will be back next Monday, same time with Brandon Rust.
Bokashi Earthworks, we're going to talk a little bit about crop steering.
Part two, we're going to finish or continue that conversation
that got started about a month ago.
So that'll be next Monday. Same time.
But until then, everybody, I appreciate it.
You have a wonderful day and I will catch you later.
Peace out.
