We're just going to kick it off with some breeding talk and genetics and then in about
45 minutes we'll shift gears and get legal and talk plant patents and IP and fun stuff.
So Trevor, the stage is yours.
Right on.
Thank you, Peter.
So yeah, I'm sitting here with two incredibly well-versed individuals who have been engaged
in this industry and before it was an industry, really have their roots going back to when
it was a community.
I've got Josh D. on my left.
Hello, everybody.
For those who don't know, Josh D. is one of the people who brought us all the OG and we're
all greatly appreciative out here on the West Coast.
So thank you, man.
Well thanks for everyone out there to keep growing her as much as she needs it because
LA needs OG.
Indeed.
And on my right I've got Mojave Richmond.
And Mojave, he's got incredible experience as well.
Breeder of the sage.
Long time experience both here in the States and also internationally, which gives him
a unique perspective on everything that's going down.
So right on.
Yeah, yeah.
Pleasure to be here, everyone.
Thank you.
So yeah, I was hoping that we could just get into a discussion about the current state
of cannabis genetics.
Let's talk about where we've been, where we're at right now, what is the cannabis genome
as it currently, the state of the cannabis genome right now.
And so to kick that off, I think it would probably be good for Mojave to go first just
because Mojave, for anybody who doesn't know, works with Rob Clark.
He's got lots of experience in terms of talking with one of the foremost experts in learning
and understanding this plant from somebody who really knows the deep history of the plant.
And so, yeah, you want to start us off?
Sure.
Right on.
So just to really address where the cannabis genome is today, we got to talk about where
it was in the past and where it came from.
Cannabis is quite possibly the most significant human plant relationship is that between humans
and cannabis.
It dates back over 6,000 years and pretty much evolved from Central Asia, found its
way down into India and Afghanistan and Thailand and from those regions spread throughout the
world.
And initially it was a land race based genetics, which means a population of seeds that come
from a specific region that are bred for a particular use by those people in that region
over time.
And land race genetics had to be incredibly dynamic.
So it had to be a diverse genome with the dynamic, enough dynamism that it could respond
to the ever changing environmental stresses.
So those land race genetics that evolved over hundreds, possibly thousands of years, eventually
spread around the world.
They went to Mexico and Africa and South America and Thailand and everywhere.
But they were predominantly narrow leaf varieties that had a fairly specific targeted genome
because they were selected as Sensimia single plants.
So essentially a farmer would grow a plant and select the best seeds from those plants.
That was the way people selected cannabis for thousands of years.
And eventually those seeds got spread out and then after prohibition, when the US imparted
its grand wisdom on the world and decided that people shouldn't smoke cannabis or consume
cannabis or use it for fiber or for food, those populations became ever more secluded
and harder to get to.
And eventually they all found their way more or less to California because California,
for better or worse, is an exceptional place and the people here fell in love with cannabis
in an exceptional way.
And those land race based genetics, those narrow leaf varieties, they had a very specific
genetic makeup.
And we could talk about that a little bit more as we go along.
But they pretty much made up what cannabis was up until the 80s when prohibition had
driven cannabis into the small grows and small underground gorilla grows out in the hills
of California and the hills of Oregon.
And people needed smaller, more compact, easier to sell cannabis that could evade law enforcement
and could be grown indoors.
And so at that point, it was a critical juncture in the cannabis genome in that these land
race based genetics that were from all over the world and were predominantly narrow leaf
got married with this one very specific population of genetics, which was Afghani based genetics.
And those Afghani based genetics that more or less joined the rest of the world in the
80s kind of came to shape what the cannabis genome is today.
And the problem was, we all had to grow indoors.
And in order to grow indoors, you need a small plant, you need a plant that finishes relatively
early and you need something that you can pull off indoors.
And you can't do that with narrow leaf varieties.
Narrow leaf varieties are big giant Christmas trees that take a long time and yield very
low.
So something very specific happened to this cannabis genome in the past 20, 30 years and
it was predominantly driven by law enforcement.
And then it was championed by us, by us cannabis breeders and enthusiasts, and then specifically
championed and distributed around the world from the Dutch seed banks.
And when the Dutch seed banks in the 90s got a hold of these new Afghani narrow leaf hybrids,
they were distributed everywhere and everyone had the same issue.
They needed something that grew fast and they needed something that was short and they needed
something that was potent and needed something that they could sell for top dollar because
it was really dangerous and risky to grow cannabis.
So that has really driven us to where we are now.
We're at this kind of crossroads now, we're in post-prohibition and we're now looking
at what is this new cannabis genome that we have now and people are thinking about, well,
what's the future of cannabis going to be and what are these selections going to be
that drive the market as the years go by?
And so we're at a kind of an interesting crossroads where we no longer have the selective forces
that were imposed on us by prohibition, but we now have a very broad palette to work with.
But at the same time, cannabis genome is nowhere near as diverse as it once was because all
those land-race-based varieties, even though we got some great unicorns from them and we
bred with them, the populations are gone.
And when the population is gone and the people that bred those populations, you no longer
have the diversity in the gene pool.
So now we have amazing plants that came from those populations, but we don't have the genetic
diversity to move the needle left and right in the way that we once had.
Even though we're way further ahead than ever, we're still compromised by that.
So now the challenge is us as breeders is to figure out what society demands from cannabis
and what the industry demands from cannabis and how to achieve that with a somewhat limited
gene pool.
And I guess that's as much as I have to say now about that.
I think that brings up a really good point in terms of how there are cultural implications
and cultural pressures and selective pressures that go on in terms of what we as a community
of farmers and cultivators select for and what we're trying to do.
And that's culturally dependent.
You look at the South Asian cultures where it was predominantly selecting for flowers.
You look at the hashish cultures of Central Asia and then the hemp cultures that have
also proliferated around the world.
And every single culture throughout time has gotten a hold of this plant and figured out
how to adapt it to their own region and to their own purposes.
And we need to recognize that.
And the most baffling thing, it's been both a double-edged sword.
There's positives and negatives about it.
One, here we are now and cannabis has sort of survived the great bottlenecking that we
have seen in every other agricultural crop because of prohibition.
But we've also seen a lot of forces where we had to operate and make selections and
work with populations that were tiny.
And that brings up something that I think Josh D. knows a lot about.
That's the proliferation of these elite cultivars, the OGs, the chems.
And some of the things that predate those, the hazes, the northern lights, and the skunks.
These elite cultivars that really have formed the basis of our genetics and from, I would
say, the 80s to the present, are what we know of as the cannabis genome and what we're all
trying to strive for and do and reproduce.
We're all chasing after that next OG, that next skunk, that next new-new.
And you're somebody who's brought something into the community, kept it going, and helped
us keep these heirloom varieties of elite genetics.
And can you speak to that and how we keep those going?
I mean, I think after all this time, there was at a certain point after like four years
and I was like, wow, this OG Kush thing, like everybody loves it.
And it's nothing really special that we did.
It was just the indoor scene was coming ahead.
And I remember back when I was young, if you had indoor, that meant it would smell like
hay and nobody wanted it.
That was like, oh, you got that crap indoor.
And it was like, oh, do you have that Mendo or Humboldt or like some, somebody who was
growing it that had some skills.
And even with the transportation of smuggling it down here, it still was the very best when
I was probably becoming a huge cannabis enthusiast in my, as a teenager.
And it was interesting because all of a sudden this indoor thing happened and OG Kush comes
on the scene and I'm basically lucky enough that it crosses my path.
So everybody knows I didn't create this.
And now that we discovered recently this year that the guy that did create it, did it by
accident.
This wasn't something that he had done some sort of like real work on.
And I think that's interesting how those things come about.
So here we are.
And I just felt like, I started growing OG in 96.
But in 91, is it Sherry?
Yeah.
So 91, I think is when we found out that this accidental pollination moment happened and
TK and OG were created.
Some weird road trip from like Florida to California.
That happened in 96.
Yeah.
And so I mean, I'm a huge fan of this one cultivar.
So it was easy to just focus and stop growing everything else.
It was really kind of a spindly plant that didn't produce a lot with the techniques we
had at the time.
But it was so good that we were like, oh, we're going to figure this out.
It doesn't matter if it gets half of what we're getting with NL or whatever else we
were growing.
That was a good move.
And there are a lot of people at some point, at some point that actually left my hands.
And thank God I gave it to my guy Ian up in the Bay Area.
And Ian is really kind of like the godfather of good weed in the San Fernando Valley.
And for a lot of reasons.
And nobody knows who he is.
He doesn't get any credit.
He's very humble.
But if it wasn't for him, thank God he was holding on to some cuts of that.
And it was easy.
It was like, hey, and I'm coming up and grab some cuts, you know.
But these are strange things because now I see, you know, in hindsight, I had no idea
that this would become much bigger than, you know, it was like a change of the game.
This is because it became the genetic backbone almost of all the flavors we love today.
And OG has its found, it's like a cornerstone variety that will always probably remain like
that.
But now I see it's the diversity in cannabis is always attached to the OG when people want
to punch.
Like, add a little kick to my favorite flavor.
It's interesting and fascinating when Mojave says about not having that much of a gene
pool to choose from to take it to the next level.
It seems like we really all just jumped in in the last decade or 15 years and just mixing
everything up.
And now it's hard to pull back unless you have original stock, you know, which is hard
now because you have had to have it stored properly.
Number one, that person still has to be alive and out of prison.
But it's cool to think because guys like Mojave and Rob Clark, I know that they have a good
stash.
Like we all know that.
It's true.
Well, we, long ago, I can't speak for Rob, but a long ago, I was born in Big Sur, California
in 1969.
And my family had already been in the cannabis industry for a few years.
And the land that we lived on, a place called Plaskett Ridge in Big Sur, it was in 1965,
a few years before I was born, that my mother and father invited a friend of theirs to come
and stay with us.
And we ended up moving and he stayed there.
And he became a grower.
And his name is Patrick Cassidy.
And Patrick Cassidy coined the Big Sur Holy Weed.
And Patrick Cassidy started the first harvest parties ever in the new world.
They were called California Harvest Party.
And every year, a shitload of hippies, you can go online, you can find a little bit of
information about this, but like a sea of VW buses would descend upon Big Sur.
And we'd have these big harvest parties.
I can vaguely remember them up until around eight years old is when I think they ended.
And it was a big pagan cannabis festival.
At the end of the night, they take the biggest and best plant and burn it on the bonfire
where all the naked people ran around.
And it was a real cannabis community.
And that's what Big Sur and Mendocino and Oregon and a lot of these places on the West
Coast were doing heavily in the 70s.
But right around the end of the 70s and the early 80s when the Afghani genetics came in
and started mixing, there was something that happened, something that you could put your
finger on, which was that everything changed.
So at that moment, the community reacted.
The community said, hey, what happened to our cannabis?
I mean, I can literally remember people saying, how come we don't have the weed from last
And that was like 1982, 1983.
And at that moment, the genome kind of merged between these two big populations of these
narrow leaf and these broad leaf plants.
And we came up with all the hybrids of today.
So when I moved to Amsterdam in 1993 and was fortunate enough to have some old school California
genetics to work through, I was very fortunate to find something that was indicative of those
old flavor profiles and those old effects that came with the old school land race based
stuff.
So at that moment, I decided that I would spend my life working that line.
And I've bred that specific line over and over again and never tried to deviate too
much except after meeting this gentleman over 20 years ago and being introduced to OG Kush,
which is the world's most impactful plant.
And Josh said something really interesting.
He said it wasn't a big breeding experiment that produced OG Kush.
We're talking about breeding, right?
And everyone wants to think about breeding as being this new big industrial commercial
thing.
But it was a couple beans from an accidental cross that pulled out the most impactful plant
that we've ever known.
So it's luck.
And it's luck and a vision.
When people know good weed and they can pull good beans out of good weed, they come up
with amazing things.
And that was just a moment in time and it happened.
And that's why we have OG Kush.
And I just want to applaud that.
That it could have not happened easily.
Could have easily not happened.
Anyway.
So I crossed my stuff with OG.
That was the one thing that I crossed it with.
And that shit came out bomb.
Yeah, exactly.
It did.
It added exactly what it needed.
Was punch.
That was the truth.
Yeah.
That's right.
Yeah.
And that's something that we also, as we move into more of a corporate cannabis and when
margins and bottom lines make the decision on everything, is the next OG going to be
selected and kept?
I don't know.
If it doesn't yield and doesn't lunk for the people who are trying to pull weight, the
OG will get pushed to the side.
But instead, because people saw value in something.
In Florida of all places.
I mean, Florida in the early 90s, y'all.
I thought the same thing.
That was like...
Yeah.
When Matt Berger was like, man, we got this stuff in Florida.
It's like, bro, it's the best shit you ever smelled.
I'm like, there's no fucking...
We're like in California, Matt.
Matt's from Florida.
I was like, we're in California now, man.
Come on.
I got mad respect for everybody who...
I grew up in this shit.
I grew up in...
I was ignorant.
... on a fucking commune, off the grid, totally backwoods.
Everybody I knew grew weed.
I was literally growing weed as a homeschool student as a 16-year-old.
And I was handed marijuana botany and told, here you go, kid, figure it out.
Now, that right there was some shit where it was easy.
We went through so many plants.
We never saved any cuts.
We were all seed-based.
And we saw gene flow going all over the place.
But cats back east were doing some crazy shit under some serious prohibition and risk.
And they were holding on to some stuff.
And we all have to be very thankful of all the cats back east.
The Sowers, the Kems, the OGs.
It all comes back...
All genetics come back to California, thankfully.
But we're very lucky and blessed for the fact that people made selections not based off
of what was the most heavy yielding, what was the most vigorous plant, but instead,
what was the most unique and most desirable plant.
And that they then went around and shared this and saved it and held it.
And people held things closely in their circles.
And if we didn't have that cultural dynamic and didn't have our own culture operating
with the prohibition bullshit on the top of it, we wouldn't be where we are now.
And so, thank you to all of you who have saved, collected, and persevered through this prohibition bullshit.
Yeah, it was...
Living in Amsterdam in the 90s was an interesting experience in that my best friend from childhood
owned a seed company, Adam Dunn.
I've known him all my life.
And my girlfriend at the time was the girl who sold seeds at the Cincy Seed Bank.
She was the one who took your ticket at the Hash Museum, and she was the one who sold you seeds.
So I fell into this community where everyone from around the world would come to open up.
So all these insular communities in Florida and Arkansas and Indiana and California,
they all...
Everyone was hush-hush.
And that hush-hush thing kept those gene pools alive as well.
I mean, that's why we had those plants.
And that's why we had the diversity back then, is because when everyone found a plant that they loved,
they didn't share it.
Another group had to find the plant that they loved.
Another group had to find the plant that they loved.
It wasn't just, hey, let's all share the same plants.
So in Amsterdam, everyone would show up and share their stories and share their genetics.
And it was like this kind of open community.
And that's why...
And then the Dutch seed companies, they absorbed those genetics, and then in turn brought them to the world.
But it was this fact that there was one place where these little insular communities could
come and share that they were their common experience.
And that was a unique time.
And that's when...
If you look back, those of us who've been doing this for a while, if you think back
about the cannabis genome in the late 90s and the early 2000s, there was a lot of amazing
plants around.
A lot of them.
And they were all different.
All of them.
And some of them came from little groups that had no relations to anything else.
Like, hey, I've been over here in Indiana doing our bubble gum, and I've been over here
in Florida doing our TK and stuff like that.
And it was that prohibition dynamic that allowed for that to happen.
And we don't have that anymore.
Now we can all just buy clones at a shop.
So once again, we're at a really interesting crossroads when we're talking about the genome,
about breeding, about what people want from the plant.
And we almost have, as breeders, a responsibility to explore that and then to provide that,
provide the outcome that facilitates what people want.
And it's challenging because we also have to pay the bills.
So...
What is the driving force now?
The driving force now is bag appeal.
Initially was what puts what sells cannabis out of dispensary.
Like, individual consumer.
Yeah, exactly.
What is that?
Yeah.
Over experience?
Yes.
Yes.
We'll take questions at the end, I think is what we'll do.
Yeah, thank you very much.
But no, it is.
And now, well, it's interesting that bag appeal and smell and flavor and presentation of the
flower was what drove the market for a number of years.
But now, it's brands.
Because now we have packaged cannabis.
So we can't look at it, smell it, and engage it in the same way.
But the plants that sold themselves for years became the brands.
So now people have those memories of what that plant was.
So now they don't have to think, well, what's gonna be in this jar?
You know?
Dude, the price to enter the cannabis space right now is obnoxious.
So it's like if you were at an era of time where everybody was in a band, and we're all
playing music, and the music was rich, and everybody got a chance to come up on stage
and play.
And then it shifted to, well, you can only play if you pay.
You know?
You can't play for all these other stipulations.
And all the best, hungriest, most talented musicians usually can't function that well
under such structure.
And this is megastructure right now.
This is like uber-structured, very opposite of what we're all about.
So it feels like these two worlds are meeting.
And so the result is the cannabis genome and diversity will be limited to only the people
that could enter the space.
So when you go to a shop, all you get is whatever was the highest seller in BDS analytics.
And you have, everybody knows what that bullshit is.
So I can tell you the five top strains and varieties, and you'll be like, well, I hope
then in a year from now there's more than that available.
But people do follow that way, right?
So to enter the space is expensive.
Most of those guys coming into this space, they don't understand how it works or the
culture.
And so it becomes a little bit more difficult to navigate through.
So they jump back to, hey, we'll just follow whatever's popular.
And then there's too much of that going on and creates a flat market.
And I've seen it in other states I've been involved with.
And it takes time to mature.
And you hope that guys stick into it and find a way to get through the three-year moment.
And then you can start getting back to your craft again and start focusing on new varieties
and such.
Yeah, no, that's one thing.
We're in a major culture clash right now.
The culture that we come from and the cultural dynamics that we've historically had are totally
butt up against some highly capitalized people who don't have a lot of respect for the culture.
And so right now, the main thing that we're all trying to figure out is how do we, who
have historically been involved in this, and in whatever capacity, we need to figure
out how to link up together and build cultural resilience so that the Josh Ds of the world,
the Mojaves, and the Trevor Whitkeys, the kids who are just totally backwoods and off
the grid, how do we all figure out how to get through this?
Because we've got a lot of cultural knowledge and expertise that could get lost.
If it's all just about margins and there's no culture there, then what's going to happen?
We've seen Budweiser, we've seen that, and we've also heard everybody saying, oh, craft
is the way, craft will save us.
But is craft just saying craft and just being like, oh, I produce quality, is that sufficient?
Or do we have to do more in terms of figuring out how to develop strategies for moving forward
in this new capitalized world we're in?
Well, you mentioned craft, which I think is a really interesting analogy to make.
A couple years ago, there were some groups, I will not mention names, but there were some
groups that were going around California saying, hey, everyone's going to get to stay in the
cannabis business.
And there's 50,000 people who grow and provide cannabis, and there's 50,000 people who work
in the craft beer and boutique wine industry, and there's room for everyone.
And that was this false sense of security that was spread around in order for us to
move this industry forward.
And I understand why those groups did that, because they wanted to legalize cannabis,
and God bless them for it.
But the reality is, is there's not room for everybody.
And craft beer, if you want to draw a comparison, is kind of interesting, because after prohibition
people wiped out all craft alcohol, completely, just decimated it, especially distilleries
and small brewers.
And it took a long time for craft to reemerge.
And the reality is that it reemerged from one brewery.
There was one brewery in San Francisco called Anchor Steam Brewery, and they were the last
man standing.
They were the last craft beer company that survived prohibition.
People think craft beer is a new thing.
Craft beer was how beer was made forever.
And then came conglomerate alcohol.
And then it took a long time of a lot of shitty beer for people to say, gee, wouldn't it be
nice if I could have something that was decent?
And so Anchor Steam was the one survivor, and there was one rich benefactor, the Maytag
Blue Cheese heir, who reinvigorated Anchor Steam.
And then when Anchor Steam got momentum, Sierra Nevada jumped in, and then came Lagunitas,
and yada yada, and then here we are today.
We're all drinking craft beer.
It's great.
But it took 60 years or so, or 40 years, of shitty beer.
Okay?
So that's what we're facing.
We're facing a lot of years of shitty weed to get back to craft.
And if you look in California specifically, where we had a really robust craft cannabis
industry, they were called Grow Rooms and small illegal grows.
They're all gone.
Now we have commercial cannabis, and there's very few people who can produce that level,
like Josh does, on a commercial scale.
It's very rare.
And especially when you're exporting that same concept around the world, it's even rarer.
People in Macedonia are not going to learn how to grow craft cannabis.
They're going to learn how to grow commercial cannabis.
So let's just be cognizant of the way big industry takes over and how long it takes
to get back in the door.
Yeah.
No.
And for us in California, particularly Northern California, that means Calaveras County.
We had wineries that operated all the way through Prohibition.
But once legalization of alcohol happened, the repeal of Prohibition rather, it was impossible
for all those wineries to continue operating because the cost of licensing.
We're all experiencing that exact same dynamic now.
And so for small communities that rely on this, we absolutely have to be cognizant of
what the implications are.
And if we want to spend the next 40 years fighting the good fight to have local craft
industries, that's one possibility.
Or another possibility is getting together, making local changes politically, staying
organized and actually making sure that we can shape this industry.
And there's a political strategy that has to be implemented, but there's also commercial
strategies.
We have to link up together and figure out how to build brands, build things like Josh
D. has built, like Mojave has built.
And so when we come together at these events, we need to network, we need to meet each other
and really look at strategies.
This is not just about getting together and talking or having people on panels, but it's
about developing strategies for cultural resilience and moving this community forward.
So yeah.
Awesome.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And let me jump in there real quick.
Yeah, I think the thing is, there's a lot of fantastic growers that I know in this state
or in the West Coast, I mean, or at least in the areas I've had time spending in.
And I was, first of all, I love the diversity.
I think like during the medical days when you could walk in and there was, you know,
a lot more to choose from, it was much more hands-on.
It was like, you know, it felt like inclusive, you know.
In those days of having, just having an opportunity to see all that diversity up in Washington
and then during the medical days and when it went wreck and they had promised the whole
entire medical community in the state, and it's part of the reason it got voted in, was
because they were not going to touch medical.
Right?
So luckily, I moved up there about five years ago and got to experience what LA was like
probably 12 years before, you know, probably 16 years ago.
It was really cool.
Right?
So then REC comes in and they bring a couple lobbyists in and they squash it and completely
dismantle medical.
And it became so disconnected from the community.
Absolutely.
But you were saying something earlier as well.
First of all, it doesn't have to be like that.
Like, and I'm here to make sure, like, I'm going to do my best until the day I die to
make sure that we put out, like, the best weed we can.
We hope everybody's happy and wants that, you know, like to continue to support us,
you know.
We've had some bumps in the road, but, you know, like any new industry, this happens.
We're a startup.
The direction starts changing, though, when the investors want the money faster than it's
like humanly possible.
And then it's like, how come you don't grow Gorilla Glue, you know, that kind of thing.
And it's like, I swear to God, we don't want any more Gorilla Glue, you know.
And, you know, even if it's not OG, we diversify and we change.
And if the public says, you know, they want something different, it's nice to go after
it, but to not be able to, and then you get the handcuffs on you, and then people start
looking at us as a company like, God, how come, you know, you're not providing anything
special anymore?
You know, you have to provide something special.
This is like a specialty market.
It's not a commodities market.
And you know, there's, it's not just the people in this room.
I mean, California really, like, respects and enjoys fine cannabis, fine wine, fine
music, all the best shit, you know.
I mean, we're lucky to be out here in the West Coast.
And it reflects the rest of the world.
The whole industry, I mean, the whole world looks at the California industry and the market,
and we dictate the trends here.
We do a lot of the times.
And if like, we fold in and don't fight for genetic diversity, and something special,
then it really will go away.
Like and it and I've seen that happen.
Have you ever been to Colorado?
It happens there a lot as well.
Like I watched that where the grows got so large.
And then we go try to find good weeded shops.
And it's really hard.
It's really far and few between.
And but I think out here, we're not at that point.
We're really at a great point for this discussion to happen.
So we can go ahead and produce fine product and brand yourself and with your merchandise
and your marketing to really staying genuine to what you're about, and have a distribution
network where you know, you can get your product out there, which is what you need to be successful
as well.
So all these different components that I think people don't recognize what they are.
And sometimes I think they sound a little bit more like difficult to achieve than they
really need to be.
Like a couple of us guys with a little bit of money, like I know for sure we can come
up with a distribution plan that makes a lot of sense and speaks to like all the different
shops in California, right?
And the bottleneck right now, there isn't a lot of shops in California.
There's a lot of cultivation.
And it's about probably in 12 months from now, it's going to be so saturated with people
coming online that they're going to drop their price.
And this is like that whole race to the bottom thing that you hear about people talk about
all the time.
It's like I can't sell my product next thing you know.
It's a dollar a gram.
People are flipping for 450 a pound and that becomes really difficult to have a business
like that.
But it doesn't have to be like that.
And the problem is, is when the weed goes down to 450 and people are selling ounces
for 60 bucks or 80 bucks at a shop, the black market kind of goes away.
And that's where you lose like a lot more diversity.
You know, so it's just there's this like cycle that's going to happen.
I think really, there's enough like talented, fun people here that really believe in this.
They put their like, I guess, efforts together and their resources.
You know, easy distribution chain, merchandising, marketing, fucking bomb product.
It can work.
You know.
Yeah.
On that level, we've got people, OGs in every single point in the supply chain.
And we just need to link up together.
We have people who have distributing licenses.
We have people with dispensary licenses.
We have people who have nursery and cultivation licenses.
And the key is to figure out how we normalize the supply chain and actually, not just normalize,
how do we optimize the supply chain so that all of the people who have been historically
operating are kind of operating on a premise of like, oh, you've been historically operating.
You've been producing fire and you come from the culture.
So I'm going to work with you.
And I'm not going to work with these fucking chads.
That seems like a fucking pretty reasonable, like, can't we all get down on that?
Like if you're a distributor and you're like buying from a dude who wears like shorts to
here that are pastel colors, stop.
Just don't.
Yeah.
No, it's true.
It is absolutely.
That is very good.
I have to admit, though, I'm still not quite sure what a chad is.
I know.
What is a chad?
He's a hanging chad.
It's a hanging chad.
That's it.
Right.
That's it.
Well, yeah, no, it's true.
And I have a corny thing that I like to say sometimes, which is, you know, us OGs, our
roots run real deep and like trees in the wind, we have to stand together if we don't
want to get blown over because they will blow us all over.
The problem is, is that we're all a bunch of different species of trees.
You've got a redwoods and eucalyptus and cypress and shit like that.
And we're all trying to figure out how to work together.
And it's hard.
It takes, it takes, you know what it is, is it requires the guy from the outside who understands
how to connect us all.
And it hasn't happened as fluidly as the pre-existing guys would have liked.
But that's because there wasn't enough business savvy cats involved in the business.
You know, unfortunately, unfortunately, or accountants and lawyers and all that shit
that we trusted and could work with, you know.
Yeah, we've got way too much stove piping, so to speak.
Like we're all in our own little niches and our own little worlds.
And it's like, we got to move away from the like closed circle.
And I mean, closed circles are good.
We got to keep our, our trust in our community and stuff together.
But we also have to have a networked community where part of it is recognizing people who
have been doing this historically and who are really trying to make the transition both
commercially and otherwise.
Because a lot of this is also about individuals who are out there cultivating.
And we need to, I want to see a like autobahn society for cannabis.
But instead of being like bird watchers, we got people growing their six plants and maintaining
that diversity.
Because people who pursue their passion and plenty of other plant species have this where
like you look at pumpkins or other things, people who are backyard breeders are really
doing real work and preserving the plant.
And if we build institutions to support that, then it will just build more of a culture
and a new context for us to develop these sorts of dynamics.
Like apples, for instance, are a good example.
There was at one point, I think there are 7000 apple cultivars in the world and apples
were generally since apples are not stable, they're, they're heterozygous crop.
So you can't just plant an apple seed and get a similar plant as you from the parent.
They're cloned.
So an apple tree was a family thing, a family apple tree.
So apples were generally named after people's last names.
So in the US, after the johnny apple seed era, we had 1000s of 1000s of apple varieties
available all over the country, just like cannabis cultivars in the 90s and the early
2000s, where there were these little groups and this is my apple.
And then when industrial agricultural happened, they said, well, that doesn't work.
We can't have 7000 choices, we have to focus what we can sell and what we can market.
And people want red apples.
So you ended up with red delicious, which dominated the market for decades.
It's a shitty apple with bitter skin and very little sugar and crappy acid content.
You know what I mean?
It is the blue dream of apples.
Oh, sorry.
Oh, ouch.
But people love red apples.
But then came Fuji's and Honeycrisp and Braeburn and all these amazing apples that actually
taste good and are sweet and have good shelf life.
And once again, it took decades for it to reemerge.
You know, industrial agriculture gets a hold of a crop and they homogenize it and they
streamline it and they turn it into a widget.
That's what industry that's what it does.
And then people get a hold of it and craft people and people who love heirloom plants
and heirloom things and small, cool little stuff and then they turn it into something
new.
And that's why we now have good apples to eat.
But for decades, I don't know if you all if any of you guys are over 40, you remember
you go to the market, what'd you have?
You had Granny Smith, you had Red Delicious, you maybe had Yellow Delicious.
Macintosh if you were in a nice neighborhood.
I mean, that was like a fancy apple back in the day.
Yeah.
But you know, so that's where we are.
And it's a little different.
It's a little.
Well, I mean, apples don't get you high, right?
Right, right.
Exactly.
Right.
And that's okay, because when the apple diversity, it was actually alcohol.
That's what spread the apple population.
It was for all for some hard cider.
But it didn't have but there wasn't diversity in the effect of the high.
And that's a big part about cannabis.
The genome is that it's all different things.
Every different genome provides a different effect.
So it's difficult to navigate that because there's no other crop that works that way.
Or they're all different.
And we have to pick.
And I think this also brings up another point like, clearly, elephant in the room, doom
and gloom, legalization is kind of shitty.
And moving into this new regulated world has been a difficult transition for all of us.
And there are large, capitalized douchebags out there that are looking to try and take
over the entire industry.
But we're in a situation like I don't think apple farmers were in the same situation or
breeders as we are.
I don't think corn farmers in the 1980s are in the same situation that we are.
Like they were crop commodity producers, they were producing huge amounts of acreage of
land and had tiny, tiny margins.
And when Monsanto in the 1980s decided that they were going to make a move into making
hybridized corn, I don't think that those farmers were positioned the way that we are.
We're actually aware of a lot of this stuff.
We're talking about this stuff today before all of this is happening.
Yes, we're in this transition, but federal legalization has not happened.
And so because of this, there isn't a full Monsanto is not 100% in the cannabis industry.
They're looking at it.
Others like them are looking at it.
We have the opportunity right now to figure out how to preserve and protect this without
having to experience all the fuckery that we've seen in every other industry and other
crop and commodity.
Great.
Yeah.
Well, nobody went to jail for growing apples, did they?
No, no, but they...
No, I mean...
No, not at all.
Not at all.
Exactly.
And...
So the gravity of the situation in cannabis is a lot heavier than...
It's a lot heavier, absolutely.
And apples don't save people's lives.
And cannabis does save people's lives.
Absolutely.
And it's commoditized.
I mean, they're apples.
They're apples.
Yeah, exactly.
But the comparison is the clonal varieties.
When Washington first went legal after the first year, I think there were only...
It seemed like there were only four varieties on the shelf.
And I don't remember.
Do you guys remember what that was?
Blue Dream.
Blue Dream.
Gorilla Glue.
Was it?
I don't think it was Gorilla Glue.
But it was just...
Oh, Jack?
Two other...
I was like, what the...
What just happened here, man?
It was a really awesome, pleasant shock to go up to Washington after being a grower,
indoors only, in LA, hydro, the whole time, and go up there and see the skill set of the
people in the Pacific Northwest.
A lot of people let me into their grows, and I was fortunate enough to make those relationships
and get to really see what...
To me, that was like, oh shit, this is craft cannabis.
Wow.
And I think Oregon too.
There's a lot of skilled growers there.
NorCal.
I was always scared that NorCal was gonna get the OG back in the day.
I was like, oh shit.
Like hey, you can have the clone, but you're not gonna bring it to Mendo, right?
Headband.
Yeah.
Headband.
Yeah, thanks, Mojave.
Headband.
Headband doesn't exist.
Josh gave me OG Kush.
I'll tell the story now.
Is the camera rolling?
Sorry, can you turn it off for now?
Sorry.
Josh gave me OG Kush, and I brought it up to the Bay Area.
And I requested, I mentioned, I said, you know, don't call it Kush.
Just call it something else.
It was a Sour Diesel crew.
And they called it Headband.
And they sold it as Headband.
And they also sold Sour Diesel as Headband.
And they also were growing Sour Diesel and OG Kush in the same grow.
And Sour Diesel, as we all know, puts off nanners at the end and beans were in both
flowers.
So people pulled beans out of those flowers and called those Headband.
So this is a good Philos bridge.
Go on Philos if you dare.
Look in the galaxy and you'll see what is Headband.
It's either OG Kush or it's Sour Diesel or it's something else.
Which is a seed that came off of OG Kush or Sour Diesel.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ask him how OG made it to Amsterdam.
I have no idea.
I have no idea.
But I do remember when Sour Diesel showed up at Amsterdam, very specifically.
And I assisted those guys with setting up a grow in Amsterdam.
And it was the stinkiest weed in town at the time.
As we know, there's something about OG, Kim, and Sour Diesel.
There's something in there, that fuel-y, terp-y thing that is unique and was a game changer.
And I remember the nice lady next door was like, I have no problem with cannabis at all.
Grow as much as you guys want.
But it smells so strong.
I come home, it smells like weed.
I go to sleep, it smells like weed.
My family comes over, it smells like weed.
It smells like weed.
It smells like home.
It smells like home.
Yeah, exactly.
So, yeah.
And that was a really interesting time.
Because those plants, Kim, Triangle Kush, OG, and Sour Diesel changed the game in a
big way.
And from that point on, everything had those three things in it.
And it's hard to find things that don't have, or that aren't, that don't have one of those
three plants in it.
So we're gonna transition in a couple minutes, but I wanna get each of you to talk about
what kind of mad science you're doing right now.
Like, what are you dorking out on right now?
I troll the internet.
Yeah.
Nice job.
Yeah.
I got it.
I live in a shitty county.
Calaveras County has a ban right now.
Hopefully that's going to change in the upcoming months.
I know that they're drafting the ordinance to bring back regulations now.
But my science is all about fucking with Philos and trolling my county.
And I don't cultivate it.
I mean, I have a microbusiness license here in Los Angeles, but I haven't flowered a plant
in over two years.
So I've been geeking out at going over my seed library and salivating over when I'm
gonna be able to have the time and the space to start germinating seeds and what could
come of that.
That's my main geek moment.
Nice, man.
You can pop him at our place.
Yeah.
Anytime.
I'm currently working on a facility in Carpinteria, Santa Barbara County.
Maybe some of you have seen some pictures.
It's pretty cool.
It's my first greenhouse we've worked on as a team.
And it's exceeding my expectations.
There's a lot of challenges.
Definitely different growing in a greenhouse than an indoor.
It's indoors.
I miss indoor, of course, but I'm blown away, literally.
We're just kind of ramping up, too.
We have a hot rod we've built there, but there's a lot of parts that need to be changed.
It's always challenging up there.
There's a lot of regulations that are trying to keep us down.
Square footage is an issue there.
Everybody knows land use permits.
It goes on and on the list.
If you see us out there, we're doing our best to put out the very best product we can.
We have a lab, Type 7 Extract Lab.
We'll be putting out all kinds of fun stuff, vape carts, sauce, that kind of thing.
They're going to probably force us to do distillate.
That wasn't my choice.
So if anybody sees vape carts out there, I am not a fan of distillate.
Distillate is just, you know, everybody just stop buying it so we can get back to full
spectrum extract.
Just getting places open and trying to create a business, you have to have a lot of money
behind it.
There's a lot of pressure.
The actual science behind it, the fun stuff, is yet to come.
We have a pretty sick lab.
My chemists are in the audience right now.
Really stoked and excited to start pulling some chirps and doing all that.
