Hello and welcome to another episode for Cannabis for Breakfast. I am your host London Nero
here again and just as we get the show started we'd like to say thank you to our sponsors.
For our sponsor Green Amber Canada we appreciate your help and support. I'm here again in the
garden. I miss each and every one of you and I had Russell pop up on screen he's going
to be back in a second but I just want to say I miss each and every one of you guys.
Last week we were at a conference we got a ton of crazy content coming up. I am lining
up conversations with the breeder of Tengsada Time Warp Avocado Kush. What I would consider
like if there was a strain that was considered an appellation in BC these would be the strains
that would be considered so and I have meetings with the breeders to organize them to come
on conversations on the Dank Hour to feature them on the show. I have a lot of amazing
stuff coming up down the line. I'm really excited to share it all with you but today
we have an amazing guest with us. Cannabis Horticulture Association leader Russell and
it's a long name so I'm not going to say the whole thing but without any further ado we're
here to see you. How's it going there brother? I'm going to unmute you now. There you go
unmute it. You're good to go. Hey London. Good to see you man. It's good. Things are
going well. It's been pretty hot out here in the triple digit so you know just trying
to stay cool. Wow it's triple digit so what's that look like for your watering? It's a lot.
It's a lot of watering. We're pretty lucky here though. We're out in Willow Creek and
there's like infinite we're really lucky. We're in a really small town of a few thousand
people and they're recharged source from actually it's called Willow Creek. It literally is
the Willow Creek is the name of the tributary that runs into the Trinity River where the
city gets their water from. So we get we have like we're very blessed with very good
very clean water. So we I do use a lot of it in these these times but I mean really
I try to when I can I try to mulch you know try to put down a thick mulch layer. That'll
help a lot. Mulch is the key London. Getting that living living consistency like I'm a
heavy mulcher. There's like hay on everything here. Yeah I know. I'm looking at a bed I
need to mulch. I just planted some rainbow belts in this little bed. I just it was like
a pea it was a pea garden and then I did a little shift and I had a bunch of wood chip
mulch on top. It was like a nice layer but when I ripped out all the plants it sort of
tilled up you know the under soil so now I got to mulch it again. But it's nice because
then that layer gets added into the soil and then you mulch on top of it. It's like if
I think honestly if you had to do one thing if you wanted to go regenerative and you
literally only did one thing I would just say mulch mulch mulch like add mulch layers
on mulch layers. That's like probably the simplest way to fix you know fix everything.
Yeah I love that. That's that's that's the key. And it's just nice. I like having the
hay or like you know wood mulch on top. It looks pretty. It keeps things at bay but it
also like you get some green matter mixed in there too. Like it's funny I took it there
was a bed last year where I put a bunch of green matter and it was kind of like my last
year's compost bed. So it was like so what I would do is I'd like I put down all of my
green dead matter. I throw the year into that space but it also toss in hay and I toss in
like like you know leftover root balls and masses and you know every once in a while
there'd be like a single pot like three gallon pot of cocoa. I'm like a cocoa blend. I'd
be like oh I'm going to throw that in with it too. And like that is my nicest fucking
bed right now. And I have this aqua poco gold that is like just absolutely tremendously
huge. That's awesome. But like and no amendments. No nothing just green matter from last year
and hay and hay. Let let let the land do its thing. And that's pretty epic. So you said
you put peas down. So are you like rotating you're doing crop rotation in. I mean yeah
I guess it's funny I never thought about it. Sometimes I don't sometimes I'm moving so
fast I don't think about things. But yeah I guess. Yeah it's crop rotation peas we go.
I'll go I'll do an early season pea sugar peas and snow peas. And then by this time
the heat will kill them. Actually I'm looking at some of the and see some of the remnants
the dried up peas. I saved a few of the pods. We ate most of them but there's a little stack
of pods over here. And I got actually I need to get that other stack. Let me so long. I'm
just going to hear. I got to move around. No we're going to move around a little bit
anyway so I'm going to grab these out of the sun before they get. See I got all these dried
pods. We're going to save some of these seeds. We're going to work while I'm such a dude
I have such a problem with like work. Being like there's such a complex environment like
any time. But I always feel like I have to do some. It's all good. We're going to sit
and show. I like that. What's your question about peas? Well first I'll say that's kind
of the concept of the show is like I kind of want people to feel like they're sitting
down at the farm with with the with these with these people that they that they like.
I mean you're well represented in this. We're going to do a little weeding. That's what
we're going to do. Yeah we're going to do a little bit of weeding. We're going to do
a little weeding. See I'm weeding right as I'm talking. This is what I'm talking about.
Now I feel like productive. This is good. So OK. So one year I had like I love these.
They're like a really great plant. But there's so many different varieties right. Like there's
like you know from shelling to snow to like all sorts of different shapes sizes and flavors
like so my thing was oh I'm going to plant a whole bunch of different ones. And then
then next year I save some and dry them out. I'm like oh fuck. Well now I just have this
gloriful mess of crap that none of it actually tastes all that good. It's all like woody
peas and like not such great stuff. So do you think like if you're going to save your
peas do you think do you think as a home gardener should go for it and just go for a bunch of
different types of by peas regularly or do you think you should like buy like one or
two fairly similar types and just keep those going in your space. Is that what you've done.
Well that's what I do. I just go after personally I like sugar peas the best. They're the sweetest
but the snow peas I like I go with just sugar and snow peas where I'm at mainly because
that's usually what the local nurseries have. But because also I like them the most. They're
the sweetest and crunchiest and they do well here. So they're like early harvest snack
like you they're like snack you know what I mean like oh look yeah. Yeah we're walking
around doing work snack a few peas. I gave some to my dog Bailey. He's like 12 and so
he loves the pea he snacks on. You know they're good for him. Good for the old timers. So
yeah peas are great and you know they fix nitrogen. So you know you try to cut it cut
it at the base and leave the roots if you can. But I don't think these ones fix too
much nitrogen. I didn't see any nodules or anything. I'm pretty sure peas. You might
want to don't quote me on that. Don't you have to cut them before like flower or seeding
or something and you're like and there's like field peas are the ideal one that you want
to do for that situation. Yeah I doubt they're doing I doubt they're doing much in terms
of fixing nitrogen on us. Yeah. Regardless though as we always do we tend to shoot the
shit because we get really awesome people on the show. And it's like I always get to
just have conversations with great people I know. But we do have to structure and have
some remnants of understanding the structure to these things. So like one thing that I
like to really get into and I think that there's the most boring question of all time that's
asked on every podcast on every interview on every show is Oh what was the first smoke
you ever had like when was the first time you ever smoked pot. Yeah no terrible. Yeah
no no no no skip skip skip. I actually have a good you have a good one. OK. We're going
to do that. The first time I ever smoked weed I was in Tibet when I was 12 years old. Oh
fuck off. No no it's a real it's a real story. Yeah. No it's a really funny story. It's a
really funny story because we didn't know what we were doing. And I don't know what
it was about this plant but it's just something I've been fascinated in you know attracted
to this plant. So I'll try to like there's a long backstory to this whole trip but basically
we're driving through Tibet and these cameramen that were with it was like a crew. We were
there they were filming a documentary. It's a long backstory but so they're looking at
this plant. I'm like what the fuck is this plant. My dad was like son that's a marijuana
plant. I'm like oh shit you shouldn't have told me that. Now I'm really fascinated. And
so we're like going touring around. We end up at this monastery like way up in the hills
like super crazy high up. And they have this like really beautiful I just remember this
like really intricate like stone like man. It was like a it was like they had plants
growing in between stone as like a mandala in this courtyard is so cool. But they had
this little patch of cannabis out front right to the left of the entrance was this little
patch. Me and my buddy Riley that I grew up with at the time. He's the reason why we went
on this trip. Their family was from L.A. His great uncle wrote Peter Pan. So their family
was like loaded. And yes along this long other backstory to all of that jazz. But anyway
so we're there and so we're like dude let's. So OK so not knowing some we're not not knowing
anything. Yeah not knowing anything about the plant at all. We just grabbed the fan
leaves bro. We were like we were like oh yeah. We just like ripped. We like ripped off a
few families were like oh shit. And then we like took it and we like hit it you know.
We're with some old there was another Chinese lady there named Bernice I think was her name
and she smoked cigarettes so we like got it got it a cigarette and we dried the leaves
out and we remember we're back at some little hotel and we had our own room and we're like
OK we packed we like somehow meticulously took the tobacco out of the cigarette and
packed in the dried leaves or sitting there smoking families and we get down to the end
I'm like you feel anything he's like no. And I'm just like I don't think we're doing
this right. Like something doesn't feel right about this. I don't know what we're doing
but it's not right. So that was the technically the first time I ever smoked weed. I guess
I was smoking like a CBD joint you know kind of like it's you know something. But I don't
know it's a pretty funny funny back story to that first time. The real the first time
I got high though that time I'll definitely remember I was with my buddy Hugh we were
in Virginia and I was like I was like I think it was like the next year like when I was
like 13 or something and he brought some weed in you know I don't remember it was like a
pipe or something we snuck out at night and smoked weed and I was like oh shit I'm fucking
you know it's like some beast or weed and but you know it's the first time getting high
actually. I think the first time it was like that whole like kind of what I don't know
like urban legend like the first time you smoke weed you don't get high but then the
next time you get really high. There's something going on with that whole thing like maybe
the first time I didn't maybe we didn't smoke enough of it you know. And then I just remember
getting really high and by the time we're like 15 we're little hooligans taking taking
gravity bong hits out of like old milk jugs or something and then oh god that's when it
was just like I'm that was retardedly high. It was good times. I love that. So not often
do people like I was I was with some monks in Tibet. That's never the leader in there.
Yeah it's a unique little backstory. So my usual question is we like to take it a little
bit deeper because you're not just like you know some person that enjoys consuming cannabis
or stuff like that. You're a passionate breeder. You're a passionate farmer. You're a passionate
horticulturalist botanist. I would say you know in training. Yeah in training. You know
you're a humble steward of the plant and you're as a steward you're always learning. So can you
tell me a little bit on there's always a cue point. It's never like hey you know I'm just
gonna grow some weed and this is gonna be the rest of my life blah blah blah. There's usually
a significant maybe you know occurrence event or something that happened in someone's life
that led them into this passion to really take it to the level that you have. Yeah I mean it's not
it's not we're talking to people that it's not like it's not you know I'm just consume every day
or it's just my medicine or it's like this is this is a lifestyle. This is this is part of your soul.
You know like look at you're surrounded by a bunch of plants right now. I mean it's definitely part
of who you are. So there must have been a couple points where it's like this is it. This is like
this is either a point where it's like this is I'm where I'm meant to be or or this is what I meant
to be doing. Do you have one of those that memory point. The memory point. You know it's probably
like a series of memories that finally led up to the transition to humble. You know I think honestly
bro like the trip to Tibet was a game changing life changing experience for me. Just I can't you
know you'd once the plant was identified you know you'd look around and be like growing up out of
the roadways you know is in the monasteries. It was something happened during that event that
absolutely just created a fascination with the plant. And then you know it's just slowly starting
to get high. When I was like older I would try to grow a little bit when I was 16 but I was still
very immature. In terms of my knowledge of botany at the time. And so you know it's like you know
grind trying to grow in red solo cups and not say in failing trying to plant plant in the backyard.
My parents house and then having the deer you know in the woods and having the deer eat it. And then
probably what really set it off was when we were in college. I went to college at James Madison
University in Virginia. And and my buddy and I Mike we would you know we tried to grow some up in the
hills we would hike because it's like soup. It was super illegal in Virginia. It's at the time. So it's
like very clandestine. And we know got some. So are you a Virginia born like is that where you're from.
Is that no I'm actually I yeah I've a long there's another long back story there. I grew up in L.A. I
grew up in L.A. till I was 7. Then I moved back to Virginia 7. I live there till I was 14. Then I moved back to L.A.
for two years. Then I moved back to Virginia. Finished high school went to college and bounced back to
California. So OK. A lot of bi coastal bumping. But you know it was good because I got to see for me it was like I
got to experience both sides of the culture you know conservative and liberal. So I feel like I have a pretty
well balanced understanding of both sides. But that's another diatribe. Anyway it gives you it gives you insight on
people. And I think I think some of the biggest challenges that I run into in this space or in life in general when it
when it comes down to it is people's inability in a group setting because everything's about working as a team
nowadays right. Like you're part of an association. It's a group like this is the community here. It's always about
working as a team period in life. That's just how it is. I think the biggest challenges in life happen when you have two
people or people that can't or don't have the ability to step in someone else's shoes and understand their perspective in a
proper way. And that that's where all the biggest conflicts that I have in my life or challenges that I have to overcome
are always when or if it's on my part when I'm being too stubborn and won't understand somebody else's side of the boat
or they're having a lot of trouble understanding my side of it or people that I know very very well that humbly greatly
respect each other but they they don't understand the perspective and point of each other's thing. You know what I mean.
So that's kind of one of those things that having a life like that because I had something similar. I grew up in Vancouver
B.C. I was born here and moved to Ontario Southern Ontario when I was seven and then moved back. So when I was 14 so kind
of a back and forth life. Oh yeah. Similar way. Yeah. So you get a lot of that perspective and I think that's super important
and it can give you the ability to like really you know get through life. It's true. Yeah it helps me like like you know I
try to if there's contention starting instead of like increasing the contention you you just try to shift gears and look for the
similarities. Everyone has similarities somewhere. You just everyone likes to focus on the you know the friction. So I don't
know if you can just like take a deep breath and sort of shift the conversation into some other you know field or you know
understanding then perhaps you begin building some commonalities and once commonalities are found it's much easier to
communicate with people. But you know it's just a diatribe.
But oh yeah. So but the real the real trigger. So for weed going back to where we where we were we're in college Segway post
Segway post Segway. We're at James we're James Madison University. And for whatever reason we got into the Cottonmouth
Kings and I was rocking out to them yesterday. We were watching the old ski videos. I'm a I love skiing. And so we'd watch
these ski videos and all like the cool dudes from Whistler and the likes were playing in the music videos had Cottonmouth
Kings. I was like who are these guys. You like look them up. And then they're like rapping about you know growing in closets
with their you know one 1000 watt high pressure sodium. And I'm like and so that kind of like say we were like well dude we
should just like try to grow weed in the in the closet. So that was probably like the quintessential moment when we truly fell in
love with what the craft was. And so we got seeds from Mark Emery. We ordered seeds to Mark Emery seed catalog which is like a
huge deal. We were all freaking out when they you know in the mail because it was such a illegal crime at the time. And we got the
seeds and then we got a grow light and we got some hydro. I think it was called Emily's Garden. It was like the little little
plastic tray and it's got these little pots and you fill them with the red lava rocks the hydro 10 rocks or whatever they are.
You know it's probably like using something stupid like general hydros two part three part solution. But we grew these fucking
buds. They were just these like Matt like forearms you know just like these massive. It was like a single cola but it's like this
massive cola. And we were like oh oh it was like super dank. It was like it was danker than anything we've ever smoked in our life.
You know what I mean. Like because we just had shitty beasters and brick weed and then once in a blue moon you get like kind. But but it
was all compressed and it cost like fucking 80 dollars an eighth or whatever. And so that was like the defining moment where like
dude it's game on. So now that was fun. That was a good time. And yeah I just sort of progressed from there. And then when I bounced
around it was like embedded. You know after that I got a job as a geologist and was growing living down in Southern California. I
actually moved back and then we're. Yeah we did a stint in Lake Tahoe working into the lumber yard and we're growing weed up there. In
retrospect I probably should have blown it up more air. That might have been a whole different life then. But I might not be here today if
I'd stayed. So yeah. Would you wouldn't be here now if you weren't there that day. So what was what. So I mean that was the point when
growing happened. When did when did you you know when did you chuck your first pollen. Yeah. Like what was what was the key point. Or
was there a plant that the first plant you fell in love with that caused that first pollen chuck to happen. The first pollen chuck. Yeah
I'm trying to think like back when it's. So I moved to Humboldt in 2006. And everybody pollen chucks once. Just so you're clear. Oh yeah.
Everyone pollen chucks once. Yeah I haven't. You know breeding came much later after. It was a long quest to understand you know how the
plant grows. How to grow it. Like you know how different different types of plants perform. And so I feel probably back in 2006 I would
watch my friends do some pollen chucking and I would just watch and see how the process works. You know at first it was like started.
You know some guys would just use I'd watch all the different ways to do it. Use a Q-tip you know and like paint paint on the pistols. And
then some guys would you know have pollen in a paper bag and stick the whole branch in there and just shake it around. You know. And then
other ones would just have like they'd go out in the forest and they'd just have an open pollination. They put a bunch of plants out
somewhere with the male and just you know have a water source for them. So I got to see a bunch of different methodologies for it. And over
the years I just started. I can't I honestly cannot remember the first time I pollen chucked. My life is a bit of a blur at times London.
It was so memorable. It's like the first time you have sex you don't remember it other than crying afterwards. You know it's just like I
remember planting the first one that went poorly.
But so so I mean so there's the evolution that happens over time and I think that's a really cool part of the story that that really will
bring us up and we're going to get in the garden here in a little bit here. But I like to always leave the episode off with how you became
you and how you are because I think that's a brilliant part of the story. So I mean you're growing in probably general hydroponics
whatever whatever happens. So how did your evolution of methodology grow because you are like not you're like one of the one of the
smarter people I know when it comes like period when it comes down to living soil and really understanding the whole system and getting into
and not only that but you take a ridiculous amount of your time and really give it to the community and give away information for free. Like
there's at least one or two weekly posts that are highly educational that you put out like the slug like you recently did one about the slugs
like you're always putting out great stuff and really lifting the whole community up with yourself at the same time and the way that you produce
that content. So I'd love to know how how that formation started. I mean clearly you have that background of being able to get other people's
sides. So there. So all right. So you know I have a foot in both worlds a little bit. You know I do. And but I I came from the traditional
kind of world and really Humboldt County say Humboldt County was a big transformational juncture for me. You know up until that point I was I
was going through some existential health related issues and there's long back story there. You know too many antibiotics blah blah blah blah blah
blah. But I was very you know I was very infirm you know quite a bit of the time I was not well. And so you know that's sort of related
to coming to Humboldt. Like I just Humboldt was like a calling. It was like the universe is like dude go to Humboldt because I love weed
anyways. At that point we was like such an important you know part of my life that I do. We have a year when this 2006. OK cool. 2006 I ended up
coming up here to get my master's in geology and I end up dropping out of that. I saw the writing on the wall. You know once I started
growing a little bit of a larger scale I realized I'm like I could get this master's degree in geology and make like a set this like five
figure salary or I could grow weed have all of my own time and make a little bit more money. I'm just like it's a no brainer. It wasn't at the
time it was a no brainer. And so you know it started. I would say you know my shout out to my buddy Matt from Divine Tribe. Matt was actually a
super integral part in getting me situated up here. He really he saved my ass. One time we had to move a bunch of plants out of my house like the
landlord I think was like a D.A. of Santa Rosa and she lived right next door to me and I had like this is like super small scale like two lights like
two thousand three thousand watt lights. It was like packed in some back room somewhere. And then I get this like you know she's I don't know she
finally catches on and then she like there's an inspection. I get a notice notified of an inspection and then so it was like a funny story. I'm like Matt
probably got to get he's like just bring him over to my place. So like 3 a.m. we pack in. I think I was growing like at the time I was growing
master kush and bubble kush. Those two were like the hot ones. I grew those for a hot minute. And so we packed all of these plants into the back of my
car or his truck and bit like I just remember like it was like 3 a.m. We're in Eureka. There's like leaves sticking out of the fucking top of it. And I'm
just like oh my God we're literally going to drive because it's because it's the dead of night and no one's out. We drove across town with all these
flowering like plants are probably like four or five weeks in a flower. But just growing like that. And it was like the funniest shit ever getting
that. And then that was like a transition point into this other spot on Humboldt Hill. Anyways I'm tangenting here. The point is Matt I watched him. He
was the first dude I knew that would recycle his soil and I would watch him at the time. Growers were just like dumping soil. They would grow and they
would dump their soil all over the place too. It's like where do you hide because you don't want to like it all out front of your house. Yeah. And he
just had these big big soil dumps in his backyard. He had like goat is so funny. I'd like goats and shit ducks and there's like this whole
fucking ecosystem that was like this. It was just like really funny. Look you know it's like really into some backyard and you're super funny. But
anyways he had these huge soil piles that he would dump all this old soil in like chop up the root balls and then you know reuse it. And I'm like
holy shit like this is OK. And so he got me. That was like I said I would say the first integral part in me understanding how important the
recycling sort of process is. And so that started that. And then he was using you know bone meal and just like sort of organic fertilizers. And that
that got sort of started triggering the use. It was like I feel like Fox Farm is like this. The intro. I don't know how many people like is that their
intro into growing weed was through Fox Farm. But that was like sort of the intro into you know there's nothing wrong with it. But but by sort of
biological you know like more more biologically active types of fertilizers. It's not perfect but you know it was it was a good intro. And then so
then from there it just started ballooning into like OK we're recycling soil. Well what do we need to actually amend. You know how do we recharge
this. You know soil. And then from there going through a period of like having plants have weird nutrient deficiencies. It was like oh I got to I
have to figure out how to do this properly at the time. I wasn't. It was just like sort of alchemy. I wasn't sending anything in to be tested back
then. It was just like well let's you know add this or that and experiment. Let's go for a fucking ride. Yeah let's go. Let's let's go in there and
find out what the fuck happened. A little bit of this little bit of that little bit of shit. That was too much. I eyeball this. Yeah.
That looks like it needs something. I'm not too sure. Yeah. If I put it. Yeah it was like. Yeah I was like. And then and then just you know like
learning over time as the as the whole process evolved. I started. I started cannabis sort of cultural association which I just colloquially called
charred people some say the C.H.A. but I just call it shot. It was like the big show. It's like the big joke you know like the chop chop.
It was just like whatever you know kind of like whatever I can try. Anyways I started it in you know to sort of promulgate promote you know this
whole. It wasn't necessarily about having all of the information but it was about going through the discovery of the information and learning
you know sharing the discovery of the information. That's sort of part of what this was. This whole process was to you know establish establish that
and you know just do something a little bit different. But so the whole the whole the inception of like learning how to recycle soil learning about
organic fertilizers you know and sort of the evolution of going into plant medicine. That really was the the real you know real trigger point because
humble I came I came to humble not only to grow weed but ultimately to heal from old illness. And I did that largely through dietary shift in
herbal medicine. So you know as as as. Yeah. So as as I sort of it was like I shifted out of the Western archetype and then just like slowly went
towards the Eastern you know Eastern archetype of health and and then just understanding I'm like oh wow like nettle is good for me but nettle is also
good for the plants you know and you just like go down the list. Comfrey is good for healing you know bruises. Humph comfrey is a fertilizer for the
plants. You know yeah look is good for my hair or horsetail is good for my hair because that's silica and it's good for plant health. And so you start
you're like oh shit there's this there's a synergy in the overlap of plant medicine you know and you start like really processing that it is man and it's like
it's a no brainer to me. I don't know what it is but I have this really strong propensity to want to create sovereignty. I really don't like the Western
archetypes of the pharmacos I think mainly because of how much they've hurt me. They've been nothing but harmful really. There are certain things about the
Western medicine that's great like with surgeries. My son had to have eye surgery. You know they're hands down like no brainer. They're the best. But when it comes to
internal health they're a bunch of fucking idiots. All of my friends would say I'm so stupid. It's about treatment of a symptom and not not not health of a body.
Yes. Oh he's got the allergies. Give him the shots or cut out his sinuses. No. Do you see stupid things. They don't say oh maybe you should stop eating sugar. So stupid.
So stupid. You know. Yeah. You know.
What else. Tangent. Oh yeah. So the evolution of that whole process really was in humble. That occurred from like 2006.
It's still going on man. Still evolve. I'm still evolving bro. I still every day every every fucking day is like a new idea. There's new ideas.
Like what would you what would you say your main methodology has evolved into now that we're going to be exploring. I mean I'm sure we're going to explore a few
different things but that we're going to be exploring in this garden at this point in time. What's the what's the F. The climax of all of that.
Well growth. I mean I'm not there. I'm not. I would not. I am not at the climax. There are people that are way more fully fully integrated than I am.
I assure you I'm at no pinnacle for for the right now for the evolution of this. It's still evolving. I would say I mean when I can I make my own compost you know
but I'm still using organic amendments. I'm still using you know powdered fertilizers like you know or I like Dr. Earth man. It's super easy. It's simple.
It's like you know maybe add a little glacial rock or some other volcanic dust for mineralization. But basically I mean all all all still add amendments
during cycles and then just mulch and just water and you know sometimes I'll foliar spray with kelp or other nutritive things if I have it. I haven't fully integrated.
I just I don't have enough time. I'm out consulting and I'm out doing other projects and working and I want to integrate every single little thing like you know making
you know fully fully going into having like an entire wall of K&F fertilizers or fermented plant juices or soluble calcium. I want to do all that. I just don't have enough time and I do.
I do use some of it but I don't do it probably as much as I'd like to. But that's just the name. I have to be able to put every moment of your day into it. Right.
You do. I mean that's a lot of work. That's a whole it is level. No it is bro. It's a huge it's like a commitment to just doing that. And and so I get it. And so largely you know my quest has been to learn like what what what is happening.
And so it's it's it's like it's like the universe is showing me a path that's this really interesting evolutionary path towards that goal. But it's not happening all at once. It's happening like in pulses like if you've ever been on really tripped out on shrooms or acid and you're like watching the sky or the earth and it sort of like moves forward and back and back.
And it's like moving but it's like not it's it's like this weird organic growth forward that doesn't it doesn't occur all at once. It's it's it takes time to do it. It's it's a fucking journey. Right. And I think it's a journey. That's the brilliance of it.
And like those moments when you discover something and it gets you so excited that you like have to share you have to talk about you have to get it out there. You have to like yeah you get energized. And I mean like I get I get pumped like I got a beam. I got some beans popping next to me that is that were given to me from from like the recent conference that I went to in the bean pop.
One of the beans popped and I'm like I'm like I'm throwing these motherfuckers straight in like mixed medium organic living soil with like mulch on top of them. I'm like I am not giving them any chance for it. You know like I'm not going to give them a chance. I'm just going to like they're going to go into dirt and they're going to survive or not. And that's their option. One of them pops. So we're we're we're doing good right now.
I mean yeah. Oftentimes oftentimes I'm like a really finicky seed popper like I don't know about your thoughts on that but I always fuck them up half the time. So I'm like I'm just stop giving the shit. It's like I'm just going to pound seeds and soil.
And what way what types of seeds just all types of cannabis seeds. Everything else for me pops pretty well especially. Well the big the biggest issue is cannabis seeds because when you buy a 10 pack it's ridiculously expensive unless you're in like you're like hundreds of that.
It's a big risk. It's a super. Yeah. One thing with seeds is interesting. You know I've over the years seen a lot of seeds and it seems like what I try to do with with with my seeds I try to make sure that they're fully mature. You know I really try to. Oh there goes the joint. Don't lose the joint. No. What are you smoking on by the way. Maybe that's maybe that's a cue to smoke it. That's probably exactly. Well let's let's have a look. What are you smoking on.
OK. So this is my buddy gave this to me. It's gel in a time's dosey dough. You know what I was. I wanted to smoke my jellies the gel in a time slaps and I was going to grind it up this morning but my wife had been smoking on this because my buddy gave me a few nugs of it and and it was already all ground up you know and I was like well I have to smoke that for a second. Yeah. No you don't. You don't like it. You know.
Yeah. Disregard what's there. What's there. It drives me nuts all the time. You know what I mean. Unless you only have one type of weed and then it's like why didn't you grind up a little extra for me. You know what I mean. If you have one day believe it's like oh yeah I know plenty so that we're always good to go. But if you have multiple types it's just like what are you doing. I didn't want to smoke that one. I wanted to smoke the jar that I just pulled out. What do you. Yeah. We didn't like your idea for it here.
But the good news is that it's the gel in it which is one of my that's like on my hot list right now. I really love the gel in the I'm kind of in love with that plant. I love the gel in a plant right now. So I've been breeding with it quite a bit and I just like the structure of it. The flavor the high.
You want to you want to go into those structure points in that. Do you have any of that going that we can look at.
Jelenade or examples right now. I mean I can't show you the gel in there's this top secret location that you can't show on camera. Okay. Okay. But let's get the descriptors then like water like what's the calyx to leaf ratio. And is that like is that something on average.
I can bring you one. I can.
Okay.
Do it.
Hold on. I'll give people. I'll put the brand up and tell people what's going on in case they've tuned in late. So if you want to just like run and do that.
You're blipping in and out right now for your audio. I'm going to switch camera.
He's got a beautiful hand and we're zoomed in there. I am having fun in the garden today.
And rustle I think. Can you hear me.
Yes. Okay. Cool. Oh there you are. We're going to sit in the shade because that's sun. That's where did you eat it. Peter's that where you got the gel in aid from.
Oh my buddy got it. I don't even know where he got it. He got it. It was a cut. It was from is the connected cut of the gel in aid. I can't I can't remember where he got it from. But it was pretty hot at the time that this gel in aid plant has been through.
It's it's a miracle it's still here. It's quite a miracle.
Is it up on a table or are you standing or like is that like a canopy.
Okay. Oh this. Yeah this is the gel in aid.
No no I moved I moved I moved next to this little mini Japanese maple because it was hot. It's hot. It's hot.
I was like yeah either that or it's one hell of a mother you have right there.
Okay so this is a poor this is this plant is loaded with lemon hash plant seeds.
So it's been a little neglected. I don't know if I can like flip the camera around. Hold on.
I can't see shit. Yes you can. So there's a little setting button. It looks like a gear.
Okay. Oh yeah. Settings. Yeah. And if you go in there and into the camera there's a little drop
down thing. If you click on the drop down it'll rotate your camera around. You just click the camera.
Back camera. There you go. There you go. There you go. Full screen there.
So could you just put it in the sun a little bit. The back lighting's a little bit strong. I can't
quite. Yeah it's been being munched on. This is just like you know very little effort right now.
But so you see. We like all the plants. We like all the plants. Yeah. Ugly ones. I love them all.
Yeah this is this plant is ugly but it's just loaded with seeds right now. So it's been and
it's been it got hit really hard by the sun. It smells so good though. What type of aromas do you
get off of it. What do you what do you just. Oh it's the lemon. It's the lemon. It's this
the sweet lemon with like just this really crisp lemon profile with with maybe some like hints of
a little sort of cushy hands behind it or something. You know let's look at I'm looking
in here to look at the seeds. But yeah. And I'll do a little shout out right here. Well so just
while we're talking about beans is if you want some of some of some of Russell's beans from
education you can check them out on Dagga.garden and and and get all sorts of good action. There's
a lot of fun stuff. Oh here let me show you this. This is pretty cool. This is my little Venus.
Oh this is my little pitcher plant garden. Oh that's fun. Do you like propagate them and
sell them because I hear they're really expensive. Yeah. No. What's cool is I've had this
garden for about. And you're in light depth or you're pulling from an indoor outdoor space.
With what. With that last plant for the flower. Oh yeah. That was that was depth out just to make
some seeds. Cool cool cool. But yeah this one's really cool. This has been here. This has been
backfilled. They really like peat so you can fill it with peat and then the they regrow. They
actually can handle the triple digit heat and snow. They're pretty actually surprisingly hardy
plants. And yeah that's a fun one. And then those are cool. Those are very low nasturtium.
Let me see. I love nasturtium. I love it. I've been throwing down some nasturtium on the regular.
Here's my little experiment with this is this is an experiment issue I finally got into.
These are little willow tree starts. So all of these fresh shoots like when this plant grows
up bigger it's going to contain a lot of rooting hormone. So this is this is the next. You talk
about evolution. What I want to do is have a bunch of these you know plants growing and then be able
to like harvest the fresh shoots and turn them into cloning solution. So then I can have like
a really awesome cloning solution. And I'm like I'm just wondering if I can sell these to you
it's like you could you know I think probably if you grew this to where it was. Hell yeah.
You know how much they charge for a willow tree. Yeah. Four feet tall. You know and I thought about
giving them away to members to you know like some incentive here you know. There's all sorts of ways
you can slice it. I'm not the best person with marketing but I'll tell you what cloning the
willow tree was the easiest thing I've ever done. You know I think it would be with all that natural
rooting or rooting hormone. Yeah. I just stuck like stock like little pieces in you know just
like I wonder if that one's stuck in there. Yeah. You literally just stick like like this one is one
that didn't go. But I was literally just stuck like sticks in there with a little bit of leaf
and all this is new growth. And yeah I was super fun. It's super easy. Let me see if I can get back
to the front camera here. OK. No that's just a bunch of crap. We had a bamboo. These are all
pots from a bamboo run into the ground. How do I little gear the little gear buttons that
look. Yeah. There you go. And you go back to the camera. OK. And then I go back close that. OK.
That's better. OK. All right. So do you have like a fancy greenhouse or you pull in tarps like it
like it like a traditional farmer. Let me try. Sure. I'll go. We'll go walk over here.
Walk. We'll take a walk. You guys ready to take a walk. Yes we are. So I start here with you first.
We should. Well you could smoke a joint except you. How long. How long we doing this for. How
long. How much time. As long as we can carry on an enjoyable conversation and people don't bail out.
I usually like an hour have two hours. You know I usually I have to go somewhere and be somewhere
by about eleven thirty. So I've got I've got some time to kill. Sure. There's no rush.
You sound like you sound like it's completely like it sounds it sounds. What's the word.
Where it's like. Oh and then a robotic bot. Is it. Yeah. Is it coming through any better.
Now robotic. It happened after it happened after I switched the camera back. So is it
going on. Is there a way we can remedy this. It sounds fucking weird. I can't hear anything you
say. Don't know. I'm going to try pulling these in and out. Does it. There it is. Now better.
There. Yeah. Now it works. That works. There we go. Fixed it. That fucking magic magic magic magic.
All right. I was saying that we've got I've got I've got till 11 and then I have to go.
All right. Take my daughter to a to a vocalist. OK. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Shooter shooter
shooter's got a really good recommendation here is me. I walk about. I'll show you all the herbs
and shit. I'm growing. It's a pretty little spot. I've been built it for about 10 years here.
It's been a work of art. We're all fighting time here. That's a good shot.
So you have any good. Yeah. Any fucking challenges so far this year that have really made your life
harder. Oh God. It went robot again. It went robot again. Why. Fucking. How about now.
How about now. Now I hear. Yeah. Better. Yeah. Wait I heard. How about now. How about now.
Yeah that's better. There you go. You hear me. I can hear you beautifully. You sound great.
You're coming beautifully. I think we're both coming through. I think it might be your
maybe just some sort of thing happening. It could be single. I live in the fucking middle of nowhere.
You know. All right. Let's go. What are what's behind me. Maybe if I got here.
What do you got going on with it. What are all these beautiful plants behind you.
Yeah. So. OK. There you go. I can barely see because the sun. Honestly. Peter says we both
sound better. You just like you both sound wonderful. It's probably it's probably just
me. We just live in the middle of fucking nowhere bro. I do. I mean. OK. So this is
this was my main garden space. And. Sorry camera. This was this used to be a greenhouse and then
it got abated. And so now it's just an open bed system. And so this is like the big experimental
zone that I do for the auto flowers and I inter crop with other herbs and vegetables.
So for example. Yes. Yes. Yes. Let's get down. Don't show me all the plants. I'm lying down
all of the lying down in the bed buddy. Let's see where are we. Can you see the chamomile.
Yes I can. I can. I mean it smells so nice. Lovely. Come on me. I see a hover fly. Oh look
there's a hover fly doing its thing. OK. So there's a chamomile. And then right over here.
These are all my carrots. There's a whole inner cross. Do you do a specific breed of carrot or do
you like like like a mix of shit. No I just use one type. I just I don't know. I need to send
them out actually. Do we had such a hard time this year. It was crazy with the fucking roly
polys and the earwigs and the fucking slugs the the roly polys fuck shit up bro. The roly polys.
I didn't think this is one of the caveats of integrating organic systems like after a while
when you build too much mulch it creates life or so many different little fucking insects.
It's part of the problem with it. And the roly polys like I would seed the carrots and then
they would eat. I'd go out in the middle of the night and there'd just be like
hundreds of roly polys just nibbling on all the little carrot starts. Then I was like God damn
it you know. But okay I'm dealing with the same thing right now. What do you do. Do you out plant
them or do you put something down. I've had some success with chili powder and pepper powder.
What do you do. Well okay so there's there's a number of things you can do.
You can sprinkle diatomaceous earth but that only lasts so long if it rains
or if it gets wet. You know moisture like dew dew on it or whatever. What works really well
are these beer can methods like if you put out if you put out traps you can put out you can put
out traps. You just cut a beer can in half and then you bury it in the ground and they'll just
they're attracted to the the smell and then they just fall in and die. You can definitely you can
definitely you can definitely kill a lot of roly polys with those beer traps.
And then I want to do an experiment though because you have to go buy beer and shit. I really think
they're just attracted to the yeast. So I kind of just want to like buy by brewers yeast and then
just like you know put a little Tupperware in the ground and do that. But they're fine now. It's just
it was early spring. It was like April April and May. They were just I don't know it's vicious this
year. When it's cooler temperatures too once you get in that hot daily sun and there's less water
for them to survive off of and you get that surface water goes by midday they're like their
numbers dwindle really really fast and then they die back and they add a bunch of life to the soil.
That's kind of awesome. But they bloom out they bloom out like like grossly sometimes for me. Is
there a specific reason why you threw chamomile down other than the loveliness of chamomile?
Yeah you know it's because it attracts bennies. It's it's it does a number of things. It
it attracts beneficial insects and uh chamomile actually you can make a really good sun tea with
like you get I'll take these tops cut them off soak them in a jar put them in a big mason jar
for 24 hours in the sun and then you can spray the plants with that tea and it's a nutritive tea
and it provides uh like you know some calcium other minerals and uh calcium sorry calcium
chamomile is actually uh chamomile is uh you can use for damping off like so you if you make a
chamomile tea you can use them for little plants like little starts if you ever have a problem with
damping off it's sort of it's a chamomile chamomile is an antifungal. Interesting. Chamomile's got
antifungal power. So I don't know it just seems like it does really well here it's like an inner
inner crop layer down the row down there. You're in your herbalism so you you you you you you
probably harvest the tops and use them for for for stuff and things. We do we harvest the tops.
It's like a whole group of tea. No I never I never drink I never I don't drink chamomile tea that
much I don't particularly care for the taste but my wife she makes salve with it she'll take our
chamomile and in calendula the calendula here's some calendula that's dying back now but it's
about to open the top let's see if you can see this calendula has basically had its day it's it's
about done see it's like uh starting to seed out but she'll take the chamomile and calendula
and make make salve with it and so it's like it you know so there there you go it's like
what I try to integrate is this like multi-faceted approach it's like this plant does it attracts
beneficial insects one it can be used to make a sun tea to feed the plants two and it can be used
to make salves as medicine for us three right so it's like I don't know I can't like begin to tell
you how cool herbs are they're the I gotta figure out a way to make it cool man because
they're the bees knees bro they're the bees knees bro and so uh yeah this is um
plus having some more flowers around probably makes your wife the autos
auto flowers nice shit it went robot again it went robot and went robotic now I hear you
now you hear me down here let's see I might want to switch the camera I think I think I'm going to
switch the camera around because it uh it uh it's it's just too hard for me to like flip it
you know while I'm talking I can't really see what I'm aiming at
that that's a good way to go when you're doing the touring that's that's probably my suggestion
okay besides I mean you're really pretty but typically when you're just for a little while
like the angle is better to look at the the plants you know because that's yeah
so can you tell me about the flowers a little bit like
you can get them on daga too I believe right
god damn robots I heard all right I'm just gonna start talking so this is a auto flower this is the
grease gun auto flower and these are some seeds that I got from atlas seeds they're you know a
large scale breeder when I was doing some consulting larger farms that's hilarious I
actually have some beans of theirs they're planted next to me they were at the grow up
beans of theirs they're planted next to me they were at the grow up conference up here in
in BC Canada I met Joe oh funny Joseph oh funny do you know him then
I don't know them very well but I do know that they have a pretty sweet auto called the grease gun
and so this grease gun I got and I just all I did was pick out a select some females and I reversed
I just made my own seeds of that and they know about it and they're cool with it so that's
awesome and they're not worried about you know me selling the seeds so I'm like cool we're all good
because I'm you know I'm small time compared to them here's here's a pretty uh I love watching
the bees there's some poppies is that a gargantuan is that the breed no so basically this is Danish
flag hybridized with Peshawar so basically you got see all the little heads there oh wow see if
we can get more bees yeah this is not even half of it um so what happened is that the Danish flag
used to be red and white on the inside that purple was white and it had frilly edges and then I had
my buddy gave me a Peshawar variety that was all purple and then what happened is that let's see
if I can go over here for better better sunlight let's see if I can get better sun that's probably
better sun and then what happened is that over it hybridized and when it hybridized with the Peshawar
the purple got embedded so where the white was is now purple and it has no frilly edges and this
variety has just stabilized in my environment and that's what grows here now it's hybrid version of
this poppy that's a beautiful poppy lots of heads to it yeah it puts off pretty big pods oh yeah
yeah you can see it like this poppy I did like one fucking stem I grew it for like for since like
December I've been growing this thing indoors this beautiful big gargantuan poppy I need to
rip all these out then my daughter rips the head off of it the day it blooms and brings it to me
with like I'm like are you serious right now so this I didn't even I need to so this you get to
see my mess here this whole thing was all poppies and it was this massive row of poppy it all seeded
naturally you know because the seeds fall this whole oh my god this place what a mess I'm so
embarrassed oh see this is they just grow this is this is what I'm talking about this is a real garden
like there are so much look at this diversity in this space right now yeah there is just a plant
that isn't there's tomatoes we've got we've got some just volunteer tomatoes growing up really
there's so many it's so funny here there's so many herbs and vegetables that grow most of the
time I don't have to plant very much I just have to find a good place for it like all of these
tomatoes just spring up on their own here's a good plant question for you then tomato don't go from
that mulling because I wanted to ask you a little bit about mulling but for tomato are you uh are
you a flavor person or are you a are you a pretty pretty tomato person like what type of tomato
flavor country flavor country bro yeah yeah I go a lot of the I go to a lot I go a lot with the
heirlooms here's a here's another example of a flowering this is a carrot this was a just a
seeded carrot that came up on its own but these types of heads um so you know they they always
tell me this and I forget it's like the asteracea what's the latin name the god damn it there's a
name for these types m m bull umbels I think someone someone will correct me on this come on
we got we got we got we got we got plant people in the chat what these big flower heads that are
on the carrots and the dill and the fennel and cilantro is similar to right no the coriander
or as it were no coriander is not not the same coriander has smaller little flower clusters like
they'll be smaller yeah thank you yeah they're great for attracting lady lady beetles and and
predator wasps um so we appreciate you Blake we appreciate you shout out yeah letting let yeah
letting your carrot flower out is I love flat flowering carrots are actually like a great
beneficial insect attractor the only problem with carrots I found out is that when they flower out
the seeds from them might not be the same carrot seeds like if you if if there's wild carrots
nearby this is the problem out here if there's wild carrots which there are and they flower in
the bees pollen crosses with the normal like orange sweet carrots you'll get this like
bullshit hybridized carrot like I bet let's rip it out let's look yeah you gotta like plant a bunch
together in a section that one looks okay that one actually looks like an orange carrot but
you know no it could have been an early bolster but it's it look it doesn't look great yeah but
you can see like it's all like a lot of times these carrots will be like really like woody
you know they're the the ones that hybridize are really woody on the inside but anyways yeah
malt mullin's a great crop too to have what do you what do you use the mullin for because that's got a
ton of things let's see if we can see all right let's see what kind of insects in here oh I see
a few what are those it oh is that a disiphus oh or is that an assassin bug what is that sorry okay
so mullin nerding out on insects for whatever reason I'm like fascinated with plants attracting
insects that's my jam bro yeah um the mullin okay again multiple uses for mullin you can wipe your
ass with it um but it's really mullins actually what what when I was studying herbal medicine
mullin's a great expectorant so if you have a chest cold you have congestion in your chest
you just pick off you know a few leaves like this you know something like that crush them up and
make steep them in hot water boiling water and this mullin um is a great expectorant it'll help
you get the phlegm out of your chest if you have any chest colds it's dude mullin's great for that
and uh you know again it's like it's really soft and you know it's good to add for composting and
the you know for your compost pile and uh I'm I haven't looked into it that much but I'm I'm sure
that it has nutritive values that you could feed your plants you know if you like to make a you
know fpj or other type of extract I'm sure I'm sure that that's what it could be used for and
so fine and then finally it attracts a predator insect called dicyphus and dicyphus is a generalist
predator it's sort of this like longer looking it's uh it almost well it doesn't look like a
mini praying mantis that's not a good way of describing it but it's like a longer insect
cool cool but it's much smaller so that's you know how do you spell it how do you spell it yeah d
i c y p h u s all right let's see if I can bring a there you go I'll bring an image up regardless
now those uh because I can I can do that we have the power we have the power we have the power
there's some more tomatoes
tomatoes let's look around for other insects let's go on a walk about oh I got some garlic too
the last few years I've been god damn these weeds so everybody can see that too there's the
can you say the word again d d i c i p h i s I've got the I've got the image pulled up
yeah dicyphus yeah there you go yeah it looks like a broad group of species like those yeah
sort of like a general generalist predator I got some garlic here let's see this one looks like it
how many leaves they say with garlic can you see me all right can oh there he goes yes we can
so I intercropped the whole you can't say it's hard if I can see because it's like a jungle
but there's an inner there's a there's a row of garlic that runs down this 50-foot bed
nice I ended on the outer side here yeah so so on so in the past on one side I'd plant herbs
on the other side I'd plant vegetables of the autos and so the chamomile was on that side
see the carrot there's there's another row of the carrots there the carrots are intercropped
down that aisle there's a flowering onion I need a big piece of grass anyways so garlic
I think they say with garlic it's ready when a few of the the lower leaves die back like one
this one has two diebacks I think they say you're supposed to wait for three
three to die back I kind of want to pull it out just for fun but I don't think I'm going to I
think I'm gonna no let's pull one out let's see you can you can just just clear the top off because
you can clear most of the top you don't need to pull them no I know they're kind of buried down here
all right I'll fucking dig oh look I found a stick there you go you don't need to kill it yet
let's dig it no it's not ready yet yeah no it's close it's close though it's hella close
we're getting close so that's fun garlic's been fun we love grown garlic
um is it like onion if you clear it because I grew up like you clear the onion around a little
bit so it bulks out a little bit rounder I don't know if you do the same with garlic but maybe you
can no no you don't you keep it buried don't you got another yeah you got to keep it buried yeah
it's different yeah different than I need I need you let them up and and and depending on the breed
we got oh we got some strawberries coming damn you damn you I've been collecting strawberry dead
strawberries for years oh man I got I just planted this pink lady I'm excited for this pink lady tree
this pink lady apple tree but dude it got ripped by the heat it got so burnt the heat the triple
digits that thing got fried it's crazy I got an old bale of hay I need to use this is my raspberry
patch this is dope wow I got tons of raspberries in here I love raspberries they're epic my
neighbor has this huge yard full of them and he's gone over the area and I want to go and loot them
but I can't because yeah dude every day I just come out and so the patch used to be over here
under the under the willow tree there's the willow tree there you go that's where you got
the propagated ones from and you got a nice yeah we're hanging out there yeah bro this is the jam
the kids love this little spot it's like the herbal I'll roll through here in a second with
hers but the raspberries used to be here this sweet lady gave them to me and they're runners
and then so over time they ran all the way down I just ran them so that they all the way down from
there all the way up to there and the best production of them is where there's light
once the tree line hits and it gets shaded those don't actually perform very well they get sun right
now but yeah they don't do so well yeah man man I just go pick and then lay in that hammock and do
fucking fucking nothing for the whole day eat raspberries yeah just hang on the hang at all
you would never get any in for jam you'd never get a single one you got a hammock next to your
raspberry patch fuck that I would I would not leave that space on a good day oh oh my god
yeah it's pretty nice so this is a plant called fever few fever is uh it's really strong cool
I've heard this plant can you tell me a little bit more about it's very useful
oh the leaves smell so astringent it's almost like smelling salts it's like whoa
but it's used for migraines like I don't have migraines really but once in a blue moon I'll get
them so I'll come in here and pick off these leaves and make a tea or just chew on them if
you can chew on the leaf too and I swear it's like instant relief from a migraine
that's just my experience with it but yeah then back here in this mess there's all sorts of random
herbs that I need to go through here's some rue this is rue the rue is being overgrown by the
lemon balm the lemon balm is fucking taking over the lemon balm is there's uh I think that's
angelica over there I don't think that's lkmp I think it's angelica there's a whorehound plant
that I had to transplant because it was getting stomped on too much um chalk this is chocolate
mint I don't know if you've ever smelled chocolate mint but dude this is the best oh it smells so
good so good bunch of lemon balm too you got good patches of stuff I got this like dope ass jasmine
that's like crazy this this jasmine plant here it divine it ran and it started growing up and now
it's like overtaking going growing up into the willow and uh that's pretty it smells so good
when it flowers it's so amazing let's see so this is now we're getting into the real shit show here
the big I gotta come in I gotta roll through here this is actually a good example of what
needs to be done so here's a bunch of chard that's gone to flower so basically what I'm
gonna do is I'm just gonna rip all this chard out eat what I can and then I would chop it up
and just chop and drop like I try to design the systems to where it's just like okay that
suck nutrients there like well let's just put it back in the ground then you know and uh let's see
just met there's we I started letting you glitched out a little bit there your screens kind of pause
this is a heads up there we go we're back I got this we're back we see like oh yeah
yes it sounds a little glitchy right now I bet it's because I'm probably getting away from the
wi-fi can you hear me or is it still glitching yeah no I can hear you I can hear you beautifully
I'm sure everybody okay got some some fennel in here so anyways yeah there's this you know all
sorts of things this is a good plant this is like the walking kale it it never bolts this plant
like a kale it will never flower it only grows it's phenomenal I've had this I've had this plant
for like seven years really it's crazy those are lovely plants yeah I really I really like it when
I'm able to have things like that where it's just like oh you know here's my section for that and
let's just throw some mulch down once in a while and a little bit of green matter and you're good
to go yeah this place is a fucking mess the blackberries are going ham though we're gonna
have so many blackberries it's crazy I've never seen so many blackberries this is our asparagus
patch it's gone I gotta weed bro you got much weeding I have to do look at this pathway this
was asparagus and now it's just all fucking grass the peppers are being there was there
were pepper plants in here oh look there's my cute little borage there's a borage in there too
yeah borage oh yeah yeah yeah so borage borage is another great great plant let's see if I can
find some flower here there's some flowering over here great snacker on our way to the borage
I'll show you the I'll show you the ground time yeah here's the borage
these beautiful blue flowers I love eating these blue flowers
their seed pods are pretty yummy too they're like cucumbery and fresh
yeah borage is good oh my god the aphids look at that I just noticed that oh my god
the aphids are oh but look there's a ladybug all right do your thing just yeah just let it
happen man maybe hose it if you give it a hose it's not a terrible thing if you really want to
quell it look at those fucking bastards look at that guy that guy's fucked up a little bit
let's get a full screen there that is fucking disgusting you know what's interesting though
most people don't know there's different species of aphids so like the aphids that are going to
aphids that are going to kill this kale they're not going to go on your cannabis plants
so like there's species specific aphids and so yeah like the the there's rice there's the
fucking there's grass aphids and stuff yeah yeah you feed on grasses and stuff this is my little
potato patch here this is half of it we we harvested the other half we harvested all the
yukon gold potatoes and then these are the uh the red potatoes I think they're pretty much ready
I'm here to harvest these today let's see let's dig down here and see if we can see some potatoes
there we go yeah so there's a bunch of really awesome red potatoes now look at that beautiful
healthy soil too look at that yeah dude okay so this is like part of an amazing transformation
process for me when I started figuring things out so this soil was we live on a really shitty
hard packed gravel part of the river terrace so it's like the soil sucked originally but then over
time like watching green source gardens and Nick describing how he like his continuously mulching
so I added a little bit of potting soil but what I did is I kept mulching so
what I do now I just try to think as easy you know be smart about it so like all this grass
here right like all of this that needs to get ripped out what I'll do is I'll come in and I'll
rip all of this stuff out and then I'll I'll chop it up with this this I have this attachment for my
for my uh weed whacker it's like this metal blade and I can like slice it so I'll basically just
chop it all up all of the weeds now right like all of these weeds are for our nutrients
so why would you want to like get rid of the weeds yeah so all I do now is just like all you
do is you rip the weeds out you throw it on the bed you chop it up and then you cover it with mulch
and it becomes just this like haven for worms it's quite phenomenal so that's and that's the
easiest thing in the world to do just like rip the plant out throw it next to the ground like
nearby and then chop it up you know what I mean so that's really beautiful that's like that's the
jam you know and that's it it's free nitrogen man like yeah free man I know so I got a tin I got my
little romaine fucking container and mulch it and do it like even if you compost it in with a bunch
of hay and put it in one of those black containers so that kills all that you know like there's some
great stuff you don't you don't have to chop it there are other ways around it too but like
don't I fucking so I it drives me nuts this is this is this is absolutely bothers the crap on me
and my parents do it I know so many people that do this and they go oh I don't put anything I
don't use any fertilizer I don't put anything in the soil ever blah blah blah all plants all
the plants in my yard are dying and they're yellowing and all they do is when they find a
weed or they find a plant or the yutra means they take it they put it in a plastic bin and send it
off to the dump to the get to the here in Canada you send all of it to the big organics recycling
depot and they take it and they turn it into compost or whatever but and then it's like so
every year for 12 years you've taken from your soil you've like if something things have come
out you've cut them away put them in a bin and remove them from your property like exactly no
shit exactly exactly you've got a god you're telling me come in you know what I mean like
what are you gonna add to it like you can't just keep subtracting no I think that it's
it's still organic yeah it's the hallmark of insanity too it's like you have people will
take things out and then have to buy something to add it in it's like what do you do you know
what I mean it's just this psychology of the human I got in this funny argument with my family a few
years ago at Thanksgiving we went back to Virginia and they were like harvesting all there was so
many dried leaves and and I'm like just there's like a spot in the corner of the yard like those
leaves are money like you're adding fertilizer and compost to your flowers but like those leaves
are fertilizer and money just like create a pile in the back corner and I literally watched them
put the leaves in plastic fucking bags and take them to the dump or or some recycling and I'm like
what is it like am I this is insane like what people do and it wasn't just that
rake up your lawn after you mow it and and put it in a plastic bag
you know it's so crazy to me and I got in this big argument with them and I was like what the
fuck dude but anyways that's neither here nor there let me show you my sweet blueberry patch
this is my awesome blueberry patch these blueberries got a little bit hammered by the
heat you see they're they're drying out a bit they're desiccating this one plant tends to do
that I've got one two three four five six seven eight nine plants here big established blueberry
bushes and uh they're different varieties in here I don't know if you can see can you see all those
different varieties I can't really see the blueberries I can see all the blueberries
can't really see the variety that's what I mean yeah no I meant I meant can you see the blueberries
yeah no those are epic those are really nice you trim those back each year what do you do with those
because I've had trouble producing it online cut out right at the opportune time you said what do
you how do you how do you grow them because you've had problems is that what I heard I do you trim
them back at all do you do do you do any cutting back to do any training to increase production or
anything like that I just I just you know I have to this is one crop you have to fertilize in order
for it to be successful um super hungry yeah they're they're a little bit taller like some
of these branches these top branches are starting to fall over so they do need to be pruned back
my wife said that you don't want to prune them back too much but I think they need to be pruned
back quite a bit actually I think this season I'm going to cut them back because now they're
getting too top heavy like it was fun while it lasted but look this plant has totally fallen over
see that yeah it's like like it's like just falling over it's really interesting you if you
look at if you look at commercial blueberries they're hedgerows they're these little hedges
hedges like this plant right here can you see this little shrub right here do you see this shrub
yeah yeah this is a Chilean guava that makes these little Chilean guava berries kind of like goji
berries but different um very cool but they'll grow they'll grow blueberries like shrubs like
they'll grow them really low they'll prune them like a little short shrub and then only the top
six inches produces blueberries and then they come in with those weird forks yeah those forks
and I was like I was like dude that's crazy that's actually really interesting I mean I who knows what
plant growth regulators they're using to keep the bushes like in that shape I don't know but
it's really interesting actually I wonder too if it's varietal maybe selection as well because I
mean a crawling plant is not something that's completely out of the realm of of possibility
it's totally selectable you know like yeah I wonder you know we cut it back hard each year
you can see how much how many flowering plants are in my environment there's just like
constantly regenerating plants that are this is St. John's wort can you see the St. John's wort
yeah that's a good medicine there this is my wife makes salves with this too oils my son loves using
the oil sort of like a sort of like it's got some relaxing properties to it you know like yeah
it's good um like a sleepy time tea type of thing yeah sort of yeah he puts I have a Labrador tea
plant that that's kind of similar I've been taking Labrador yeah Labrador tea it I think it's like a
Canadian swamp plant I'm going back kind of a neat switching cameras all right you did the camera
flip for you yeah you did okay all right here's my nettle patch this is the nettle this is the
great nettle it's starting to flower it's starting to flower or seed I mean you don't want it to if
when you harvest nettle if you're harvesting nettle for drinking for tea you want to harvest
it before like this when it's just the tops you you've done this a lot haven't you you don't want
to harvest the uh you've touched stinging nettle a fair bit right yeah I just yeah I just got stung
here I'll show you I know but you've done it before the thing is is people that have never
done it before it's it's it hurts a lot all right and you can get a resistance I think eventually
no I don't think you do I don't think you get a resistance you just get used to you get used to
it okay so yeah yeah if I pick it if I if I pick it off it's gonna sting me normally if you grab it
like right down by the root wait those are poppies you're not gonna jump in there for a second you
know what actually I use it I use it as uh I'm like if for my kids I'm like if you if you get
in trouble I'm gonna throw you in the nettle patch I'm gonna throw you into the nettle patch
okay so with nettle nettle is really interesting for me because over the years I've used it
actually is sort of like acupuncture I call it nettle point therapy and in a way you you basically
have if you have achy joints some pain in your joint you know a tight stiff part in your neck
or something I will sting myself with a nettle at that point so right here right on the back of my
neck hurts I'm gonna take this nettle leaf and sting myself just like that and it stings and
then all of a sudden it'll start itching you know but that itching that plant chemical they like
it's bringing blood there's some phytochemicals in the nettle I don't know what they are what they do
and they're interacting with your body and then it's also stimulating blood flow so blood rushes
in to that zone and it'll be itchy for a few minutes and then after that largely for me the
pain will go away for a while it'll actually reduce the pain it creates something happens
and so I don't know I call it nettle point therapy and uh yeah interesting I use it a lot
interesting you're a lunatic just so you know I used to make nettle soup all the time for my
restaurants and stuff like that and fuck me that hurt like you get it on your wrist because your
glove only goes up to your wrist and it'll get you out of here oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
and then yeah nettle's different I know a guy dude I was over at a friend's house recently
he picked the nettle leaf and ate it and I was like you are like the fresh leaf it's nuts it's
fucked up there's a whole there's a whole British thing they compete to eat how many leaves how many
I know that's crazy that's crazy I wouldn't know I did it I actually did it I ate one of the leaves
but the nettle plants were older and they weren't as watered well so I don't think chemically you
know they weren't as strong and there is sun bleached so yeah and then I went home and I tried
it with I tried it with one of these fresh leaves I was like oh god like I spit it out it was it
tingles it's a weird it doesn't feel exactly the same but it has this like strange tingling
sensation um man okay so that's the nettle now I want to show you something that's really cool
this is my wasabi patch this is wasabi fuck off no bro this is my do you have a wasabi
garden a drip wire is that what's going on there is that what I see
drip how are you watering it's just sprinklers uh these little drip you know drip works yeah
fan sprinklers basic how often do you have to water it because that's like that's not an easy
thing that's not an easy thing to have success in but check it out bro dude it loves it here
look at all the baby nettle these are all from the seeds so all so these this was the big plant
and every year they spring up with these little white flowers and they make seed pods
and I I rarely fuck with them when they do that and so a bunch of the seeds have fallen
and now they're now they're actually propagating in this environment bro it's so rad it's super
rad like all of those all of these little plants are baby nettles so I move some around what I do
baby with the roots off save some of the roots and then I'll replant a chunk of the rhizome
to save you know to keep going and they've they've stabilized here over the period of a few years so
I mean you know due to a kilogram of wasabi is you know like like a pound of wasabi is like a
hundred dollars hundred you should see these facilities where they grow them too maybe I
should just rip out I'm gonna rip out my wife's hostas we're gonna start dude we're going in
we're gonna move we're gonna move into wasabi cultivation before you know it bro yeah yeah
it's pretty cool highly profitable I got some in the fridge oh there's a little borage highly
I forgot to say borage is good for um attracting pirate bugs I see pirate bugs in those little
blue flowers all the time really yeah I like pirate bugs they're they're they're they're
crazy looking motherfuckers there I got to release a few live on the show before it was a lot of fun
oh dope yeah here's my little the moment of zen here this is my little zen pond
oh very nice very nice yeah but the nettle patch is kind of like overlaying it
I planted some uh basil mint inside of it to see like now it's growing hydroponic basil mint
it's pretty cool that's pretty cool I like how the I like how the nettles will stop birds
yeah yeah so it's another little herbal zone I've got I've got a lime tree here I just got
here's a Meyer lemon that's thrown down some nice lemons and uh
the lemon tree just ripped the headphones out of my head hold on no and here's another little
here's here's another little one of my herb zones this is stevia that's stevia you know the sweetener
yeah I have some of that going is this marjoram or tarragon I always forget I can never remember
yeah okay thank you um yeah a yellow echinacea some pretty echinacea um here's some arnica
I planted this recently I'm excited because it's actually spreading like all of these
all these ones are new starts and you can see the seeds here the arnica seeds so I mean I'll just
yeah yeah I'll just take that and just sprinkle them they'll you know ah they're on my arm holy
shit they'll be everywhere by the end of the week yeah well you'll have them in your neighborhood
I tried this little hopi I got this hopi tobacco plant this year but I was hoping it was gonna
catch but it seemed like it didn't like it here and it bolted and immediately flowered
so I'll just chalk it up as like seed harvesting experiment maybe get a few little leaves to smoke
I I taught I deadheaded my tobacco uh-huh I got like a flowering jasmine tobacco and it'll keep
going you pull so maybe I should pull those flowers off yeah you should I mean check to
see if there's enough growth in the node spacing because you'll see a little shoots popping if
it's kind of so tiny the last the last tobacco I grew was like five feet tall you know I haven't
went like there it's huge I haven't grown tobacco very much but here's my time patch I got tons of
time it's like an ongoing joke in the family tons of time tons of time this is uh people need to
let that shit go like you need everybody needs one big-ass time bush and one big-ass rosemary
bush everybody needs one of you yeah exactly lavender too I think and those are just things
that take so little effort you can put them somewhere you barely need to give them shit
and they'll take care of themselves and you always have these amazing aromatics at your disposal
you glitched out and froze on me my friend I'm gonna pull you in and out
it's been hot and sunny so I wonder if his cell phone has finally hit heat we will do a little
shout out while we're waiting to see what's going on there to our sponsor uh green amber
canada greenamber.ca I got a video lighting video coming up that's nuts I mean these things are
making my budget explode so definitely go check them out if you want you know commercial lighting
and you want it at a reasonable pricing that's a good way to go um anyways we will get back to
it I wonder what you're doing russell hopefully you're there yeah you can revege tobacco you can
revege tobacco I didn't know this Nico I did not know so you can you can deadhead it and revege it
because I have maybe it's different you know it's probably a varietal uh separation there as well
maybe I don't know if you can see it but I have one plant and we'll pull this up a little bit
right back there can you see this see this one that's right here it starts here and goes all
the way to here these all these white flowers all of those those are all tobacco jasmine tobacco
um that I have going here boom boom um as well very very fun varieties there's my
epic baby is trying to sneak out of the house towards me yeah and we do have speech share
starting shortly for my little one so I am going to give russell a minute here see if he comes back
if not we're going to cut the show now uh because I've got much to do today and we have a bunch more
going on today we have a lot of amazing stuff happening here on Cannabis for Breakfast and
and also later on this week this evening I have a really fun show and we'll take the time to mess
it to talk about it right now we have a really amazing show we'll have Amir Palat joining us
from hemp bouquet on the day in cower him and Robert Clark uh found some of the last hemp artisans
in Turkey and have some amazing really really cool hemp products um and a really amazing story about
the heritage and background of hemp in in the culture and community so you can check that
on tonight and there's Russell dude my phone overheated yeah that'll happen in the sun
fuck that's the hardest part of garden tours is phones overheating that's crazy I did not think it
was gonna overheat huh it's pretty funny though I mean nor I I would think it would if I it's
overheated when I leave it out in the sun you know on one location but oh my god what the hell get
hold on let's go back before we lose you before we lose you you'll probably run into some similar
issues here yeah I don't know I've also got a shade but it's hot out here man it's hot
it is it's my butt I also have to go to my little daughter's appointment in about 20 minutes oh
check out the monarchs or I think they are swallowtails hold on you guys let's go swallowtail
butterflies or monarch butterflies so let's do those my phone dies again I'm sorry but
do you want to while you're doing that do you want to give us a shout out and let us know
where we can support you and support the cannabis horticulture association
cha I have to say it like that from now on by the way cha beautiful can you can you hear me at all
what's up can you hear me through anything hey can you hear me now can you hear me yes
did you see the butter did you see the butterflies absolutely epic while those are going because I
don't want to lose you again and we have a beautiful image let us know how we can support
you and what we can do to support you in the community because I also have to get my daughter
to the speech appointment pretty soon so I want to make sure that we get that at the end of the
episode because it's so important for people to know yeah for sure okay all right so I started
cha the cannabis horticultural association you can go to the website you can join as a member
if you join as a member you get some free seeds we send you some cannabis seeds of your choice
from our genetics list and you get access to an online database it's filled with a lot of
really cool information on ipm and other plant knowledge I need to build it out it's been a work
in progress so there's still a bunch I need to add to that and I'm trying I you know your support
helps me do this full time I still have to have a real job and I do other projects but I'd like
to do cha full time so every time someone joins and supports that it goes towards that that goal
okay so you can do that and then also on the side I'm selling seeds so if you want to support just
if you don't want to deal with signing up to be a member and all that you can just support me by
buying seeds you can talk to me on instagram I'm usually available and so you can do that and
their seeds are on daga peter's website daga.is it daga.world? dago.garden and that's in the
description below and then I've you can also contact me through strainly I'm also directly
available through strainly and I'm probably setting up a website too eventually I need to I want to
set a separate seed website up to keep it free and clear of certain you know legal channels through
paypal and whatever but that's that if my phone dies it's been real I love you guys this is my
horseradish patch horseradish is you'll never know I have horseradish from the rest of your life
forever and ever and then it grows through pavement man here's my little borage patch
here's my little borage patch here this is a kumquat tree here right here it's got a big ass
weed growing up we're gonna rip that out and then of course I gotta show you the tea tree
this is a tea tree really yeah this is actual you know the Australian tea tree like you smell you
crush up the flowers ah smells so good it's like tea tree oh yeah bro cool yeah yeah this tree used
to be used to be 25 feet tall it was as tall as the house was and then the snowstorm knocked it
over and then I had to it was like it was hanging like way over in the in the in the gravel driveway
and I had to cut it down and I was like so bummed and there were these few lower branches like well
keep these maybe it'll come back this whole part all this green growth was like this
it was all bark wow and then all and then all of a sudden it just like it sprung to life these nodes
all of these nodes they sprung out of it and they just like it's crazy all of these little nodes
sprung up sprung to life like all over here yeah like over here anyways it will persist it will
persist and we dried a ton of it I have a ton of it that's dry and I gave it to my buddy to process
and still it's really funny I read a scientific paper and in the in the paper it said that they
got more oil out of the dried leaf material from tea tree they got more oil when it was dry than
fresh which was hard to believe but I couldn't believe anyways I gave him a bunch to process
and he got quite a bit of oil out of it even when it was completely dried out completely desiccated
these little leaves were completely desiccated quite remarkable actually I had no idea and what
you just used it as a as a tincture like a drop like a like yeah topical yeah it's like an
antiseptic you know you can use it for home cleaning sprays or you know foot soak or you
have a little cut or whatever yeah very cool what is the advantage of having plant people around you
all the time is having plant people around you all the time yeah totally yeah for sure man yeah so
you know it's been good I'll show you uh uh one final little coming up project here that I'm
pretty excited about so this is a little project here these are a bunch of seed genetics I have
uh I don't I can't I have I have them listed out I can't remember all of them in the row but I'll
try to go through them this is Green Source Gardens coffee it's like f8 it's so it's such
an amazingly stout and uniform plant you know wow being an f8 like this batch right here then
we've got his limoncello the limoncello is next to it that should be a lot of fun I'm really excited
about uh let's see 16 12 uh this is a lemon I think this is like the lemon moroc uh no it's a
afghan lemon that's what it is I got these from Peter from Daga these these I got from Daga
Garden it's a uh afghan lemon that's pretty exciting um oh this one's really exciting too
this is my buddy's work Sam he crossed Mean Jeans PK lime with his like uh Kush blend like
Master Bubba Skywalker so it's like PK lime cross with Galkush the stock rub smells really good I'm
really excited about this PK lime cross that should be that should be amazing uh then there's
this like weird ass I got this Moroccan Beldine it's like another hashing cut a neat plate shape
look at those little short yeah these ones these are the weird Moroccan ones the land race ones
that like are so stunted in like awkward I honestly they weren't growing I was oh it was
really interesting I was over watering them I guess you know being a land sort of quote unquote
land race from you know the Middle East they're probably used to having really dry and when I
stopped when I when I let a really hard dry back cycle occur that's when they started growing better
just started shooting when they got to that like when they got dry yeah another catch in
um 10 what's 10 I can't remember what 10 is um 9 oh I got these really then I got some CSI
genetics coming up this is Hawaiian Lights this is you know super tropical fruity sort of sativa
probably takes forever but it's going to be f*****g delicious um let's see number eight
I can't remember eight seven is uh seven is the chem dog seven I'm excited we're going to do we're
going to do a chem dog breeding project here seven's the chem dog six is chem 91 crossed with
chem dog so more chemy stuff five have you seen any good very variegation in the leaves yet or
any uniqueness coming out no they look pretty they look pretty you can see the plant here it
looks pretty oh I'm blocking I'm kind of in the shot that light no variegation at all in these
we'll see later but they look pretty uniform cool cool uh five is the cheese the cheese I'm
super excited for the cheese cheese is going to be cheese is going to make its way back I promise
and it medicinally I love the cheese like it makes me feel it's one of those varieties that
make me feel really good like the chemical profile of the cheese like I really enjoy that for my body
um f*****g I can't remember four might be the sky sky yarrow crossed with
skywalker maybe um and then I've got some more interesting daga from from daga dot garden
more interesting genetics it's this um got a kosher kitty it's a kosher kitty it's like
this is sort of this funky skunky gassy terp I'm I'm looking for it's like kosher kush crossed with
cat piss and they say that it smells like you know skunky ammonia pissy you know smell I'm like well
that sounds perfect you know so yeah it sounds right up my alley man yeah yeah so I'm gonna do
some breeding with these genetics here uh in the fall it'll be like a fall it'll be a fall breeding
project so you'll do like your selections throughout the summer and kind of yeah I'm gonna
fall and then your crosses in the yeah I'm gonna flower them out and see which ones I like and take
cuts clones off of them I might breed with a select few just right off the bat just based on
my understanding of the genetics you know and how it'll perform and then keep the seed selections
on the plants that I like that exhibited the right you know you can do that it's like I'll breed
some stuff in uh through a number of different flowering plants and then keep just the seeds
that from the plants that exhibit the right you know terpene expressions and then the rest of the
seeds are just like you know food or whatever so um very beautiful they're very happy other yeah
other than a couple stunted ones but those are just they're all still very happy very lush very
very yeah they're pleased with themselves they're super pumped I might I gotta I gotta
redeem myself just just for a second here because I showed you like that weak-ass gelanade plant and
I can't I can't go out like that we're going into the zone we're going into the zone here
we're going into the chamber into the fucking chamber
okay I feel like we're being birthed we are bro hold on so this is a better representation of the
gelanade but it's loaded with seeds so it's still not a good representation but
no we're we're we're good with readers representation there's nothing wrong with
that we love we love seeing this stuff happen so I can't tell you what I'm going to see
tell you what this is crossed with I have a very soon very very soon here there's going to be this
huge drop here and it's going to be a game changer and the gelanade is going to be part of it and so
I can't soon enough everyone will what we'll hear about what this is crossed with but it's sort of
like this top secret project we got going on right now that should cause cause waves in the
industry so I'm excited for this so we're sneak peeking on industry changing genetics yeah that's
the gelanade here's some papaya this is papaya this one plant it's so beautiful it's this papaya
you can see the hold on you can see the seeds are popping out at the top right there it's so
packed with seeds this plant is gorgeous man I love the papaya too you know papaya is high in
terpene called guayal Jesse from BioVortex told me that he said it's one of the few plants that
has I think guayal is a special kind of terpene and it's really not very common in a lot of plants
but in papaya it's like the third highest terpene guayal I think it's spelled g-u-a-i-o-l
so yeah guayal is good the gelanade then we've got some rainbow belts here all of these are
packed with seeds super fun can't tell you what it is yet it's coming though then we got a little
chopped cherry this was a random plant I threw in here top of can of cherry yeah that blurb that
tropical canna coming through clear eh oh yeah oh yeah yeah dude it's so beautiful it's such a
beautiful plant like it's loaded with seeds so it doesn't it doesn't give it justice but the other
one I flared out is so purple and then this one this one is the pith this is like this one's kind
of it's it's so thin look how wispy it is comparatively it's like the super hazy kind
of plant it's all it's also been loaded with seeds um so you know it smells I don't I like
the hazes I'm a sucker I'm a sucker for the haze um so brilliant well I think uh oh cutting in and
out a little bit there can you hear me can you hear me brother because the the cross that I can't
yes I can hear you can you oh there you go sorry you're glitching out for a second there you're
frozen in and out you yeah I can yeah I was just saying sorry you were glitching out for a second
there we missed what you were saying I was saying that I really I really I you know some people hate
hazes but I actually really enjoy hazes I love the high the sativa the well air quotes sativa
high we haven't quite resolved that issue yet um well yeah we'll get into that conversation a little
bit later but I hate to do this because we are running short on time and I do have to drive my
daughter to her appointment Russell I think that was an amazing yeah I gotta go to show off um
don't forget to check out links in the description so you can make sure to check out Russell I'm gonna
I'm gonna his product on dagga dot garden which is in in the description as well don't forget to
check out cha education on instagram uh tune back later for the dank hour check out Guerrero
Grocero so you don't even have to go anywhere if you just want to keep keep smoking and chilling
go over to the Guerrero Grocero right now it's happening have some fun over there there's a lot
of other amazing stuff I'll be back later to tell you more about what's going on as well and thanks
again Russell I appreciate you coming in and and and sharing your garden we'll have to do this again
sometime and thanks again as well first very sponsored for supporting us were you saying
there brother I was just gonna tell everyone they should know that we have we share the same
birthday oh yeah we have August 30th as our birthday so that's good we got that going for us
too yeah high five or high five boom uh thanks London this was awesome it was great and we'll
have we'll be doing this again for sure anyways ciao everybody happy growing and my wife
staring at me right now with an angry look
