What's up, YouTube? Living soil nerds, reptile nerds. This past weekend was huge for me getting
to be able to reach out and talk to a lot of you that are now getting on the bandwagon,
if you will, of understanding soil sciences and understanding what it really takes to
build a soil system. A lot of people are finding success on that. London and I were even before
the show came on. It's exciting to us to see a lot more people finding ways to monetize
things from their soil skill sets than just the basic kind of stuff or overcharging people
for classes. Today, we're going to talk about a class that's definitely worth the money,
worth the time. Co-host Marco got to hang out there in the flesh, got to see the stuff
in real time, which he's going to share with us today. Again, man, I can't thank you enough,
Marco, for spending your own money and going out there and regurgitating this stuff as
best you can to the community without charging some kind of interest or charging somebody
this or a $50 streaming fee. That's what I love about you and I, man. We can hustle enough
and monetize things that we don't have to nickel and dime the audience so that we can
get our stuff out there. Again, man, just hats off to you because I know that it's time
consuming, getting a rental car sometimes, going to the hotels. A lot of people don't
realize how much that stuff adds up to the cost of just the regular class alone. Let's
kick it off, buddy. For those that don't know, Marco, I'd love for you to talk about what
you did, where you've been, and then we'll get into the nitty gritty.
All right. Sounds good. Yes. Happy Wednesday, everybody. What I did was a lot of us, everybody
knows of Jadam. If you watch this show, I think you're familiar. What I did was a young
Sancho, the person who invented this style here, they're having a North American tour.
It's him, his daughter, and his wife basically come fly from Korea and go to these different
events around the country. I was able to go to the one that was in Maryland. It was about
two and a half hours from me where I live. Not a bad drive. I drive up there a lot, so
it wasn't too bad. Yeah, man, for the price, it's still going on. I think the next date
is Houston. They were in New York, they went down to Maryland, and Houston will be this
weekend coming up. If you guys have a chance, it's 300 bucks. If you have it, it's well
worth the investment. I know there's a couple scholarships that they've been giving out
to people in need. If you really need that information and can't make it, I think you
can reach out to some people and find out about that as well. With that said, yeah,
so the main thing with Jadam, ultra low cost farming. When you read this book, there's
lots of good info. I feel like there's three different Jadam books that are out there.
Actually, I guess four if you count the first edition. If you get that book, look for second
edition. I'm not promoting books, but I got these two as well. These aren't as great.
If I was only going to get one, I would get the orange book. Since I like the support,
I got them all, and there is some valuable info in each of them. I was thinking, man,
really, knowing that this tour was coming, I said, man, I got to be there. It's one thing to go
through these things. I've been practicing Jadam now for, I think, going on four or five years,
just actually having the book and going through it and trying these different techniques.
I'm behind it. I know it works. I've used it in my ways and the way that Young Saint Cho
tells how to use it. I've also experimented. I felt like going here, man, would be a great
way to actually hear from him some things, what was behind his thought process, why does he do
certain things, and just get that overall experience. When you have some kind of lecture,
and it's Q&A, and you have various groups of people from all different skill sets, from
some people just learning about Jadam and not even knowing that no-till is our thing,
people learn that there, and then from all the way up to people that know this stuff and have
been practicing it. It was really cool to just soak all that in. While I was there,
I took about eight pages of notes. It was two days. It was on Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday was a third day I couldn't make. That was shout out to DJ, Cultivating Classics,
him, Preston, a few other guys were doing some presentations on Sunday, and I couldn't make it,
but I was able to kick it with them on Friday and Saturday, which was great.
So, yeah, man, with that said, back to Jadam, ultra-low cost. I think that for my bank,
for my buck, there's nothing better than Jadam, to be honest, with the practices.
One of the things, Cho said himself, he was like, a lot of people say, and I'm paraphrasing,
Cho said, yeah, Sticky District was there, Nick was there, he can vouch for some shit, too.
So, Cho, he says, people say, oh, Cho, Young Sang doesn't know about IMO, or Young Sang doesn't
practice IMO, and he laughed, he said, ha ha, Young Sang, we know IMO. And then he went on
the show, like how they would collect the IMO and the rights. He learned that from his dad.
So, the thing is, and this came up in one of the people sitting near me as well. They were like,
asking me, what do you think the differences are between K&F and Jadam, and the way that Trump and
the guys do it here versus this? And I said, well, this is different. Jadam is different.
Jadam is another tool in your book. And you got to remember, Young Sang Cho is Master Cho's son,
Master Cho invented K&F. So, he showed us the pictures. He had to freaking do all the
classes that Master Cho taught over the years, even as a young boy, you saw him out there
doing his rice collections, standing there with the big group pictures, taking his notes.
So, my point is, Young Sang learned from his dad. So, he learned all that, right? Still has those
tools. But I think in his mind, he said, wow, there's a lower cost way to do it, and eliminating
a lot of the sugars and different IMO collection techniques and things like that. And that's
Jadam gets into, is being even lower cost, because his thought was, I want to make this
available to people if they don't have sugar. And I've said this before, sugar is a luxury
to a lot of countries and people, not for us, because we're loaded with sugar over here,
and everything's sugar, processed sugar. So, he wanted to do this farming method with no sugar.
And so, he came up with Jadam, and he's been practicing this for over 20 something years.
He said, I can't remember the exact number, but it was like 25 years. He's been working on Jadam.
And he says, there's no question he hasn't seen. You know what I mean? He says, bring on all the
questions. We have a full library of questions, because we've heard all the questions in 20 years.
And I thought that was pretty cool. So, that was like that confidence of saying, hey,
I got an answer for you if you got a question, which was cool. So, that gives you an overview of
Jadam, what it's all about. And same-
There's some-
Go ahead, brother.
Well, I was just going to say, with Jadam, aren't there some, you got to be careful with some of
those things. It's not necessarily as easy as some of the other aspects of K&F. This is a process,
you need to understand it. I would imagine why this is, that's one of the reasons why this class
is so popular around the country, is you kind of got to know all of the recipes, figure it out,
and then kind of apply that stuff. I was wondering if you could kind of talk on that, because
I guess my thing is, Jadam isn't necessarily just as easy or something easy to pick up,
like some things in natural farming would be a better way to say that.
Well, I think actually, Jadam is pretty simplistic compared to some of the newer natural K&F stuff.
And the reason I say that is because just the IMO collection process, whereas in natural K&F,
you're going to collect that in rice and go out in the forest and kind of place your box.
It's got some variables in it where hopefully an animal doesn't eat it, hopefully it doesn't
collect too long. Hopefully, there's a lot of things to it that can kind of change your
collection. Whereas with Jadam now, they do JMS. We do Jadam microbial solution, which is forest
floor leaf mold soil. He talked about leaf mold soil a lot being a key. Leaf mold soil, sea salt,
big key, got to have that sea salt in there for those nutrients, those micronutrients, and then
water, and then just cultivating those microbes like that. So that's a little bit of the difference
just in the microbial side of it. And just remember, these are tools, Brian, you know what
I mean? Like collecting in rice, that's a tool. Now, making a microbe solution is a tool. And I
noticed that even when we talked to Joey and his wife a couple of weeks ago, I could tell that JMS
was reinforced into them by this class right here, because I left with a recharged sense of JMS,
of how important it is. And I know it was, but on that level. But so, and Jadam can get technical
now, don't get me wrong. You're right, Brian, because there are things where you're making,
using sodium hydroxide, sulfur, things like that, which it'll take on a little bit more of a
scientific process to it. And we can kind of touch on those a little bit too. But yeah,
you're right. There are some differences. I didn't think about it like that, where some
aspects of KNF will be a little bit more difficult, whereas some aspects of Jadam
could be more difficult. And each one has kind of ones that are easier too. So that's a great point.
So just to kind of, we can just kind of go through the notes. One of his big quotes,
he'd start out with save effort. It's called save effort slash big yield farming. So he's
all about saving effort. He wants it to be low effort, low cost, because he says it all the
time. If you're constantly weeding, or if you're fighting weeds, or if you're fighting pests,
you're constantly doing that, you're not going to want to farm. Your offspring aren't going to
want to farm. It's going to make your life more difficult. So he just developed these methods,
which once you get them dialed in, they really make your life real simple. You know what I mean?
So one of the first things that's interesting, because I've been wanting to do like, well,
I'm doing my chickens. My chickens are coming like April 16th. So I'm in the process of doing
them as we speak, getting their pen ready, their coop. Living floor, we've heard about that before.
And he broke us down through a whole layer of living floor chickens, where you build up this
floor with sawdust and IMO, and you make that floor to the point where it's so alive with
microbial life that it, and whenever the chickens use the bathroom and produce waste, that's turned
right back into basically food for the chickens. You know what I mean? The microbes, his words,
will consume that chicken food, the drop, they poop and all that kind of stuff.
I don't know, Chad, but Young Sang likes his vodka. So Young Sang will get on that vodka.
He admits that, and that's his thing. So everybody's got their thing. So living soil,
floor was pretty cool. Another thing he says, when you start out with chickens, only feed the
baby chicks crushed brown rice. What that does is that acclimates their digestive system. Crushed
brown rice is really hard to digest, but nutritious. So now you're starting those chicks off
with that tough gut, where they're breaking down that brown rice right off the bat. And he said that
leads to raising a lot stronger bird over its life. A couple of notes.
Sorry to interrupt, but I was like, that might be worth the price of admission right there for
somebody that's a farmer, rancher type thing, man. Yeah. I'm like, are y'all listening to this?
Because that was so, right? I got chills thinking about that. Brown rice is very hard to digest.
Start your animals out with things that are hard to digest. And then he said, along with that,
give them a little bit of grass up until the point, just to the point where they want more.
You know what I mean? Grass being a treat or whatever you're going to give your animals,
kind of that treat type of food, just to the point where they want more. Boom. And cut that.
You know what I mean? And those kinds of things are what he's all about, building that strength
of that animal right out the gate. And I thought that was pretty cool.
When you do chickens, use a perch. Might not be common sense to some people, but I guess chickens
take out their dominance with the perch. Highest perch gets dominance. So build lower perches as
well so chickens can balance themselves out. When there are several different perches,
the chickens won't fight. You know what I mean? They'll be like, well, the big dog's up top,
little guy's cool. He's like, all right, I'm on this lower one. Works out nice. I know, man,
this stuff was so many gold bars, guys. This shit was amazing. The way he broke it down and that
whole mindset was pretty cool. One thing he does, man, is when he does his chickens, a lot of the
way they farm... And remember, Cho, he's talking a lot about more of a commercial aspect also,
when he talks about growing his peppers and things like that, as we're going to talk about
throughout here. He's looking at more of that commercial production, getting the maximum
amount out of his product. More so than some of us, we're kind of that craft, few things of corn,
a little bit of this, types of tomato. You know what I mean? Depends on how you grow, but if
you're more on that commercial aspect, that's kind of where he's on. So when you do chickens,
a lot of commercial facilities out, they don't have a lot, they don't have natural sunlight
coming in. So you need that natural sunlight. He designs his coops in a way where lighting comes in
and the air flows around in the coop. So you can look up his stuff, Jadam YouTube, or some of that
with chickens. Start them off in a small confined space. Meaning if you have, say,
if you're doing a big coop, 20 feet by 20 or 10 by 10, if you're just starting out with chickens
and they're small, only give them one or two square feet as their spot. Increase their space
as they grow. It sounds like it makes kind of common sense, but when you put them in there
and give them too much space, they don't grow as strong because they're not kind of moving about
and doing things like that. So I thought that was pretty smart. Then this stuff works for hogs
too. Like if you're doing pigs, you can do no smell hogs, no smell chickens. And I'm really,
I can't wait to try this out because I know it, you know, that it works. You know what I mean?
Feed that fresh grass only as much as they want more. And then now, so we kind of, he kind of
broke down the chickens and started with the livestock and then we, he kind of went into the
JHS. When you're dealing with your DOM, JHS, your DOM herbal solution is the nut,
one of the main pesticides. And what that is, you take in a plant, his favorite,
this was worth the price of admission too. Basically take all of your JHS. If you can get
Ginkgo berries, when they drop at the end of the fall with the leaves, Ginkgo tree, the berries,
if you can get those, just throw all your other JHS away and use that. Like that's the shit.
Like if you can get that and I can't wait. I saw my neighbor had a tree and tons of them drop. I
didn't get any, but now coming up this November, definitely look at your Ginkgo. Sticky District,
we were talking about this up in DC. There's Ginkgo trees everywhere. A lot of your public
properties will have a Ginkgo trees for some reason. I think, I don't know why, but we couldn't
figure out the reason, but Joe said it's because everybody loves Korea and Ginkgo trees are from
over there. So that's a great one. JHS is a boil where you're basically taking a plant material
with water, boiling it down and getting a concentrate. And you do that with the Ginkgo
berries. Once you're done, strain that. And then that liquid is your JHS. Now I've made, I make
JHS a lot. And the key to that is when you make it, use small bottles to bottle it. What will
happen is you'll make this big gallon batch. This is just a jar. You'll make a big gallon batch.
And then if you go pour that, say in a milk jug to store it, the first time you use it, air is
going to enter that and it's going to cause bacteria to want to grow in and that your JHS
won't be effective anymore. So either put it in many small bottles, topped off, put it in there
while it's boiling, cap it. Now that can store a long time. When you do open it, get 95% ethanol,
alcohol. And I didn't ask if we could use, I bet we could use like an Everclear, use a high
percent, 95% alcohol, grain alcohol, probably be just fine. 15% per volume. So say if this was a
hundred milliliters and now I used, you know, some who use it, I'm going to put, you know,
15 milliliters of Everclear in there. Now that'll keep that bacteria from growing in your JHS
and keep it so it doesn't go bad on you. And if you guys have made JHS, you know that that
can happen when you crack that bottle, even if you put it in the fridge. So yeah, something about
the Ginkgo, man, he kept going back to over and over and over, you know what I mean? And he gave
us a name of a book, edible wild herbs. I didn't catch the author, but there's a book called edible
wild herbs. Oops. And he referenced that one at that point, which is cool. Switching gears a
little bit. Now he made this comment. He said, we have to eat a hundred percent organic food to
avoid pesticides. And reason being, he pulled up a video with a study and this family, they tested
the whole family for four people, mom, dad, kid, you know, brother, daughter tested them all for
pesticides in their blood. Boom. Let's go take a blood test. Pesticides. Every member of that
family had pesticides in their blood. So they immediately threw all the food out that they
were consuming. They went to the only organic food, you know, quote unquote, we all know how that is,
but that's kind of the best that we can do off the shelf. So, you know, relax. So everybody went
to all organic food for three weeks, only three weeks retested all pesticide levels had dropped.
Now that was a chill bump moment for me because that just reinforced. I have to grow more of my
own food. It's important to buy that organic label guys, even though we know that's not the be all
end all if you can do better farmers markets and you trust that source, that's good, but
farmers market and you think you trust the source or whatever the source is and you can't trust it,
you know, pesticides are in us, man. And that's crazy. That was a shocking thing to know that like
pesticides are in your blood, you know what I'm saying, bro? That's pretty crazy.
Yeah. I try to really harp that on my boys, you know, when we, when we go out, you know,
instead of going out to eat sometimes even in a, in a town where there's just like fast food stuff,
well, we go to the grocery store instead. Sometimes we just sit on the back end of the truck,
eat sandwiches, trying to really teach them that, okay, well, if there's only food, this food
available, there's other options than that. You know, if there's a bigger city, I like to go to
whole foods after like a successful show instead of even with restaurants, man. I mean, high end
restaurants, they're not necessarily using high end ingredients. I mean, some restaurants are,
but a lot of them are not. So you got to really think about where you're spending those dollars
as well. Yeah, man. Good point. And when I was up there, I was staying right there near DC
convention center. And this happened to be like the world's biggest freaking high school
girls volleyball tournament, apparently. But it was like loaded, you know, you guys have seen that
before when all the teams are there. So the cool, the reason I mentioned that is because I was just
sitting in the lobby waiting on some food for myself. And I saw that a lot of the teams had
gone to the grocery store and brought back those fruit and brought back a lot of good food to be
eating on in the hotel and stuff. And I thought that was, I was really cool, man. It was good
to see that. Cause I'm like, yeah, man, people are really caring about their food. I can tell,
you know. Yeah. And for the, for the people that are getting older, I think if you take the time
90 days again, so it's not a shortcut or anything, but if you put in a drinking health,
you know, mineral water, vitamins, vegetables, fruits, that's kind of your focus. Not saying
you got to change your diet, just minimize shit. You know, don't eat sugar every night. And I'm
talking with experience. I used to crave that stuff. You'll, you'll forget how good you can
feel. And I think that, especially as you're getting older, we'll start to, you know, it'll,
you'll want that feeling more than how good temporarily, like the high fructose corn syrup
sugar feels to you, you know, it'd be like, oh yeah. And then I think if you can get into fasting
and all those things, then you're taking it to the next level where the body doesn't crave it
anymore. So now you're feeling even better than you felt just even a few months before that.
Yeah. Good point, man. And wifey hit me with something pretty slick. She was,
she's always reading and learning. And she said, when you make your meals,
try to include each of the tastes, you know, sweet, sour, a little bitter, a little, you know,
that savory, get a little bit of that in each, in your meal. And what will happen is after the meal,
you should have less cravings for whatever the one you like. Some people crave chips,
sour, some salt, I mean, some, you know, so that's, I thought that was pretty,
pretty neat. And that's something that we're going to be looking at trying to
kind of balancing that meal out for the taste. You know what I mean? That'll make,
may limit some cravings. And then Joey is where he was, a young saying was
getting into commercial ags ass. You know what I mean? He was like, yeah, you know,
commercial ag makes farmers consumers. You know, if you think about that, that's some deep shit.
Commercial modern agriculture makes that farmer a consumer to buy the seed and the pesticide and
the fertilizer. Oh, and guess what guys he brought up a chart. Most of the seed companies,
the biggest ones are owned by the biggest chemical companies. Bayer was number one. I think I wrote
Bayer down because of that, but yeah, like Bayer chemical number one. So now the farmer,
this guy's got his hat on for trying to farm. And really all he is buying shit, right? Like
buying these different programs. And that's why if you guys ever drive by farms and you see,
or fields, you'll see those signs up. It'd be different signs. It'd be like a corn. It'd be
like different. You'll see them little signs. And what those are is those are different plots.
This seed plus this chemical fertilizer, chemical pesticide and their tests and shit like that,
you know, and that, and that all goes together. It's a package deal, man. You know, and that,
that's, that's a, I'm surprised that doesn't really make people madder. You know what I mean?
That they sell the seed, then spray the seed with, you know, I don't know, but that's why we're
doing what we're doing. They're forced to buy that seed too. That's the weird thing. And then
if, if on their land, that seed somehow were to, you know, they go against it, I guess the property
owner is against that and their neighbor somehow Monsanto seed or now Bayer seed flies over onto
their property. That company has been known to go after that farmer for like intellectual property.
Like they stole it, even though the wind blew the shit on the field. And so they, they know that
they can't win the court case, but they put the farmer basically in such a legal battle that they
have to shut down the farm and that company Monsanto, Bayer, all that's the big, big, big
companies like that. They know that. And so that's, again, they're going against the homegrower,
if you will, in that world where it's a family owned farm and they're like, you know what, we
got to, if they're going against us and trying to grow organically, let's have some of the farms
around them. They've been, that shit has been proven. So that just, just basically taking farms
to a legal battle has eliminated a lot of the farmers that wanted to do it the right way.
Yeah. Cause they know ultimately the land is never going to leave. The land is there
and Monsanto and them know that if they run that guy out, someone else is going to come in
and probably end up going with using their shit anyway. It seems like the way it's going.
There's another one right along lines with that. Everything must be understood with ordinary
common sense. Boom. That's, that's, that these are, that's like his philosophy. Like, you know,
truth that cannot be easily understood is not truth. You know what I mean? Like if you're
having to like think hard and put puzzle pieces together to make this, this system of growing or
whatever, this system of whatever you're doing is, then it's not, you know, it's just not the
right way to go about it. You know, another thing he said, you know, people that, you know, basically
that get you in the gate or get you in the door and then now sell you other shit on top of it,
get you in and say, well, you got to do this to keep growing or else you're not going to grow.
Well, you know, those people are scumbags, which we know. So he, he's on that same mindset and
mentality that obviously we love. And so I'm all over that. Big one. He says, soil test is not
necessary to balance MPK. Boom. You can, we know soil tests work. We get it. He's saying it's not
necessary to balance MPK because when you focus on that JMS and back balancing that microbial life
that the soil is going to balance it's MPK. You know, and I thought that that was pretty,
pretty interesting. Biggest one being putting plant residues back. Like he grows peppers,
peppers, same land, same patch of soil every year. Monocrop never switches. He says never monocrop.
I mean, never switch, keep that same crop because what has happened is his soil has now
turned into basically chose pepper growing soil. Think about it years and years, growing these
peppers years and years, adding the microbiology and years and years chopping and dropping,
putting those plants back in. You know what I mean?
18 cycle, never soil test. Yeah, man. That's how it is, bro. You don't there, you don't need it.
You know, his peppers are going to tell him what's up. And if he has issues, he's developed
these different ways to you know, to manage them, man. So another thing he did was yeah,
never rotate. Definitely. He uses that black fabric cloth. It's a, it's not the cloth. I'm
sorry. It's like a black woven weed blocker. He uses that to cover his soil and everyone,
all of us, you know, everyone's like, well, what about the, you know, natural leaves and
cardboard and things like that? He said, you know, he doesn't want to do wood chips because
of a robbed nitrogen. I asked, Hey, well, can we overcome that robbery with JLF? He said, yes.
So we can overcome using the wood chips for nitrogen. Now his main reason for not doing the
cardboard, which like I said, he's production. He wants no weeds. I want to be out there. I want my
peppers growing. I don't want to mess with weeds. So he runs, he mounts his rows, kind of traditional
puts that fabric over the whole garden. And then at the end of the season, he rolls it back gently
chops and drops adds amendments. He likes phyllite clay. He top dresses phyllite clay,
PHY, light phyllite. He top dresses that chops the plants and lets them lay in the valleys
and then recovers with his cloth before winter. He doesn't want to soil to be exposed over the
winter blowing away. So it was very valuable. He works hard for it. So he does all that right at
the end of the growing season. Now, I know if I'm sitting y'all with too much and jumping anytime,
Brian, you know me, I'll just be running off. No, no, no. I'm not. I'm not interrupting unless
I think it's something that, cause I like the, when you kind of just are in that flow, man.
And I know if you got your notes sitting right there, that that's what this show is going to
be all about, dude. And just so everybody knows your questions are coming in, I'm putting them
to the side, but I don't want to I don't want to continue to interrupt his flow. So that's why
we always do it that way. Yeah. We'll take a little break here in a minute. I'll get through
this day one and then we can let me see where the day one. Yeah. I'll get, well, I'll get up
to lunch break. We haven't made it to lunch break yet. All right. So right there is where we were
kind of we took our little break and then we kind of got back into this one till obviously
when you're setting up your, your garden, you may have to do that one till we get that
big quote. What is visible represents what is invisible or what is not divisible.
You know? So when you see that plant, we say it all. And everyone has a different way to say it.
Basically you want them wide, deep roots. You know, he does too. He made the note as roots grow,
the amount of moisture and nutrients increases, you know, as we know, bigger roots, bigger plants,
they're going to be drinking it up, taking it up. So you got to react accordingly.
He did give a website for his fabric cloth is called all seasons fabric. If somebody wants
to check that out. Like I said, he'll roll that firelight top dress. And then he also uses compost.
So he'll firelight clay compost. We asked him to make his own compost. He says, no,
he'd been lazy. So he buys it in from somebody quality, but that's cool. Think about it, guys.
That's where we say there's lanes for different things. You know what I mean? Like somebody's
selling compost to young saying, Joe and the Joe farm, you feel me? That's pretty dope. Like there's
lanes out there for people to step up into. And it's not that he can, obviously he knows his shit.
He's going, he can do what he wants, but if you look at it, he's focused on a production of his
peppers. He's not focused on turning a compost and all that. He wants it coming in when he needs
it and he wants to use it when he needs it. So that's why it isn't like, you don't necessarily
get the extra bonus for doing everything yourself. I mean, that's cool, but definitely
go ahead and get good sources if you can't do it yourself or if you're not going to do it yourself.
Obviously, just then he talked a little bit about his beds. He mounds his beds up. Someone says,
well, what about if it's really wet? In a wet area, you can build your bed taller,
your mound taller, which makes sense. Another question was, Hey, what about cover crops?
You know, that's valuable. You know how people talk. So Joe says, yes, I do know the value of
cover crops. And he says, I would like cover crops in the Valley between the rows if I was
going to do that. He said, he'd keep running his fabric over the mounds, but in the valleys,
he said, do your cover crops there and then chop them right there as well.
So let me just look through. Yeah. So he said his exact words kind of on natural mulch, you know,
it doesn't grow crops well. And the key was crops, you know, he's talking about that production. So
he doesn't, I don't, he doesn't have as much success with that, but he says for trees and
perennials, a hundred percent. And that's where we were talking about, I think it was a couple
of shows ago, Brian, we're talking about that perennials versus annuals might've even been
the last show where he was just kind of saying, yeah, for perennials and, and, and trees. Yes,
but not so much for the annuals. And he mentioned cannabis, you know, and he says, you know,
if you're growing cannabis, make cannabis JLF, you know what I mean? And a lot of people always
ask, well, can you use male plants? And you can, you know what I mean? You use that plant,
you know, that's fine. That plant's just breaking down, turning into nutrients in a JLF.
And so that was kind of like that amount of info. I went through it actually fairly quick,
of course, but that was, that took us to lunch break on day one, you know what I mean? So,
you know, that was a, just a hell of a start, man. And, and the way they do it, like he talks
with the mic, boom, boom, boom. And then his daughter translates in English and they have this
kind of little thing, man, where they get, that just works really well. And you really feel like
you're talking to him, you know what I mean? But then at the same time, you feel like she's in
there too, because when he makes a joke, like, like one of the funniest jokes was he made a joke
and she said, he's trying to make a joke, but I don't know what he's talking about. And everybody
laughed, you know what I mean? Like this shit like that. It was, it was good. Even he laughed.
So it was great, man. If you guys can hit it, I would suggest it. But, and also this tour,
when he's done, will be on their YouTube for free. So, you know, you'll be able to get all this
same info as well. He dropped some new stuff on us too. And that'll be coming up as well.
And that's what you love to see, man. I mean, I know people have to, especially traveling. I mean,
people have to find ways to make money, but the fact that it's like, all right, now,
after all of this is done, here's some information for you. I love that, man. And I think that, that,
that family deserves to be rock stars. And it seems like as, as time's slowly progressing,
maybe that will eventually come to be like a mainstream, mainstream thing in the cannabis
culture is that family and, you know, kind of the other branches that have come about.
Man, they are so humble too, Brian. Like, as far as like, like we're there, you know,
you know, like people get hype over the shows, right? We love that shit. So they were more
concerned with one. And if we were mad because the video was getting kind of demned out by the sun
and in my mind, I'm like, man, you guys are like royalty does like, don't be apologizing for shit.
So like they're, they're so humble with it. They're not like, yeah, we're the, we're the
shit. You know what I mean? They're just like, you know, we really want to give you guys a good
presentation. They were like the farmers in Korea where they walk out on them.
If the shit wasn't a, wasn't a hundred percent jokingly, I'm sure. But, you know so yeah,
very humble with it, man. Very, very cool with it. It takes, you know, then we went to lunch. It
takes two to three years to remediate bad, bad soil. You know what I mean? If you say, you know,
bad soil is somewhat bad. Obviously there's certain heavy metals, which we can't overcome.
But two to three years by using leaf litter and, and JMS, you know what I mean? Leaf litter and
JMS literally will get that soil into shape two to three years. And I think that's why I think
a lot of us know that. And I want to add wood chips to that as they break down in time. Wood
chips are great because when you get them, maybe they're not the best for your garden, but there's
something that could pile up, sit there and they just get better every single day. Were you able to
like, if you put hemp in that, would it be able to minimize that two years down to one year or
anything like that? Or what's your opinion? I imagine he's saying probably the worst case
hard pan that was commercially farmed soil, because he showed that picture. You know,
that picture that shows the layers of soil and it's like the white, you see the white in there
from the farm. It's like a cross section. So I think that's kind of your worst of your worst soils.
But still that's pretty good, man. Two years to kind of go from a commercially ag farm soil to,
you know, now you can say, Hey, I got a good soil. You know, that's not, that's not very bad.
And leaf litter, he says the best microbes for your garden. He says no better microbe than the
leaf litter in the forest or from a leaf mold pile that you make. Selectively using
microbes causes a soil imbalance. Same with our body. And then we got into abdominal issues,
poop, the microbiology that's in healthy poop that heals people. So he drinks leaf mold water,
right? Take leaf mold and a glass, shake it up, strain it. His daughter was saying, yeah,
we had to drink that. And we were kids. If we ever felt sick, he can shake up the glass and
we got to drink the leaf mold. Wifey came on, Mrs. Cho came on and said, after the little later,
she needs milk with hers. If she just couldn't stomach the straight up. So she would add milk
and drink hers that way. Point is she drank hers. You know what I mean? Things that we're afraid of,
not we, but the country, right? Afraid of dirt, things like that. He said, that's your best way
to get microbial diversity. Same with our body. If you're just taking this bought probiotic or
whatever, right? He says, it's going to give you an imbalance. You think you're doing well. I'm
taking this whoop-de-whoop probiotic every morning. That's the thing. I bought it from Whole Foods,
wherever you bought it. Not a knock against none of that. All organic, same thing. Took my shot
today. You're actually creating an imbalance. You're creating an abundance of that microbiology.
You're diminishing your other microbiology and that will cause you to get sick. The unbalance
straight up. Focus on that diversity. That man drank leaf mold water. I had to drink some leaf
mold water. You know what I mean? I did that. That's cool. Use leaf mold soil, exclamation
point. That's what he says. He loves that leaf mold soil. There's no way to get that microbiology,
that balance. Okay. Now, they were doing a lot of the rice collection methods. Now we go back to
IMO2. Now we kind of talked all that and he says, well, let's go to IMO2. He shows a video
and it's the Cho, Master Cho and the village folks doing a huge rice collection of IMO.
They poured like, man, that was hundreds of pounds of rice. Like, you know, the big pots,
like three feet across. They had two or three big three foot pots and like 50 people in line with
big boxes getting their scoops of rice. Now they did them in boxes. They did some, which I like
this technique. I got to do this. Mesh bags. Put them in like, you know, we got laundry bags,
mesh bags. Lay that right on the ground. You know what I mean? He was putting piles of rice right on
the ground. Go to the bamboo and you could do this in regular forest too, but he went to bamboo
forest. Big ass pile of rice right on the ground, spread out, mix in all the bamboo leaf droppings
and everything that dropped. And then now collect that IMO came back. I mean, that stuff looked good,
man. You know, rice collections, like don't be afraid. Don't be so dialed in on your rice
collection where it's like, got to have a boss, got to do this, got to do that. You know, get that rice
on the ground is the key. And he did say, we all know some people think you got to have all white,
right? Some people say colors are no good, right? So straight up his pictures show colors. So,
so someone asked and a couple of things they noted, the IMO collection changes with time.
So that fuzzy white, that could be fuzzy white today, tomorrow may not be, could have colors
tomorrow. See, that's where you're messing up. He's all about collecting what was there.
He likes the colors. So that's beautiful. I like it too. I think it's different colonies of IMO.
It's balanced, it's diverse. You know, you wouldn't want a collection with all one color
because he's saying you're kind of not getting the diversity in there. Now this one's going,
this is, this is a good one right here. It's a good one coming up. IMO 2. I gotta get a drink
before I tell y'all this. So I got my puff coat going. Everybody's all ears, buddy. All right.
IMO 2, this is a big one. We all know we take our rice, collect it on the forest,
combine with sugar. Now that is a stable item, right? He went, he hit me here. This was a good
one. You want to use that IMO 2 within 15 days. New shit. This is new. You ain't hearing this out
there right now. Reason being, he did the studies, scoped it. He says you diminish microbes starting
at that 15 days. Now let's stop. Diminish. That doesn't mean there's no microbes in it. Let's say
you have that IMO. We got a teaspoon. Now this is me here. I'm adding because I want everyone to
understand. Teaspoon of IMO 2, which is the rice and the sugar equal weight. Now let's say there's
a million microbes in that on the day we added the sugar. The day we made IMO 2, there's a million
microbes in that spoon. Now let's say you got an old IMO 2. Let's say 90% of that degraded, right?
Now in that spoon, you still have a hundred thousand microbes, which can still be grown out
and can still inoculate. It's not like you don't have shit. It's not like you went through shit,
but use that. I know that was mind-blowing. Use that IMO 2 within 15 days. You know what I mean?
Now I'm still going to keep collections, but I think I'm going to also keep them in the fridge
now. He knows he's definitely on his K&F. They've actually added things to K&F. K&F is growing.
It's been wonderful. You know what I like to say? I like to say, man, use all these things as tools.
Learn from Chris. Learn from the Choves. Learn from this guy. Learn from all our friends,
the people that are doing it right. Then you take that information and use it. You make it yours.
Use it how you want. You figure out a way to use it. You know what I mean?
Any questions to that kind of stuff to this point, Brian?
I've just been putting them to the side.
Okay. That's cool. Yeah. Man, that was big, guys. The sugar will diminish the microbes over time,
and that's key. I'm going to start rocking with that, working with some more of that fresh stuff.
When you collect that IMO2, that's when you go on to IMO3. Why not? You're right there. You're
fresh. Go on to it. It sounds like in that world, that's your fresh frozen, right? I mean, I know
you got a little more time than the analogy, but yeah, you got to get that down. From what I
understood, maybe people were saying a little bit differently, but it always seemed like you could,
whatever level you were at with IMO, it was always shelf stable for a long, long time.
Think about it. Like we said, though, remember, Brian, even if you lost 95% of millions,
you still got bodies, so you don't go to zero. You don't go to trash, but you lose a lot.
And then his next words were, JMS is better. You know what I mean? The reason why is why he gave.
Another thing, this is a big one. Potato, we use that in JMS. It has a pH of 6.5. Molasses,
pH 3.5. Think about it. You're trying to grow microbes in that acidic pH solution,
where if you're growing microbes on potato, so much closer to that natural pH of seven,
where we want to be at with our stuff. We don't want to be high nor low with that pH.
So I thought that was a bar he dropped too. And we know that, but he didn't really think about it.
Now, you can't do JMS without potato, which would be sea salt, water, and your leaf mold.
That's going to be a five-day process. Most important thing, don't let the temps go below
68 degrees on your JMS. Keep your temperatures up. And then also we all know that with the JMS,
microbes, your bubbles. This is another bar. Damn, I wrote a lot of bars. He said a lot of bars.
So here's a bar. When you make your JMS, this is if you know if people are making it or not.
When the microbe populations are increasing, the bubbles in the JMS are clear.
When the microbes start to diminish, their bubbles become cloudy. And if you've made it,
you guys know what I'm talking about. I think that was a bar for JMS because that'll put you
right in there. You know, when you're talking about monitoring trichomes, you know,
we're monitoring the bubbles. You know what I mean? Like, there's levels to this shit, guys. I'm telling you.
Use JMS. Always use it before you plant. He'll go ahead and dunk seedlings into JMS type thing,
get them all kind of pre-inoculated. When you're doing JHS, jumping back, herbal solution,
you can use, hold on, hold on. I'm sorry, did I make that wrong? Okay. Let me scratch that.
I had another note. Apply JMS two to three times per month. And you want to run water five minutes
after it. And someone said, well, how about during the rain? Yeah, perfect. Right before it rains,
run your JMS, let it rain it in. Now he said one of his favorite ways to make a JLF,
you can make a dry JLF. And Johnny mentioned this before, and I've made this before,
like a couple of years ago. Leaf mold, bran, and water, and make your pile. Water with JMS.
Leaf mold, bran, and water equal. He says make a pile about 30 centimeters tall.
And that's your best method to kind of make microbial, kind of a microbial, you know,
similar to an IMO three, but kind of the JADAM version. Because JADAMs, you know,
they're not going to all those different steps on that side. When you apply JMS to your garden or
wherever, apply it till it leachates. Apply it till it runs out. You want to water that in enough
to where, oh, boom, now I'm seeing JMS running out the bottom. That's good. Obviously, if you're
running hugels, things like that, water heavy is the point we're making. And that's where he runs
irrigation lines under his black fabric, under the cloth. JMS outcompetes pathogens.
And he'll use microbes to heat the soil. So, that was something I mentioned when we had Luna on.
Like, if you're making these microbial blends, you can use that to create heat, you know what I mean,
to heat your soil, you know. And then next, we'll just start getting into kind of the base
fertilizer portion. But this is pretty cool stuff, right?
Yeah, man. I mean, you're, I love when you're like kind of going against the grain, but you
yourself are continuing to educate. So, then people are going to be like, well, what do you say? What
do you say? Like, I got it from the source. So, you know, you guys want to dismiss this all of a
sudden because, you know, you invented cannabis, then go for it. But the ones that are going out
of their way to educate themselves continually, you might have a leg up six months to a year.
And this kind of stuff, I think, is what truly gives you an advantage is when you're hearing it,
you know, basically live in the flesh, you know, translated. But you're able to answer the
questions in real time, get all that stuff back, bring it back to our audience. I think this
audience is going to be ahead of the other ones that don't even really understand living soil yet.
I mean, these are some of the nuances that people have had. They've probably wondered a variety of
things. And here we go with just kind of the outlier moments of where these classes are being
held. If you're able to attend and you have the income to go, then why wouldn't you go?
Why wouldn't you go? Yep. And a lot of people, time people misconstrue, they think that like
my energy and excitement for it means like I got something back off of it. Like I didn't get
anything. I was excited because I said, damn, there's 50 people here, right? I drove past
millions of people to get here. Right. If you think about all the people you drive by,
you know, and there's 50 people here. So I'm going to be one of the 50 to come out and use
my little show and drop this new stuff and drop this right up right away. Like so people can get
it right away, whether you can go there or not. He didn't go to every city in town. Even if you
say I got 300, you couldn't go. You know what I mean? So that we're just dropping this on you.
Um, and if there's anything, you know, this is to the best of what I wrote at the time. That's
why I wrote it when I did. So I wouldn't be like trying to guess and remember what was said. I
wrote this shit down. Um, and if anybody, you know, if I, and I don't think I'm going to say
anything wrong here, but, um, feel free to chime in a chat. So I heard something or something that
I got a little differently, but, um, uh, so yeah, so let's see, we've got that. So he's making a
pile and then he gave a website. Um, if anybody's interested irrigation King,
they have a lot of low cost irrigation stuff. Um, and somebody he, he found, um,
use JMS to outcompete pathogens and soil. A lot of people turn to LAB. This is me talking now.
Um, a lot of people turn to LAB. I think you should turn to JMS first, you know,
after just going through it and re-energizing my, uh, love for JMS. Um, I think that that's,
that should be kind of the, the, um, the starting point. Um, any, any kind of says base, this is
just kind of base fertilizer section. He made the comment, you know, trees enter the path of
eternal light. You know, there's no crop rotation. The best thing to feed a plant is a plant. I added
that a little bit onto the end. Um, think about that trees enter the path of eternal life. They
just stay there, drop drops, feed, drop feed, you know, without, without any outside influence
without a lot of chainsaw, right. Or a beaver or, or something, or a storm blew it over a tree
essentially enters that path of eternal life. And that's kind of the mindset shop and drop.
That's what we talk about. That's giving that eternal life. You know what I mean?
Um, as far as cover crops, when you, when you start your land and when you have, um,
you know, you want to, what I plant like, and this may go to you, uh, London, if you're even here
on right now, milk, vetch and Sudan grass. He loves those as like good high, um, organic material,
cover crops, you know what I mean? Um, Sudan grass, milk batch. I'm definitely going to put
those on my property in areas that I don't want to really do anything with at the time.
I just fill them up with Sudan grass and milk batch, you know, worst case you come through later,
uh, chop that down for organic material on the, on the ground. Um, you know, Joey had something
cool. He turned us on to last, uh, last, last show or a couple of shows ago, you know, kind of
seeding everything, letting things succession take place, you know, grasses and weeds come up,
you know, trees come up a little slower. They're protected until they get above the grasses and
then, uh, you know, kind of doing that kind of thing. So, um, these are all things that kind
of trigger your mind, I think, you know what I mean? Like get you thinking, um, you know,
um, sawdust wood chips. He likes to, if you're going to get them, let them sit three months.
And I say that to pile them up, let them sit. You don't have to use them fresh. Um, you can,
but remember you talking about Robin a little bit of that nitrogen. Now I've read stuff in the past
that you're only robbing that nitrogen, uh, where that piece of wood chip is in contact and
then surrounded by soil a very small distance away from that chip. Um, so yeah, you know,
that's just, you can take that as you want, but like Joe said before, we can overcome
that loss of nitrogen with a nitrogen, uh, JLF. Um, and then right there, we took a little break
and I thought it was cool, man. When I rolled up, I didn't, I forgot to tell this part,
but like I rolled up, I was kind of early on the, on Friday. It was, it was like,
it just has stopped raining. It was kind of still rainy. And you drive into this farm
and it's called, I don't know if I'm, if I told y'all, but it's new DC university to DC. There's
a research farm. Um, so they have like nice greenhouses, nice high tunnels, um, you know,
solar, all kinds of stuff. So you drive down this road and I'm going just slow and a way up in front
of me, I see this guy walking in the middle of the road with an umbrella, um, just kind of
walking. And as I slowly drive up and that's the only way to go, like I have to go this way.
And I'm realizing, Oh shit, that's young saying. So like, I'm like sitting back just like, well,
I'm not going to rest this man. I'm I say way back. I said, I don't give a fuck if he wants to
walk, walk, take your time. It's ain't starting until you start. You know what I'm saying?
And then he, uh, he realized I was back there. So he turned around and then, um, he was like,
cause he don't really talk. He doesn't really speak English. He does. He says some words.
But when I, when I pulled up and kind of creeped right next to him, I was like, salute, good
morning. You know? And he was like, pointed over there. You're going over here. I was like, yes.
And he was like, all right. You know, it kind of shook his head. And I went on over and parked,
but, um, that was cool, man. It was just a good vibe. You know, I was like, man,
that's the man himself. It's just, um, like I brought Brian. There's not many people that I
would even like care to me. Like, like if I'm in the middle of something and somebody is like, man,
you got Michael Jordan's in Richmond. You got to drive up there and see, I might not go see him,
man. I might be just chilling. Cause I ain't like that. Like, I don't go reaching out to people
like that. Cause I don't, the things like that ain't don't like impress me. But when it's somebody
like this, that has basically their family has made it a goal to teach his country, to empower
his country, to, to, um, you know, kind of pretty much fight the system, you know, I'm supporting
that. And I got big respect for that. You know what I mean? And I will go to bat for him. And
he's even been taken like to court in this country for like his wedding agent because of the sodium
hydroxide, things like that. His head stuff that was banned. He had to go to court. He had to prove,
you know, that was safe and the reason being and things like that. But you know, like even he said,
man, he's like, it's the, it's, it's, it's real. Like the big agriculture, they don't want,
they don't want to see him. You know what I mean? He didn't say that, but they don't want him here.
They don't want us here, you know, cause we're, we're about trying to drop, drop that new,
drop that, um, something to free your mind, you know? And so, um, you know,
And to keep it going, you know, like you were saying, he's dropping new knowledge on you,
the, the fresh frozen IMO, like you heard that shit here first. Uh, so again, thank you to Marco
for taking the time to put that, obviously taking detailed notes, uh, and then sharing it with the
world is basically what you're doing. I mean, our audience is now worldwide. I just saw a gentleman
in the UK was saying that he hadn't heard of this until our show. So that's the whole point of this.
You know, we're proud on the fact that this is just information based. Um, and Marco is going
to continue to educate himself on a whole nother level here, uh, where he can then kind of break
it down even for the layman. So that's why I put that up there. A lot of, uh, individuals are
learning what this stuff means. So JMS is simple, JADAM microbial solution. Uh, you guys,
the acronyms and stuff are pretty basic. Uh, but if you've never heard of it before, then I would,
I would understand why that, um, you know, it's probably almost sounds foreign if everybody's
throwing out acronyms. So if you don't understand something, just keep it in the chat. We'll,
we can answer that quickly. And of course, if you're asking detailed questions, I'm putting
those to the side, we already have 17 for you, Marco. So, uh, today is a dialed in show for sure.
All right. Well, we'll do, I'll do my best shout out. What's up, DP. Appreciate you.
All right. So, um, all right. So we took a break and then we got back, you know, his question,
how to replace minerals in the soil after harvest. You know, we talk about that a lot. We're
harvesting, we're eating, he's harvesting peppers. We're harvesting, you know, cannabis, you know,
all behind us and stuff like that. How do we replace that? Seawater is answer. 83 elements.
Okay. Weight of the, the weight of the crops that you harvested times 1%. That's the amount
of seawater you want to use. That was a bar right there. So if you're harvesting a pound
out of your bed, I got to do my math. I'm saying on, I'm talking on the fly. I didn't
pre think about this, but if you're harvesting a pound and you take and whatever you don't,
if you chop and drop the stems, don't weigh that just weigh your cannabis times 1%
is the amount of seawater that you put back in that bed. And I think the math works out right.
Um, JLF has lots of calcium, you know, so you don't have to necessarily worry about adding
calcium so much when you're using JLF. So JADAM liquid fertilizers, remember as plant material,
water, leaf mold left to decompose on a barrel. Um, so don't get too hung up on your calcium is
what he's saying. When you're using a, a kind of this JLF part, um, kind of, um, way of doing it.
And I've noticed that too, which is why I went to the, um, actually measuring that strength of
those JLFs because they are very different food waste. If you use food waste, JLFs very salty.
I've used that before. Bokashi very salty, the leachate that comes out of it. Um, a good,
if you don't have seawater, 500 grams of sea salt to 20 liters of water, that's just seawater.
All right. Um, C90, same thing. Um, I'm pretty sure I've never heard anybody say anything negative
about C90. I've used it before. Um, so to me, those are bars. I'm gonna go,
we're going to drop back real quick. How to replace the minerals in your soil after harvest
seawater has 83 elements, the weight of the crops you harvested times 1% is the amount of seawater
you want to put back 50 grams of sea salt of salt equals 20, you know, plus 20 grams,
20 liters of water, excuse me, 50 grams plus 20 liters. That's seawater. Now you can use that as
your seawater, um, and everything you're doing. Um, all right. We talked about smells when you
go with JLF. Uh, we were talking about that smell. You got to, and my, y'all know my thing,
embrace your funk. You know, you got to embrace that. Now when carbs decompose,
that's fermentation. When proteins decompose, that's putrefaction. Rejoice the smell is what
my, uh, young saying, say rejoice the smell. I said, embrace your funk. He said, rejoice the smell.
Um, so, okay. Foliar is not necessary. He may, I mean, this is the, these are good points.
Foliar is not necessary. He says, well, if I make a nice nutrient solution and I pour it on my skin,
does my body, you know, rejoice? Does my body take that in? Um, good analogy. I'll let that be
kind of a gardener's choice. Um, I like foliar, especially when you're talking pesticide and,
and pre preventative stuff. Um, foliar period for, if you don't care, this is a short period anyway.
Um, so, you know, that's kind of, you know, you know, tomato, tomato to me.
It's not something I'm willing to argue about if you, you know, you know, foliar to me with FAA,
wonderful. Um, adding clay. I don't remember if I have this down in my notes. I'm gonna say it now
while I'm thinking about it. I was sitting next to one, uh, one of my buddies, Instagram buddies.
And, um, he asked young, he asked young saying, how do you get, because young saying uses clay
and it's part of this pesticide and it would be part clay. Well, how do you get clay into
the solution without clogging my sprayers? And I had did a post on clay and my pesticide
like last year or something, whenever it was. And he looked back at me, like, he's like, smile.
I was like, okay, you were paying attention. Cause he's looked at me like, okay, you use that clay.
And I said, well, let's see what he says. And basically you're going to use the, um,
settling method. Same way I did. You add fine clay to a glass or a container with water,
you know, shake it a little bit, let it settle for a period of time. You'll see that
heavy layer will accumulate it. Uh, and I probably have it in here. He gave us the amount of time
as a few minutes and then only harvest that middle of that layer of clay water that's still
colored. It's just got the particles are suspended in it. And that won't clog your, clog your sprayer.
And you've been talking about clays for now years since you came on the show the first time,
you know, before we even did this show. So, you know, I think that's, it's pretty cool to see,
like, you know, you guys are getting a lot of information first and then as things go down
the line, it's, it's amazing to be able to be like, okay, this is continued in information.
We rock with, uh, this is information that we need to obviously go down deeper rabbit holes.
Yep. And everybody asks this all the time, you know, uh, aerobic versus anaerobic,
you know what I mean? And he said, aerobic, he says, anaerobic is better. He says, think about
it. Not exact words, paraphrasing. Think about it. Every process of getting nutrition in nature,
has to do with anaerobic, your stomach, anaerobic, you know, a, you know, underneath the, the soil,
he says, that's anaerobic because it's not a high volume of air in there. You know, when things
decompose, it's anaerobic. So nature is used to anaerobic and they like anaerobic. And so, um,
you know, don't get hung up on, on that. And you gotta be aerobic versus anaerobic.
What he said was aerobic. Like we always say, and I always say that's, they're going to be
weaker microbes anyway. They're going to go into an environment where they don't have what they
really want and they're not going to survive. They're not being food for everything else,
which is okay. Unless you're wasting a lot of your time and energy and, you know, brewing and
whoopty whoop on that. So just more focus on, um, JMSs, JLS, you know, no, no brewer needed,
you know what I mean? Thank you. You know? Yeah, man. So hopefully this does give you all a lot.
And, and, and look, like always, all I want to do is get you stimulated, go deeper, get, you know,
get into it more, try it, use it as a method. Um, give it a shot before you, you know, say,
you don't, you know, it doesn't work, you know, cause listen, I'm telling you it works. Like
every cannabis that I've ever grown that you've, that I posted here, some of this new era of,
uh, sharing and enlightenment, um, is all these methods. Like that's it. Like I use this shit
and it works. Do you mind showing some of the genomes work? You're saying you're finding some,
some quickness. I saw that bud you were showing me before we came here.
Yeah. It's tough to really get, um, on, on, you know, the way this thing works.
But you can still see, I mean, it's still glimmers, you know, the hairs are there.
We used to joke. Those were the ginger pubes. You know, if it's there, the people want to buy it.
Yeah. She's got the look. She definitely got the look and I was surprised, man. Um,
I'm not attributing this to the system at all, but I'm attributing this to his genetics. Like I
found a plant and it's packed like 50 days, like done, done, like looking like done way done and
and, and with all, and checking all the boxes. So I'm like, damn, if this bitch was 50 day,
you know, that's, that's wonderful. That's a great one to have in your stable, especially if it's,
you know, checking all the boxes loud and everything else. And this is just with a quick
dry, like not even any kind of cures was cut down about a week ago. And I just couldn't, uh,
couldn't wait. You know what I mean? To, uh, give a little try. And, um, so yeah, man, genetics key,
when you match up genetics with some good, you know, you know, you kind of have the confidence
in what you're doing. That shit just clicks, you know, the plants love it, what you're doing,
genetics, back it up. I mean, it just means so much, man. It's like, um, it's crazy though.
It's like when, with the genetics, you gain a trust now, like I'm, I trust him. Like I'm like,
damn, he said, he said what he said and now his stuff's doing what it's doing. Now I trust him
because I didn't waste my time on his stuff where I've had packs before, where they said what it
said and didn't do what it did. And now I wasted time. You know what I mean? I'm not going to go
bashing nobody and talking about it, but I speak with my, with my dollars and my, and my, what I'm
doing, I will no longer grow that person's stuff. So shout out to genome for like this stuff,
his stuff's legit, man. And, um, you ain't got that good genetics. So that's what go ahead.
I was just going to say, and he's been, you know, Colorado underground name for a long,
long time. So he's just had a child. So if you guys are wanting to get into the genetics and
you want to support someone that is talk about family owned, I mean, he's, he's right here in
the heart of Denver doing it, you know? And, um, I just think it's somebody that, yeah, we,
we support and I know, uh, the community supports and the cool thing about him is he kind of lets
the, he knows how the community works anyway. So he lets a lot of individuals just kind of
white label his stuff. So, um, it's kind of like in the music industry, like a lot of that stuff,
the ghostwriting, all that stuff, like people get credit for things when they, you know,
if you know too much information sometimes, then you actually know behind the curtain,
what's going on. And he's just one of those guys. So if you want to get genetics that people might
not necessarily even tell you they're using, but he might necessarily be the genetics that they
are using. They're just calling it something else or saying they're doing the work, which is
silly at this point, but you know, it is what it is. Yeah, it is. I can see why I like how he just
embraces it. Yeah. Right. Just, yeah, just embraces it. But yeah, I could see how this Fantasia could
win, could win something. Not, you know, not necessarily even this one, but this plant,
like I can, the characteristics are sweet and they all three have a similar character,
characteristics. I'm going to go make some steak. Great show. Hope we can sort out an interview
soon. Okay. Yeah. Oh yeah. All right. So really good. So that was day one, right? Right there
was kind of what I took on notes from day one, the two day deal. And would I just talk for an
hour, hour, you know, just, just kind of giving you all the pair of the bits and pieces of it.
Oh yeah. But it's not even that somebody took notes, bro. It's that you understand this stuff
on a whole nother level. You've been, you know, getting better at communicating with us doing the
show each and every week. So this is an outlier moment for a lot of individuals that are newer
to this, where they could just run with it. You're able to break it down on a very simplistic level.
This is coming, obviously translated. So it's almost like telephone three times over already.
And the information is still coming clear, you know, and that's, that's what I knew,
you know, you would bring to the table. And I hope that the audience sees that,
you know, not necessarily, but everybody always realizes that information from another source,
from another source and notes sometimes isn't always the best, but I knew Marco would be there
for you guys. And obviously he's coming through with information that is like hot off the presses.
You know, I'm fresh off the skillet.
Yeah, definitely. JNP, Jadam natural pesticide. No, no, I'm sorry. Naphthalene,
pepsi, so mothballs. So you can use mothballs to make a pesticide,
which I thought was pretty cool. And it's dissolving them in water. That's how you do
that. I did not get like the exact recipe. Actually, I do on my phone. I took pictures
of the screen. But just think about that mothball pesticide. That one I don't think is organic.
Do your own research. I just took the note. His favorite movie likes the Godfather.
That's kind of a gold bar, man. Because that makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, he's like, he feels like he just said he can relate, you know, with him and, you know,
kind of the way that movie went. So yeah, he then is this is I jumped the gun. But this is where
we're talking about the seed companies owning the chemical fertilizer companies. And then he made a
quote, you know, the fruit tree does not promote the fruit tree does not protect the fruit. You
know what I mean? Sweet, bright, they want to seize the spread. Think about it. We can think
about that with knowledge. You know, think of this knowledge that he gave that you get is the fruit,
you know, I mean, it shouldn't be protected. You know, it should be sweet and bright. You know
what I mean? For everyone to want to taste it and absorb it and learn it. You know what I mean?
Um, now, he gave some codes for EPA as to why like the his pesticides are safe. EPA, you know,
code 205.6024 a and four B, you guys can read that it lists out like sodium hydroxide and stuff
on a list that you know, make it acceptable to use. 10. This is a note I made at 1036. A bird
flew in the greenhouse. They always say birds are good luck. You know, and the day before I left,
the bird flew in our house. Yeah, I mean, and we got it out. So unless you're a gangster,
I don't know if he knows that watching Godfather. But if a bird flies in your house, and you're a
gangster, that's bad. That's bad. Oh, shit. Okay. So you didn't say that I need to warn him. Yeah.
Yeah, see, I'm not I'm not a gangster no more. So I'm good.
So let's see the fruit. Yeah. So man, I think that's still sweet. You know, the fruit,
the tree does not protect the fruit. It's sweet and bright. They want that seed to spread. And
that's what we want. Three hours is a boy a good boil. No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. When you make
in your his pesticides. Three hours kind of the window should be effective within three hours on
the past or didn't work. Look for. All right, so when you're using the pesticides, you want to
test them on a small area like we do with everything we do, you know, look for marks on
the bar on leaves, leaves are kind of turning red, you know, you want to lighten up your dosage,
you don't want the bottoms of the fruit where the pesticide drips and kind of hangs if it makes the
fruit leaves marks there, then, you know, you're not a guy a little bit too much on your pesticide.
They gave a website do to direct.com for buying some different things.
The the natural pesticide is effective on on PM, you know, contact.
That's something that you can dig into and look at a little bit more of the water,
you know, always use soft water when you're using these things.
To be successful as a farmer is go ahead, Brian.
I just want to I guess this kind of changes the subject real quick, but there's a gentleman named
Tim. I just wanted to shout him out. My wife reminded me he since we love hats, he owns a let
me let me shout him out here. Bear lion screen printing and embroidery. So wherever you are,
sir, you know, Google that this gentleman has reached out. He wants to do some show hats for
us to kind of show what he can do. So my wife, she's a farmer. She's a farmer. She's a farmer.
My wife reminded me before we went live here, sir, and I will be getting that out to you. But
we wanted to promote you and appreciate you making these show hats. I'm excited to show them off.
Yeah, that's what's up. Yeah, we love that support. I think that's Tim that I know.
But anyway, OK, cool. Yeah. Fantastic individual. Yes. Solid guy. Definitely.
Um, so to be successful, you need to set up irrigation. This is on a commercial level
outdoors. Imagine, you know, that that's his words. You know, there's all different methods.
But that irrigation system, as he said, is going to be that plus a good pesticide pretty much
will get you through, you know, and it makes sense. Now I wrote this down bubble sprayer.
There's a nozzle that turns your spray, you know, like into bubbles. Now the bubbles come out and
coat your leaves and give a hell of a nice coating. I'm going to look that up. He says
they have them in Korea. And, you know, I just hadn't heard of that before. Have you heard of
that before, Brian, a bubble sprayer? No, I have not. Makes sense, though, right? It sounds,
you know, getting them fine bubbles popping out like that on your foliars and stuff.
Yeah. The atomizer, I guess, is the finest thing that we were ever able to use with a little
yucca extract. And that would actually get the the praying leaves and all that if you
if they were down in the dumps. You know, the the foiler might not just foiler. However,
I know people they always say I say that wrong. Right. The F-bomb spray, you know, that's for
individuals, especially if you're indoors, obviously, this is a way to improve on Mother
Nature. So is it necessary? No. But are there ways to improve on Mother Nature, speed things up,
maybe just find ways to build up an immune system since they are indoors? Nothing's going to ever
replicate sunlight. I don't care what a LED light salesman tells you. They're getting better,
of course. But sunlight, I don't think at least in our lifetime will never be replicated like that.
Yeah, I can agree with that. What? So J.W.A., the Jadam Wedding Agent, a lot of people know it's
in the book. The way that that's basically you're making soap without heat. You know what I mean?
They're using the oil as hydrolyzed, hydrolyzed, doesn't need heat. Now, thing I didn't know,
you can use cooked oil like old cooking grease. You can use that in your J.W.A. So now you can use
recycled oil, save a little bit, even more money. You know what I mean? He says a little less
effective, but can be used now. Another one when you're if you want to use cooked oil or now to
make your J.W.A. since you can use cooked oil. He says this is a bar cooking chili peppers,
cooking strong spices in that oil, strain that and now use that oil to make your Jadam Wedding
Agent, which is going to be your like a natural vegetable type oil. So then
potassium. I forget the other one now. I've got so many things in my head.
Sodium hydroxide and water. You know, I mean, that's to make yourself so you can kind of cook
in your extra spices and give you a little bit more effectiveness in your in your J.W.A.
Now, I thought I asked, you know, when you make J.W.A. you there's a so you put you mix it and
then now you have to let it rest for that period. And my thought was, could you store it in that
resting state? But he says he doesn't want you to store it that way. Go ahead and make it out,
add the water and then store it with the water as best as store to J.W.A.
Oh, J.W.A. A lot of people are worrying about using the sodium potassium hydroxide.
God damn it. I forget which one it is. The one of the two, the one used for J.W.A. I keep getting
them mixed up, but that's broken. J.W.A. is consumed by the soil in five days. So even when
you use that, the soil is going to break that down in five days. I thought that was pretty
pretty good to know. Use it, cook the herbs and the spices into your oil makes it easier.
All right. So then now Jadam sulfur is another one made kind of recipes in the book. I'm not
going to try to tell you the recipe by heart, but it's one that I made before. Jadam sulfur
is a great input. It's like a step up from your kind of herbal solution, which is your boil.
And now sulfur is even a little bit step up. Use sparingly that Jadam sulfur can be used to
disinfect. I specifically was asking like for HPV, hypothyroid or whatever. Can we clean our
tools with it? He said, yeah, it can be used for that. Jadam sulfur is good for even toenail fungus.
You soak your toenails in it. It takes one time a week for three months.
And then, oh, you can use JS. Jadam sulfur will help you store fruit. So what they do in Korea
is they'll spray fruit in the fall. And now he says you can store that like in a basement or
a root cellar kind of thing. And that Jadam sulfur keeps the microbial action from kind of jumping
on your fruit. I thought that was pretty cool. Just put your fruit in a box and you can store
I thought that was pretty cool. Just put your fruit in a box and spray that box inside of it.
Kind of jumping back into the back to Jadam herbal solution. That's a five hour boil
with Ginkgo berry. Oleander works too. That's a plant. A lot of people know that plant. It's
like a landscaping plant. If you make herbal solution, the Ginkgo one, he says it works great
on dogs. Get rid of your dogs and livestock of ticks. Get a nice salute. Wet them down with it
really good. I haven't tried it, but I will. Don't use dry ingredients for your JHS. Not as effective.
That's just his words. Ginkgo JHS, the one we say you should be growing, he says he can use it to
spray his whole like he wants to have an event on his property or if he's out there working in a
farm. Go through, spray some Ginkgo JHS just kind of on everything in the air on the grass. He said
it deters mosquitoes. As his property sounds like mine, like mosquitoes can just kind of keep you
from them wanting to do anything. It can get so bad. Y'all know how it is sometimes out here in
the South. Definitely something I want to try. It beats the hell out of the mosquito truck back in
the day. Used to drive by fog and everything with who knows what, but same principle.
Deer don't eat Ginkgo either. He says they don't eat it. He says you can use it to spray around
fruit trees and things like that where you don't want deer. It kind of makes sense.
That's a, that could be a huge bar, especially for people in the South, man. Deer are kind of like
rats, if you will. I know. Larger and you know the bleeding heart type people don't realize that
they're ferocious for the food that they want to eat. So yeah, there's got to be a give and take
and keeping things in balance sometimes is necessary. Yeah, yeah, because if you let them,
they'll eat more than you. Before I forget, one guy met his theme this year, growing more food
than cannabis. Dope. You know what I mean? I think that's probably key. It should be. You
probably should grow a little bit more food than cannabis. You know what I mean?
I think any, yeah, that should be the lifelong goal is to eventually, however you kind of get
there, but the end goal in life is that you got your own little ranch or farm or whatever you
want to do. And then you're growing your own food as best you can, maybe very limited grocery
stores and then going to the farmer's markets and picking up the things that you don't have.
But I think that's the new flex man is look how nutrient dense my food is. Look how healthy my
skin and my eyes, you know, money is, you know, whatever, but the overall health, you know,
we've said that a long time to health is wealth. I think the older you get, you truly do realize
that to trust the process and that aspect means you got to focus on nutrient dense food your
entire life. Yep. Yep. And they were very like their skin had that glow, you know,
and not just a freshness to it where, you know, you could tell their stuff's working. He says all
these pesticides, when they spray them out in the fields, no mass, no nothing, let it get on your
skin. It's all right. It's not going to, you know, it's not going to hurt you. It's actually beneficial.
And then JMS, he said, like for pink eye, if you get pink eye, JMS will cure pink eye,
you know what I mean? You got an eye itch, you know, or, you know, some, you know, stuff like
that, man. It's about the micro microbial action, you know, how competing.
And then his wife came on after break, you know, Mrs. Cho, she, she taught us how to make soap.
You know what I mean? And, and the soap is basically the same as JWA, but this was
revolutionary. I didn't think about this instead of using just canola oil, she's using coconut oils,
palm oils, you know, now for the soaps for your body. Very simple recipe, similar to exact,
almost exactly like the JWA. And that sodium hydroxide is what I kept. And I couldn't remember,
got some of the chemicals in my mind. So sodium hydroxide. And, you know, the coconut soap,
she gave us recipes for yellow bar soap, dish soap, laundry detergent, I'm going to use one of
the laundry. I'm going to make the laundry detergent because you know, like, why not? I'm
going to give it a shot. You know what I mean? Hey, while we're talking about that, I learned
that the Dr. Bronner's that's a fake Castile soap. It's a commercial brand soap and it's not the real
thing. And so my, my little baby girl, she's eight months old. She has some skin issues. And we went
to the dermatologist and the dermatologist was letting me know on the inside that that is
basically fake. It's a fugazi type Castile soil. So, so, so again, man, you can be fooled by clever
marketing. Cause that's one that everybody thinks is like, yeah, that's good. Right. The package,
everything. Did he recommend something different or? Well, for a baby, it was this dove brand,
but what I was getting at is even making your own soap might allow you to minimize some of the skin
irritation. Some of the things that are coming that you might think you're buying here. Here I
am thinking I'm buying the high, the high end soap for my daughter. And it's the stuff that's also,
I mean, there's other things, but it's causing the inflammation to not just disappear.
Yes. Three puff pass. That's my man right there. Yeah. So what he's talking about was we took a
break man over, you know, just, just took a break. I saw a compost pile, you know, over there. I said,
well, let me walk over there. It had just rained Friday, you know, yesterday, this was Saturday
morning. And so at the base of this compost pile was a little depression kind of, you know, where
you, you know, a bit scooping it out, I guess. Well, the rain kind of saturated this pile,
made a puddle out in front of it. And then that puddle was loaded with micro bubbles,
tiny bubbles, the same thing we had just been talking about in class. So him and I, we walked
over there and I, and I saw it and I wanted to show him and I brought a milk jug and collected
some of that natural, you know, JMS, you know what I mean? That's a natural microbial solution.
It just came out of that compost pile. So yeah, that was pretty cool, man. That's like, again,
met some cool people there, man, people that watch the show a lot. They like what we do.
And it was very humbling, man. Like it really was like when you meet people and they, and they're
like, you know, can I take a picture with you? That's, man, that was crazy for me. You know,
it's special. I thank y'all for that. That just made me feel good. I almost got choked up out
there just because of it, just taking it all in. And so, you know what I mean?
That's a respect thing. I know some people feel a certain way about it, but if somebody wants to
take a photo with you, that means they respect you. I think that's something to, like you're
saying, that should be a gracious thing. Like, wow, man. I mean, because some people in the
cannabis space, man, they have this diva mentality in the public. And then behind the scenes, I know
that they're a very, almost sweet individual. And it's almost like, why do you act like that?
If you were the other way around, I think more people would want to rock with you because it's
like, wow, this guy's a genuine human being, not just, you know, superstar greeter guy.
Yeah. You got to remember that, man. Like you got to remember that whatever, people only see what
you show them. Like, so y'all only see me as I'm showing you. So, you know, keep that same energy.
Like when you see people in public, you know, keep that friendly energy and that sharing energy.
Don't just, you know, get out in public and kind of, you know, kind of get reclusive.
So yeah, man, a soap thing, I think that's huge. Cause that's a cost,
pretty good cost over the year, you know, buying laundry soap, stuff like that. Wifey says, well,
if it smells good and works, we'll give it a shot type of thing. So, you know, it's worth it.
This is a new thing that he's worked, that he's been working on. He hasn't even shared this yet.
Surface spreading agent. Ooh. And that shit is, sounds really good. Think about it. He
developed it for the rice patties. There's a weevil which breeds in the water of the patty.
And then the weevil hatches and crawls up the stalk of rice and then now infests the rice. So
this is a surface spreading agent, which he's using a combination with JWA and a JADAM sulfur,
which forms a film over top of the water. And then when these things crawl out of the water,
now they're instantly coated on the way up. And so now they're dying. So he's working on that.
He's going to share that. He says after the tour, you know, and that's just something he
wanted to drop on us a little bit. Drone control sprayers. That's the new thing. That shit sounds
really, looked cool. He showed a video where they got the drones are running through spray and IPM.
They're using about 10 liters to spray an acre. So now if you really want to start
breaking that down and what you're spending on the stuff here, and then only 10 liters to an acre.
Very good stuff. The Ginkgo key, if you don't get anything from this, the Ginkgo
herbal solution. And then he's got a new thing he's working on. Declaglucoside
in place of the sodium hydroxide for hard water. It's non-toxic. And then that means JLF can then,
that means JWA can then be mixed with vinegar and FAA. Right now with the sodium hydroxide,
you don't want to add anything like living, like a JLF, I mean, FAA or vinegar, living vinegar,
but with the Declaglucoside now you can add those living components to your sprays and to your
watering IPM. And then he did mention, I'm sorry, and that was 99% ethanol on the, to 15% volume to
keep those JHSs from growing bacteria. And so, yeah, that's kind of all the notes, man, but I got,
you know, we had a good time, man. It was real, real genuine, man. Met some good people. And that's
part of my thing this year is I'm like, I want to get out more and make more contacts with people,
you know, real contacts. And that worked, man. And then, you know, this was a great one. I saw
Sticky District, blessed me with a little bit of that good stuff that he has. And if y'all seen
him on our show, y'all know, y'all know he's got all the good extracts and, and, and that stuff for
your Puff Co. And Screaming Demon Cannabis was there. Got to kick it with her. A lot of people,
man, that, you know, I didn't get everybody's name and, you know, wasn't going to just be writing
down people's IGs, but I said, man, reach out, check out the show. If you guys were there, hit us up.
Yeah, they don't, I haven't seen the, well, you know what, man, they got helicopters and
trimmed the power lines with big ass, the saws hanging off the bottom. So who knows what's next?
Third day was awesome. All right. The dude named Preston presented. He has some great
KNF and Jadon methods adapted to US based application. Nice. Is that Preston Smith?
Yeah. Yeah. We talked and I was like, man, I can't, I got stuff to do. I can't make it tomorrow.
We talked a little bit about hemp and that man dropped two quick bars on me about hemp. We were
talking and he was like, just talking about commercially, like, you know, timing it out
with the weather, you know, when do you put your stuff outdoor, you know, and then, oh shit, you
get a cold snap and he says it never fails. He gets a cold snap. And I'm like, well, damn,
on a small scale, you can kind of put a dome over or something over each plant, you know,
kind of the protected, a milk jug, whatever, depending on the size of the plant. And he says,
well, yeah, but on that commercial scale, we can't do that. And I'm like, yeah, good point.
What, what, how do y'all do it? So basically roll cover, it'll just roll out fabric, roll cover down
the whole row of hemp plants. If he gets a cold snap, protect them for that night, pop it back
off. Just things like that, man, makes a lot of sense, you know, even though it's common sense,
but in a way you don't necessarily, you know, unless someone kind of breaks it down and says
it, you kind of don't think about certain things sometime, you know what I mean? So
it was great, man. Just, just kicking. I wish I could have seen day three, but you know,
I glad I got, I'm glad I got to hear from Young saying that's really what I wanted to do was hear
from him and meet him. And, and that really got me rejuvenated, man, really got me a good,
nice fire lit under me. Got a lot of new things I want to work on mainly with my garden. I want
to run that row cover style. Like he's doing in a small section, but hearing him talk,
it made me realize that even though I have this property with, you know, one acre,
I want to dial that into a small space and only focus on that small area. It's starting out my
grow, get that really dialed in and then it kind of expanded and go from there.
Yeah, I know. I would imagine you're going to say, you think if someone is, you know,
obviously they're, they're well-funded individual. This is a no brainer. If it's somebody that maybe
is trying to pay their own way by this, do you think going to this class is worth the time and
effort going away from your crops and all of that? Or do you think it's more wait until you have a
little bit more money in your pocket than attend the class? I mean, I think if you've got the book
and you're, and you're into it and you've been doing these things, I think you're, you've,
you've got enough to keep you going. You don't, this is like, trust me, this class, isn't like
you had a necessity where I gotta go here before I can really jump in. You could jump right in with
the book. You can jump in as simple as just throwing your bottles away and just doing JLF,
a bucket, half plant, fill the rest of water, some leaf mold, start using that as your fertilizer,
like step. Like, that's why I say these things can, depending on what you spend in a year.
So if you spent 300 to learn not to throw your bottles away and then your bottles have been
costing you 1500 or 2000, you know, then that, then, you know, no brainer. But I feel like,
yeah, it's worth it, man. And if you can't afford the class, just wait. This info is going to be
out there soon. They're going to put it out there for free. And you'll have people just like me that
I'm dropping what I picked up. I'm guarantee you I haven't been on Instagram, but I know people
are probably that have went on Instagram already sharing this stuff as they should, you know?
Yeah. Well, do you want to get into some of these questions here? We got,
might as well just get the questions and then just see how it kind of, how we go.
Yeah. There's 31. So everybody's engaged today. All right. So, yeah, that's well, obviously,
and that's again, man, how I, how you feel like you gauge things. I was, I was talking to Bart
when I was, I was helping him. He was doing like a big public speaking thing, then downtown Denver.
And he's like, well, how do you know if somebody, you know, people like your talks asking me,
I said, well, if they're asking questions, because then you've resonated with people.
If you're, if you're like, Oh, Hey, you know, my name is Marco. You give your talk. Hey,
I'm done with my talk. And then everybody gets up and leaves before you kind of, you know,
there's no interactions there. Then you either miss the mark or, you know, your presentation
was boring. So, so obviously those two things that didn't happen today, because this is kind
of the most I've ever honestly seen so many people interacting in the chat and stuff. And, you know,
I'm newer to seeing the chat while we do this. But the, the context and all of the things were
positive. And that's what I love to see, man. It was like, this is educational stuff. We're here
to learn and it's, it's taking it to the next level. The reptile world is learning from this
show and know about Peter and the future cannabis project. And, you know, one guy even called him,
I think he called him Mr. Long pipes, you know, Peter Long. So they know the nicknames. They know
that, you know, that's how to me, how I know that they're actually legitimately watched the show.
Some of that like goofier stuff that they like to mention. So yeah, when you guys come up to us and
talk to us, we enjoy that man. As long as you're not weird about it. That's right. Everybody was
cool. Everybody was real chill, laid back, good people there. Yeah. All right. What'd you got?
I guess we'll run it, run the questions. If I can answer them, you know, people,
what's the, what I do the best I can. People were asking me stuff there and I'm like, Hey man,
ask him. We want to hear him. I want to hear his answer. For real. That's kind of silly to be
honest. All right. Ned wants to know, I know the Cho, here, let me pop it up. Actually I forgot.
I know that the Cho family has a lot of Christian undertones. Did that transpire
at all in the class you took? Okay. So no. Okay. Great question. Yes. At the beginning,
he, you know, he start kind of with his basis. He, he, he liked the Karl Marx quote. He says,
he's not Marxist. He liked that quote and that quote fit kind of where we're at. And it was more
or less, you know, against the big system type of thing. He mentioned Jesus, you know what I mean?
But it was a very, it was at the beginning. He's Christian, but he doesn't like,
it doesn't come off like it's a Christian event, you know, nothing like that. But he does acknowledge
in the beginning, you know, Jesus and he says something about Karl Marx, but he did clarify
that he does not like communism and he's not like Marxist. He just like, he takes a little
bit of everything. He liked the quote, you know, and so we're all friend with that.
Oh, Mr. Ryan here wants to know, is that a peach Marchino behind you?
That's Ryan. What's up Ryan? That is, no, that is, that is a big, big boom, big boom theory.
This came beforehand, I think when you were talking about feeding the chickens.
Yeah. Yeah. Uncooked, break them up into little, you know, where they're like crushed,
not powder, but just small pieces so they can pack them. Yeah. That uncooked brown rice. He
said that was key. You know, there, when we were talking to chickens.
What do I use? I'm just getting into my chickens, but what I will
be giving my chickens a lot of is black soldier fly. You know what I mean? So I've raised black
soldier fly larvae. So they'll get lots of those. So they'll get plenty of, you know,
calcium and that, and then just Bokashi, some food scraps probably give a little bit of that.
And people say, throw the eggshells back out there. I'll probably do that as well.
Yeah. I think that's almost like, that's the first thing.
Where do I get the llama and alpaca manure? He has piles of chicken manure, rabbit manure.
I'm going to be all organic. Nice. Where do you get that? I, you know, you Google alpaca farms and
usually that individual will have truckloads of it for you. I've seen it as low as $35 for a pickup
truck full. And that individual seemed giddy for the money. And our team was giddy for the
manure. For the price. Yeah. That's so cheap, dude. Yeah. It's basically his gas. He just didn't want
to have to pay for the gas. We're like, all right, man. All right. We got you. Whatever you feel is
fair. All right. Shout out to Rod skateboards. Always watching the show. Any insight on JFL
extraction would be appreciated. What to look for in bubble smell. Look, you mentioned that
earlier a little bit. What dilution rates in water does Marco prefer for cannabis?
Okay. So I, you know, me, I use that. I use a little meter with my JLF. So I try to go by
kind of that EC number of PPMs. You know what I mean? With, you know, but to be honest, man,
I've kind of gone back to water only lately. But if just a general rule of thumb for nutrient
based on nutrient strength and light intensity, if you're talking about indoors,
you know, for my small ceilings and small plants, I like to be, you know, 250 to,
you know, three 50. And that'll be like par and nutrient strength. So PPMs.
And then for vagina on up 400 to 700, depending on how big and strong they are,
but still as par light intensity and food, and then maxing out at like a thousand
for both, you know, that's when I'm kind of running that regimen. But like I said, I run it
and what ran water only and like that success as well. So key with JLF just dilute. And if you
don't know how strong it is, I would use like one cup per gallon starting out.
This question was interesting to me. I'm not quite sure what bee worms are.
There are bee worms and lava and alpaca.
Yeah, I don't.
I think he's saying it's good.
Cause I've only, I've never messed around with llama cause I heard that it was a little bit
different than alpaca. That could be total bro science, but we went with the alpaca because,
you know, there were individuals that had used it before and just found it to be tried and true.
Yeah. I mean, I think llamas, they're pretty close, but I don't know to be a hundred, but I'm
sure they're probably about the same. The ruminants is what the ruminants is what the type of stomach
they have.
And they have multiple stomachs.
Yeah.
Novice grower here had really, I imagine old seeds, five or six years old. Can't get them to
sprout. Are they too old?
I've heard like some tricks. Well, not her, but like freezing them 24 hours for try that with a
couple before you waste them all, put them in the freezer over 24 and then break them out and then
try them sometime. That'll kind of break them out of that dormancy. But
if they're really valuable seeds, just make sure you're sprout, go sprout some seeds,
which are cheap and just make sure you're, it's not a, it's not you and not your, your,
your skill set because you're novice. If you, if you know how to sprout seeds and you're all good,
then try that freeze method. And sometimes they just are old, man. I had some, my dad gave me
some big old dinosaur seeds. I really was hoping they would do something and like,
they just wouldn't sprout.
I would think, you know, mineral water with the bioag full power. That was kind of like a tried
and true, especially if you're using old genetics that were valuable.
But again, like Marco's saying, that's only going to be if your skill set is there. And if you,
you need quite a skill set to be breeding or I'm sorry, growing with older genetics.
So buying maybe the newer stuff, getting that down since you are a newer farmer. And then once
you have that skill set down, same thing like with cologne, you don't want to necessarily go
to the homie that has the best cut if you're not ready for it yet. So, you know, practice that
skill set so that when you do want to get to that individual and ask for certain genetics and feel
like you can, your skill sets are there so that it's not wasted. There were many times where I
was gifted a cut and it got some kind of IPM issue or I wasn't necessarily the best cloner back then,
you know? So understanding those things, I think are going to help you go a long way as well as
putting that stuff at least in the refrigerator.
Yeah, there you go. For storage.
Shout out to Hawaii Sustainable. I know it seems like every week with us as well.
I would say no, I would say no, first till is better. One till still destroying thousands of
years if was never previously tilled. And I would say buying is another red flag.
Well, I'll say this. If you say no till and what you're going to do is you're going to
you say no till and we're on our agricultural soil that's hard pack,
then you're going to buy yourself some time to do that one till. And I wouldn't till old
growth forest either. We're talking about land here that obviously you're talking thousands of
years is destroying, was never till. We're not, we're kind of talking about like you bought some
land. It's not like virgin old growth land. It's just like a plot of land and you want to get it
going. So tilling to me is essential because really you're buying yourself time. You're
putting microbes down deep quick. Whereas if you just only rely on the top dress, sometimes you
can't, the water won't even break through that hard pack, like from the agricultural, the big
ag soil. And so no matter what you do, the water won't break through. So sometimes you got to break
that earth and dig down. I think that's also why it was popular is because people did find
success like the first one or two times. And then it was downhill from there because obviously you
can't continue doing that process. So that is the balance of a human being finding out with
mother nature, having machines to potentially improve on things. If you're in Hawaii, then
you're probably blessed with unbelievable soil. So you don't need a tiller. Yeah. You probably
don't even ever what's a tractor, right? You don't need anything. All right. Nicholas,
the thought is that the soil doesn't break down the bark or wood chips. The outdoor fungi will do.
That's why I cover my mulch with soil. Okay. You understand that? Well, I cover my soil
with mulch. So I'm down now. Yeah. I think he might've said that backwards, but yeah,
the soil doesn't break down. Amen. Like we said, everybody's kind of got that.
Part of this is you. You're the master of your garden, and you come up with those techniques.
And if you do things that are work, like share that with people, like let us know what kind of,
how you, how you going about doing certain things. And it kind of, because a lot of this stuff was,
it seems like common sense until you, when you hear it, then you're like, Oh, why, why didn't I
think of that? It made so much sense. So, yeah. Oh, bamboo. Well, I mean, bamboo seems like it's
just a, like a pot bed for microbes. I don't know. Like you see that a lot in all his writings
and bamboo is a grass. Remember that? So if you think I'm just breaking it down as if you think
about how we collect IMO in a Prairie, Prairie grass is very, as a valuable collection, you know,
you're talking about now bamboo, which is a grass actually, but it's like 30 feet tall or whatever.
Like, so now maybe supersize what the grass is doing on that even, you know, faster scale. You
know, I don't know. It's hard to say, man, but the man said bamboo and he collected some hell of IMO
and bamboo. So I think bamboo is good as long with all the silica that you get from probably
the drought, you know, the residues falling from it. Okay. For fun, I was told maybe a good source
of sugar. Yeah. I mean, weed is a source of energy. You know, I look at it like that and
you know, you have that brand, you have all that powder, you know, it's kind of on the brand.
Got a lot of energy in that. And that's why it's good for IMO because the microbes eat it up.
Collecting IMO from your bed or pot. I mean, you can do that DP, like if you want to,
because you want to do the process, right? Say it's the dead of winter. You really,
oh man, I'm going to start this IMO process. Yeah. Collect it in your bed,
collect it in your own soil, because what that's going to do is just take you through the process
of seeing that growth in the rice, collecting it, you know, stabilizing it and so forth,
so on and so forth. And if you have multiple beds, no soil is exactly the same. So you could
actually get a little IMO from each bed and then just rotate it around to get diversity
between all your, you know, your different beds.
But you know, most of it, you're going to be better off though, going in the forest where
the leaf mold is, you know, DP. Yeah, he did mention that. And I didn't get deep into it,
but part of that living soil, the chicken floor was digging down and making a little heat zone
for the chicks. So if you picture like a swimming pool, how it goes from shallow to deep, you know,
look at it from cross section, you dig down and he told us how many inches. It was about,
I think it was like 15 centimeters or about six or seven inches or something.
Dig down, kind of make this miniature kind of swimming pool looking, carved out. And then now
you put your chicken, your little chicken box for your chicks over that. And what happens is the
different depths give different heat and the chicks know instinctively which heat zone they
want to kind of sit in. So that, yeah, that goes along the same lines of using that heat
from the microbes to do that.
Bars, man, especially with the cost of eggs.
The healthier they are, the better it's going to be.
Man, I can't wait for eggs. I'm just tired of going in the store and saying, man, eggs are high.
If I need to use sugar to add weight or tighten buds as well, just use plain sugar instead of
molasses because you don't really need the sulfur. All right, well, all right.
Yeah, but he's saying like he's adding sugar like to add weight and tighten up the buds.
I mean, okay. Yeah, I don't do too much of the sugar stuff, man. I think that for the reasons we
mentioned, you know what I mean? Because really... Go ahead.
Yeah, like the wall.
That's
back down and then the debos are there if you go...
and that stuff, which was obviously against the grain
when we first started this.
So a lot of new information comes out.
That's why you obviously want to stay up on this
each and every year.
Yeah, don't use, don't just use,
I don't know what you're doing there, Nicholas.
Don't just use sugar in your garden.
Like I could see like, if you want to do FPJs,
people like to increase that amount of, you know,
sweetness at the end flowering.
So then go with your FFJs, your fruit, fermented fruits,
where at least you're not just getting, you know,
just sugar, it's actually a fermentation.
And then that sugar is a raw sugar,
which is still got some minerals on it.
Can you use a bottle of EM1 as a mother
to start your own batch?
Yeah, man, once you guys buy microbes,
if you buy any microbes, then don't ever buy them again,
just reculture, you know, they're just in that bottle.
You just grow another batch.
I don't, I got stuck at EM1,
half a bottle sitting on the shelf.
I haven't used it in years.
But I believe.
That's why some people feel a certain way about microbes,
might even have misinformation,
because there's a company here in Colorado,
everybody knows their name,
that was telling you that you had to constantly buy microbes.
And at first everybody was like, oh, okay, that makes sense.
Until you started to talk to individuals
that really understood that,
and usually one of their first questions is,
well, why would you have to continue to buy the product?
So there's a lot of beginner misinformation out there
that can be dispelled, thanks to Marco,
even in just this one video
and a ton of other information out there.
But if you're buying products in the bottles
and all of that, for the most part,
those are the training wheels.
Marco's famously said, you know, bottles are for babies.
And if you're really trying to take your skill sets
and your understanding of plants,
mother nature to the next level,
then just dive right in.
You're trusting that mother nature's gonna guide you
a lot better than you are in your first few flips.
You'll see that you're miles ahead of most individuals
when they first start out,
because you're just letting mother nature take hold,
balance the pH.
You know, the sweet spot has always been
kind of like that six, five, six, eight.
Well, if it's a brand new soil system,
that might not be the sweet spot for that flip
because things are too new.
So the microbial life balances that out for you.
Yeah, and Cho, just like you said, Brian,
exactly what you said.
He said that the microbes balance it out.
That's why I focus on that microbial diversity.
You know, EM1s, man, you know, it is what it is.
It's like when it's a progression,
when you go on down that microbes route,
you learn about EM1 and you say,
oh, well, I'm gonna use that, you know?
And then like, I didn't even get halfway through the bottle
and I was like, well, I see, you know, it's kind of okay.
That was a step along the way.
I still got the stuff.
Not saying it's not beneficial,
but when, like Brian was saying,
when you got to count on things
that aren't naturally in the soil,
that means you got to buy them again, you know?
And so we don't want to be buying EM1 all the time.
That's a great question.
Um, no, because I feel like,
well, I've used plants to their disease
and JLS and watered them right back out, no issues.
What happens is you,
remember you're breaking that down to a microbial level.
And so what happens is inside that barrel,
if you're either being eaten or you're food,
you're either food or you're going to eat,
you know what I mean?
So whatever's in there, if it's not really being, you know,
I don't see how fungi, including pests like that,
survive the JLS.
That's just me.
Now, someone else may have a different experience,
but I've, you know, like I said, I've used them.
I throw them, I don't separate tomatoes
at the end of the year.
If they look like they got blighter, I don't,
all that shit goes in JLS.
And everything seems to be working out all right
because it balances itself out in that vessel.
Oh, my favorite acronym.
This was like a curve ball question.
I like that one.
What's, well, they say FUBAR.
FUBAR, fucked up behind all recognition.
Now, I don't know.
That's a great question.
I think that, that new one, the surface spreading agent,
that sounds crazy.
I don't know what his name for that's going to be.
SSA.
What's yours?
He's saying my favorite acronym, I guess, would be,
I've always, I guess my favorite line has always been
the only business is repeat business.
So that'd be T-O-B-I-R-B.
And I believe that no matter what you're doing,
the only business is the fact that someone's going to want
to come back to you.
How do you do that?
Well, there's a laundry list of things
that are going to bring a customer back.
But to simplify that, the only business is repeat business.
That's true.
Great, great one.
Well, the mine is all things are,
there is no good and bad when things are in balance.
I love that.
And I don't know how many letters that is.
I don't know what's going on in the bucket full of fabric,
pots and water I forgot about.
Pull the lid off and start again.
I can't swamp stink.
What's up here, Billy?
You know that's that JLF funk, man.
Fabric pots though, okay.
Interesting, yeah.
Use that stuff, man.
I think that's good stuff.
I was going to ask you since it's in a fabric pot,
has it gone too far anaerobic?
It sounds like he's,
yeah, like he sounds like he's still in a bunch
of his old fabric pots in a bucket.
Kind of, yeah, it's probably all the microbes
just kind of breaking down, getting funky in there.
You know, putrid is going to be one of your protein
if you have proteins in there.
Watered down milk, uh-uh.
No, just powder milk.
Yeah, skim milk and that watered down milk.
I real quick, if you've never seen the difference
between budget milk and high quality milk,
you should watch, there's several documentaries on that.
There's actually pus in the cheap stuff
and then they fill it out.
So if you're, if you have an ailments
and you're taking a lot of dairy in,
it might be because you're taking a lot of cheap dairy.
That's true, dairy is a very,
dairy cause a lot of mucus too.
Yeah, that's a, what is it, cookie monster?
That's a sometimes food.
You know, you don't sit there and eat dairy all day long.
Right, exactly.
I know from watching Dr. Lainey Hammond stuff,
she has, I believe, proved this on a video of hers
that the sprayers do not kill microbes.
I've seen the other side of,
well, I shouldn't say proved it
because there's an other side of thing
that claim that some sprayers do kill microbes,
but Dr. Lainey Hammond claims that they don't.
Yeah, I proved that as well.
The Fogger, the Petro Fogger atomizer,
I've run JLF through that
and checked it before and after with a microscope
and that microbial action didn't die.
Yeah, and again, I think if you really wanted to get
to not only live, but to stick,
use like a surfactant, yucca extract
was a tried and true type thing.
And then we found when farms,
especially on a larger scale, were always deficient,
that some Epsom salts would take it to the next level
when you are using that spray.
Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I bet I had to do something right quick.
Oh, all right.
I wasn't sure if I did some of it.
No, no, and then another thing,
when it comes to nematodes,
I don't think they, well,
they don't survive well through the sprayer.
So nematodes have one, they're larger.
No, I wouldn't because sea salt,
there's microbes on that sea salt too.
So I would just go ahead and mix it.
It'll dissolve pretty well in there, Lorin.
Yeah, I think I see where her head's going, but.
Yeah, you just wanna do it faster.
It makes sense.
But if you stir it in that 20 liter,
she'll break down.
That's a great question, man, or person, Sky over here.
That is a great question.
I have not.
I'd like to get to that point to distill some alcohol.
And now you kind of like, you made the,
I mean, if you get really crazy,
you can grow the plant to make the alcohol,
to make the OHNs and blah, blah, blah.
You know, so you can get really deep with that.
I think that's a great idea.
So one of the things that I love
about hanging out with Duke, Duke Diamond, is his stories.
And some of his stories are when he's like
trying to tell those individuals
that are willing to risk doing that.
He's like, nah, man, you gotta do this.
Then you gotta wait this long,
otherwise it's gonna go to shit.
You know, and he's such an animated individual.
But yeah, that's another skill set.
Like if you're locked down and you're able
to make prune juice, not prune juice.
What is it called?
Pruno, pruno juice.
You're able to, again, you know, be living large.
You got all the honey buns.
Honey buns and certain things are-
Not at all.
$100 bills in there, boy.
Exactly, and a glove, all that in a plastic glove.
All right, where do you get your genome genetics?
Well, I reach out to him on Instagram.
If you haven't, I know that he is also on Dagalove.
So, you know, to help out the channel
and to help out Greg, that's genomealchemy.
You know, reach out at Dagalove
or reach out to Greg if you're here in Colorado.
I know that he's willing to meet up and stuff
if it makes sense for both sides.
Actually, I'd say a lot more entrepreneurs,
myself included, that are willing to meet up now
because people don't wanna ship seeds.
They don't wanna ship isopods.
They don't wanna ship IMO because, you know,
I almost lost a package of Marco's
because some knucklehead thought he was shipping me.
Like, you know, whatever, I guess, right?
He did, I'm sure when they cracked that open,
they were like, what the fuck is this?
Yeah, they gotta be hiding it in the soil in here.
Yeah, they were devastated that day.
Gotta wrap that, you should have seen the wrap job
that was back for the box.
Oh, so they really went in it and they-
Yeah, they didn't even really try to hide it.
You know, they must've been like, ah, fuck, onto the next.
Damn.
Mr. DP wants to hear an elevator pitch.
Well, so for OHN, you know, for me,
the, if you think of, all right, OHN,
you're taking five roots or five plants,
angelica, cinnamon, licorice, garlic, ginger.
That's the IMO.
And what you wanna do, what you're doing with that, DP,
is each one of those has a medicinal value, right?
And if you think about it,
if you take a sip of alcohol, right?
As soon as you take that sip of alcohol,
you start feeling it,
and it kind of goes throughout your body.
It's quick, like alcohol goes through you quick.
And so what you wanna do with OHN
is you wanna infuse the alcohol
with these beneficial properties of these herbs,
or these medicinal plants, roots and bark.
And then, so what happens is now you've got those five,
and then you mix them together,
and then you got your OHN,
angelica's two times the others.
And now, so when that OHN,
it's basically just a really good way
to get that, the beneficial properties of those
to your body, to your extremities, into your plant,
into all reaches of your plant really quickly.
And the soil loves it as well.
So, I mean, for me, OHN, I really like it.
My body loves it.
I probably use it, I drink it more,
and I use it in my garden here lately
because I need to make another batch.
And so I really like what it does for me.
So are you, yeah.
So if you haven't made OHN, it's worth it.
You know what I mean?
And it's this thing that it seems like it's difficult,
but it's not.
All you're doing is you're taking,
if you're gonna use dry herbs like cinnamon bark,
you wanna hide, you, think about it.
You know how we make our FPJs,
we add sugar and then it does that.
You can't do that with dry bark, so you have to hydrate it.
The best way to hydrate it is to add beer.
After you've hydrated it for that day,
then you can add the sugar,
then you can take it to the next stage.
And then what you wanna do is kind of let it ferment,
and then you just add an alcohol at the end
of that fermentation and then stir in it
for a 21-day process.
It sounds difficult.
It's not.
You get into it, there's videos out there.
I probably have one on my IG from way back.
But to me, it's a beneficial input as well, worth it.
Yeah, I remember one of the ladies
at one of the K&F things was saying,
if you're really getting into OHN since it takes so long,
buy somebody else's that you respect
so that you can start to get the benefits right away.
You yourself will start to see those benefits in real time.
And so you'll realize that stirring it every day
and taking care of it and monitoring it,
all of those things that go into it,
making a quality OHN are worth it to you.
And then from that day forward,
usually you have the skillset to continue moving forward.
That was a bar right there.
That is the absolute truth because my first OHN,
my buddy, Swan, Symbiotic Swan, sent me some OHN,
and because he had come back from a Chris Trump deal,
he was inspired to make it.
And he sent me like a big juice jug of OHN.
And man, from that first taste, I'm like, yeah, I like that.
And that did trigger me to make my own.
And that's very true.
Yeah, again, shout out to BearLion Screen Printing
and Embroidery.
He is willing to make us hats for the show
with our own logo and everything.
So give credit where credit's due,
especially when individuals are going out of their way
to help the show.
I mean, that's the main thing with this.
And we preach that so that you guys realize
that we take time out of our day.
It's not normally even just the three hours.
It's setting up behind the scenes.
Marco shows up early.
I love to show up early when I can.
Sometimes we got so much stuff going on
that it's two minutes before we link up.
But the point is that we're here each and every week.
And I really think that this is going to the next level,
man, when you're taking the time
to do this kind of stuff for the audience.
Yeah, I think this is cool, man.
I think, and then you and I,
hopefully we can link up and do one too.
Like we both went, both took notes
and just tear it up on a show, man.
It'd be cool.
Absolutely, my daughter's old enough now
that I think we can travel.
Yeah, so a lot of good things,
especially coming this summer.
Yeah, a great source for clays
if you want to keep it super clean and all that.
Cosmetic clays are really good.
Check out some health food places
that digestive clays are good,
ones that are able to be eaten,
that help your digestive health.
I like the darker, more orange, red,
the dark meaning more iron, more minerals.
Green, sea clays are great.
But yeah, check to like,
and then if you find the local clay, that's also good.
I do that as well.
Like I had to dig a hole to plant,
I planted some shrubs or something
and there was a lot of clay down in my soil.
So I threw that in my wheelbarrow,
took it over, threw it in a pile.
Now I got me a little pile of some clay
when I want to mess around with it too.
There's now, look, there's RV filters.
There's the light blue ones,
but there's a step up on those.
They're a little more expensive.
They're dark blue and they're the same kind of design,
but they got more filtration in them.
They're like made in Germany.
So check those.
Now for DIY, you gonna have to just look out there, bro.
Like I think Joe has a water softener video
where he makes a water softener.
I'm not sure if he did a water filter,
but for me, those 30 something bucks,
you can't beat that on the RV filters,
the good ones, not the cheap ones.
Yeah, and a lot of people grow cannabis,
they make mistakes, they suck at it, whatever.
So they have all these products to sell
that they're trying to unload.
And one of those is a product called Small Boy and Tall Boys
and those are water filtration systems that do,
at least back in the day were a little bit pricey,
but you can find them on,
or at least you used to be able to find them on Craigslist
and I would imagine now like other marketplaces and stuff,
but I would buy a Small Boy or a Tall Boy
and then maybe just buy the cheaper,
or I'm sorry, upgrade from the cheaper filter system
to that carbon filtration system,
charcoal carbon filtration system.
And I think that would make a dramatic difference
in the quality of your water.
And you could probably get a used one for,
I used to see them between 50 and a hundred bucks
for the Tall Boy, which is where I would get the Tall Boy
if you can't.
Yeah, that's a good deal.
Chili's a good IPM.
Man, I've grown like Reapers
and all that, like the hottest of the hots.
And I just don't know if it's,
I don't think they are actually on their own.
It sounds like they would be.
I feel like you've got to get that wetting agent
in there with it, that JWA,
to really make it most effective.
I'd use that, boil that hot chili in my oil
then make that wetting agent.
Because I've tried them.
I've tried boiling the Reapers and yeah,
this is gonna just spray this on the plant.
Nothing's gonna get on it.
But most of nature, I don't think has taste buds like we do.
Where that's not even a thing.
It's just, it's not even a thing.
Like if a caterpillar, it probably isn't even a thing
that the heat took most of the bugs.
Yeah, I definitely think you're onto something
because it's the colors usually.
Like if you're bright red,
that's the stuff that deters,
not necessarily what you taste like.
Here's a metaphysical question for you.
You know, no, he did not.
He definitely did not.
Other than, you know, this is not trying to belittle it,
but other than everything we talked about
was for the plants, if that makes sense.
You know, everything we're talking about,
it's just for the plants, you know?
So in some sense, it didn't have to be said,
but that's a great question.
I wish I maybe could have asked him that at the time.
You know, and there's obviously a lot of debate
on both sides of some of that stuff.
I think if you've experienced with plants
and you've seen maybe the other groups of growers
and maybe even your own team at times,
when there's a lot of friction, the plants suffer.
And a lot of people can, you know, poo-poo that, I guess.
But if you've experienced it and you see that, like,
you know, you're almost at each other's throats,
whoever it is, and then you're walking in
and you're just kind of like watering
with this bullshit energy, you know?
And the plants feel that, you know, from my experience,
the plants feel that 100%.
And whether that affects them long-term,
I think is how many times you're coming in and doing that.
So if that just happened like one time
or two times in a year, then yeah,
I don't think that affects it whatsoever.
But if you're going in there every day
and it's just pure fucking chaos
and everybody hates each other and the trimmers are mad
because they want to water the plants and they're tired.
You know, the guys watering the plants are tired
because they want to all of a sudden
be like an assistant grower.
There's a lot of like the drama stuff too
that comes into that.
So that's why we've always kind of,
or I've always liked to equate it to like,
if you're at that level, that's a pro level.
So this is NFL.
You need to know your role and play your position.
And then hopefully after successful flips,
you get promoted or people give you a better contract
or however you want to view it.
But you shouldn't view it as I'm a homegrower
and now I know everything.
So now I'm a trimmer and you guys aren't seeing me,
this, you know, all the brilliance that I have.
I think you should earn that stuff.
And most people don't even want to earn, you know.
And that's the only way in my opinion
that you're going to earn that stuff.
Cause you're going to have to work through the ranks
and you're going to have to show people
that you know what you're talking about.
Yeah, facts bro.
All right.
And here's the last question for you.
I mean, I need to have one, man.
I want to have another one.
I need to soon.
I need to get it together.
Just, you know, it just takes a little bit of time
and to get these dates right, right now.
Spring's coming up.
So if people are interested, man, I probably need to.
Because I can tell, like I could see like,
like when we were at the class,
someone was asking about the tilling, you know,
and just the fact of that, you know,
we still have to educate people
on the fact of tilling is not good.
You know what I mean?
And why and stuff like that tells me
that we probably do need some
a little bit more education type stuff.
So yeah, we're going to work on that fruit and gas.
Yeah, I think there's a lot of people
that are hungry for information.
I was sharing with you before we came live
that the reptile community has obviously taken hold of that
or at least the part that I can try to influence
because they're starting to see in real time
that the animals are happier when in a way, you know,
you're using mother nature now.
That's the best way that I try to describe it to them
is your mother nature's figured it out.
So let's try to create a little ecosystem for them.
And the ones that you see their brain,
there was several of this weekend
where their brains were clicking like, oh my God,
like, I see what you're saying on this.
And I was even talking to a big body Scotty,
you know, he's a gentleman that's kind of even shown me a way,
you know, at least giving me a light
for a few things in the reptile space.
So just in my eyes, I guess he'll be like an OG to me
as time goes on.
But yeah, he's breaking down information.
And I was asking him, well,
how come you don't use bioactive soil
in your snake enclosures?
Cause he has like 500 different snakes or whatever,
his brands called snakes a lot and he lives up to it, right?
And I'm asking him, I'm like, so how many hours a week
are you having to re-clean out your cages?
And I could tell at least, you know,
I've probably in a way said that to him several times
over this last year,
but I could tell that this past weekend it clicked for him.
That it's like, yeah, I've told you about the money aspect
and I guess that didn't click with him
cause he's pretty well off individual.
But when I told him that he would have more time
and I think sometimes when you're talking about stuff,
it's all right, what do you give a man
that almost has anything?
It's his time back.
That's where it piques his interest.
I think today is another example of that.
You're giving individuals your time,
are respectful of their time,
breaking down the stuff that weren't able to visit it
into a basically, you know, what is it?
Two and a half hour synopsis of a three day weekend.
And it should spark you to, you know, get the book
and you know, don't let being able to buy the book
be a thing.
Like you should want to support people.
I think the book was, what was it?
40 bucks or something, but it's online as well.
Like you can get this online and for free.
Look for that second edition cause that's kind of key.
There was some mistakes in the first edition
that they cleared up.
But yeah, man, I hope this did help
cause I was really excited and probably, you know,
the biggest thing was to be able to share it on this show.
You know, this is my platform now.
This is kind of where you can find me, man.
And I hope this thing builds steam
and I probably will use Instagram a couple of times
and just say, hey, you know, join us on the show.
We can talk live.
Like you can ask, where else can you really ask,
you know, your live questions?
We don't know everything, you know, we know some stuff,
you know what I mean?
But I feel like we can at least give you a good answer
and get you moving in the right direction.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, we're hopefully just the guide just to be like,
yo, look up this for yourself.
Check this out.
What do you think about this kind of stuff?
Yeah, anti pigeonholed for sure.
Exactly.
London, if you're there, do you want to pop on, sir?
I wasn't sure if you were running errands or not.
Give him a second.
I am here.
All right.
I am not the most beautiful looking human being
because I'm like running around like a chicken
with my head cut off because I've got like a wig.
You look like money.
Thank you.
I let it all natural.
You know, I just let it grow.
Yeah, so for those that don't know,
do you want to kind of talk in, you know,
what is it, eight days?
You'll be moving the entire family to Italy?
Yeah, seven and a half.
Seven and a half?
Yeah, like seven days.
Like this time.
You got it down to the minutes and seconds.
I'll be flying this time tomorrow, next week.
Oh, wow.
Next Thursday.
Wow.
Yeah, so it's pretty crazy.
I like, I haven't told my daughter yet,
but we sold the car today.
So I like, I don't even have a car.
Like, I'm like, first time in like years
I haven't had a car.
I'm like, people are like, oh yeah, can you do that?
I'm like, nah, man.
Like, no, I'm just staying home until I have to fly.
You're going to still do the show, right?
Oh yeah.
We got a nice computer set up that we're having out there.
We're going to have some,
we're going to shoot some live on location.
So, oh, this is a great opportunity.
If you're in Spanibus,
or you're planning on being on Spanibus,
please reach out.
My description of stuff is in the comments.
I would love to connect to anybody
that is a fan of Future Cannabis Project
and have a chat and like,
maybe just ask you what you think about us.
Like, I would love to know.
I think it's a great opportunity
at these cannabis events to do that.
And I'm going to be there.
So like, come check, come and say hi,
message me, shoot me a message on Instagram
or whatever it happens to be.
And let's connect.
Unfortunately, like I usually tell people,
if you see me, hug me and I'll give you a bag of beans.
And unfortunately I can't roll around
with a bag of beans as loosely as I had previously.
So like, you know, I don't want to go over,
like fly across a bunch of borders
with like a massive sack of mixed beans that, you know.
Yeah.
And on top of that, a case full of glass,
because I'll have a whole bunch
of really cool glass as well.
So yeah, like it'll, I'll have glass gifts instead
if you're really cool and we really get along for a bit.
But I'm excited, man.
They sounds, the hat thing sounds awesome.
I love the fact that the community is jumping in there
to do that type of thing.
It's exactly how we need to come together.
In a week or so, I'm going to have a mixed bean pack
that's on, that's for a buck a bean.
So you can buy a buck a bean on, on Cunning Folk.
That is on, on Daga.garden for super cheap.
And they're pretty good stuff.
We'll chat about that a little bit later, but man, I am,
you had a phenomenal episode.
There's been some gold bars.
One of the things that I got really excited
about right off the bat was your chicken comment.
Right.
Like, like this is kind of neat.
Cause there's, there's a lot
of agricultural challenges that we face, right?
Like we're running into a lot of problems.
We've got to bring things closer.
We got to replace block after block that we see
of industrialized concrete with farms, right?
Like if every McDonald's parking lot
and McDonald's was turned into a small farm
or a depot for regenerative nutrients to be produced
like these can F and all these, all these composts
and stuff like that.
If we could find, you know, create home bases
for these products to be done.
Cause I think they're amazing, but unless you're
like not working is they're easy, but they're there.
If you're not really, really passionate
not a little bit careful, you can make mistakes
but I think these products should be available
for everybody, right?
And people that aren't willing to jump in
and aren't willing to get into that.
But I think we should be taking our waste
and depositing it and like creating little hubs, you know
like places where you're like, let's go to, let's go
to Marco, everybody brings their thing to Marco
and he's in charge of this, right?
And, and I love these little steps
in community things that, that, that happen.
And, and through these little things.
And I'm really excited
because I'm coming to visit you guys
and I'm going to bring you guys some
glass for glyphs, gifts, glass for gifts.
Cause what we're going to do is when I hit Toronto
I'm going to be coming down in New York
and I'm like, I'm just going to swing South.
And then I'm going to see you up in Colorado, right, Brian?
I already come visit you.
And we're going to come down to Virginia and visit you.
Right? You're in Virginia.
Right, right.
Off 95, the major, major North South highway right there.
So one of these episodes, two episodes
hopefully we can make it so that it's on either end.
And then I could be live on location
with you guys and having a good time.
Cause I I'm excited to see what you guys
you've created an amazing community of people around you.
And, and I love seeing it grow
and I hope everybody's enjoyed the little bits
and bobs that I've thrown in there and it has, you know
out there.
Yes. Appreciate you, man.
Yeah. Everything.
I feel like this, this is a great group, man.
I can't wait for you to get to Italy, you know
just to kind of add that little component
although it's going to be late as hell for you.
Ain't it like 11 at night when we're doing the show?
Well, what it was kind of, well, what I was kind of thinking
yeah, it'll be a little bit late, but it's not a big deal.
What it was, I got to do, I got to work
in North American time anyway.
So I'm looking at it like I'm going to sleep
on shoulder periods, you know, and then I'm going to go
out and farm midday, you know, where no one's awake
and then doing stuff.
And then it can be left alone and then like figure it
out on the side.
But what I would love to do is like an episode here
or an opportunity where we could sit down
like do some of these things together
on the farm in my little studio setup.
Yeah.
And then we can show them in kind of like
as the process goes, like once in a while, you know
maybe we do that as a little smoke break.
We have a little segment that we've recorded
and we do a follow-up.
Cause I think that would be a lot of fun to play
around with and show.
Exactly.
Kind of show these things happening that
that are so awesome and cool.
Yeah.
The rice thing with the colors.
Like, why wouldn't, why would we always look for diversity?
Wouldn't we look for it in our molds?
Exactly.
Exactly.
I mean, that was a big one.
That was the biggest.
That was like kind of a poo moment there for sure.
I also have Reggie Gaudino coming in in a couple of weeks
which is pretty cool.
He's one of the coolest cannabis geneticists.
Like I think authorities there are.
Can't wait.
And we're going to get him to go head to head
with Anna Schwabe.
So it's like, it's going to be funny.
It's going to be a really great episode.
We're going to talk about like GMO
and like these types of things and how we
I got a really good question about how they put back
to how they take, how they've taken the genome
of cannabis and then create bacteria that create THC
and the whole weird process that they do for that one.
So we're going to get into those weird
and interesting things.
Nice.
Can't wait, man.
All right.
Well, shit.
I think that was a great show guys.
I mean, hey, there's nothing that says
in our contract, which we don't have
that we have to go to a seven.
There is no contract.
There is no page.
We are doing this for volunteer and we enjoy it.
And we just want to kind of just spread, you know
what we're doing here and spread what works
spread things are going to help, you know
the community and, and everybody.
So that's why I'm doing it.
Yeah.
So I'm here trying to educate.
And like I said, buddy, you know, find in your own way
so that the education isn't the way that you're monetizing
unless you've been doing that for a long time.
Yes, sir.
All right.
Did you want to play your, your things
before we played the outro?
No, let's just throw an outro out.
We've, we've been hitting them pretty regularly.
Yeah.
London shows are on obviously working with us.
And then on FCP2, I think you're crushing on there
getting the viewership up on that dramatically.
I see it's almost to 10,000 subscribers,
which on a second,
Yeah, I think we'll break it in two weeks, two weeks.
I think we'll be, we'll be there for sure.
So shout out to everybody.
That's a part of FCP2.
That is amazing work.
You know, most individuals can't even get 10,000
Getting 10,000 subscribers is actually pretty,
pretty hard to have.
Grind man, it's a grind.
So to have it on the second channel
and to have what 70 something thousand on the,
on the first.
Yeah, we're approaching 75.
The, the challenge is, is like, it's,
it is twice as hard for us to grow.
So I brought up a statistic and you can do this too.
It's really interesting.
You can go to YouTube and you go to the studio,
YouTube studio, and you can search in the analytics.
There's a search bar and it will,
you can search cannabis and it'll tell you like things
that people search in relation to cannabis, you know,
kind of neat stuff like that.
Right?
So if you search cannabis in that search bar,
you know what, like the second to fourth item
are on the search bar,
future cannabis project.
How cool is that?
But it's also an algorithm challenge because,
because of the fact that, that we,
we have to work so hard to get so many people to search us.
Like, that's amazing.
That's amazing, amazing stuff.
But like there, there should be a lot of other people
that are evident and visible there and it's not.
So it, you know, it's, it's very cool to see,
but it's also a big challenge that we are faced
as a cannabis community.
10,000 is a huge deal for us.
Yeah. And I also think if you,
if you're getting too many views,
you're going to get your head taken off
and then all the videos are going to be destroyed.
Brown, brown guy, 420,
I felt like he kind of suffered that fate.
You know, he was a smaller, his channel was kind of smaller.
His videos were kind of smaller.
Then all of a sudden he blew up.
People started to hate him.
Boom, his channel's deleted.
All of that fantastic content's gone
from what I understand forever.
So I like being in the, in our own little lake, man,
swimming as we want to and educating so that others
can kind of just keep carrying that torch forward.
We should, we should shout out that there is other,
two other channels too.
There's the Psychonauts channel.
So we, right.
That's the new like mushroom channel, right?
Yeah. We have that one.
And we also have FCP 03,
which is like our community chill out space.
Like if you need somewhere to go and hang out
and just chill with the guys and smoke some weed,
that is where to go.
I couldn't, I couldn't think of a better way
to explain that content than exactly.
It's a snack show.
It's a snack show.
He eats, he has snacks, you chat, yeah.
He may or may be laying down while he's doing it,
but that's the reason why his stuff is, you know,
and I have no, I mean, Marco, we do three hours.
I feel like we run a marathon.
That man, he seems to be doing like 12 hours almost daily.
So, yeah.
Well, that man must only do this.
That's all I can say.
Finding ways, hey, however you take care of yourself.
That's what you gotta do, bro.
All right, so we look forward to next week.
Again, you know, if you guys have more
of these type of questions,
you want more of like dialed in information,
the Rolodex is getting quite large
with Marco and myself in London.
And so we wanna bring individuals
that you deserve to hear from again,
but at the same time,
I would love to find more individuals
that maybe are academic, but at the same time,
understand cannabis a little bit more
than just pure academic.
Because I feel like that doesn't,
that's never translated for me either
when it's like, man, this person's trying
to use fancy words as they know.
All right, we get you're smart,
but you know, we're not over here.
So how do you break this shit down?
Being smart and being able to communicate something
are two very different things sometimes, right?
And like, I think there's like,
it's super valuable what you're putting forward.
Like that's super important.
Gotta get the mix of people in there together.
No doubt, no doubt.
Oh, what I wanted to say was actually,
sorry, I totally missed my track there.
Could we, if people have anything
and they wanna throw in the comments
of who they would like to see as a guest,
maybe if they wanna throw that
into the comment at some point.
Well, you know what I would say?
Cause sometimes it doesn't pop up for people.
If you wanna see a specific guest,
put it in the comments after we post this information.
And so that the community can see it.
And then if you agree with it,
then hit that like in that comment,
and then we can start to kind of backtrack it from there.
So if there's certain individuals you wanna hear from,
put their name in the hat.
If more people wanna hear them, they will agree with it.
And we will go out of our way to get those individuals
that might not necessarily have ever been
on a cannabis show before, but you guys feel should be.
Well said.
All right, we got.
I'm ready to hit that, hit that outro.
All right.
So I appreciate everybody.
Maybe turn it off.
If not, it's okay.
So turn it off.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's okay.
So maybe turn that off.
It's gotta be anytime.
Yeah yeah.
Already got it.
Okay, okay.
Thanks so much Ness.
Why don't so you K streets.
