We're sitting in your 5,000 square foot grow in Pacoima, California in the Black Haze Room.
You have a unique way of doing your indoor grow.
Explain that to us.
Yeah, I don't know if it's so much unique as much as it's just an old way of growing.
It's a way that used to be referred to as Dutch trays.
If I'm correct on it, it was really more popular kind of in the 90s.
And the primitive use of it was with kind of rain gutters.
And the water was fed to the plant and it would recirculate into a reservoir.
And it's just the way that we've grown for 13 years.
I really like the way the herb comes out on it.
We get a good smell.
Every grower thinks they have great herb, but our, I think the consensus, a lot of patients,
it does very well at shops.
So basically what the system is that we have are six inch PVC pipes with five inch net
pots.
We drill holes into the net pots and the roots sit suspended in the pipe.
The water circulates over the top.
It's called NFT or a nutrient film technique.
And it washes over the roots and recirculates into the reservoir.
Is it energy or resource efficient?
It's very efficient for water because the water circulates.
This room has 210 gallons of water in it and it gets changed once a week.
You don't use soil.
What do you use in place of soil?
We use rock wool with hydroton.
We could just use straight rock wool like a lot of people do.
But what I've found is a hydroton repels algae better.
A lot of the grow down cubes or the rock wool, algae just seems to have an easy time there.
And if you go to a lot of grows, you'll notice, well, everybody uses a lot of flora flex now.
So it blocks the light out.
But before those days, what is flora flex?
Those are the caps.
It's a brand name for the caps that people put on top of the large rock wool cubes, which
is the common way people do hydroponic these days.
Now do you use any nutrients or fertilizers or any chemicals at all?
Oh yes, we use 10 different nutrients from four different companies in our formula that
we mix.
We just use a lot of the classic companies, General Hydroponics, Botanicare, Super Thrive,
a couple of things from the company Canadian Express.
We also use a product from Mills.
So we're really hitting a lot of companies across what we do.
We've just found the things that work and we've pieced it together.
Talk a little bit about your harvesting, your cultivation practice, how many strains you
have running at any point in time and how many harvests you do.
We used to run more strains than we do now.
And a lot of that is because testing has gotten very expensive.
So it doesn't make much sense to run three or four varieties in a room because the testing
really starts to eat into your profit margin.
And since we are a boutique craft scale grow operation, we're a specialty size, which is
up to 5,000 square feet of canopy.
Our real canopy size is about 22,500.
So if you start eating up a lot of that in testing, it basically kills our profitability.
And so we've had to scale down to just one or two varieties per room so that we're doing
a maximum of two tests for the flower.
Although then we did the pre-rolls, which is a couple more tests as well.
Before we get to the pre-rolls, which is a new product you're putting on the market,
you raised sort of the issue of margins.
So how tight are the margins in this marketplace and in a grow of this size?
Margins are tight for everybody.
I think a lot of cultivation, if you're profitable, I think that's a feat in itself right now
because I do, I personally believe that a lot of large operations and small operations
are not profitable.
People are searching for the right niche for themselves.
And until that happens, it's just the nature of the beast.
There's also a huge investment bubble in here.
So there's a lot of people that don't subscribe to regular market fundamentals such as profitability.
They're more interested in market share than profitability.
And so it's kind of created a bit of a distortion on the production side that you just have
to deal with.
You know, if a fund comes in and they're putting down 20 million on a grow and they can afford
to lose money month after month while they establish their market share, it's just a
reality you have to compete against.
For us as a small craft grower, we've been doing this for a long time.
We have to make money to survive.
And so finding that niche in that place that we can achieve profitability is basically
if we do, we survive.
If we don't, we don't survive.
So in other words, in addition to the testing costs for additional strains, if a strain
is out on the market and it isn't moving, that's not really working for you.
It's fair to say if you can't sell your weed at the price you need to sell it for, you're
going to be in trouble.
When you go into a shop and you're distributed by a refinery distro, is that correct?
Yeah, refinery does my distribution.
I've known, I've gone way back.
Obviously I've been in the industry since 05.
And back in the days where we used to do a lot of civil disobedience and protests and
we used to lay down and block DEA cars when they would raid shops, the Bush years were
exciting.
A lot of the people I know I've known from back in those days when it was very antagonistic
between the federal government and even the local government and the cannabis industry.
And so refinery does my distribution.
I've known them over there for over a decade.
As with most of the shops I deal with and have always dealt with are the people who
are here pre-07.
So most of my personal relationships go way back.
Wasn't the Cultivations Alliance, didn't that fold into a group or did it stay?
Yeah, it's basically folded into the Southern California Coalition.
The Cultivators Alliance still exists as an entity, but for the most part we, that was
kind of a conduit along with some other groups such as the California Minority Alliance and
GLACA and the Delivery Alliance as well now.
We kind of rolled into a larger group to try to encompass as much of the industry as we
could.
Gotcha.
So from the very beginning, you've been there, you've been out there representing Los Angeles
cultivators for years and years.
Talk about that journey.
Why did you step up?
Because you're pretty visible.
You've been out there, you've been a leader in that role.
How did that happen?
That happened because when I first started here in 2005, I had the great fortune of going
to work for Don Duncan, who is one of the founders of Americans for Safe Access and
has really been the leader in pushing positive legislation for cannabis in the state.
And all of those, what I had mentioned before about protests and civil disobedience, that
was all tactics that had to be used in those days to get the shops to be allowed.
And so going from that and having Don as my mentor, I saw how he organized the shops back
in those days to push back and to get the licensing.
So when I first got my warehouse up here, I looked at this and thought, well, there's
no permit process for me yet and I can't really rely on somebody else to come do it
for me.
I saw how it happened with the shops and so I just decided it was time to try to find
like-minded cultivation people that had their own and wanted to come and push for a regulated
industry.
And we organized, found those like-minded people and we formed the group.
How have the politics of the city changed?
How different are they now?
The politics is one issue and then the economics is the other issue.
Well, let me put it to you this way.
Of the LA growers that you've known over the years, how many of them are not going for
licenses?
You know, the two pressures I think that every grower has had over the last three years is
one meeting the regulatory challenges and process and the other one is the economics.
And as cultivation of cannabis has gotten more prevalent and Up North has dealt with
this as well, prices have collapsed.
Prices are about, you know, a third to half of what they were 10 years ago.
In a lot of cases, less than a third.
And I think people who weren't efficient struggled to get through that even before the permitting
had started, which presents a whole other set of challenges coming through.
And I think at the end of the day, people who are growing are looking at it as how am
I supporting my livelihood?
And a lot of them just looked at the path towards regulation and said, this isn't it.
I mean, if I'm just going to be honest about why, I would say 90% of the growers I know
haven't went for license.
And to be fair, a lot of those 90%, they hung it up a year and a half ago anyways.
I think the number of growers I know who are still growing and are gung-ho black market,
I don't even know if I know anymore.
Most of them just, they've kind of washed out and have moved on to other things.
A lot of them, interestingly, are consultants for a lot of the big companies that come in now.
And, you know, and I think those who have been pretty successful at growing and who
have been able to differentiate and as I said before, find their niche, are continuing to do it.
And with us, we're lucky that we kind of have found our niche, which you've discovered
yourself in shops.
Absolutely.
So I guess the question for me is at the end of the day, will the Los Angeles cultivator
community be a fraction of what it previously was?
Is like, is it'll just be much smaller but more dedicated?
And I mean, is that what we're looking at?
Or will new people come in and try and, you know, take up the slack?
There's plenty of new people are already here.
Cultivating.
Oh yeah.
And it's a different, it's a different type of person than the grower before.
And everybody has a different idea of where their place is and how they're going to get there.
I think with a lot of people have looked at it as everybody wants to scale.
And how do you scale correctly, I think, is the one that I'm not sure anybody's really nailed yet.
A lot of times people scale up and the quality suffers.
And so just working out those issues is a thing.
And I think a lot of cannabis out there, at least the feedback I hear, a lot of the quality
out there isn't as good.
I've heard people talk about a race to the bottom on it, and it very well could be.
But I also know that those who can produce a quality that will differentiate itself will
differentiate itself.
For ourselves, for our company here, Legacy Strains, we're not carried in very many shops
because we don't produce that much.
But the nine shops that we are carried in, they buy up all of our inventory.
And if I had more inventory, we could open more shops.
So are you breaking even?
Are you profitable?
Can you sustain yourself, your business model currently?
Yes.
We are okay right now.
I don't know if in the future we can, which is a whole nother dilemma, is the real estate
prices or the rental prices for cannabis facilities.
If you go back five, eight, nine years ago, industrial was renting for 75 cents a square
foot, 80 cents a square foot, sometimes even 65 cents a square foot.
Now, if you're doing cannabis, you're lucky if you're under a buck fifty.
A lot of brand new turnkey places, they come at you with three bucks a square foot.
I just don't think that that is realistic long term, because I think prices will continue
to face a downward pressure as scaling does ramp up and people do start to become successful
at scaling really well quality-wise.
You mean pricing of product?
Yeah.
You have the product.
The wholesale pound price will, I think, continue to fall a little bit.
What do you think will happen with craft or artisan boutique products such as yours?
Do you think prices will be maintained?
Do you see the marketplace?
What do you see out there in the marketplace?
This is something I ask all the time, like the consumer.
Is the consumer just want the cheapest or do you think there's connoisseurs out there
who will pay for quality and continue to?
I was a bud tender for nine years while I moonlighted learning cultivation.
The one thing a lot of people, I think, forget, and especially I think a lot of the people
outside the cannabis industry getting into it, is they look at this large, untapped consumer
base, but the reality of it is, and has always been, is that 20% of cannabis users consume
80% of the cannabis.
You can try to target people that are in that other 80% that consumes 20% and there's
an untapped market and how big that is is anybody's guess, but I do think that the core
constituency still is that 20% of cannabis users.
They generally care about really good quality cannabis or else they want the cheapest cannabis.
Those are the two.
Everywhere in the middle is a no man's land.
For myself, as long as the consumer is willing to pay $50, maybe up to $55 for an eighth
of some of the nicest herb they can see on the shelf, I will be okay.
If the day comes when the consumer will no longer pay $50 for the nicest herb on the
shelf, then what I am doing needs to change because if the ceiling becomes $35, then this
business model is unsustainable.
But if it stays at $50 and a lot of people, they come in and they want the nicest jar
there, and the bud tenders pick ours out and say this is it, and the price point is around
there, I'll be okay.
I know that small price points make a huge difference in markets, in these markets.
Well, you know, the retailer's $5 price point is less than a $5 change on the wholesale
side as well.
Speaking of your product in particular, it will go for $40, right?
But also $50.
Like, a mile and a half from Greg's place, it's selling for $50 an eighth, actually at
Buds and Roses.
So, you know, and actually that's not that far away.
So you know, there are some differences.
We're basically in the $40 or the $50.
Well, I think to be fair, you have to look at the demographics in the area that Aaron
is with Buds and Roses, and the area Greg's at with Refinery.
And they're just, they're dealing with different clienteles altogether.
Aaron is kind of in the creme de la creme of the Studio City, you know, getting close
to Sherman Oaks area on Ventura.
No doubt about it.
Just sort of noting the different price points around the city and how it changes, you know.
I would imagine Aaron, I would imagine Buds and Roses is probably paying more per square
foot on their shop than Greg is paying over on Oxnard and Kester.
All right, so my concerns, number one personally, is taxes are definitely tough.
It would be a lot easier, I think, on a lot of us initially to have the taxes start to
go down.
The regulations are really crazy to deal with.
As a small cultivator, I have had to pay my entire savings, life savings, into hiring
consultants and attorneys to try to get me through this application process.
And just for being a small kind of self-funded person, it's pretty brutal.
Again, the other side of it is, as far as what I like to see in the larger industry,
there's a lot of people such as myself who've been around a long time and have been part
of cannabis kind of as a culture in this state.
And I think as the commodification of it starts to happen, some of those cultural aspects
are going to be lost, which is really more of a nostalgic thing.
But still, I think it would be a shame as a lot of the small independent growers are
just unable to do the heavy lifting of the regulatory process or even just being able
to hire the professionals that will help them through it.
And just that you need to hire so many professionals to get through the application process is
another thing that's going to be very hard to stop new people from entering.
The one concern going forward is, with too much regulations, it's going to stop small
new entrepreneurs from coming in and trying to do something new and different and potentially
better that will benefit the entire industry.
And the more hurdles you put in place up front, the harder it is for that person to be able
to take a chance and see if they're going to hack it.
Now where are you in your application process right now or in your licensing process?
We are about to submit our permanent state application.
We have our temporary from the city.
We have our temporary from the state.
And actually right after this interview, we will be putting the final touches on our state
application and getting that off.
And compliance-wise, how do you feel about things?
I have my appointment coming up to go down to City Hall and give the city my first tax
payment since I've been authorized here.
What about the planning department, all that kind of stuff?
The city agencies I've worked with through the DCR have been great.
I absolutely could not complain.
They've been very helpful.
They've been very supportive.
I think the DCR is really doing the best job they can with the resources they have.
And I'm very happy with the effort they've been putting forward.
Nothing's been perfect and smooth, but none of the fault I would put in the DCR.
I really think they've been doing a phenomenal job with what they've had to do.
And they've been very supportive of trying to really make this industry happen.
You have to be really pleased that your legacy-strained product is moving off the shelves the way
it is.
I call around and people are waiting, especially the black hays, to get it in.
So plants, please grow quickly, because it's needed on the market.
Let's come back to just briefly about scaling.
Because we want to see an industry with product that has, the attention has been brought to
it that you have.
You're a dedicated grower and have been for many years.
And it would be a shame if you had to go off and do something else, or work for some big
company.
So how do you scale?
What is your plan?
What is that biggest challenge?
Finding another space if the cost in real estate?
Or will you have to pick up and move to a cheaper part of the state if push comes to
shove?
Yeah, if push comes to shove, I will definitely have to.
I want to stay in LA.
The big problem is just more the real estate speculation.
And I think that I could expand tomorrow if I could find a 40,000 square foot building
that the landlord would give me a buck 50 or less in rent.
If that happened, I could be there.
I could have the funding for it.
We could make it happen.
But I mean, I have a couple brokers looking at it.
And I hear things like, you know, talk to a building owner in a compliant area.
This particular was in El Monte, which is permitting very supportive city.
But the zoning, they only have 15 to 20 locations that are suitable for cannabis under their
zoning.
You know, and one of the owners who had it where it's actually open said until it's three
bucks a square foot, don't call me back.
So that's pretty much the issue everywhere.
Same thing was looking at desert properties and it's three dollars a square foot.
And it's just I mean that I would scale up and have a worse overhead than I have at my
five thousand square foot.
That would be less profitable than my smaller facility like that.
So at some point, for example, one of the desert I heard have been on the market for
almost two years now.
And at some point, these owners are going to realize that the money in the cannabis
industry is like it is for everything else.
You know, in some ways we have smaller margins than other manufacturing sectors.
And until that realization comes and those buildings have sat there for long enough and
nobody's paying the three dollars a square foot, they're going to, you know, then the
rent will eventually come down when they figure they're sick of paying property taxes on a
vacant building.
And eventually it'll come down to the where people like myself will want to occupy it
and we see opportunity.
But are there owners out there who are open to other arrangements like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'll rent it to you for two bucks a square foot and you give me 15 percent of your equity.
Yeah, there's there's that too.
But you know, it's I think a lot of small, smaller people and even larger people have
to be careful that they're not just making money for a landlord and that's it.
I think profitability is going to become an issue here probably in the next year or two.
I think you're going to see an emphasis in the industry on profitability, like real profitability,
not not just, you know, being funny with your books.
And I think it's going to matter.
And when that does matter, it's it's going to it's going to have to happen.
Do you think that that when that happens, it might there might be an advantage to smaller
operators who've managed to stay independent and efficient and quality?
If that, you know, if that that dynamic might be more prevalent in the large publicly traded
or the large companies that are acquiring now where they have to continue to grow their
business models, they're not growing, they're failing.
Yeah. So each one of those brands that they've acquired will need to perform.
Yeah. Well, I mean, that's the thing I think.
I think the emphasis a lot in the industry from particular people outside and I don't
mean to beat up on them.
We know it's nothing nothing against it, but it seems like people see value in acquiring
brands more than they see the value of the brand performances themselves.
And so when when it comes down to that, you know, it's I have 20 companies.
Well, I have 30 companies.
Well, I have 40 companies.
Well, what are those companies doing?
And I think that's the question nobody's really stopped to look at yet because they're
just more concerned about acquiring more and more companies.
And you think the day of reckoning is maybe a couple of years away or sooner?
Well, that's who really knows when that day of reckoning is.
I all I I I feel like the day of reckoning will happen.
But I mean, what do I know?
It may never happen.
Speculation may just continue and people might just continue to invest money in it.
And, you know, last question for you, your pre-rolls, they're coming on the market.
Talk about them. When are they?
When are they? When can we see them on the market?
And what are they?
They're going to be strain specific.
The first one rolling out is the Black Haze.
And we are hoping to have them on the shelves right around 420, maybe a little earlier.
Awesome. Great.
And they're packs of seven.
Packs of seven half gram joints.
They taste just like the strain they're supposed to.
Great. Wonderful.
So what are your so you're moving into pre-rolls.
Do you have high hopes for the pre-roll market for pre-roll sales?
I do. The pre-roll market is pretty competitive, and I know that quality is an issue in the pre-roll market.
And so I really just hope we take our same attention to detail that we've taken with our packaged flour and that the pre-rolls will speak for themselves.
As it is for Legacy, we do zero marketing.
Like all our marketing has been word of mouth.
And so that we're going to try to grow the pre-rolls the same way.
The people who already get Legacy are probably going to be the first ones to buy them.
And if they like them, they're going to tell their friends how great they are and their friends are going to check them out and they're going to become repeat customers as well.
You know, that begs the question, you know, I mean, Legacy up in the Bay Area expanding your footprint.
I know you can't do it now, but I'll bet you sure would like to.
I would like to when the day comes where I can find a reasonable rate on a 40,000 square foot warehouse and that gets cranking, I should probably have the bandwidth to start releasing.
I have shops in the Bay that want to carry us already.
And I, you know, just unable to make it happen right now because I'm too busy filling the orders of my existing shops.
