And let me just make sure I sent Brandon. I did send Brandon the link. All right, we
are live. Welcome everyone. That's me, Peter. That's Doc and Mia. We may have Brandon joining
us too. So, happy holidays everyone. Happy holidays. We somehow mysteriously had some
of Doc's genetics in our possession and I just smoked the dark apple.
Black. Black apple. It's so dark it's black. And it was delicious. And actually, so when
I need to get a lot of shit done, it's like taking a Ritalin. I mean, I obviously forget
where I am task-wise, but as soon as I lock in on a task, I'm like, that shit's getting
done. Like I cleaned the garage.
This is the black apple, Kush. It's also my favorite.
Thank you, sister. Thank you. That's our decade labor of love. Yeah. And so-
That's been my focus for 10 years, for almost 10 years now.
So for anyone who's like, what are we talking about tonight? I thought it would be good
to just talk to Doc about what I mysteriously have in my possession, my thoughts on it.
And then you've opened up the vault to some of your seeds, one which is already sold out
and the other is the blueberry. Well, anyway, we'll get into that. So first of all, you're
up in Humboldt. We're both down in LA. It's a little-
I'm in the garage with the door open. It's a little chilly in LA tonight.
You come up here, brother. It's cold and rainy up here right now. It's been cold and really
the winter is here for sure. It's winter and the Emerald Triangle in Humboldt, specifically
where I'm at, it's gotten down right nippy at night. Not below freezing, but close to
I'm sure inland is probably getting below freezing. There may be snow on the ground
inland and stuff. But it's that time of the year. Yeah, now it's that time of the year
I'm in full on Santa mode right now. So I might spread cheer and shit like that.
I like my red hat. I was going to say.
You need the red hat.
My deck Santa hat on from my breeding company, Plant and Planet, that represent me. It's
like hanging out with those guys up here a couple of months ago and the Christmas tree
in the background, man. So we're full on Santa mode here and sent the elves down, man.
Yeah, I'm old school. So old school elves ran down and went see, you know, your elves.
And anyway, we're all hanging out this evening. And I do not and have not ever, ever, ever,
ever, really ever in five decades of doing this craft of let mice genetics out to have
people have access other than really close knit friends and circle of families and friends
and mostly, as you guys know, because of the traditional market up until recently.
It was a life or death situation for a lot of us to let that kind of stuff out. So we
just didn't do it. That being said, in the last decade, I've really been focusing on
building stuff and creating things to get stuff out and sourced a lot of really cool
land races in over the last few years. And specific genetics that I've got. Peter's elves
got a hold of were stuff that I worked on over the last couple years. And one really
beautiful aspect of this is what I did is I went back and pulled in some old building
rocks block stuff that nobody's ever really uses hardly anymore. You don't see much anymore.
And I re injected them into one building block to well, just really two legends. You know,
across DJ short blueberry with Casey brains mango here two seasons ago and had some friends
of mine growing it. Yeah, there you go. That's it. That's a real limited, very small access.
Yeah, I don't know what is there Peter's not very many of them, maybe 10 packs of 10 or
so something like that of them. It's there's a few of them available. The plants set up
for outdoors is really however, I mean, you can probably move it into any format you wanted
to but my friends that were running outdoors, that baby gets 12 feet tall and we'll put
off colas if you know what you're doing put off colas as long as your leg, you know, that
kind of thing. So it's beautiful plant, great parentage, great lineage, picked a beautiful,
beautiful black, blue, purple, female blueberry plant and cross it with a fricking stud of
a Casey brains mango from two seasons ago and then I back crossed it. Select to select
which what I do, you know, anyway, best of best and did that with this seed stock, which
is what this particular sock run is right here. Should be pretty carbon cut cutter,
you know, pretty just rock star stuff. Unfortunately, my buddy that was doing it this inland from
me here in the Sierra Nevada's got hit with the fires and he lost his what we had. So
I don't have any and I just had too many things going to even really try to do it this year.
It's in my repertoire for next year. There you go. That's the seed stock in my lab. You
know, that's my my breeding stock lab down in my in my space, you know, my there you
go. And she and it's beautiful and just delicious and the phenos came out correct. Lots of purples,
blue tones coming all through it. Great red hair, super, super frosty smells divine smells
just like fruits and berries like what you want it to. And if you say if you're looking
for a mango. A plant or sacred plant to get have to put into your repertoire of bag of
tricks or to make with something else, this is a really great. Seriously, serious legacy,
you know, hardcore, you know, freaking DJ short blueberry, man, come on, man. It's a
cornerstone to some of the best genetics on the planet, you know, been around for since
the 70s, you know, give or take whoever wants to argue, let's just at least four decades.
And then Casey brains mangoes the same. I'm not gonna argue with you. Yeah, I don't think
anyone here. I was gonna say I like how you have a selection of genetics that are fruity,
but not to not like all citrus. I really appreciate a blackberry blueberry mango those fruity
turps that are sometimes neglected by mainstream. If we're gonna if you're in you're right me
if we're going to get into that realm. Okay, now everybody wants to be a connoisseur, you
know, and we're gonna talk profiles for a second here. Okay, let's get away from the
limonene profiles and bring in some of the really cool, more abstract things that are
out there. And you're mentioning that one up specifically, limonene is not even in the
top three on that one. You know, again, on the my black apple, kush, it's really, really
a very unique profile, real, real one of a kind. Tremendous therapeutic qualities. You
know, I'm an old vet, I use it for my own head damage. I've been blown up twice, you
know, left for dead five fricking times, you know, it's like, I'm ex Green Beret, you
know, been there done that that kind of deal different life, you know, took my 20s away
from me, you know, now I'm in my 60s. It's just a different animal. That being said,
that particular plant sister is specifically what I worked on for the last nine years for
my head damage to keep me calm, keep me balanced. You know, yeah, make my, you know, my all
my aches and pains go away, or at least alleviate them for a couple hours. And that's what this
plant does for me. And then in the last two plus years, going on three years now of getting
it out into my veteran community specifically, and then working with breeders best, and plant
and planet, they've helped me move it into this. I mean, 2021 is going to be a huge year
for for good mofo farms, which is my company, you know, which is my partnership that I work
with, with a handful of really, really great people that are, you know, just, it's just
a great, great group of people that are bringing this idea together. So watch for that coming
out in 2021. These releases that I have gotten into Peter's hand, so we can get it out to
some people or some things are really, really close to me. I'm working with both of those
what comes out the next time and why I'm allowing this to happen, Peter is because these are
second generations, for me, baseline of what I'm working with. And now I'm getting ready
to add other stuff in so I can allow this to go out now and somebody can work with it
on their own report, because what I'm going to breed, patent and brand down the road in
the next year, two, three years with each of those two specific genetics will be something
a little bit different from what that is. And a little bit more refined than what these
are. These are great, great crosses and really, really cool shit that nobody sees anymore,
which is what I like, you know, so again, you can fill people in on that kind of deal.
And then we'll talk about that other crazy thing, because that other one's really, really
unique.
Well, so it's interesting, because for the past week or two, someone's been asking me
like, if you know, can you point me towards something mango? Can you point me towards
something mango? And then your your stuff arrived, it was like, all mango, you know,
like,
buddy, I love it. I mean, it's in what it's in what you guys are working with now down
and down and it's in its lineage through it all. It's there in there that that is in the
cornerstone of my pineapple plant is part of that genealogy back from 1984. Okay, man,
I'm really aging myself now. So but when that thread, okay, so it ties into that point,
again, of bringing it back in because of things that I like to work with, you know, I, again,
I have stuff in my toolbox that nobody's has seen yet of old school white rhino old
school. I mean, just some really cool stuff from Northern Africa, all over the continent
of Africa. I did a real hard pulling all over the continent of Africa, two and three years
ago, I've got stuff from some really cool places. And Peter, you have part of that in
the house tonight. Did I did you guys get the Fino select number five that real limited
edition one? Did you guys get that one? Yeah. Yeah. I believe so. I was about to take another
hit. Yeah. Number five. Yeah. It's unknown. It's I mean, it's unnamed. It's not unknown.
I'm tracking lineage on it right now. You know, getting it and getting it all documented
for for that next phase of its life. But it's a serious one. You know, some people been asking
me for a few years to do stuff for extraction purposes. And that one knocked me out. Yeah.
Yeah. Don't offer. Yeah. No heavy machinery. No. Yeah. No. Out past midnight. All that
kind of jazz. Stay on your couch. That's what that's really for. But my extraction people
were asking me for something that's really good in that thread and came came back on
its first R&D on the stuff at well over almost 33 percent total sum, which for somebody that
wants extraction and a third of the plant being material being viable essences, that's
a pretty good lick for a for a plant. So that's that's where that one comes in at. And again,
it's still being developed. It's a very unique one. It's a really a very, very heavy sedative
qualities as Peter, as you said, you know, you take a nap. I use it for the same purpose
myself again, my head damage. And I've been blown up two times. If I repeat myself, it's
because I've been blown up twice. So please forgive me. So but I'm an old combat engineer
and my job was to kick the door and it went through the door, you know, and blew the door.
So anyway, that's happened to me a couple of times. And anyway, my head damage to me
is it's really important. So a lot of things that I work with are specifically tailored
towards that for my own personal well-being. And what has really helped me realize that
I'm in the right thread again. Is being around other brothers and sisters in arms that have
been there and done that, and maybe their damages and extended says as my head damages
per se, but they have they use it for their own mental well-being and to help them keep
balance and grounded. So that's always a first kind of a plateau that I work towards on everything
that I have been working on the last. Twenty seven or so years, you know, my focus became
real more focused after my mother's cancer. You know, I really. And that was in mid 80s,
you know, so it was when we weren't really even you couldn't talk about this stuff like
we do now and we couldn't take that approach, but just trying to help her keep her from
being nauseous and sick and just, you know, my old my young at that time or semi young
hippie ass trying to figure out how to do this and coming up with a regime that worked
for her and I a little bit of a marijuana brownie traveling, coming and going. They
help keep her from being nauseous. And it was got me on this path now. And here it is
all these decades later that I. Yeah, I'm finally to a point, sister, where, you know,
I got like I love Dale Hunt and Breeders Best and Plant and Planet and the whole team there,
you know, and then just everybody around me right now. I've got some beautiful, beautiful
people around me, the Hendrix Farm guys, Cameron, the guys, you know, and, you know,
the Plant and Planet. And please forgive me if I'm not mentioning somebody there, you
know, you for crying out loud, Peter, you got, you know, you guys are in my corner now
and bringing me into light and, you know, it's going to be that unknown variable of
old hippie on the side of the mountain in northern California that says we grow her
all over. You know, I'm trying to get out of that and be 100 percent above board and
be, you know, why I am 100 percent above board now, 100 percent legal and working with great
nursery people and great manufacturing people and cool people are handling my branding.
Thank you, Cannabis Synergy, for loving the old man and wanting to work with me and help me get
get what I do out to people. If my mission is pretty simple, sister, you know, pre-1997,
when 215 passes, got, you know, it's 96, 97 when I got my first prescription so I could grow
cannabis legally in northern California. Yeah, I like it's been really just before that time
period. I'd never sold a plant. I gave it away. It was a gift. It was something kind of like,
you know, I'm a farmer, you know, it's like, you know, you have too much squash or too many
tomatoes or whatever the hell it is you grew that year. You gave it away. You know, you gave
to all your friends, you know, your friends made zucchini for fricking, you know, zucchini bread
for fricking decades, you know, that kind of thing. So that's where this is at right now,
you know, with me, with the plant is moving into this realm of being able to do this, you know, so
coming out into the light and being here with really cool, cool people in this industry that
are really, really their hearts in the right place and their minds are in the right place.
And I'm thankful, you know, I'm really thankful to be here right now. I don't know why the hell
else I'm still here. You know, I've been killed so many times. I don't get it anymore. Yeah,
it's like right off the road on my Harley, you know, nine left for dead, you know,
got out of the game, wasn't get back into it. So here it is 11 years later and I'm in the middle
of it up to my eyeballs, you know, and again, doing what I do now. And the one that you like
so much that really was me and my recovery was working on that plant was something that I
personally took into helping me recover after I, you know, got the left, my left eye knocked
out of my head and the right side of my body crush, you know, and woke up in a hospital and
you know, my buddy that put my back in the head, my head, you know, it's like,
didn't know what the fuck, you know, that whole thing out in the middle of nowhere
in the middle of the country. I'm a Northern California Mendocino specifically, but Northern
Mendocino boy, you know, and just that it just thin line, you know, I don't know how else to say
it, sister, you know, it's a thin line, you know, guardian angels, divine intervention,
what the hell you want to call it. I'm obviously supposed to be in this craft.
Even when I got out of it in 03, when I threw my hands up and discussed because of the way the
market was going and I hated how it was changed between 03 and 06, it was just killing me watching
something I spent my life loving go down in flames, you know, over this heritage that we
hold so dearly. And I left, you know, and then I got hurt and every and leaving between the time
I left and 05, 06 to 09, when I got freaking run off the road, every place I went, you know,
every state I was at, every town I went into, I was helping people do the plant, you know,
I mean, it's just what I don't know. It's like something ingrained in me almost, you know,
now at this stage of my life. And then I got hurt. And then the crazy thing is, you know,
I really thought I was away from it because I had to learn to walk and talk all over again,
you know, I freaking messed up for a year and a half. And I literally-
ISKRA, what year was this?
GARNER It was 09, 10, you know, between 09, 10,
and then, you know, change of events in my life with an old partner in 10 and back here in 11,
12 coming back here, you know, and literally moving back, you know, my current partner,
literally trying to get me back to your guy, because where I grew up at and what I consider
my home, you know, be in that area that if I was going to die, you know, die fucking back here. So
obviously that didn't happen because I'm sitting here now, which is cool, you know, but
that's what's the last 10 years has basically been has been focusing on the one that you guys
like so much as the my black apple cush, you know, it's like, just
ISKRA Yeah, I think you're in the middle of
telling us the story of penis number five as well.
GARNER Oh, yeah, you know, it's well,
that's a beautiful, beautiful genetics.
ISKRA I'm gonna smoke some now.
GARNER You know, that's lineage cross,
you know, it's a San Fernando Valley OG with-
ISKRA Oh, I love that.
GARNER You'll take it in there. It's super,
super dank. Yeah, it is across with with my what I used to call long bell purple OG that's now gone.
But the genetics are in there of that now and then back crossed with a dear buddy of mine. That's
the black dog creator. That guy over at bio vortex. Anyway, I got some of his pollen a couple of male
one has male bonds a couple years back and threw it in with this thing here too, because
that thing is just a rock star on top of it. So he's got another great lineage mix. But again,
my goal was to get something up in the 30% range and I hit that goal. You know, it's like I said,
the first R&D came back at 30, almost 33, 32, eight, something like that. It was up there.
So, you know, I'm figuring, you know, I'm a good breeder and a good genetics guy. I know there's
some craft growers out there that can probably push that thing farther than I can push it because
they just know more about dirt and soil science than I do. You know, I'm just old school.
Yeah. I like that guano. Yeah, I'm simple. Yeah, I simple low tech. So yeah. I want to talk about
kind of you've been growing since the early 70s, right? That is correct. When I was I yes,
I was a teenager. And yes, I was in high school when I started smoking pot my first time. But
what I want to talk about is kind of like what you were growing because that was before you had
trauma, aches and pains like all this shit that came. Oh, yeah. So like, you're young and healthy.
You're growing like, what are you liking? And then the transition to kind of being more medical
in the 80s. And then with your mom, like in the 80s, too, with like, like you have cancer,
take this. Well, yeah, yeah, yeah. Peter, I mean, really that that that part of it is really is
a fucking hats crooked on TV. There we go. Let me straighten this bad boy out. There we go. Get my
plant planted on my face. Right. There we go. You know, okay, this is it's not that complicated. I
mean, really, in the 70s, you know, I'm a kid, you know, I mean, I was a teenager, we there wasn't a
real selection, you know, was a variety of things coming from south of the border up, you know,
some kind of a gold or red bud or something like that. And we were obviously like everybody else
was back then we didn't know what the hell we were doing. We were sourcing seeds out of bags of weed,
you know. And then you go a little bit farther ahead of that time when I kind of got my first
grasp of it was with a buddy of mine whose older brother had come back from NOM and he brought some
crazy shit back with him. And he was growing some up on the backside of a lake where I grew up on
up in the mountains. And long story short, he asked me because he knew I was tinkering around
with a little bit to come hand with him. And that was when I first got my real glimpse of what was
going on when it came to like, different types of this plant genetics produce different types of
flower buds. And as you do this craft over any long period of time, you realize that every
different type of genetic or every different type of you know, every land right, so I'm gonna go
even farther back every land, every continent has its own specific type of cannabis that grows
very well. They are those things of what's intermixed over the last half a century. Those
steps are what kind of bring it to what we see now. During that time period, that wasn't there,
that was just starting to get where we were figuring out, you know, there weren't any books,
there weren't any real guidelines, you know, we were still trying to figure out sexing plants in
the field and all that kind of jazz. So the knowledge has advanced so much in just the last
decade over what was previous practice, like even the previous 80 or 90 years, like it's just it
moves so much so quickly that there's a lot of changes happened in the last 10 years that you
know, that it's crazy to think we're smoking all that history. Well, we are but it helped me to
define what I'm doing now more, you know, I mean, it really it defines me more now because I go back
to land races, you know, I like I always search for really cool land race stuff. I made a point
now in this where I have people from all over the country, well, really all over the world for that
matter that reach out to me and source things to me to try and either a stabilize, be bring back
and revitalize or see use in some medical application. I have a whole bunch of stuff
that was gifted to me here a little while back from just briefly, you know, stuff and all this
stuff is from the 70s and 80s is a Bible or not, you know, I pressure tested everything and it's in
cool cool storage right now and it'll come out and I have my bag of tricks of things that I use and
most of the young growers consult with me, they'll testify that this shit that I tell them
fucking work. So I'll just take it at face value, you know, I have my own ways of doing stuff, you
know, may not be the fanciest or the most advanced, but it works, you know, it works for me, you know,
and that's how I have always been, you know, can you give us an example of something?
Oh, you know, I guess there's so much stuff, you know, like everybody's breeding, you know,
trying to breed like auto flowers and, you know, and then there's the whole tissue culture thing
and everything, which I'm moving into that realm with the guys that are really the leaders in this
in that particular thread, you know, those are the guys that I'm men and women that I'm working with
now that are working to bring my genetics into their lines and also to help protect what I'm
doing and move it out before, you know, again, I'm an old pollen chunker, man, you know, it's like,
you want to know how to collect pollen, that kind of jazz, how to bag stuff out of self,
how to branch spot branch stuff, how to you work out of a can with a brush. That's my realm in my
world. And that's what I do, you know, so I really, I focus on what I'm good at, you know,
I focus with what I feel good about with the plants that I'm working with. A lot of it
is was guts before in the last few years. Now I have medicine behind me and science behind me
that helps back up what my gut feelings were previously as far as, you know, like, for example,
the blue skunk is probably my best example that you guys have in your route in your hands. I
think was for the time before 17 years into making my old plant with an original blue dream
cross my old, old Dave, you know, I didn't even have a frickin name 20 years ago. It was old Dave,
you know, anyway, with the name of the strain was Dave. Yeah, well, that was who I got it from
was Dave. Old Dave is where the plant came from. And that's again, pre 1990, you know, pre hell,
not even that long ago, pre 2000, even pre 1990, for sure. But pre 2000, there weren't all these
crazy names, none of that stuff existed. It was it was called by the region, you know, I was known
in my area, you know, my plant was Mendocino peace plant, man, you know, and that's what it was known
for for decades and decades, you know, and then in 92 ish somewhere that range some youngsters that
come over and buy my plant been buying it for years come over from Tahoe, and they started
calling it Tahoe Oh, gee, you know, damn what you call it, as long as you pay for it. You know,
that was the approach back then, you know, it's like, you know, don't bring anybody with you pay
for me and go away, you know, and come back and let's repeat that. That's the way we used to work,
you know, and it's like, those days have gone away. And it's like morph into this industry or
don't, you know, and me, my approach may be different than most people's Peter, honest,
God, you know, it's like, what I'm trying to do, I gotta hang out with people.
You're like, I just want to toss the pound in your car and walk away. And now you want to hang
out with me. It's weird, man. You know, I mean, again, you know, I grew up in will and connect on
social media. With with this is interesting. And I'm, I'm totally, totally humbled and completely
thankful for you, brother, you know, because you're helping me move into this and you've done
you know, you're kind of you are my media shepherd, so to speak, you know, you're the one that has
done all the digital imprinting of this old man so far, you know, and, and sister, you've been so
gracious to help me transition into this and be more comfortable in this format and hang out and
talk with you guys and you know, do crazy shit like this. Oh, yes. So I thought jar.
This is this is the one the orange cream frost that everybody's in love with.
I was gonna ask the story about the orange cream.
And then that's the one you're like, and there's the black apple coming in. And
now, now you the I guess I'll put it this way. This is good. This is considered farm cut length.
Okay, so it's a little shaggy. You know, we don't we don't trim it down. I like it.
You know, what kind of sewer length is what it used to be called or guess I still call it that.
So it's real, you know, it's still got all the sugar leaf on it and stuff like that. And anyway,
this is my little jars of stuff aging under glass right now. They're going all on just about
two months right now. I've been out of the ground since the
completely by first week in October, and this stuff was all coming in
latter part of September and stuff. So it's been all aging under, you know, curing under that time
period. And you guys, you know, the elves came and saw you guys here just a week, I guess, or less ago.
Delivering Santa's little gifts and stuff like that. So I was gonna say you're you need your
weed to to finish on time so you can get to the present making for the Christmas season.
Brother, if you're the dank Santa, you do.
That's right. Well, but that's interesting because what you're implying is all of this
kind of finished around the same time, like they're all within the same week.
That wouldn't. Yes and no. Yes, I know. Now I have stuff that comes in really, really quick on the
first of the first portion of the season's coming in like the early portion of September, even late
August that I'm bringing in that was the first stuff you guys had. That stuff sets in ages for
that stuff sets in ages for literally 6090 120 days for it ever comes out and why it's so smooth
to smoke and why it's so easy and just kind on you and everything that is supposed to be.
This is moved a little bit quicker, but the process is still the same. You know, it still
hangs for at least two weeks hanging in my basement under humidity controlled environment
under fans under no light. You know, 5854. Okay, 55%. Let's just call it 55. Everybody
can be technical 54 to 58. Let's just call it around.
Just quickly. Yes, Mia smoked flour for like 1520 minutes. Now she's moving back to the dad rig.
I just thought I'd round out the flower with some dabs. Okay.
It's a different animal, you know, when you guys can you I mean, I'm not telling you anything.
You don't you're smoking it. It's smooth. It's kind. It's sweet. It's delicious. You know,
it doesn't hurt your throat. I have a very dear friend of mine that I love very much that he's
telling me he's smoking flour out of Colorado and their issues is because they rushed the cure.
Yeah, you just can't ask you about that. Because somebody I caught some heat on my
live stream the other day on Instagram, talking about how long I hung the plans up after they
were done growing and then the job and so forth. So how long do you have them at 55% and your basement?
Well, they're right there run for about 14 to 21 days in that environment. And that's under a field
test that you're getting where it's not sticky anymore. And it's not too crisp into your hand.
And then at that point, I'm moving into something that I learned decades ago. And I've seen what I
find really cool is a lot of my friends that I consider true legends in this or, you know,
they're, I'm just an old pot breeder. You know, I got friends that are real rock stars in this
in this industry and in this craft, man. And I use cardboard, you know, I use cardboard bags,
I use cardboard boxes, I use cardboard, big lids, you know, two foot by four foot lids,
and I got buds on what I call rolling the buds and stuff that I do and roll them in and
storing and aging them in my humidity controlled environment, dark lights out, let them age,
you know, that kind of a deal. And that goes on for at least a month to two months, maybe longer
than that, depending on what the load is, you know, and how busy I am before they get moved into
one gallon glass jars. When they hit the glass jar, Mia, they've been aging, they've been curing
for about 45 days, on average, maybe 60. And then they're moving into glass. It's right, like right
now, I'm just moving stuff into glass right now for personal storage, get, get it out. Now the
things that you guys have now been that I was working on those things, we're working in brown
paper sacks, working them down, getting them to where there's zero weight loss. Now at this point,
the cure is stabilized in my eyes. That's easily done by going in and freaking scale and weighing
it every damn day until it doesn't change weight anymore for a couple of days. And it's pretty much
dry. Okay. Now you can move it into glass, you can move it into Tupperware, rubber maids, whatever
you want to do, but you want to airtight sealer, put it in that environment to help age and develop
the flavor of the flower. If you're a flower person, the longer you age it, and I'll task you
with this, with your own personal plant, as you age it and let it go, do samples every 30 days,
pull a little bit out, do a test and smoke it and see what it tastes like. Another three or four
weeks, pull out a little bit more, try it again. You'll see a significant difference as it goes
over that time period. When it gets into the, what I consider premium optimum is usually around that
45, 60, 90 day, depending on what the flower is. Stuff that's real, real thick, real, real dense.
They take longer stuff, you know, sativa forwards, they're open more airy. They don't
take quite so long where most people make their mistakes as they let their humidity get too low.
They let their interior temperature get too high and they're not running enough
fans to make sure there's plenty of air circulation.
So the plant ends up kind of brittle and not retaining that juicy, the turps.
So the plant ends up brittle and it doesn't, it's not terpy anymore. People let the humidity
get too low. And or too hot, too low of humidity and too high of temperature. Yeah. Okay. So you
want to make sure that you can, again, what I, what my, what I tell people and what I
preach and practice when it comes to curing is what I call low and slow. Okay. Slow, slow
temperatures, low humidity, low temperature. Okay. Long period of time with keep your humidity
around 55%, keep your, your temperatures around 70 or five or less optimum 68. Okay. Can you get
that where you're at? It depends. I have a basement. I'm in Northern California, 68, 65 is
a breeze for me. Okay. What I have problems with is, is humidity gets too high in my area where
in my basement because of the moisture here. So I'm running, you know, I got three full size
dehumidifiers that would, you would run in 1500 square feet running in a 500 square foot pace.
I mean, that's, it's all on timers and shit. You know, I might be look like an old hippie,
but I'm pretty technically hip when it comes to my lab. You know, my lab is pretty,
you know, most of my friends, you know, again, you know, I've been at this crap for a long time.
It didn't happen overnight. You know, this is my retirement phase. I built my lab in my space,
the way I wanted it on my budget, which was pretty good for most people, you know?
So anyway, it put it, you know, this is one of those things like it's, this is really
important that people learn when they're doing their own flower, you know, to take their time
with this thing. You spent months and months growing it. Don't rush it at the end.
That's why it gets harsh. That's why it gets brittle. You know, again, you let it get too hot
while you're curing it. You let the humidity get way, way too low. And if it gets down into the
forties, thirties, you're, you're going to turn it into, it's going to, it's going to turn to dust
on you. If you let it get above 80 degrees, 85, it's going to get completely brittle and turn to
dust on you. And that's usually what happens. What I, I mean, hell they're advertising,
it's trying to sell people on freaking weed dehumidifiers, you know, like herbs now,
72 hours. Are you out of your freaking minds? Yeah. It just doesn't make any sense at all.
That's like, don't teach bad. It's bad. It's teaching bad practices. It's just teaching bad,
you know, anyway. When we were talking about storing seeds long-term, I was like,
they're currently in my garage at like 55 in LA humidity, which is like no humidity.
Super dry LA. Yeah, I was going to say, in Southern California, people have humidifiers,
not dehumidifiers. Yeah, you probably, Peter, in our conversation, what we're talking about is
it's long-term and you're going to get where your, your temperatures are getting above that range.
If you started getting into 75 and up, man, he's super, super careful with the humidity gets too
high because if there's any moisture at all, that can cause a pre-start on all this, all that stuff.
And what a nightmare. So anyway, for me, I do like what they do, like, you know, the seed storage
places do that are in Norway and stuff, the same approach. You have you cold storage with dry pack.
And that's how I'm talking about the apocalypse silos
where they have all the different types of seeds, like that exist in a silo in case of
the apocalypse and they're all in cold storage, all beautiful.
It's the, it's the best way to do it. I mean, if I had to be that way, but you know,
if you can't dedicate your own little mini fridge to it or whatever you do, you know,
you use, like I told you, Peter, you know, I, and as you saw with my working stock box,
it's in the crisper in the back of my fridge with, you know, a little fishing tackle box with little
tech Tic Tac size boxes full of hundreds and hundreds of different kinds of seeds,
you know, all the different things that I'm playing with currently right now that are in
cold storage. And then I have silica packs, you know, that, you know,
the little things that you get to moisture absorbers, right.
Thrown in with that again, very low tech, but very efficient for what I,
for what my purposes are. And this is all stuff that I'm currently working with, you know?
So it's also like insurance. It's a backup in case anything should happen to existing plants.
It's like the version of a hard drive.
Very much. It is that it is. Yeah, exactly. It is my backup for those things. And it also, well,
what I realized if we don't start doing this now, it's going to go away. Cause I've lost stuff that
I've built over the years. You know, I've lost stuff as recently as last year, you know, things
that I just have so many different things going on that I lost control of things. You know,
one more time being an old man doing it by himself. It's like, it's a tough, this is a
tough gig at times, you know, it's like I would give anything to be three decades younger right
now. I know what I know now, you know, about this game. So it didn't have it a little bit
of insight on it, but anyway, it is what it is. Yeah. I'm, I'm fortunately I'm building a team
around me of people that are coming quickly to help me keep this thing moving forward and keeping
control of it, you know, and it's just a, what, what's hot talk about something that you lost in
the past year or two that you were just like, fuck. Yeah. Like what, what plan would you get
back? Oh, well, when I, my, my fricking long Velo G cross that I'd started 25 years ago, you know,
I've, I've had it in seeds and stuff and I thought I had seed stock up, stock up it going and I had
it going and then, you know, I had too many things going three years ago and literally just the last
of the plant and I just didn't do anything to try and save it. And it was my own damn fault.
And it happens, you know, you just, you just own it and you move on. Can I replicate it again?
Probably get pretty close. You know, it's a real pain in the ass, but it can be done, you know,
and I have stuff in my repertoire now that Fino number five has part of it in it. You know,
again, that was part of what I was shifting on working on. So that being said, it's not, you
know, I've got bigger heartbreaks than that over the years. That's for sure. You know, just,
just, you know, I mean, just briefly, you know, real, a real heartbreaker was a Panama red that
I had that had completely beautiful fuchsia through all the way through it. And it was,
as you see in there, Peter, that thing you asked it about a history deal, you'll see it
down there where old Dave's brought into play back in the eighties, a brief mention of it, that one,
you know, that's, it's, it's one of those things there, you know, it's like, there's stuff that
you just wish you could get again. You know, I give there's some things that you can't find
hardly anymore. Now I'm hoping, you know, I'm thankful, you know, for example, I was able to
rescue the razzleberry cush a couple of years back, you know, that was considered a mythical
unicorn. Well, I was able enough to get enough original seed stock and it was already a beautiful
genetics and just literally close to a hundred percent purple throw off every time in the Fino
that came out completely. I did a little, you know, what I do best rates and breeding and back
breeding and stuff into it and got what I call a razzleberry cush Royal, which throws off the
dark red, purple calyxes with beautiful fuchsia hairs and the leaves have purple veining through
them and every little bit of the plant, the stock, every bit of it screams with purple
veining all through it. It's just a gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous plant and a true one-to-one
THC to CBD heirloom, double purple, double Indica heirloom, emerald triangle. You know,
that I was fortunate enough and blessed enough to be able to bring back into
where people have, will have access to it again, coming in 2021, that plant will be available in
seed form and in clone form. So I'm some, you know, I've said in Daniel Hendricks, if I'm speaking
out of turn, brother, you let me know, but I'm pretty sure Hendricks is going to be able to get
it through Hendricks farms here in 2021 is that plant for sure. And a few other things that he's
going to hopefully help me get into his, into his pipeline. So, but that one, I'm really,
really, really honored and really, really excited to see people have access to that plant guys. I
mean, it's just such a, not only for someone to have to grow, but the medicinal ramifications of
what it brings to the plate or just beyond words for therapeutic value being a true one-to-one.
You know, it's nothing, no 30% THC nonsense. It's 15 to 18%, but 15, again, equally CBD to THC at a
30% run 15 to each on a full cannibal account, man, that's pretty good lick for a plant, you know,
and the therapeutic value of that is tremendous for when we're coming, what we're talking about,
when it's coming to doing all the research that's coming out now, which again, is my focus on what I
do, you know, you guys have possession on in your hands right now of two that are specifically for
veterans and post-traumatic stress. They're patented that way they're granted in that thread.
They are, there will be a, don't, there will be a small recreational Avenue for it under a different
label. It will be the same plant through other channels, but it will not be veterans choice
under the veteran choice label. It will be the same genetics. Okay. But it won't be per se,
my house of farms. It's run it. I'm talking to some other really cool operations that are going
to do the right thing by it right now too. So there's a lot of cool things that are happening,
right? Again, 2021 is going to be a big year for good. Mofo farms is going to, you know,
it's going to be a good year, you know, so that's what's coming out right now. And it's happening.
And I'm thankful for those moments in time with you guys and what's happening with that, that,
that plan. I'm really excited about guys. Not only is it beautiful, it's like I said,
it's completely purple. It just, I just put it up on the good boat. Which one are we talking
about right now? You guys don't have it. I'm rambling about something that of course you
guys don't have in your repertoire. It's the razzleberry Royal. Yeah. Yeah. It's that razzleberry
Kush Royal that I, that I've isolated and I'm really, really pleased with and really thankful
to have, have the opportunity to salvage it and save it. And just so you know, as mom and pops,
that bad boy, or excuse me, that bad girl, I had the last run on my test went out. I had been
working on it pretty hard, getting the female to male ratio up on a 10 pack of seeds up, up there,
10 pack. I had it at 80% female to male ratio, which is a serious home run for most breeders
without doing any kind of silver work manipulation at all. And just strictly genetic work.
My last test guy did it. He got, I sent him a baker's dozen. I sent him 11 seeds and he got
10 girls and one male. So well over 90% female to male ratio in the seed pack. If you do have
access to get seeds to it, you're not going to be a bunch of boys is my point. You're going to get
a good quality selection of female plants to work with. The Fino has been isolated pretty well.
It's replicating well above 80% throwing the, throwing again, throwing the purple Fino out on
top where it comes out in the calyxes, the pistols, the leaves, the stock, all that kind of jazz.
So it comes across in the flower, which it's just a beautiful, beautiful plant. And I'm really,
really excited to see people see that again and have access to something that people thought
was, has been gone for well over 15 plus years now. So anyway, sorry for the ramble.
No worries. Can you talk about, so some of this stuff we have like the, the orange cream,
the black apple, Kush, the blue skunk, the Fino select five, like what was your intent?
Like you were paint, you were mixing X and Y and like you had a vision and kind of waiting for a
specific effect physically or mentally. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Sister.
Absolutely. Now I'm going to go with the oldest one, the blue skunk, which is the oldest one in
the group. That one's a six. So we're going 14 years, going into year 15 on that plant right now.
I've been playing around with Dave for three decades, over three decades, over 35 years.
You know, going into that thread as I was getting, I, well, okay. Between oh three and oh, yeah.
Between oh three and oh six, as I was exiting the market, cause I couldn't stand it anymore.
The breeder of that, of the blue dream plant is a very dear friend of mine. And she,
yeah. And she gave me a copy of her feet of her, of one of her Queens. And I
took the plant specifically from her. Cause I told her how well it helped me.
And if anybody that smoked blue dream will tell you, you know, it's very, very calming.
It's very relaxing. It's a great, great afternoon.
Very clairvoyant. It's very like clear, mentally clearing.
It's it's, and you're absolutely right, Nia. It's very, very cerebral plant. People love it for
that effect. It has good therapeutic qualities. Anyway, long story short on that plant,
Peter, to answer your question, my idea as Lynn posed to me, sister Lynn posed to me is build
something that will work for you. Old Dave was what I used for my aches and pains every damn
day and had for decades and decades. You know, my, my standard or the Mendocino Peace Plant,
you know, as it was known back in the day you know, I guess what they call the OG or Tahoe
Kush or some kind of crap like that. So it's what the put on a name on it. I know they,
they tie the OG strains into it as well. And, and that's not even me. That's just the Valley
in there. You know, we're talking Spirock and freaking Bell Springs and just the heart of it.
Laytonville, you know, where the real, where I cut my teeth at back, you know, back up in
Green Mountain and it's like, that's where the real, real turf war was back, especially in that
time period when we were being flown every day and, you know,
Oh, sister, you're talking to any time, you know, well after 70, after the mid seventies and forward,
but it was always an issue, you know, but, but you're talking like between
80 and 96 when the laws and that time that's 16 plus year time period, it was, you know,
it's a war, man. You guys don't hear it. They wasn't in the newspapers. They weren't talking
about it. You know, full on gun battles or shit like that. People can talk about that stuff.
Yeah. It wouldn't put making the public news. It sure went on national news.
You know, you guys, you know, being handcuffed houses, being right again,
near some of the other old timers that are maybe chime into this conversation a little
bit that we're back in that time period. We talked about that time period with us a little bit more,
you know, back through my ass in prison over the plan.
Well, let me just quickly say, and I'm going to mute you cause I can hear myself through
your headphones. But, uh, today Adam, who is, uh, I'm working with on the fire relief
fundraisers was rated for like the fifth time. And we, we were talking a couple hours
or probably right before we started. And I was like,
what does the, you know, the police come in with the, you know, paperwork and it's kind of like,
okay, again, it depends where you live is what I realized. I mean, like there are a bunch of
guys in El Dorado. I thought, but it's not true, man. I mean, just last summer I got friends
inland and you know, the other, the other corner of the true triangle, Mendocino Humboldt and
Trinity County. I have friends in Trinity County last year with 30, $40,000 worth of permitted
paperwork in their hands. And dude, storm troopers kicking their gates and saying,
we don't give a fuck what your papers say. We're here to knock your plants down.
Okay. I mean, I mean today, Adam, I was like, what, what, he had 120 square feet.
And I was like, in Santa Cruz County, they're fucking with someone with 120, like,
well, okay. There must be much bigger operations to drive by before you get to the hundred.
They're trying to drive them out. They're trying to drive them out. And this is the truth of the
matter. I have friends in Sonoma County happened to them. They're increasing, they're doing it
here. They're increasing the acreage that you have to have in order to compete anymore. Okay.
So a small mom and pop, for example, friends in Sonoma, small pop mom and pop been doing it for
decades. Good at what they do. Okay. Yes. Right. Good at what they do.
That's exciting. It was, it was like a bedroom that was busted today in Santa Cruz.
And again, if he's permitted, that's total BS. I would go, if it was, if it's permitted and I,
and doing it above board, that's total BS. Get you a lawyer. Do what we did the last time it
happened to us. It had happened to me in decades because again, I got lawyers now.
So, so, so interestingly, part of our conversation earlier today was about Adam wanting to move to
Oklahoma. And I was like, like Brandon Russ, who you both know, you know, spent time in jail in
California and moved to Oklahoma. Other people, like, it's almost like a migration from California
to Oklahoma because it's like, I'm getting thrown in jail in California.
Yeah. They said it, they said it earlier, Peter, that, you know, it's Oklahoma is embracing the
plant correctly. In my eyes, I wish our state would follow suit and embrace it with the same
kind of approach, you know, make it worse. It's cheap and you can get it done and allow them to
do it. The ones that are migrating there are rock stars. Don't kid yourself. I love Brandon, man.
And I know his old ass, his young ass would like my old ass out there.
But I did. The respective ages of our asses.
I'm trying to get that visual out of my head right now.
I feel like the situation in Oklahoma is kind of like the opposite with this, the situation at some
other places. I heard that in Florida, things are kind of like some good, some bad, but it's,
it's impossible to get a commercial license out there. I hear it. It's like very difficult.
Where?
In Florida.
Oh yeah. No, fuck. Yeah. No, Florida, not Florida. But I mean,
Oklahoma is like the why it's like the libertarian wild west of weed. And they're just like,
everybody put your chips on the table and made the best man win.
It's the right. Don't kid yourself, though. What's the tax base in the next 10 years?
Anybody that's watched Denver over the last 10 years, you know, if you've been to Denver in the
nineties and then go and look at Denver now, man, it's a different fricking town. The infrastructure
is there. Colorado is as profited off the revenue off of it. They have completely profited off the
tax base off of it. It's obvious by their infrastructure improvements. Oklahoma is
right next door. They've seen it. They know what's happening over in that state. They want part of it
too. It's a good thing for that state. It gives the farmers a legitimate cash crop where there's
actually some revenue to be made that isn't in frickin cotton, sorghum or soy, which carry no
value anymore in our system. They can't make it in frickin cattle anymore. Allow them to grow hemp.
If they don't want to grow medical cannabis or THC cannabis, then grow hemp. And if there's a
product for it all right now, it's like it's time for the biggest winner in the 2020 election in my
book was frickin cannabis. You know, it's like it's time to see the more passing the house is
such a big deal. Thought I'd be gone. Never thought it'd be in my lifetime, guys. Honestly,
I'm thankful to be hanging out with all you youngsters now. So it gives me something to do,
you know, and it's like, and also to carry on this and for you guys, as you guys have helped me,
you know, you're helping bring me out into the light. And as you guys have all said to me
privately and in a group and stuff, you know, it's like I bring longevity to the thing for you guys
when we're sitting down talking something goes out. Well, you guys aren't been doing it a minute.
Yeah, but that old man been doing it for half a frickin century. You know, so that's how I look
at this thing. So I'm here to do what I do. And that's help teach and educate or as my buddy just,
you know, as we were having a conversation, my job is to educate and elevate. And that's what
I plan on doing for the rest of the time that I'm here. And in the process, get my plants out to my
brothers and sisters in arms and first responders and former le hell current le I got le all in my
family, you know, brothers and sisters, you know, that being said, anybody that's ever needs a plant
that's balanced, good therapeutic qualities for helping you get your head can't beat that blue
skunk, you know, and going back on that, we kind of got off point there a little bit, Peter, but
that one specifically was for balancing my head and making my back quit hurting. You know, and
over the years of in selecting and breeding and working with it really other than when I got hurt
for a couple years, you know, the seed stock I had, I came back and popped it again when I got
back and got back on my feet again, it had been getting replicated or cleaned and re
stabilized each season, you know, I guess is the best way to put it was stabilizing and improving
on what it puts off now. And now that culmination of 14 going on 15 years is where that plant is.
The other stuff that's in that mix, because there's two that are very, very new in my
wheelhouse right now. And only because of demand, did I even let those two, which is the orange
cream frost and the pheno number five only because of demand, are they even in your possession,
and they most likely will improve again a little bit each over the next two to five years by maybe
an addition. Okay, because the final number five has not been named. I literally was in the middle
I'm working on the OCF right now the orange cream frost. I'm in about year five on it right now,
sister, and it's beautiful. And it's insane. You know, and I it's supposed like an orange Julius,
doesn't it? What was so what? Where have you been trying to push that? And then what's like,
it's almost like a musician being like, I wrote a song and now I'm just tinkering with it. And like,
that's a that's a fair analogy. That's a real fair analogy. The Blue Skunk, the song has been
written and I'm done with it. And you know, there's an extended version of that bad boy that
you know, when I sit down, sometimes I may play a 15 minute version of it instead of three, but it's
still all the same, right? It's the great version of the black apple cush you know, the name changed
because I had a longer name and on it previously before mostly to focus stoners, but I shortened
it for marketing purposes to black apple cush to make it where it was a little bit more flowable.
That happened this last year. So I retitled that song after basically eight years of playing it.
Okay, that one's done. And what are you what did it use?
I didn't think it was finished. But a lot of people tell me it is, you know, and I'm okay to
put my signature on it. I already do. You know, I don't mind people playing the version of it that's
out there right now. Again, it may be fine tuned one more time. You know, it's like I, I think
don't kid yourself, okay, that plant is so unique and so one of a kind and so different than
anything else that anybody has ever ever seen or had it is beyond words. Okay, so I already realized
that and I don't want to mess with that too much. But what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to increase
on the quality of the bud structure itself in the plant right now. Now every if you didn't know any
better, and most people don't, they would just go, wow, that's a big fat badass looking bud and it is
and it's gorgeous and it smells great. And it's you know, it smokes like oranges, which everybody
loves that frickin profile when they can get it and there's not much of it around anymore.
And it really picked up and brought forward this citrus profile, the true Mandarin profile.
Okay, the true, true, true orange profile, true Mandarin profile comes comes out in that plant.
That is hard to hard to beat, and then throw in the backside parentage of the orange cream,
the frost end of it is a dark, dark purple raspberry cush male, the royal male that I bred
with that, that when it comes out in the fall, and as he gets into the cool of the evenings,
Peter may have a photograph of it be a good time for that it turns screaming purple, dark, dark red,
just a gorgeous, gorgeous plant to not only to cultivate, but the essence that comes off of this
phenomenal, it's smokes divine. It's got great, great therapeutic qualities between it as
parentage half of the raspberry side of it's very, very therapeutic. It is a evening plant,
or when you're not doing anything on a rainy afternoon kind of plant, I wouldn't recommend
it for day purposes. However, someone that's high strung and high wound, it may be perfect for that
application. For me personally, it's something that I use in the evenings and the afternoons,
take the aches and pains away. I just want to chill and relax. It's really, really good for that.
It does not really, it doesn't really put you out per se, you know, did it make you go to sleep
via by any chance? Well, personally, it has a very, it has a very prussed Madeleine effect for me,
because it's such a, it's very citrus, but undeniably creamy. And, and that particular
powerful combination kind of whirls me back to treats from an ice cream truck in New York City.
And so I just feel like I just remembered this ice cream truck every time I smell the
orange cream froth. And it's quite a nostalgic smoke, if that makes sense.
But yeah, very, it's very, very relaxing for sure. I don't get couch lock from it.
But it's a little bit and you kind of see it's why I live leave the sugar leaf on it a little
bit so people can see how pretty it is. You know, if I indoor people really screwed shit up 15 or so
years ago, because they trim stuff so tight because they don't know what they're doing.
You know, they trim it so damn tight that you can't, it takes away all the beauty off the
plant in my humble opinion. You know, it's like, you want people, it's a little blurry sister,
but you can get it. It's like that, that purple, you if you trim all that off, you don't see any
of that, you know, you don't see the purples and the oranges and the lemon colors that are all in
that plant when it comes in. So what I call connoisseur length, I tend to leave it a little
bit longer. Yeah, most of my friends because they don't necessarily do combustibles that they're,
you know, they're vaping or dabbing or whatever. They don't even care because there's a little bit
extra in the bowl when they, you know, as my one buddy says, squishing the soul out of my flowers,
you know, it's like, I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing.
But do you think machine trimming has anything to do with that trend?
Do you think machine do you think machine trimming has anything to do with that?
Do you think machine trimming has anything to do with that trend?
That's why
and just before you talk about machine trimming, I'm gonna remove myself to get a little boys room.
So you guys carry on for about two minutes. Cool. Yeah, you know, there's so much wisdom.
There's no way around it. I mean, because I've done it before, you know, okay,
I'm gonna go back, I'm gonna go back when I was doing the real deal. You know,
when I was in the real game, you know, okay. Pre 1996, it was a different animal, you know,
before 215. It was a different animal, you know, and when I even up until the time when I left,
you know, we were running crews. I read big red shredders. I don't even know what the fuck that
is, man, because that's real deal, you know, box with the box with a blade, basically like a
Milwaukee drill with a big ass bed on it reached right on the top. It just rips. Like I mean, you
know, the hash like super fast. Come off this thing, you know, they're this big around on a
hash ball after a couple hours, you know, the size of a frickin golf ball, you know, running.
That's how much resonant pulls off, you know, so don't just use a vehicle force or any temperature.
You know, that's all hand done, you know, where you're working on a truck,
they're working on a deck, and it's all hand built. And the guys that are really good at it,
men and women that are really good with those kinds of machines, you know, if they know what
they're doing, they can really minimize the amount of damage of what it actually strips off the
flower bud per se. Not everybody's that good. Now we have this crash course in this industry where
people are, people are following bad advice. And people are following pretty much and I mean,
no offense, but they're falling morons a lot of times out there. Okay. The advice is bad,
Mia, you know, to think again, to think that you could put your flowers in a food dehydrator and
set it for 72 hours and your flowers going to be okay. It's just foolish, man. It's just,
you know, so to think that you can throw your all your weed that you just spent
a minimum indoor 60 days again, you know, you got to be in my realm to harvest every 60 days
indoors, you know, so I'm most mom and pops can't do that. You know, they can't roll them
that quick. So, and pros, I don't know. You know, I don't know. I don't know what they're going to
do. I won't ever, there'll always be trim crews at my table. You know, there'll always be jobs
for people legitimately in the industry here in Humboldt County through taxable services that we
use the hiring agencies that we will use and do use and hire the crews that come in to do that
kind of work. You can literally now, I can literally engage licensing, license it permitted
and taxed and regulated companies that they bring them in and they're all bonded and bring them in
and do all your stuff for you at your table. You know, so there's a lot of things.
Hand trimming is a skill. It's a way that the cannabis industry takes off.
Hand trimming is heritage craft. It is heritage craft, sister, and it's true old school and it's
the way it should be done. And you can't tell me that a bag or a tumbler is going to, yes,
it's going to make it easier, but you're going to lose. You're going to damage trichromes. You're
going to damage resin. You're going to damage the flower. There's just no comparison. I'll sit my,
I'll take the Pepsi challenge against anybody, any day, sister, you set it up. You already know
what the old man does. Okay. I know a lot of men and women in this craft that we practice the same
kind of methodologies. I got friends that quite honestly, Brandon, if he comes in is one that I,
you know, we're new friends, but the fact that he's trying to do it large scale, old school,
organic living soil on a mass scale and with love and everything, man. And he's blowing up some big
old fricking buds, you know, it's like, Oh, again, Oklahoma, man. You know, I, I, I don't
want to get off on that too much because we're, we're talking about on the hand trimming thing,
but it's really, really important that we pass this heritage craft down. You know,
that we keep this alive, that we, that the J there aren't these new generations that have only been
grown up or turned 18 or 21, depending on where you live at medically or recreationally, you know,
all of a sudden now that you've been weed, you know, educate yourself, you know, learn the
difference between craft and heritage versus commercial, you know, the difference. And quite
honestly, the flowers, the same dadgum price, why would you not pick heritage craft over commercial?
You know, that's the crazy part. People paying crazy money for mediocre flower. And then I have
friends literally all over the world, you know, that bag come figure out how to, or do to get my
flowers to themselves, you know, and I just, I, I, it breaks my heart. You know, I'm hoping to see
the talk is here. That is that Mia, and maybe I'm hoping that this summer will allow for you to come
up to the farms and hang out, you know, come up from do a long weekend or a week, come out and
hang up and see what's happening. The moment I got a vaccine in my ass, I am trapped.
So long as I'm not, yeah,
the consensus is that, you know, it seems everybody's kind of on the same page on that.
We're all, all wanting to get what we can interact with each other more freely again. So
there's a lot of some of these beauties growing and it's just alive. The way that you described
the veins and the colors in them, it's like a sunset. And I said, I sent the moderator and
the host a whole file of photographs to show all the different pretty flowers. I even gave him a
couple of legways and he hasn't done it one time. And now I did. He's sending at the booth, smoking
my flower right now and can't put up a picture. No, that's not true. I showed this for a while.
Oh, okay. You didn't get one. Put that orange cream frost black picture up there.
They put that orange cream frost up there. So, so everybody can see what we had not been talking
about. Hold on. Did you send me all that stuff? Hold on. Oh, absolutely. All right.
Everybody has to bear with me. Dude, you made me have to learn Gmail in order to send you stuff.
Of course I sent it to you. I am failing right now. Well, we had the,
well, all the Malawi gold stuff sold out. So, but let's show that because that is pretty.
The t-shirt run? No, no, no, no, no. The flower. The, the, the, hold on.
I'm teaching everyone Gmail. Okay. So here we have,
there it is. Tell me about that.
There she is. There she is. That's the Malawi gold mother coming out with the mango cross with a
beautiful. And I mean, I wish I had taken a picture of him, a beautiful, beautiful
screaming orange mango male. This is the second generation right here, Peter. This is the
seeds. The mom, the seeds of the first mom that was bred that the seeds that you have.
There you go. And you could see the purple coming out in her and the golds. And she just ran the
color spectrum and the flower literally, I don't know. I may not send you the flower picture, but
this last round, the flower bud Mia was blue gray. That's the only way I could put it. It was blue
gray, just ridiculously purple. So purple undertones like frosty kind of mob looking dried.
All right. So hold on.
You sold them all and I didn't even talk about that plant. Did you even show anybody
the dadgum T-shirt I worked so hard on? I can get let me go get. Yeah, give me.
Hold on. You're you're you're talking shit right now. And I'm trying to get all that extra work,
man. I'm looking. All right, hold on. All right. So let me start with the black. Oh,
yeah, you did something. All right. I did not see all these pictures. Let's start with
the black apple. Kush. Yeah. Talking about me. You got to give me about 15 seconds to
queue it up. And I'm old and brain damaged.
I am young and I'm super high and I've been drinking beer since I got super high.
People are someone was hold on. I did see that comment in the chat.
I can't stop looking at your tree. Yeah. What's on the top of the tree?
An angel on your on your Christmas tree. Oh, that's my St. Nicholas.
You're talking about up here? Yeah, St. Nick.
Like an Old Testament Santa Claus, you know, with switches and coal and shit.
I always love the pictures of Russian Santa Claus with the
elaborate outfits and the amazing hat.
I'm I'm queuing up the black apple, Kush.
After you've been that's another I get another beautiful, beautiful plant out,
out, outdoor, indoor functions, great finishes in fifty five, fifty four, fifty six days
Yeah, that's this that's in the field.
And yeah, right. That's this year right here.
That's current from a couple of months back this summer.
That is the breeding seed stock mama for 2020 to 21 right there.
That's one of the colors on her fully bred out, completely impregnated.
And then the other one is the baby.
The color is on her fully bred out, completely impregnated.
That's what she looks like, tried and true day in and day out right there.
And that's again, eight years going on season nine outdoor full sun, sorry.
That one in the front is about thirty to thirty four inches, something like that.
Little dainty little color.
That's indoor, that's indoor, indoor run right there.
What it looks like inside.
I mean, this smell, I mean, it definitely smells like apple.
My goodness.
And can you talk about the backstory on this?
Sure, buddy. You bet. You bet.
I'm a backup post right after my motorcycle wreck.
Now, back literally got back to humble.
Was opening up a few channels with friends and stuff and talking to people and everybody.
And it's a dear friends of mine about you guys age.
There are social media hip and everything come to me and said, oh, man, we know you
are one of the guys that worked on the pineapple plant back in the 80s.
There are some knuckleheads over in the Netherlands that are laying claim to a plant
in two oh nine that we know you guys is one of you guys plants.
Thanks, Peter.
You led right into this.
I'm going to just throw this shit out there.
So long story short, you can go back to the Bible, too.
And you'll see where Mendocino greenhouse section, kind of Bible two,
those plants in that section there, you'll see the pineapple plant listed in there.
That plant documented in Canada Bible to here is an emerald triangle plant.
Long before a decade before those these two guys in the Netherlands laying claim to the name.
So it's obviously that we have an encroachment on the name where it's
kind of a bit of a mystery.
But it's a bit of a mystery.
Laying claim to the name.
So it's obviously that we have an encroachment on the name where it came from,
as well as an encroachment on the genetics.
Lineage of the plant.
From our neighborhood over their neighborhood,
superseded by documentation in a frickin book by over a decade.
That being said, that's one half of this plant, Peter.
OK.
This is a blackberry kush that I sourced from interior Humboldt County here from
some friends of mine in towards Burnt Ranch crossed with my Mendocino pineapple.
Hence.
Blackberry pineapple or black apple kush.
What was now shortened to black apple kush used to be the.
Anyway, you used to be black pineberry apple kush, mostly so to reference the pineberry.
I'm just putting it in the lineage that's now DNA patented.
It's or excuse me, not speaking out turn.
It's now.
In patent processing or going in and getting getting into that phase of it where we have
this information documented and moving it forward to where this is my homage to that legacy
of.
Putting it back out into for everybody to have access to one more frickin time.
So that's what this plant is to me, Peter.
This is a very personal thing.
It's a.
Last basically decade of my life that I've worked on since I got hurt.
It's been my primary focus.
The other stuff's all been secondary.
It's a very phenomenal plant is a very unique plant.
Um.
The lineage is, you know, is is true.
Emerald Triangle.
It's Mendocino and Humboldt County combined.
Best of me.
Best of the two.
Worlds of plants and what I believe one of the true holy grails of northern California.
Few of them are again.
I'm working real hard on bringing some old friends into the light that are honestly are
scared and afraid to step into the light, you know, and I just I.
The years are going away and I want them to know that it's OK to be able to step out in
the light and share their their crafts that they have, you know, and they're one of a
kinds because there are some beautiful ones that you don't you know, you guys don't even
have access to them.
You don't seem it's like me.
You guys wouldn't have access to this.
I do such a small amount, a few pounds every year, you know.
What they're trying to do right now is get it beyond me, Peter.
You know, get it where, you know, are you guys because you happen to know me, you know,
that kind of thing.
Literally what I do is such a small amount.
It's gone in 24 hours and it's just a whisper, you know.
It's just a brief interview.
People.
Oh man, did you see that?
It needs to be out there.
So I'm working.
I've worked my ass off this year to to step up and step out.
And, you know, I formed an LLC.
I've got my legal fucking name on freaking federal patents.
Now I'm a damn 100% rated vet, man.
I'm just trying to do the right thing by my brothers and sisters and not lose my benefits.
Wait for the stupid federal one law to change, man, so we can move that fuck forward.
And I know I do good, Mia, because I have too many of my friends sit down with my blue skunk
plants specifically and tell me how it calms them and grounds them and helps him not have
bad thoughts.
What's wrong with that?
It's not an alcohol bottle.
It's not a fucking opioid.
They're not junk out on the couch living on the streets.
You know, most of my friends are responsible cannabis users.
You know, I'm a responsible cannabis user.
I got four grown ass, beautiful children and all independent, take care of themselves.
It don't live off of me.
That are kind and gentle people and good human beings, you know.
And even if my boys are in the military, their hearts are in the right place.
You know, something to be said about that.
You know, it's like I think it's a shame that this plant's been demonized like it has been
for 80 fricking years.
And that's really all it goes back.
You know, something's been on.
Yeah, I think we we were talking about the whole war and there was another video we did
on Future Cannabis Project where he like touched on Nixon.
And it was like the kind of swerve we did.
And it's before my time, but fascinating.
And it's such an invented thing.
It's quite astonishing.
And I'm glad that you feel like you can bring your friends out into the light to fire.
I'm trying, Mia.
You know, the thing I had Dale Hunt, my patent attorney and my plant IP attorney and when my
you know, my my fricking counsel and beyond that, I mean, he's like my fricking guy.
You know, that's my the only reason I'm sitting here right now is because of Dale Hunt.
If I didn't have Dale Hunt and and Plant and Planet support and Breeders Best specifically,
their support and belief in what I'm doing and what I'm trying to do with
with what what is as an old veteran, my last mission.
Okay.
Yeah, that's what it boils down to with this.
So yeah, especially if you have kids in the military, that means they'll be back one day.
So I want to make sure they have access to whatever they need.
Just quickly, because I realized my mic was muted every time I tried to talk.
So the black apple kush is what we both.
And as an apple smell.
So so you're not to offend you, but you're an old dude has been doing.
I own an old dude, brother.
I own an old dude.
And.
So so you like something like this, the black apple kush, like what's your vision?
Like, do you want to get it out onto the market?
I mean, you're growing it.
It's amazing.
Like, what do you want to do with it?
It's it's coming.
Well, Peter, it is coming out, buddy.
Again, 2020 this year really stifled things.
It slowed everything down so much we couldn't interact.
You know, we couldn't make things move like we wanted to.
That's shifted.
Maybe that's just a timing thing, which is totally fine.
This next year again, there are a lot of ways that this flower is going to be replicated
under sources that are very reputable through people that are highly trusted in my circle
of, again, world class growers all up and down this valley that are going to do at a minimum small
cool runs of my flowers through some really cool sources and some things that are coming
down the pipe.
I don't want to spoil anything, but there's really cool stuff that we're working on.
Literally, like right now, you know, phone calls this week.
Things are happening tomorrow afternoon.
But but but the implication is something like black apple kush would hit the California
market first as like a consumer product.
Of course, brother, you know, we got to get past federal before it can go anywhere.
Now, let me OK, time out.
Time out.
Again, it's all in the works.
I'm working in negotiations through my breeding company right now with this is the entire
conversation, because I love your again.
You're an old dude who's been just doing this for a long time.
You're an old dude who's been just doing this up in the hills of Humboldt forever.
And it's like I have some seriously good shit.
What is my mood in a in a world where I mean, the cannabis, the commercial cannabis world
business, brother, and everybody wants like it's like sharks who want what you have.
Yeah, as a little dude, trying to do it, Peter.
That's how I'm trying to do it.
My way may not be the right way, but this is the way that I know how to do it to protect
myself for something I've worked my life on, which I think is what you're asking.
It's why I partnered with Breeders Best.
OK, it's why I partnered with Breeders Best.
Dale Hunt is covering all my bases on making sure that everything's covered there.
Me to my old friends, my old breeding friends all around the country, around the world.
He works all over the world.
If you have a one of a kind, reach out to Breeders Best, fill out their form, send them
the stuff that they asked for.
They'll reach back to you.
It's worth your energy and effort.
There's nothing invested, but your time.
I have to have Dale up here in my neighborhood down the road at a dear friend's place, hosted
an event for him where I have friends that are in the craft here in Humboldt where I
had an opportunity to come in and sit down and ask him questions and just visit.
That's all it is.
Get your questions asked.
See if it's the right opportunity for you.
For me, it's the path that I'm choosing.
I'm not saying it's everybody's path.
It's my path.
I just believe I see the handwriting on the wall.
That's all.
I really believe as soon as schedule one changes in the next 24 months, which it most likely
will, every big player, big alcohol, big tobacco, big pharma, all those players are
sitting by the sidelines.
They're actively buying properties up here now.
I saw a thing where there was a tobacco company which was patenting branding.
Branding isn't going to do shit.
I'm sorry, but branding your stuff isn't going to do shit.
All they're going to do is take your intellectual properties by capturing your DNA like it's
exactly what they did to soy.
It's what they did to canola.
It's what they did to strawberries.
It's what they did to wheat.
They're just waiting their time.
And I'm sorry to be, okay, again, I'm old school.
This is something that you've seen it with other cash crops.
It's coming.
Again, I'm from Mendocino for crying out loud.
We fought Monsanto 15 freaking years ago for no GMOs.
I've seen the guys in the black suits, the dark sunglasses in the blacked out four-door
sedans in our community.
And well, it's California.
I know what I'm talking about.
That's out there.
They're in our communities.
They're just waiting for schedule one to flip.
They just did it on the UN level, completely decrimmed cannabis on the United Nations.
That's the house just as we both were talking.
We both had this conversation.
You and I did.
Right.
Okay.
We both believed, and I think we're both correct.
It's got, it obviously went through the house, but Mitch McConnell's going to stall it on
his desk.
You know, so will it change?
Yeah.
Get rid of Mitch.
It'll change.
You know, how do we-
It's one of those things where we definitely don't want to criminalize the patients.
That's the point, right?
We don't want patients-
It's ridiculous.
People are growing their own medicine to be penalized, but at the same time,
like sort of any protections end up being abused by corporations so often.
If we can just get a basic decriminalization for home possession and home cultivation on
a federal level, then, you know, again, some knuckleheads in behind their shed,
behind their barn, trying to grow 2000 plants illegally, they deserve what they get.
But you're in your yard with your 6 to 12 plants as an adult over 21 cultivating your
own freaking plants, you should be allowed to do what you want to do.
You're not hurting anybody.
You're taking yourself off the market because you're not buying weed anymore.
It just doesn't make any sense other than it's all about freaking control.
It's all about keeping our for-profit penitentiary system going.
You know, that's what it is, you know, and I hate to be that blunt about it,
but anybody that thinks it isn't that is foolish.
You know, it's like it's about control, corruption and greed, man.
And that's just the truth of the matter.
It's the only reason why the only reason why a lot of different types of soy before
the current soy crop.
I didn't know that.
Well, just in general, I mean, OK, I'm getting way off topic here.
But again, this is kind of my thread because I'm a plant and seed guy, right?
So if we go back and look at when our when our forefathers and fathers came to our country,
you came to America, you know, pre all this stuff.
So we go back and the pilgrims are coming across and everything.
There were literally hundreds and hundreds, if not thousands of different varieties of
every species of fruit and vegetable on the planet on this continent at that time.
Right over the last 150, 200 years, they've
read it down, read it down, read it down, read it down, read it down,
inbred, inbred, inbred.
The only thing that really is what again, there's not the only thing that we're talking about in
this particular thread with cannabis were, again, very unique, a male and a female plant,
both where we have this seed application coming from two separate sources.
This is where genetics runs the gamut.
OK, we're missing such a small portion because, again,
OK, I'm really going to piss people off now.
You go and look at the current commercial market right now.
Everything damn near everything.
And I mean, damn near every bit of it that's on the commercial market is some
offshoot of a Girl Scout cookie in the last 10 freaking years.
Tell me I'm not telling the truth.
It's a dessert heavy market.
OK.
You know, I literally have friends and people that don't know me message me.
Thank you.
Thank God with the Fino five.
Thank God for not naming after another bakery item.
You know, I mean, it's that bad, you know, and again, something why people want what I do.
I'm not the only one.
There's a lot of us here.
Part of what you said, Neil, what I'm trying to do with my friends is help them move into
the light that I've moved into by working under the good mofo farm's umbrella, which I formed
over the last couple of weeks with my legal team.
We're officially legal.
You know, I have a freaking company now, sister.
You know, I formed a corporation.
So this is what I'm getting.
I mean, Greg said Monsanto is a beast with mucho judges in their pockets.
Brother, they are.
They are.
And you're damn right.
You're damn true.
But but but hold on a second, because.
What I want to explore is you're an old guy up in the hills of Humboldt who is using patents
and Monsanto.
I don't think anybody watching or anybody talking is like I like I want to wear the
Monsanto T-shirt because they're good people.
So can you distinguish between like how a small like patents aren't necessarily bad or
how does a small person like you use patents?
And how are you different than a Monsanto, which is like the big bad wolf?
I love that is a great that is a great question, Peter.
And I let me have a couple of minutes on this one, because this is a very good question.
And I've gotten asked this for several years now because I am one of those.
And what I'm doing is what I can call a defensive plant patent.
That is protecting myself if in the event I am infringed on by some big commercial grower,
i.e. Monsanto, Sargenta, Budweiser, whoever the hell it is, I have now a legal patent on
my plants, which allows me to protect myself in that my event, what I've agreed to with my
breeding company and all the licensing that's been right now, I want mom and pops to have my
seeds and my clones at a reasonable to fair cost for what they are.
OK, that's coming down the pipeline.
I'm working really hard to make that happen in 2021, where those things are coming available
because I get requests all the time.
I want mom and pops to have this stuff, you know, where you can go buy the seeds.
They're a reputable source, Humboldt Seed Company, somebody along those lines, which
again, that's who I'm hoping to work with.
You know, I'm actively working with Hendrix right now trying to negotiate a deal.
And it's beyond I mean, I love Daniel and it's like we're coming.
We will come to an agreement, OK?
It's where clones are going to be available of my genetics through a good source for people
to have access to.
I'm also guessing that I've heard part of Monsanto's playbook is to buy land near
independent farmers and then basically when cross-pollination inevitably happens from
their crops to that farmer.
And I'm guessing you're not planning on suing the shit out of everybody and all your neighbors.
And I think that one of one thing that happens with these giant corporations that cause a
homogeneity and product in almost any industry is that they're incredibly litigious in a
way that the little guy can't defend themselves from.
There's a part of again, part of why I pick the path that I picked is because I looked
at this for a few years of what was I going to do at this stage of my life because I'm
getting so old that I don't want to sling dirt anymore.
And for my friends that are significantly younger than I am that are in the craft that
want control and just advice, then I would strongly recommend looking at somebody like
again, plant and planet to get advice from because that's what they do.
And they work, they're one of the most ethical businesses I've ever worked with in my life.
I'm so honored to be even considered not only Dale Hunt, a business associate and an
alliance, a brother.
I just feel so blessed to have Dale in my corner and so thankful for him.
And just.
Just quickly for people who have no idea what you're talking about, Dale Hunt is a and
I'm going to mute you because I can hear myself.
But so Dale is a plant biologist and then he got a degree in law and he's basically
been a plant patent attorney and, you know, things like, you know, in the past year I've
started eating cotton candy grapes and I'm just like these they taste like cotton candy
and it's amazing.
And somebody created that and they bred grapes in a direction that now tastes like cotton
candy.
And you're just like, I would like to eat a lot of those.
And, you know, you have the Monsantos of the world, which are like they're almost like
offensively litigious, where like what Mia was saying is, you know, I have a farm with
corn and my neighbor's farm pollen, like basically my neighbor's roosters come impregnate
my hens and it's suddenly my fault.
And I owe.
It's like I got raped and I'm at fault that that's that's the Monsanto model.
And so for me, it's interesting.
And Doc, you are muted.
So hold on one second.
I got the mic right now.
But it's interesting, like the world of patents I don't view as a bad world of used right.
And.
You know, how do you get really amazing small breeders out of the woodwork into this
commercial cannabis market, which is a it's big ag.
It's it's like the Monsantos want to fuck the small operators and the small operators
have all the cards.
They have all the good stuff.
And so what is it?
How does a small operator on board himself into the market?
And that's kind of what we're talking about.
Well, it's what I'm trying to do.
I mean, it's not what I'm trying to do.
It is what I'm doing.
OK, now, and again, I understand because of the the model that I'm working through.
This is all brand new stuff.
You know, Breeders Best was formed at Emerald Cup last year when there was a real in-person
Emerald Cup.
That's just how quickly this has moved so fastly.
So people, you know, and I get it.
I'm one of the first people through the door on this role model with what we're trying to
do, you know, so we're building a business model that works for me.
There's a lot of ways around this ball.
I just don't believe that as a small mom and pop that you can protect yourself against
some monster like the Big Evil M without having somebody in your corner that has some
expertise in this field.
And I just personally believe that I've aligned when it comes to plant IP, the best guy on
the frickin continent.
OK, that's just and again, that's one man's opinion.
However, if you know Dr. Hunt and you know, Dale, like I do his business model, his business
practice, the way breeders best has been built from the ground up.
I know all of the key people in the thing, because again, I've been involved from it
from its inception, literally, and being one of the first breeders in this thread for them.
You know, the theater, it's being built as we go, but the model that we're building is
pretty, pretty much in place.
It's not overly expensive for anybody to keep complete control.
They can do what I'm doing, which is basically they're protecting everything.
And we're working licensing agreements with other companies that are going to be growing
my flowers.
I get a small percentage back.
You know, they keep the lion's share.
If I'm cultivating it myself, it'll be the other way around.
I have other deals that I'm working with, with my manufacturing and things like that
that weren't there six months ago.
So there's again.
The incubator that I'm building to meet what you're asking is the thing that I just started
is good.
Mo both farms LLC is exactly what I'm building is where I can bring small mom and pops that
have one of a kind in that don't have a tremendous amount of cash where we can help them.
Where we have equity, leveraging, manufacturing, storage, transportation, all that stuff in
place.
And because I've done it before, I've built community gardens, vegetable gardens before,
and I've run community nonprofits before in a different life.
And I know how to do those kinds of things.
So I see this vision for this, where we can build this pipeline to get other people's
stuff out into the market.
It may be a year or two coming down the road, but it's coming.
There's things that I'm building currently on branding on flower lines outside of veterans
choice, cannabis, Peter, that are all intertwined with this.
I wish I could give you guys more details on the thing I'm talking about here locally,
what you're talking about, because it's a really cool model that we're talking about.
And once I can let it loose with your brother, I'll sit down with you and Mia, please, let's
have this conversation again about this, because this will be a way for people that are in
the city of LA to know, okay, this is how we access these people's flowers, because
that's what we're going to make happen.
That's what we are doing.
And we're working really, really due diligently on it right now, every day, this old man,
when I'm normally chilling in the wintertime, there is no chilling for this old man right
now.
I'm actively cloning every damn day.
I'm spent, even my wife's like, dude, you were on the phone so many times with people
all over the fripping country.
I'm talking to SEC guys about fricking equities and shit.
You know, it's not my wheelhouse.
I am a plant cultivator.
I fortunately have really, really good people around me that watch over what I'm doing to
help me make sure that they're in the right, their minds and hearts are in the right place.
You know, they ain't getting paid big bucks on this thing.
Everybody's working on towards a goal and a dream with this and an idea, an idea that
we can do this as Dale Hunt and I said, and shook hands and hugged and shook hands and
made a pact with each other that we were going to prove we could do this from a place of
love and from an ethical perspective.
And if we did that and get it out to people the right way, that there would be plenty
to go around for everybody when it was all said and done.
Okay.
And that's just how I look at this.
And this is just the way I approach it with this plant.
And my goal and my hope is to build this over this next year is the space where cannabis
cultivators that are small mom and pops don't have an avenue to get out can have a new to
get into it.
Okay.
Without, without a outlay of cash.
With the situation you mentioned with the pineapple, the pineapple genetics and the
other people who are using the name and everything, would an LLC like this have helped you out?
Sister, it'd have been night and day.
You know, if I'd had Dale Hunt 30 years ago, I'd own people now, you know,
we'd have done a lot of different things that we, if we'd have had the tools to us that
we have now, when we were in our twenties and thirties and forties that we, we didn't
have that only come available in the last 15 years.
You're straight.
I know some really good cannabis lawyers in this state, you know, Heather Burke,
got to hang out with her for the first time, sister, you rock, you know, you know, just
about other cultivators are really seriously in this thread about on this thing and fighting
it correctly.
You know, we've got a serious movement with this last prisoner project, pushing forward
to get the last cannabis prisoner out of prison out of stupidity.
You know, stupid.
Yeah.
Amazing.
I did.
Oh my gosh.
What was it on July 4th?
I did a thing on July 4th, like a little video shout out for a last prisoner project fundraiser.
And I did one in an absurd outfit and one in a very serious outfit.
And I sent them both to the brand that was organizing the fundraiser.
And I was like, but the work that the last prisoner project is doing is amazing.
And it's, it's, it's something to undo a lot of the harm that went on in the period that
you were talking about before.
I say they're going to do what they say they're going to do, sister with the law and stuff
and do the expungements that they're talking about.
They can't, again, you can't make up for the damages done.
My God, man.
I, you know, I lost the first, I, my grown kids, man, that are all in their mid thirties
now.
You know, it's like they're there.
Yeah.
I got a, my oldest son's going to get, getting ready to be freaking 40 in April for crying
out loud.
You know, they were babies and it tore my family apart in the mid eighties.
You know, it's like, it just, they can't ever make up for that.
You know, again, it didn't change who I was.
What did it, it ruined me on a lot of respects, you know, because of what I'd done for my
country.
And then to be treated that on top of everything else and have my family taken away from me.
Yeah.
And all I really did sisters, I'm, you know, I just appeared in the mountains, fucking
Mendocino, California.
You know, you can't find me.
Come look for me in a six by nine and will it's California.
You'll never find me.
And sadly there's a lot of us that way.
And I've been working for a long, the last two years, really, really hard trying to get
my friends to friends and acquaintances that are cannabis cultivators that circles getting
bigger each time.
You know, this thing I did in a month ago here.
And we had 10 or 12 of us come to, we're going to move it down to Soham, uh, in the spring
time in a much bigger circle and open it up through some bigger channels and see if we
can get more people to come into the, just to come sit down and talk.
You know, no obligations, no, you know, nobody's going to try and do anything.
We control the space.
We can control the environment.
You know, hell you got to walk past me to get through the front door.
I mean, I asked the last group that came in, they'll testify.
You know, I had a mask on, but it was my big ass at the door and I'm a big old boy.
I've been, that being said, I'm asking, inviting all my cultivation friends in the triangle
and Trinity County and Mendocino anywhere in Northern California.
If you have something that you want to try and protect for yourself, you're not quite
sure where to look, how to find out, please.
When you see this event come open in the spring down at Soham, uh, I'm going to say it.
I'm tying in with a sunbolt grown, uh, sunshine Johnson.
I'll be working together on this project, bringing it to fruition.
So, uh, I love my sister sunshine, you know, again, another rock star in the cannabis industry.
That's going to be working with me doing my flowers on a limited scale in her environment
on everything else that she does so beautifully.
I'm so excited about that one as well, but we're going to be putting that event together
down.
And so, um, coming sometime in the spring, get few vaccines out, people a bit more open
up sometime, but before we jump into the season so much too far in the season, people get
too busy where they can come talk to Dr. Dale hunt one more time in a safe and secure environment
and sit down and ask your questions and find out, you know, you'll be surprised.
That's what the people that showed up.
I mean, you know, I had some young growers that are really good at their craft show up
at this last one.
And, you know, there's three of us in there that are all working on different patented
stuff and, you know, some serious DNA work and things like that.
And a couple of them was like, damn, dude, we didn't even know it was this room.
It was like, yeah, you're in the right room, man.
Come on in.
You know, we want it.
We want to protect what we have, Peter, what you said.
And that's what I'm trying to build with a lot of it.
There's a good Alliance happening here in our area of people really trying to get past
all the bullshit, you know, quit squabbling over the little stuff, man.
Let's we have a basic core consensus of things, you know, I.
We'll just briefly put it this way, you know, it's like I consider myself organic gardener.
I consider myself wild craft organic, which means I like to use guanos and things like
that, which is feces, bird shit, bat shit, right?
It's a great flowering product for cannabis specifically.
It's my personal choice.
However, my vegan friends who are also organic gardeners would never, ever put bat shit on
their plants ever.
OK, so there's many ways around the ball to get to organic and clean gardening.
And that's part of my whole point on this is there's so many beautiful approaches to
how we all approach the plant here that I consider heritage and craft in the Emerald
Triangle, Northern California, the real Mecca of it, you know, Mendocino, my old stomping
grounds, Humboldt, where I've been forever in a day.
And then Trinity were a little bit of time back in my wild west days, but not so much
the last 20 years.
But anyway, I know a lot of good people over in that area as well.
The true heart of the triangle.
Did it pay with blood, sweat and tears?
Here's the opportunity here for you to learn to see how to protect yourself.
It's there.
The ability to get your craft out to where someone can get it onto a larger format out
of your however many few pounds that you can only produce a year where can actually do
some good on the market and get it out to work and put it be put out on a state level
or even a larger level on a national level as time allows and as the laws change.
Those moments are coming, you know, and we're actually working on a lot of different models,
a couple of really cool projects here that I'm working on.
Got a lot of good people involved.
It's like it's really important for people to understand that there's a difference between
what a lot of people are being seen and shown right now in this.
This commercial recreational market that quite honestly doesn't understand what heritage
cannabis is all about.
At least how I look at it.
You know, I don't claim to know everything about the plant, Peter, but I've been doing
it for a long damn ass time.
Well, so can you talk about I mean, I have some of your stuff here.
Can you talk about kind of some of the exploration you're doing for next year?
What are you most excited to?
You have it.
You have you have one of the ones that you let everybody get before I even really got
to talk about it a little bit.
I'm really just I'm a I'm I'm humbled and honored that everybody likes that one so
much that we didn't even really talk about it.
That's really freaking cool.
So they obviously liked what they saw.
That one really has a lot of appeal to me.
OK, I've been working on it for a couple of seasons now.
The structuring is phenomenal.
It has.
And which one are we talking about?
Malawi gold mango cross that one.
Yeah, that one.
That's a.
Going on year three, I guess right now, or season three on that plant.
So the seeds on that that are coming out are season season two season three plant seeds.
So it should be really, really pretty.
Yeah, that's a.
Malawi gold sourced out of the Emerald Triangle gift that was given to me a couple years back
that I had a mother that I had in my lab in my mother room that I've been tinkering around
with and was really just keeping for myself just for personal consumption and just for
what let anybody have a real private reserve stuff.
And I got the Casey brains mango seeds.
Casey brains mango seeds sourced in two or three summers ago.
Anyway, they showed up about the same time.
And long story short.
Three summers ago, dusting.
So it was three summers ago, three summers, dusting ago.
That particular male was what I was running with was that Casey brains male mango with
my a couple other males that are my standard right.
I'm going to come back a full circle on that male pollen thing we were talking about earlier
to be here a little bit.
But that's the the parentage behind this is a Malawi gold direct source Malawi gold through
Emerald Triangle connections to me with Casey brains mango sourced by me, crossed by me
between the two.
And that's the plant after a pheno short, small pheno hunt of what I had available to
me.
Not a lot of seeds, but I selected superior quality of the two of each one's what I was
working with.
And that's the product that's coming out of it right now with the seeds that are currently
that those beans that just went out to Elvis magic beans that just went out that whole
thing.
That's where those went.
So that's that group of genetics running out there, Peter.
And I like that what it produced.
And I have plenty of it here for myself.
And I'm working as well.
I let you have what you have.
What I'm going to replicate again will probably be a while.
I'm going to add one more leg to that thing.
I like to build like three sided triangles a lot of times.
So I've got one more little leg that I'm adding to it that I'm not going to discuss with
anybody because that's going to be my version of it.
But people will welcome to select work with pick if they want to pheno select, please
credit back where you got Doc's private reserve from.
There is won't be another opportunity to that coming again.
So if you got it this time and you were lucky enough, you know, I hope you enjoy it.
I fortunately did not get to see it other than what I cultivated because of a loss to
the fires this summer here in NorCal.
But anyway, what I did see in the field, it was freaking gorgeous.
And it, you know, eight footers around and 10 feet tall and colors as long as your freaking
arm.
So it looked beautiful and was replicating very, very well.
Close to what I was seeing, what the images are, what you saw.
So I'm going to say it was really, really close as far as coming back and being replicatable
again.
Do your own searching for what you like.
I think you may have.
I don't think you're going to have.
I don't believe there will be three different phenos and there may be two.
Maybe it may only be one.
The run that I saw, everything was pretty much carbon copy.
So it could be that close.
So anyway, it's a beautiful one.
Peter, and I'm really, you know, again, Malawi gold mango only DRG, baby.
That's how I look at it.
So, yeah, I'm going to be playing with that one.
The Fino five will get named probably in 2021, Mia.
You know, that's that one's going to be a real cool one.
I'm very well could get named in 2021 if I find the right person, the right environment,
the right situation for it to go to.
Very well could get it get beyond that.
So it's in the works.
The three that you guys also have that are named and branded and patented, those my one
number two, number one, number two, and number three, my black apple push, my blue skunk
and my orange cream frost are all in channels to come out for people in 2021.
If I hit the right environment as early as probably, you know, early, early summer,
July, August, that kind of environment.
But for sure, by the fall, when fall starts, stuff starts coming out, it'll certainly start
trickling out.
By this time next year should completely be rolling out on some level in California.
On some level, we have it all built.
We just have to load the pipeline and get it out there.
All the legal channels have been done in place.
There's a lot of really cool things that have happened this last 12 months.
Been really a tough 12 months on me just trying to keep up with all my plants, breed
it all again, not lose my mind and all this legalese stuff that I've happened to bury
myself in right now, learning to protect myself and what all that kind of jazz.
But the seed stuff that that you had, Peter, I hope people you know, the blueberry mango
I think is a beautiful plant.
I think it's going to be a great opportunity for someone to take a seriously rock solid
heirloom craft building block to put their favorite thing with and spin it off into something
else.
That's what it will bring is it will bring a good quality 25 to 30 percent total some
cannabinoid and throw off purple and blue phenos all through the color palette on the
growth of it, you know, and the leaves and the flowers and stuff on it, you know.
So I think that's a good one.
And obviously the other one, you know, everybody's digging that.
So.
And I hope to see that perfectly OK to say it's perfectly OK, I think, for anyone to
say they've had a rough past 12 months.
It's been like a lot of death.
So it's likely that you have to deal with something.
And I mean, the fires alone, like you mentioned, and we know on this channel, too, how hard
it's been on people in northern California.
It was very blessed here.
I mean, it ran up on to us.
It didn't run over.
I had people that lost everything, friends that lost got run over by it.
You know, just really, really a weird, weird year here for the area and for the region.
You know, a lot of a lot of fire damage and a lot of people, you know, paid severely this
year with their homes and loss of life and just, you know, years, a year's worth of work
one more time and all that kind of jazz.
So I feel really blessed and fortunate, really thankful right now.
But I feel very thankful and a lot better off than a lot of people are humbled by all
of it, completely humbled by all of it.
You know, this time of the year, maybe more so than other times of the year, but for sure
right now, you'd be allowed to be able to hang out with you guys for a while and, you
know, whatever the hell it is on Monday evening, you know, in December, let people have access
to stuff that they don't ever really get ever access to again, you know, and hopefully somebody
will take it and take care of it and enjoy it and use it in their own life and their
own personal well-being and, and go for it.
You know, that's a lot of what my branding is and what my patenting work protection work
that I'm doing is specifically is to keep the big guys from keeping it from the small
mom and pops.
And that's how everything I've come to agreement is written that way, you know, or being written
that way right now that, you know, where seeds will be available for, for available for home
cultivators and clones will be available for home cultivators and, you know, big commercial
guys, you can do it too, but you got to hold it to a certain standard.
You know, you, you know, you won't be able to do the sources that I have to come in and
buy a thousand plants of this without it being checked on who you are and what you're doing.
Mom and pop come in and buy your six year, that kind of thing, 12, 18.
Yeah.
We'll figure out what the amount is for that first for mom and pop for home cultivator,
what the amount's going to be.
You know, cause personally, I know what I do, you know, I'm again, there's a, there's a
right number out there.
We'll figure out what it is.
We're working through it all right now.
Kind of in what you said earlier, Peter, we are establishing the rules, you know what
I mean?
It's like me, just an old hippie, you know, I just happened to be the first old hippie
to do an infusion dinner in Humboldt County and the city of Arcata a couple of years ago,
you know, and now all of a sudden they're asking for advice on what,
the dosages for edibles are, you know, and I'm referring to my guy, Mike
chef, you know, chef Harold Sims, you know, I'm referring to chef Sims about what,
how do we do this?
You know, so we're coming up with the guidelines and I realized we're writing the damn rules.
You know, it's like, we're just going along, trying to do it as best as we can.
You know, there's some things that I still feel like are completely in this legal market
that they call legal market.
It's still not completely legal, but there's quasi legal market that we're all in, you
know, that I still think is really very gray area, you know, but, you know, I don't know
how to do it other than to just keep doing what we're doing guys, you know, keep, you
know, advocating like you do sister and, and Peter, thank you for getting the word out
and, you know, helping all the different avenues, get the word out.
And, you know, I, something I want to address that you mentioned to me, and I'm just as
an old, are you okay?
Old man grower, there's enough going on out between all his growers, bringing down heat
on each other.
When this man is doing what he does to help us get our word out.
Okay.
Don't be talking trash to each other, support each other.
If we support each other, we'll grow what we're doing.
Everybody will get win.
If we don't change what we're doing, nobody's going to win on this.
And brothers and sisters, there's a big enough pie for everybody to have whatever slice of
the pie they want on this thing and get their fair share.
Don't be freaking running each other down, man.
It's like, it's enough is enough.
It's enough is enough.
This plan is about love and inclusiveness and healing and freaking.
Yeah, I get it's an intoxicant.
I got shit.
You can't get off the couch with in 20 minutes.
That's not the main point of this thing.
That is not what this is about.
This is about help people help and find their way.
This is a good, good freaking, this is a very sacred plant.
This plant is in the Holy Bible.
This is a very, very sacred, sacred plant that has been demonized by a handful of evildoers
just before a lot of you guys were born.
And that's the sad truth of the matter.
Because this thing was demonized in 1970 and 71 to the level of what you guys have
encountered now.
So if you're not at least 50 frippin years old, that's not that long ago.
And that's the sad part of this.
Okay, so anyway, I get off my soapbox.
I just, I don't know what to even think hardly anymore.
I just so thankful again that, you know, for you guys to step up and give us time, give
me time and a platform to come out and talk to people and try and get the word out there,
you know, and help out.
And Peter, I'm really, this is my Christmas gift to getting those beans out to folks.
Hope people got the t-shirts that they wanted.
I wear my ass off on them frippin t-shirts.
Make sure Mia gets one if not everybody takes one, okay?
Mia's like, wait a minute, what?
I wanna get to the devil XL.
I like wearing oversized t-shirts.
I think it's like cozy, but whatever.
I think that our audience comes first and how are we doing on that front, Peter?
Well, all right, so there's a lot of talk.
You're talking patents, patents, patents, and there's a lot of cringing in the audience of,
are you like a Monsanto?
So, you know, before you talk, so John Joke said, so like, for your vision, for your genetics out
there where you're patenting your stuff, can you distinguish between like someone who wants
to home grow what they would have to pay for, like when you bring black apple kush, which is
delicious onto the market in a patented world, what am I gonna have to pay for my six plants
versus like what does cookies have to pay when they want a license?
The patent is only there to stop big commercial growers from profiteering off my plant.
That's all it's there for, Peter.
The patent is only there to keep big fricking commercial growers from exploiting my fricking
plant.
That's the only reason it's there.
It's there for no other reason than that.
And I'm not telling everybody they have to do what I'm doing.
And the thing that popped up is how much is licensing cost?
So far, again, I'm going, and you can, if you want to do what I'm doing, the stuff that I've
given breeders best to work with, I've agreed to a royalty deal, okay, which means I'll get
paid a small percentage for everything that sells in the future with licensed growers that
grow my plants.
It's a few pennies on the plant, okay?
I'm envisioning my plants growing tens of thousands of pounds, okay?
That's my vision, all right?
You don't have to do that.
What I've laid out so far is zero.
I've taken no money out of my pocket to give to breeders best whatsoever since I started
this deal.
It's been done on a handshake and on paperwork agreement, on a license agreement between
me and them to start this thing with going on a royalty deal with them doing everything,
okay?
Now, if you want to control it all yourself to do the initial starting stuff, you can
get going for a couple of thousand dollars, $2,500 to $5,000 gets you going in the door.
If you're doing this thing and you want to do all the branding yourself and you want
to do all the packaging yourself and you want to do all the marketing yourself, you can
control every nickel of that, and you can hire him on an hourly basis if you want to
just for consulting beyond the freebie time he will give you.
Dale Hunt is very gracious with his time.
Believe me, he gives me hours and hours and hours of time.
Now, granted, we are working on a huge project together, but he treats everybody with the
same love and respect when it comes to this particular thread.
He's very passionate about plant protection.
He's very passionate about helping small mom and pops protect themselves against big
corporate freaking growers.
He just came into this thread about seven or eight years ago.
This is not like he's not a cannabis guy.
He is becoming one and he is learning it because he's hanging out with guys like me and the
other people that he's hanging around.
But this is something that is really important to Dale is to help mom and pops protect themselves.
It's why he's made numerous trips to this end of this state to come up and talk to people
when nobody would see him come out and sit down and talk other than me or a couple of
other people.
It's slowly growing.
Okay, I'm on K-Mud.
You know, I've been on the radio a few times last year.
This harp and this same thing are just, you know, the guys coming in.
If you want to talk, come ask questions.
It's he's coming in for me, you know, come ask questions.
And it's slowly getting there, guys.
All I can do is tell mom and pops like the thing that scrolled up.
What I've worked with them is I have had laid out absolutely no nothing, brothers and sisters,
nothing out of my pocket.
They have filed federal patents on three of my cultivars, done roughly conservatively
of $75,000 a work to $100,000 worth of work.
And I haven't laid out a nickel out of my pocket.
Okay.
That's the truth of the matter.
And I'm not going to tell everybody that my way is your way to do it.
The reason I'm choosing protection of plant patenting is I believe that if you don't have
your plant patented, when the law changes, that they're big guys, the big, the big corporation
guys that have, as you guys said, have hundreds of fricking lawyers and millions of dollars,
if not billions of dollars to kill you in court for years and years and years to protect
yourself, something already in place, you're going to get run right the fuck over.
And that's the truth of the matter.
And I hate to be that pragmatic and blunt about it.
And my way may not be the only way or the best way, but it is a way.
And it's the way that I'm approaching it.
I'm written everything with my, here's the other end of this deal.
I'm going to finish with this and shut up.
And then we can go to some other not so legal topic.
Cool.
The other end of this deal, everything that is written on how my plants are handled, the
seeds who has access, it's how I'm writing it.
They're writing it the way I want it.
I'm not being told any of this.
I'm writing it as I go, because I've had people ask me, how do I get my seeds?
Me to plant to breeders best.
I want to make sure mom and pops can get clones and get fricking seeds.
I just don't want big agriculture guys to come in and, you know, go to one of my clone
guys and buy every damn clone that I have of one fricking genetics and take it all and
then go take it and take it, you know, which is what happens.
It's what happens to every damn breeder.
It's what happens in the breeder gets squat.
They get no a little bit of recognition if they're lucky and can afford the exorbitant
fees to compete in Emerald Triangle or have some or Emerald Cup or have somebody in there
to sponsor them into it because the small mom and pops can't do it anymore.
Right.
You know, I fortunately have sponsorship.
It's freaking.
I do when we had a bad.
The booth fees that would happen were insane at some.
I mean, I really have no lie, but there are definitely some events that I attended or
that my people are at my company for and they'd be like, this is always what they would do
with my company.
Anyway, they'd hit you up being like, hey, want to pay me like 2000 bucks to give me
free things at my event?
It's like, no.
And then, of course, they come back later and it's like a really unnecessary and prolonged
negotiation with booth fees for a lot of cannabis events.
And I just feel like the organizers between that and ticket prices and then like VIP sales.
I've seen it done right.
And when it's done right, it's amazing.
But more often than not, it's been a ground.
And yeah, you need an investor basically to survive in that kind of.
Yeah.
And just quickly, I mean, I'm seeing the comments.
The patent talk is not resonating with lots of people, but like I want to hear, you know,
for me.
You can't fault someone for their path as a small mom and pop into a cut throat market.
So I would like, you know, Doc has his path forward.
I'd like like Lemon Hoka, if you will forgive me for my one.
Who is the 80s?
Anyway, like the trash 80s talk shows that only happened one time.
The time you were watching.
But.
Like I've talked to Caleb about the copy left concept.
I mean, open source like they're all different models for me.
I like we're in a we're in a brainstorming kind of safe space.
And and yeah, no Donahue show.
Yeah, I'm blanking on what it was that.
Jerry Springer, that was what it was like.
But.
Like it is worth exploring, like I would like because what I what I want to see is
small mom and pops who have done exceptional work.
What is your path forward?
And each will have a different idea of a path forward.
And it would be interesting to see each of their models played out because the worst
case scenario is that a Doc Ray just holds his stuff close to the vest and keeps it to
himself and no one ever sees it.
And how does a how does the next Doc Ray introduce?
You know, Doc has his.
What is a black apple or dark apple?
It's so dark.
It's black, right?
Where's my yeah, black, black, black apple.
Good.
So it's like the next Doc Ray.
What's their path?
To answer like and everything like it's home state and then it's national and it's global.
And it's just an interesting conversation like that.
I'm it's just something I want to explore and everyone has their own path forward.
Yeah, Miss Sonic is not the next guest for the FCP Springer show.
But anyway, that that's so, you know, everybody has their path forward and Doc has his and
Doc has his and that's kind of what I want to explore and independent of
legal pathways to market.
It's you know, I just want to hear what.
You know what he's exploring from a what do you like and what are your friends like and
you're growing for people with PTSD and different conditions and.
Again, my thread is I'm trying to make sure that this that the stuff gets in the right
channel for the medical thread.
You know, again, I'm not really a recreational guy.
Get that my flowers get into the recreational thread and maybe the people are misunderstanding
what I'm my reasoning for patenting what I'm doing.
I'm developing cultivars.
I want to make sure that some big pharma can't keep from get you know, they can't take it
over and then take it away where people can't get a access without paying an exorbitant
amount for it.
That's my only reason for doing what I'm doing.
It isn't like I have this grandiose idea of trying to be the next freaking Monsanto of
cannabis.
It's not even vaguely close to that.
My biggest fear and this is my reason for doing what I'm doing is is someone will come
in and take control, for example, of my my black apple kush or my blue skunk and now
all of a sudden they make it where nobody has access to it except them.
And then they can gouge it and take control of it.
And in my people and that depend on it for their head maintenance day in and day out
to keep them calm and keep them balanced.
And now all of a sudden the flower that they can go into any dispensary again, if it's
DRG or Veterans Choice Cannabis or freaking good mofo farms labels, anything that comes
out of that house, you're never going to see a price on our flowers anywhere, anywhere
north of about 10 to 15 dollars a freaking gram.
I'm pissed that it's that I can't get them to get it down below that.
And I understand marketing and packaging and payroll and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah.
I get all that nonsense.
However, I have a thing in my head that it can be done for under 10 dollars a gram where
you can get anybody can walk in and get five star and that doesn't happen.
You guys tell me that doesn't happen.
You tell me that you can't get my flower in your anything close to what you have right
now in any dispensary in freaking Southern California.
And when you do see it, it's 35 to 50 freaking dollars a gram for it.
OK, you know, it's a 25 to 50 dollar pre-roll that kind of bullshit.
You know, it's like I'm sick of that nonsense.
You know, I went I've been to too many damn events where it's supposed to be veterans
events and I'm getting off a little bit of tangent here.
But another reason why I'm doing what I'm doing, Peter, I believe I know it can be done.
I just the math when you sit down and figure it out, it can be done correctly where anybody
can go in and get cannabis at a fair value that's of high quality.
It shouldn't be that difficult.
Now, are we going to be five dollars a gram?
No, you're going to be that because it's cheaper.
The cheaper, cheaper we try to bring the price down on craft.
I know commercials got to undercut it.
They're going to go lower and lower and lower.
OK, there's a point where we won't be able to go beyond that because the amount of handwork
that's required.
But that is, again, to protect the mom and pops that are growing the flowers so they
can get a fair value.
You know, it's bullshit to expect someone to grow full sun, outdoor, organic, holistic,
just do what they do, beautiful buds, and they want to insult them with a thousand,
eight hundred, twelve hundred dollars a pound.
It's insulted when you know that it's going to go through the pipeline and some jackass
on the other end is going to turn it into 15 freaking grand.
It's just ridiculous, you know, it's like, again, those are things that I'm trying to
build with what I'm doing to circumvent some of that stuff.
If we control the pipeline, we can set the price point lower.
Anyway, when you said some jackass is going to turn it into 15 grand, I was picturing
like eight specific people I can think of with the profile of some jackass in the cannabis
industry.
That's like, what do you do?
Oh, you slap a margin on.
And I'm not hating on distribution or anything like that, but I just I've just encountered
a couple of people who sort of self-identify as entrepreneurs.
They don't really do much, but charge a lot for other people's fee.
And yeah, there's a lot to be said for curation as well.
But that doesn't happen a lot of time.
Yeah, it's just.
And I know I Peter, I'm going to go back on the patent thing and people are going to
get pissed again.
And I'm not doing it to piss people off.
I just try to I know because I'm anti that I'm anti that from my core, man, I'm anti
the man, all that kind of that whole deal.
You know, I lived on the top of a mountain by myself for 15 freaking years with no cell
phone and no Internet and that kind of jazz.
OK, I know what living remotes all about, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm only doing this to get it out there.
And the only way to protect it, because I've seen what they do to other agricultural crops
if you don't protect what it is and you cannot do that with branding alone.
You cannot do it with a license agreement.
It cannot be done.
It cannot be done.
There's too much required on the honor system.
And I get as a craft and as an industry and the heritage, and we're very honorable.
Most of us about what we do, the people that we are fighting are not that.
And that is why I'm taking the approach again.
Maybe it's my old school for SF school, man.
I don't get it.
You know, it's just my approach, Peter.
You know, it's prepare for the worst and hope for the best, man.
I'm trying to write everything that I do with breeders best to allow mom and pops
have complete and open access.
If you want to grow it on a commercial level, you can grow it on a commercial level.
It just has to be done correctly and reputably.
What I don't want to allow happen is someone to take something that I've worked my ass
off over for 20 years close to to help people with post-traumatic stress, balance themselves
out, people having a stressful day.
My sister that's in the upper portion of my screen here that tells me that it's very
fricking surreal for her.
So it works one more time.
Other people tell me how it grounds them, how well it helps them get balanced.
I don't want that taken away because some evil doers want to come in after I'm dirt
in the ground or dust in the wind.
And now nobody can have access to it anymore.
That's how the how it's written on everything and every bit of everything that I've done
with this.
If I ever break away from Breeders Best or Plant and Planet, all the patent comes back
to my family.
Everything comes back to my family where my kids will have it.
It isn't going to go somewhere where somebody else is going to take control of it.
That's the only reason why I'm doing what I'm doing.
And I know that it's not a choice that a lot of people want to do.
And I understand open source and I'm a big supporter of open source.
Again, I'm looking at stuff that I'm trying to protect for the medical community and for
medical applications so that they stay available for everybody.
That's the only reason why I'm even contemplating it.
Just hypothetically, can you see yourself sort of creating something that you think
doesn't have much of a medical application but can work in the recreational market?
Do you see yourself letting something like that be open source or just kind of like,
I don't need this, but it's cool?
Is there a scenario where you think that could happen?
Well, I am.
I mean, it's like the Razzleberry.
That's not mine to own.
You know, that's just going to be branded and released.
It's not mine to own.
I'm again, picking reputable sources to bring it back out and put it back out into the public.
You know, even these, these are not mine to own either.
I'm just trying to protect them so that I can continue to be able to keep them in production.
You know, this isn't about owning or controlling any of it.
It's a plant, you know.
I'm going by a lot of talk, a lot of freaking tears, a lot of freaking frustration,
years of conversation with people, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of conversations
and hours with Dale Hunt over the white way, the right approach.
What's the best way to do this?
Where is it most ethical?
What's the best way to protect it?
And if in the event I am that the evil doers do want to come after something that I have,
how do I protect myself?
I'm not saying my way is the best way.
I'm not saying it's the only way.
I'm just saying it is a way.
There are lots of ways to do this.
You can't just sit idly by and not do anything, though.
If you have something you've worked your rear end off on and you've given your blood, sweat,
and tears for and you've bred and reproduced and done and kept alive for years and years and years
that you care about and you know that it's got value to it and you don't do anything
because you're afraid.
I'm sorry, brothers and sisters.
This old man's humble opinion is in the next two to five years is going to be taken from
you by some evil doers.
And I hate to be that way about it, but this just helped what I believe.
I really believe it, Peter.
When schedule one changes and it's not a matter of if it's going to, it's when.
There's no longer an if anymore.
It's a matter of when.
Every time one more state in the union goes pro-cannabis, it's harder and harder for the
federal government to stop it from going forward.
We have 33 states with medical laws in place now.
How many states with recreational laws?
More decriminalization.
Everybody knows the law is a joke.
Everybody knows the classification is a joke.
It's time for it to go away.
When it does, all those people, those guys that are standing by on the sideline, those
corporations that are standing by on the sideline waiting for it to be legal federally, man,
they're going to come in with their, again, what everybody's afraid of.
They're 100 lawyers and they're billion dollar freaking payrolls and watch, see what happens.
If I'm wrong, I'm wrong.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained, man.
If I'm right and you don't do anything, man, you're going to be crying and it's going to
be too late.
I'm sorry, Peter.
I know that, again, you'd get in the screen.
I'm glad I'm not.
I know it's probably pissing a lot of people off about talking about even vaguely thinking
about doing it because I am a big proponent of open source.
I've worked open source for decades and decades, probably a lot longer than some of these ones
that are whining have ever been in the game.
Let's end on a non-legal, non-patent topic.
I need a nap after all that talk about the future in Monsanto.
I think-
Basically, just happily talk about something you're breeding with intent right now and
why you're excited about it and why you're excited for the spring to come as fast as
possible.
I've got everything that's in my lineup going right now and I'm actively taking babies and
making babies right now and getting them all ready to go.
I'm super happy about all that happening right now.
I've got some new stuff that I'm working on that'll be coming up in the pipeline.
I've got some stuff that I'm putting out that's just going to be put out just because,
kind of like the stuff that I released earlier this evening, just to let it get out there
and get going.
I'm not really concerned about controlling it at all.
The only thing that I'm really concerned about even making sure it's protected is the stuff
that I think have tremendous medical value.
I'm really excited about the spring coming up.
We've got a lot of things coming out the pipeline, that's for sure.
There's a lot of really cool stuff coming up with the new year.
Hopefully, everything that you guys have will be available in a much larger scale come 2021.
That's my goal anyway, is to get it out where people have access to it.
The stuff that you guys have that are, I think, everything you have hopefully will be available
in clone form this year.
Maybe not all of it in seed form, limited amounts of seed form of everything that's out there
of the stuff that you guys actually have right now.
But hopefully, if everything goes well, this come springtime, this stuff will be available
in clone form.
It's all work in progress.
Peter, there aren't any rules in this game, this outlaw industry, man.
It's just as what it is.
A lot of it's the ones that, especially my group of age range of growers, we've only
we've all worked in the underground market, man, in the traditional market, been scared
and afraid for a long time.
I'm trying to not be that and step up and step into the light and look for a way through it
to do it legally and above board that other people can maybe follow or follow some version
of that.
So that's the reason why I do what I do.
And when it comes to the plant, my whole thing about the plant is it's about what the plant
can do for mankind more than anything else.
And that's why I breed what I breed and grow what I grow and produce what I produce.
And the stuff that you guys got, why I put out the stuff with you guys this evening,
you know, because the two things that got put out this night, I believe, are really
good, you know, building block cornerstone workable material that someone can take and
craft something for themselves and build themselves something really pretty with it, leaving
it just like it is or adding something to it and making it truly a one of a kind all
your own.
So that's my goal anyway, is, you know, grow your own and grow more.
And, you know, if you don't want to grow mine, grow somebody else's, you know, that whole
thing, just, you know, spring, come on.
I'm ready for 2021 to get here.
Yeah, come on 2021, man.
That's for sure.
All right.
Well, we we appreciate your time.
It's 1030.
And one more time, one more time, two and a half frippin hours.
We have a fundraiser tomorrow night and.
Actually, I have some sort of soil conversation at like two in the afternoon.
But, Doc, I appreciate your time and we'll come back.
Yeah, I whenever, you know, whenever it works out, brother, you know, I'm always open to
hear the conversation.
It can be a different thread.
You know, we were just having to be talking about my genetics and what I'm doing.
You know, if it's if it's about the sacred plan, I'm all about it.
You know what it can do to help people and stuff.
And what did you call all the because in Humboldt, there are lots of older women,
growers, breeders, and you had a name.
Ganja Divas, brother.
The Ganja Divas.
That's right.
So we need to bring some Ganja Divas on and talk to them.
But, you know, again, you you just had a fricking legend on with you just the other
a couple of days ago, you know, Sunshine was on with you.
So there's a lot of them around, you know.
I know AC wanted to get on earlier, but, you know, we maybe can get back with her.
I got to get on with Brandon, too.
Yeah, I have some more technical questions, but I thought I would save it till we have
a big panel.
I sent both of them the link to jump on and.
Neither of them responded, so.
No, yeah, no worries, no worries.
You know, again, I know I know a lot of people are kind of probably going to be pissed,
you know, about me talking about what I'm talking about.
And I hate to be that way, Peter, and I really don't mean to be a downer about it.
No, no, no, no, no.
That but for me again, and I saw like Lemon Hoko and other people, it's like I want to
hear different.
People and their path forward, because it's like.
I think to hear different people's models of how they want to bring what they have that
they think is unique to market.
I may hate your way, you may hate my way, but like let's hear each other's path and
you know, it's all it's all the small guys.
It's like I don't think anybody sees what Monsanto is doing.
And like we have an army of lawyers and anytime our genetics stray onto your field, we're
going to come fucking sue you.
Brother, that's what they do.
I know.
I know.
And so that's what I'm saying.
Like that, that's the I always view the cannabis market as like entering a freeway and that
freeway is a very defined agricultural ecosystem.
And so to be, you know, to be the ostrich with your, you know, head in the sand is not.
You're just like when I moved from Boston to L.A.
And I see L.A. drivers and everybody is very polite and it's like there's an off ramp and
there's everybody pulls over to the right lane to patiently wait to get on the off
ramp and coming from the East Coast, you're like I could blow by everyone and then cut
off in the last second.
And get off the ramp.
And I kind of feel like that's the emerging commercial cannabis market like.
Monsanto is like we know how to cut in front of everyone with our team of lawyers and we
will.
I've seen him do it, Peter.
I mean, again, you know, I spent I'm from Indusino.
I've seen what you know, what the battle we went through on the whole GMO thing.
It's like I just know how brutal that could be.
I've watched I've watched them just destroy mom and pop.
Again, the group that I'm trying to help protect destroy small mom and pops in traditional
agriculture.
And it's like to think that they're not going to do that over a crop that has significantly.
Man, again, if people could get freaking two thousand dollars a pound for tomatoes, they'd
be growing freaking tomatoes all day long.
OK, there's a reason why people want to grow cannabis because of the value of the crop
per pound.
That's the same reason these other big players are when they jump in, they're going to jump
in, man.
And I'm afraid if you are protected on some level, you're going to get run over.
I'm just trying to not get run over.
That's all.
I'm trying to build something to protect myself and protect my legacy a little bit.
You know, I paid with blood, sweat and tears.
I paid for with a six by nine.
You know, I paid with loss of family, loss of time.
You know, I'm just trying to protect myself a little bit.
And if someone wants to fault me for that, that's OK.
I don't really care.
They don't pay my bills.
Yeah.
You know, my my deal is to protect my family and leave a legacy.
My my dream would be to have my grown ass children when they step away from their careers
before I'm gone is to step in and take it over and run it.
You know, my two wildest children of the bunch, one boy and one girl may very well do that.
So, you know, I mean, that very definition of legacy, isn't it?
Sister, you know, it's the all four of them.
It's said, you know, it's about damn time, old man.
You know, so that's kind of how I'm hoping with again, I'm not telling my other friends
and brothers and sisters that have been are sitting and watching to do anything vaguely
like what I'm trying to do.
But I'm trying to build a community and an incubator where other small mom and
pops that don't have the funding to be able to play in the game can come into a source
where it's available.
That requires things, man.
It requires freaking capital.
It requires equity, all kinds of shit that I'm having to do with myself that I wouldn't
have done 10 years ago.
You know, to think that I would actually be forming a freaking company, a cannabis company.
Go.
I mean, again, you know, stranger stuff's happened.
So again, what my model is not necessarily what some small mom and pop is going to want
to do.
But for them to want to protect themselves through some branding and some licensing is
not a bad thing to pursue.
You know, there's sources again.
I like the idea that the history of genetic or the history of plants could be tied into
family history and could kind of become something of an heirloom.
I've been one of the like things I've just been getting high to and glazing glazing over
to on Netflix is this show called Repair Shop where it's like master crafts people repair
family heirlooms.
And I recommend getting really high and watching people like fix the saddle.
And it's just like, oh, this thing went through the war with my great grandfather kind of
stuff.
The idea that those emotions could be attached to a genetic and you could think of your
ancestor as being somebody who bred a specific strain.
And that's going to be thanks to the documentation that's happening nowadays.
It's cool to think about what might be in the future for our community and like the
family identities that will spring up around weed in a way that hasn't been around before,
at least not for as many generations as there is to come.
And yeah, Peter, on that note, I know you were.
Hello.
I know you wanted to wrap it up.
Are we good?
So on that, let us wrap it.
And I'm totally trying to remember what if I can give people an update on tomorrow.
Oh, here we go.
Yeah, you said you had a soil conversation at 2pm.
PST, so West Coast time and then a fundraiser in the evening, was it?
Yeah, so give me one second.
Okay, so.
At two.
We have Chris from Flora and Flame.
He's a cultivator.
David from Grow Remote.
Michael Box from Sustainable Village, which is Blue Mat.
And then at night we have our fire relief fundraiser, which we're going to kick off with a band.
Riley, right?
Yes, right now I am.
I smoked a lot of weed before we started.
And then specifically I smoked the Black Apple Kush tonight, a lot of it.
With Flame Peter's rat attack.
And then I hit the beer.
So the weed and the beer, it's a beautiful combination for me personally.
To each his own, but yeah, smoking a lot of weed and drinking beer or wine.
That's a good night for me.
So anyway, Doc from Humble, where it's slightly moist right now, we appreciate it.
Where it's 55%.
Right, down in LA it is much less humid.
Yeah, Flora Nugs, I saw that.
Anyway, everybody have a good night.
Thanks, buddy.
I'll be back in the mid-afternoon tomorrow.
I've been dealing with a lot of heckling since I've had a lot of weed in a couple of years.
I'll talk about it.
But anyway, I've been packing up the James Loud stuff.
I've been heckled by people who think I'm not fast enough.
I'm doing my best, given that I did not know I would be packing that stuff up.
It was a busy night.
Then suddenly I was told it was all being sent to me.
Some people have been merciless.
Everything from I am a scam artist.
Well, that's pretty much it.
Basically, I'm a scam artist.
So anyway, to anybody waiting for the James Loud Black Friday seeds, I am going as fast as I can.
And that is evidently not fast enough for some.
So I apologize.
But the Doc Ray stuff is all here.
So everybody who ordered stuff, it will be shipped out tomorrow.
Thanks, Mia.
And I like the faux Christmas tree in the background.
My cat has been terrorizing my Christmas tree.
I come downstairs every morning.
There's ornaments all over the ground.
He'll chew on the branches.
All right.
Well, with that, I am ready.
I am absolutely ready for bed.
Bye, everybody.
Have a good night, everyone.
Take care now.
Good night.
Flora Nugs.
Yeah, the glue lotto is actually annoyingly still not here.
But anyway, that would be an example of something that I would have expected to arrive last week,
and it's still not here.
And I'm taking the heat for it.
So anyway, fun times.
So Mia, have a good night.
I will check in with you tomorrow.
Good night.
All right.
See everyone.
