All right, all right, here we go.
We're gonna try something a little new today, people.
I really hope this works out.
I got a bunch of photos from this magazine
to share with everybody.
And one of the most interesting things that I found
when I was going through this thing was it was hard.
It was kind of a challenge to find cannabis pics
in this thing.
It was like 75% of this magazine is dedicated to Coke.
There's a little bit of peyote in there
and it's a little bit of everything.
But yeah, we're gonna see how this goes.
I'm gonna switch the screens over here.
Hopefully everybody can hear what's being said
and can see everything fine.
And that's as big as I can get the pictures.
It's good, I can't remove that black border from it.
So that kind of sucks, but that's deal with what you can do.
So let's switch over to this other screen
and I'll start going through this slideshow.
I thought that I would share
some of my inheritance with people.
This is something that I got several years back
from an uncle of mine.
He gave me a bunch of magazines and some seeds
and very grateful for everything that he did for me
when I was growing up and what he did for me on the way out.
So it's, yeah, even had some stripper advertisements
in the back, yeah.
I really tried to stick to the cannabis stuff
in this magazine as it was kind of scarce.
But what's in here is really cool and insightful.
There's something sad about it too
when I was going through this thing
is you can see the optimism that they had
is they were really expecting a second Carter administration
and they were expecting decriminalization and all of this.
You can see it through the magazine
is that they were very optimistic
and had high hopes for the future.
Yeah, so right on Anthro, he knows what's up.
So, all right, so I'm gonna switch the screen
and start going through this thing.
You can see on this first picture,
you got a nice picture of some brown frown here
complete with mold.
You can see the dark spots on there
where it got a little infected,
but back then you dealt with what you could get
right, so, all right.
So I can't see comments while I'm navigating this thing.
So hopefully things don't get out of hand,
but on this, like I said, on this cover,
I don't know if you all can see my cursor or not,
but I'm waving over one of the nice big mold spots.
You got another one up here.
And instead they were tried to,
looks like the whole top of this nub was all black.
You can see across the top here
probably around Richard Fryer's name
and the S and all that.
So this is a really cool magazine.
It's a blast from the past for sure.
And so hopefully people enjoy it
as I have a bunch of these things.
And if this is well received,
I'll take the time to do some more,
but I thought that I would give this a shot.
And there's the cover.
Here's the table of contents.
Gonna give you some time to read over that.
And like I said, I stuck with the cannabis stuff
in here for the most part,
but there are some other interesting articles.
You can see the right here, page 73.
And this man, like I said,
I don't know if you can see my cursor or not,
but it's got the Bolivian coca farmers.
You got a little peyote down here.
I think that's either Peru or Bolivia also
where that lady is working in the market
or the witches were selling their wares.
So a really cool magazine.
A lot of awesome information in here
and a little bit of perspective.
I took some of these pictures to show
like kind of what the mindset was back then.
And here's like,
got an advertisement right next to Mr. Burroughs
for a little gross setup,
as a fluorescent tube lighting,
you know, as the power twist.
And it's like they were trying to get all of the lumens
they could out of that thing.
It looked like it was trying to bounce it around
inside of the tube, I guess was the idea there.
Running shop lights, you know,
that's how some people started.
There may be people that are listening to this
right now or watching it later
that started off using a fluorescent shop lights.
I know that was my first grow light
but it wasn't just normal fluorescent tubes in there.
They were grow tubes, but it's couldn't do much with them.
And it's, we've come a long way since then,
but yeah, there was grows that happened back in the day
using a straight up shop lights.
Probably wasn't the best stuff, but hey,
it's better than buying that moldy brown frown
on the front, right?
So I really just highlighted this page to show you
the kind of the start of indoor growing.
Cause this was really the very beginning of it
as there hadn't have been,
couldn't have been many runs inside by this,
by 1977 when this thing was put out there.
And Mr. Burrows, as those of you all
that are in the literature, you know about him,
but he was also a fighter for the plant
and other medicinal plants.
So that's interesting little read right there.
I don't know how well you all would be able to see this
on your phones or computers or whatever,
where you read this.
This is, wasn't really focusing on that type of thing.
Here's another grow advertisement.
The Hydropot.
Got a little air pump there with the tube
running into some who knows what.
But yeah, it's just kind of interesting to look back
at the infancy of growing your own at home.
It's what little cannabis stuff there is in this magazine.
So that what's there is really cool.
Little things like this.
And you got the toilet down here with the weed growing out.
And it brings a new meaning to shitweed, I guess.
I don't know.
That's, don't really know what they were going for there.
Maybe the hydro, like a way to depict water.
I don't know.
Who knows what they were thinking.
But there's that.
Some, another thing for perspective.
This is 1977 and they're advertising flavored papers.
Imagine how many people got sick from these things
is the flavorings that they were using back in the 70s
is probably just straight up chemical nastiness.
But they do have like normal,
most of these are flavored,
but some of them got some clean smoking wheat.
You got the lightweight rice.
So, anyway, as again, show a little bit of perspective
is a bamboo selling flavored papers back in the 70s.
As I guess you would need flavored papers
for some of that fucking brick
that was coming over all seeded and moldy.
There's another one.
There's nothing really to be said there
as a beautiful lady selling some papers.
Some things just work and you do it.
And it's like, there's a current guy
that uses beautiful ladies to sell papers
if I'm not mistaken.
So, there's that as a good old J.O.B.
I know they've got me through some rough times,
those 1.25s.
There's decent paper.
Here's a sad story.
Is this article here is about them burning
what crops actually didn't get sprayed by Paraquat.
It's like they were really trying to kill it
in any way possible or kill the person smoking it.
So, it's like the season before that
they were spraying the Paraquat apparently.
And then this year they were spraying the Paraquat too.
And this is a field that actually was missed
and then they found it later
and just came back and burned it.
It was too far along.
It was about to be harvested apparently.
So, yeah.
It's some dry times for people out West I imagine.
Well, I guess all over America.
But it was a lot of the Western States
is because it's not like you could rely on homegrown
for the most part back then.
There was very few people that were able to pull that off.
And so, certainly even rarer to do it inside.
And then a lot of people were just starting
to get into growing it outside.
And it's like magazines like this
were inching them along their way
to where they would be able to perfect the craft.
So, as a sad story.
And here's something silly.
As again, I was talking at the beginning of this
about their optimism.
As here's a, you could buy a marijuana distributors license.
How about that?
And I zoomed in on what they were selling people.
It was like, I think that even if it would have,
if Carter did get a second administration
and everything went differently in the United States
than it did, I don't think that these little fucking things
would have been very valid.
I don't know what other people out there think.
It seems like you're buying just a fancy piece of paper
put in a frame and hang on the wall.
It is pretty cool looking, but yeah.
Little stuff like this is, I imagine that there's
a lot of things like this that go on through the years.
And still little scams working on hope.
This interview, pretty cool.
Mostly about Coke, obviously,
is who we're talking about here.
But yeah, it's a really, really cool guy.
What you learn over time is that comedians
are some of the smartest people walking in the earth.
You kind of have to be like on another level mentally
to be able to sit back and observe all this craziness
that goes on around you and just be able to put it
in a way that people can like just sit back
and they laugh at it because it's true.
You're just dropping some truth on them.
That's usually the funniest thing.
That's what this man did.
He made some funny movies too.
I know that my uncle, same uncle that I was talking about,
is he had albums, the old LPs.
He had albums of Red Fox and Prior and Cheech and Chong.
There's a lot of comedy back then.
So, comedy is becoming more scarce nowadays, it seems.
So, appreciate it.
So, that funny little article there.
Just imagine if he would have lived longer,
all of the other funny shit that he would have done.
He would have been with us up until recently too.
He was pretty young when he was first coming on back then.
It's good shit.
It's one of my favorite movies growing up
was the Silver Street, him and Gene Wilder.
It was a pretty funny movie.
There's some stuff in that movie
that they wouldn't be able to get away with today.
Pretty cool shit.
There's more comedy.
There's a National Lampoon.
It's like most people just know the movies
from back in the 80s and stuff,
but apparently they were doing little cartoons
for high times as well.
So, that's pretty cool.
And I really tried to avoid putting the Coke stuff on here,
but if you see down there in the corner,
you got Snow Tools.
It's really the only way that I could get
both of these little comedy cartoons on here.
The one on the other page to the right,
you can't see the picture.
The executioner's got the dude's head
all sliced up like ham in little slices.
Kind of a crude, dark humor.
I dig that kind of thing.
And you could buy Snow Tools, apparently.
There's a lot of snow references in these advertisements
as plowing equipment was one of them.
Now, here's what a lot of people are wanting to see
from this thing,
and this is probably the coolest part of the magazine
is this little tie article.
And I do mean little.
It's mostly pictures and a few words,
the way most people dig it.
So, yeah, that's some real tie stick right there.
Now, whether that was tied in Thailand or tied over here,
who the hell knows,
but they're claiming that this is the real deal.
And I believe them just by the,
you know, this is a High Times magazine from the 70s.
So, there probably wasn't a whole lot of fake tie
running around back then
because it hadn't been around long enough
for people to catch on
and start being sheisty motherfuckers.
Here's some more.
And you can see this,
you can sit, you can probably sit here
and read the entire thing
in the little time that I'm keeping up on the screen.
So, as up here at the top,
is those, I think that those are called Buddha sticks,
if I remember correctly.
I don't know if there's a difference
between the Buddha stick and the tie stick.
Buddha sticks are a little fatter, I think,
but I seem to remember that's what they,
that's what they called those things.
So, yeah, cool little tie article.
And for the 70s camera,
they did a really good job on this picture up here
in the upper right corner,
as you can actually see trichomes
that have made it through all of the processing on there.
They got as close as they could
to show that that stuff still got some of the goods on there
that hadn't been knocked off.
Pretty cool.
I'm wondering if that picture in that,
that second picture is the same bundle pulled out
from this baggie in the first picture
as they look about the same.
No, who knows?
It's interesting though, like a bundle of tie stick,
a tie brick.
All right, move on from that.
So this is a old normal advertisement
and it's got a old newspaper clipping up there at the top
from the 30s when everything went to shit.
Apparently this is, that's from India,
it looks like, as the writing and everything looks like,
from India, not quite sure,
but I just thought that I would throw that in there
as normal advertising back in the 70s.
And I bet that they really had some high hopes
about that second Carter administration.
As little did they know,
it was gonna be like as much of the opposite of that
as it could have ever possibly fucking been.
And so you go hoping for,
thinking that you're getting Carter
and you got your hopes up about legal weed
and who knows what else,
and you end up fucking Reagan and Bush.
And yeah, you got the,
I can see why they had their optimism though,
is that they thought that they had fucking knocked back
Nixon and the start of the war on drugs and all of that.
And as little did they know,
they were getting far from Carter.
You got the fucking CIA,
is that they had big plans
and they put them into motion really fucking fast.
So really, really sad,
but it gives you a little perspective
of where their heads were back then,
as maybe if they would have left that white shit alone
in the next page,
in that next page next to that over there,
maybe they would have gotten a little bit more done
because it seems like a lot of their focus
was that fucking powder.
Unfortunately.
And a lot of us know where that leads you.
Doesn't fucking, doesn't lead you here.
That's for fucking sure.
Here's the, a lot of people have seen this.
This has been reprinted in high times quite a bit
over the years.
And it's a, this is very well-known article right here.
The, the swag top 40.
I'm just joking.
It looks bad, but some really good weed looks like shit.
As a lot of us here know,
it doesn't have to be like beautiful fucking chunky
Instagram buds.
It's like, hell, some of the frostiest fucking weed is weak.
You know, it's just because it's got frost
doesn't mean that it's fucking the killer,
but, and actually zoomed in a little bit
on this next picture so you can see
some of the names on here.
Apparently the best around was the worst looking.
See, you got up there to number one, the Oaxacan red.
Looks like just fucking leaves.
Doesn't even look like buds.
And that's, and as you can see,
they had access to just about everything.
And they say that that fucking shitty looking
stringy weed up there was the, was the killer.
Same with number two.
You got the Guerrero gold and it just, look at that stuff.
As you imagine somebody handing you a jar of that
these days, somebody handing you a bud of that.
And so if you're talking to me,
I'll probably hand you something that looks similar to that.
You smoke it and you'll quit making fun of me.
That's for sure.
So I'll leave it a little time here
so that you all can go over.
It's like a lot of people are familiar
with a lot of this stuff.
And I just noticed that I cut off a couple of them here.
Let's see if I can go back.
Oh yeah, I have the magazine right here.
As after I get done going through this slideshow,
if anybody has any, they want me to like go deeper
into anything or you've got any questions
about this magazine, I'd be happy to answer them
and I'll show them if I can.
But I'll flip to the page here
and tell you the ones down there at the bottom,
they got clipped off.
You got number 13 in the bottom left corner is Hawaiian.
Oh, they're both Hawaiian.
So there you go.
The two on the, in the bottom left corner
that are cut off are Hawaiian.
And when we get to the later on in this magazine
I've got the trans high quotations in here.
And apparently Hawaiian was the big hype stuff back then
is they were charging twice as much for some Hawaiian weed
than they were for everything else.
And look where it comes on this rating scale
that these smokers at high times put it at.
It's like down there almost at mid grade
because 13 and 14 out of 20,
that's almost middle of the road,
but they were charging twice as much for it.
Sound familiar?
Those of you unfortunate people
that got to buy weed from dispensaries.
Here's the rest of them.
As I said, a lot of people are familiar with this
but some people aren't.
So I thought that I would put it in here anyway.
And again, shows you a little perspective
of where their heads were and what they were into back then.
And it's a lot of brown weed.
And it's like, they liked bleaching it in the sun
for some fucking reason.
And I understand the chlorophyll
doesn't taste all that great,
but there's other ways of getting rid of it.
So, but this is the,
it's kind of the beginnings of things.
And really the closest thing that looks like the weed
that you could buy these days is the Maui Waui
up here at number 24, next to that tie stick.
Maui Waui is looking pretty sweet.
It looks like a haze bud to me.
That's a lot of haze buds have that type of structure
and look to them.
Some things in here that I've never heard of.
And there's a distinction.
Up here at 21, you got regular Maui.
It kind of looks like all the rest of the buds here.
That Maui Waui, it's kind of standing out.
Same with that Columbian next to it.
It's gold, but look at the size of the calyxes on that.
You can see big old fat pods, pretty nice.
So that's, I'm too young to have experienced any of this shit
as some of the guys that I grew up around,
they were looking for the Columbian.
It was like some of the best import that they got back
in the day was Columbian.
And they grew some of those seeds
and they said the first year it was kind of shit.
It didn't really finish and all that,
but they did, it matured enough and it had been pollinated
to where they saved the seeds from that crop
and grew those the next year.
And it was a little better and on and on
until it was taken from them by the authorities
and they weren't able to save seeds from that crop.
So they went on a hunt looking for things
that were close to that Columbian
because apparently that Columbian was really good
when it was good back then,
as apparently it fell off at a certain point.
But I guess that kind of is a testament to it
is that fucking sun bleached weed,
if it's still killer weed after it's been sitting
in the sun like that degraded,
imagine how good it was in the field.
I can only imagine.
So if it was that great after being treated like shit
and then shipped in a fucking bottom of a boat
or a plane halfway across the world,
it really does is kind of a testament
to how good and strong that stuff was.
So I guess we'll move on from here.
A lot of Columbian gold.
Yeah, it's mostly Columbian Hawaiian
with a little bit of Thai,
yeah, Acapulco up there,
a little bit of Mexican thrown in, Oaxacan.
But if you go back to that first page,
that Oaxacan dominating up here at the top.
And I said, I got some Oaxacan from AK Bean Brains
simply because a lot of the reason was
because of this article and things that I've read
from other people, Neville.
Neville talked a lot of,
talked really highly of the Oaxacan
as he had a Oaxacan dwarf that he was really fond of,
that he lost somewhere along the way.
He was sad about, we all have those stories,
even the old greats.
And back to the comedy.
This is, I'm gonna leave it here
and hopefully you all can read this thing
as I wish I could make it a little bigger for you,
but that's as good as I can do.
But this is fucking hilarious.
It really is.
It's very, very funny.
As the, he's,
the interviewer asking about his secret bases
and all of this stuff is a really,
really cool little article.
I enjoy the sense of humor.
They're definitely smoking some good bud back then.
Kind of sense of humor and imagination
to come up with this little interview right here.
This is the December issue of High Times.
So it's, you know, kind of seasonal.
Had Santa Claus on here.
But it's pretty funny.
I'm not gonna sit here and read to you.
But anybody that's watching this
and find out a way to read this yourself,
pause it and blow it up or whatever,
it's definitely worth reading.
It's funny.
Here's another little advertisement
for an indoor gross setup.
Look at that thing.
It's got a couple of sewer pipes down there,
it looks like, with a shop light.
Whatever works.
I really commend the people that were trying back then.
It's like doing whatever they could.
You know, it was definitely an evolution
from this into the LEDs and the amazing setups
that people have today.
It was very humble beginnings,
but you gotta start somewhere.
And yeah, shop light and some sewer pipe PVC,
whatever works.
And they, I guess it's off camera,
but I imagine they've got a aquarium pump
pumping some air into the water
and those rocks or whatever the hell they got going on there.
That's a crazy ass little deal,
but little stuff like that.
That's home growing is where it's at.
If you can, I know that it's not possible for everyone,
but I know that that's a lot of what this channel
is geared towards is the home grow.
So that's thought that I would show some of the beginnings
of that endeavor.
Here's another little cool thing.
And that'd be fun just to sit there and do stones, you know,
this is no telling what kind of pictures they have there.
I got the couple blowing a shotgun down there,
a little tie stick.
And drawing a cannabis bud is kind of a bitch.
Like it's hard to do it
and not make it look like a clusterfuck,
like let it to represent it in a way that's recognizable,
that isn't just a jumbled mess.
So it's a, I always have a lot of respect for people
that are able to,
a cannabis bud is kind of like drawing a human hand.
It's really hard to do.
And it's awesome the people that are able to do it
and like show a representation of it
is that as South Park comes to mind,
when they started showing their little integrity buds,
they did a really good job with that.
It's like, it almost looks like weed.
It's it, that shit's hard to do.
And I bet it was even harder for them
with their animation style and all of that.
So Peter's a buddy that does a lot of his artwork
for him over there in the Netherlands.
He does a really good job with it too.
Like I said, it's hard to depict a cannabis bud
without making it look like just a clusterfuck of a mess.
So art, pretty cool.
And I put this in here just for my own little sentiment
because this book was very helpful to me.
And those guys, they really,
they helped out a lot of people.
It's like kind of telling the ins and outs
of how to do this thing the right way,
indoors, out, all of that,
all of the little nuances that come along with cannabis
and pretty cool.
And apparently even Normal was involved
with this back then, it was really cool.
So I thought that that would,
I came in contact with this book later on
as I was thrown in the deep end.
It was the first cannabis book that I was,
well, I borrowed it.
The copy that I had learned on was fucking all dirty
and had resin stuck to the cover
and the pages and everything.
It was a real mess, but it was still legible
as I was able to read it and learned a lot from it.
It was a Marijuana Botany by Clark.
But later on, as I started looking into other books
and got into, I'm pretty sure that the Mel Frank
and Ed Rosenthal book that they're advertising here,
like later on, it was the same book.
It was just that those two guys
sold their own separate versions.
I may be completely wrong about that,
but I'm pretty sure that I'm right.
That it was like, they just kind of split ways
and did their own thing and all that.
Yeah, I learned a lot from Mel Frank's book
as I have the Mel Frank version.
I could do this same thing with my cannabis library.
I've got a pretty nice little cannabis library
outside of these High Times magazines.
I could do that sometime too if the people were into it.
Move on from this advertisement.
Now this, another sign of their hopefulness.
As Carter proposes decriminalization, exclamation point.
This was trying to get people into the bong business.
It was like, instead of selling the weed, sell the supplies.
You know, it was kind of like what worms weigh
and all those folks kind of figured out in the 80s.
It's like, it's a lot safer selling the supplies.
So it's, again, just an example of their high hopes
and sorry, the picture isn't any better.
I just kind of threw that one in there.
Now this is cool.
Like this is one of the coolest things
that's in these old High Times.
And I was talking to Tony recently
about these old High Times and showing each other
our collections and stuff.
And he said that this was stopped during Green Merchant.
Speaking of worms weigh and all that,
that they quit doing the trans high quotations
when Green Merchant happened.
That's just what he told me.
I don't know how accurate that is,
but usually the man's on point.
So I did zoom in to where you could read these
a little bit better.
I really don't know what everybody out there
would be interested in, but there's that.
And so when I get done with this thing
and there's people that want me to like go back over
some of these areas and read some of the prices and stuff,
but essentially the gist of it is
that you could get just about anything anywhere.
And Hawaiian in America was the most expensive.
It's like, they have a little bit of everything in here.
MDA, I wonder if they're missing an M on that, MDMA,
or if that's something that I don't know about.
That's just noticed that Canada MDA.
As I don't know when ecstasy was created.
I know that it was created as a psychiatric drug
and that's what it should be used for now.
Should be readily available for everyone.
Ecstasy is a pretty decent stuff.
I wouldn't trust anything out there now, nothing.
There's no way you're gonna get me anywhere
near a powder these days.
I've been like that over 20 years.
It was way before fentanyl, but still it's, yeah.
There's powders, bad news, especially these days.
Here's the other side of the page.
A little bit better picture, I guess.
And where's the, yeah, look at that Hawaiian,
1500, 2800 a pound compared to some Jamaican,
200 to 400 a pound.
And that was actually Jamaican.
That's not some fucking, that's not European Jamaican
like you get these days.
That's what Bob was smoking on.
And like I said, I don't know what people would be into here
and if you're able to read it very well
on your screen or not, but when I get to the end
of this thing, if you want me to come back here
and go through some of these areas or the products,
I would be more than happy to.
But Trans High Market Quotations, pretty cool.
Little feature of these old high times.
Speaking of old high times, I would love to be able
to order some of these damn things.
It would be really cool.
I imagine that you can get most of these.
I don't know if the website of high times
goes all the way back this far, but it would be cool
if you could, even the electronic version.
I like a hard copy myself.
I'm a book person, but yeah, just going back in time
like we're doing here and being able to see the whole thing
where I'm not editing out all of the Coke stuff.
And so even in this advertisement to get your attention,
this is a free cocaine.
And I imagine that first high times
with the girl eating the big mushroom,
those things are probably worth a pretty penny these days
because there were so few of them, I imagine.
It's like they were even sold out
in the back issues back then.
Pretty interesting.
Sid Vicious down there.
Pretty cool.
This is something I put in there
for the people up there in New England.
As y'all been at it a while and fighting the good fight
because I'm pretty spoiled and you guys are not.
Like the weather is completely against you up there.
So being able to pull a crop,
especially with what they were able to work with back then,
like nothing but respect, go, go fellows.
That just makes my heart lift up
thinking about these perseverant motherfuckers.
Really, really cool.
People in Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire,
it's like you got it pretty rough up there
as far as the weather goes for growing plants.
That's awesome that somebody was able to figure
some of the things out for you guys
and kind of put it together to where
if y'all needed to get it done, you can get it done.
And it's like, well, this magazine was started in like,
upstate, I think it was based in upstate New York,
eventually New York City,
but it's like a lot of what was happening up there.
I know that's where Mel was, I'm pretty sure.
Upstate New York is a lot going on.
It was just about as bad weather there.
It was a Western mass, all of that.
It's a pretty rough winters.
So that's pretty rough all of the seasons I imagine.
Except for the summer, you probably got a nice summer.
You're jealous of it in the summertime.
But yeah, it was much props to the people up in New England,
getting it done since the seventies.
Oh yeah.
The 1978 High Times Calendar.
Isn't it pretty?
It's pretty little poppy there.
Not really much to be said.
It's just a pretty cool little thing.
It would be awesome to like find some of this stuff.
It's like people have some of these things out there.
There's a lot of things that I skipped over
in this magazine.
So, and this, as I think this is the last picture
that I got and we'll go back through it
if anybody wants to.
But yeah, more of their optimism
is when marijuana is legal.
Good housekeeping may wanna give the seal of approval
to the herb record cleaner or the herb cleaner record cover.
And so what I'm wondering is why would you need
to hide your cleaner or whatever in a record
once it's legal?
It doesn't, it seems like that would be a prohibition device
where you just throw that in
with the rest of your record collection,
save your shit.
I really don't know.
I just thought that this was a weird little quirky thing
that they were putting out there back in the day
with their, again, with the optimism of when it's legal.
Little did they know that it was gonna take
about three or four more decades before that happened
as they thought that it was gonna be a couple more years.
And for a shocking reality, that CIA Bush coming in there.
So there's that.
I think I'll go back to the market quotations
because I imagine that's what a lot of people are into.
All right.
So this is a pretty hard to navigate.
It's going back and forth between this screen.
Go back up in the comments here.
Oh, sweet.
Nice.
Welcome.
That's really cool.
Thanks for sharing that.
That's awesome.
As you all, that's amazing to me
that you all are able to get shit done,
especially with the genetics you had access to back then.
That's badass.
What's up, Alex?
Good to see you, man.
I bet you were probably reading
some of these fucking magazines back then, huh?
Yeah, medic, me too.
It's like, I really tried to,
there was really just no way to get rid of it.
I wanted just the pictures on there
to make it a little bit better for everyone,
but not finding a way.
There could be a way.
I just don't know it.
Bunch of jokers.
It's your cocaine jokes.
Yeah, we all love the smell.
So that's, you know, this is really about all I got.
Seems like a lot of people were talking about the Hawaiian.
That was definitely the most sought after stuff
in here for sure.
It's like the only thing that really compares
is some of the Afghan hash and the Lebanese hash.
Hell, they got honey oil.
That's going way back for the honey oil.
There's a down at the bottom,
quaaludes, fluctuating supply.
It's interesting to me looking at the Alaskan prices
is what Alaska had access to back then
is their laws were a little bit more lax up there.
So they were in their own little unique situation
as far as the United States goes,
as lucky bastards, as they still are in a lot of ways.
But unlucky as far as weather goes, I'd say.
Another thing that's interesting too
is that you go with those pictures of the buds,
that classic picture that a lot of people have seen
and all of those swag buds.
It's a lot of the stuff at the top was Guerrero
and Oaxacan and all of that.
And look at the prices in Mexico,
is Oaxacan tops, 50 to $75 a pound.
And these editors of High Times were saying
that that shit was better than the Hawaiian
that you were paying.
Let's go back over here.
The, yeah, 1500 to $2,800 a pound for some Hawaiian,
but you can get some Oaxacan that's better weed
for 50 to 75 bucks a pound.
A little less backwards, but I guess that's the way of it.
There's another interesting thing is if you haven't noticed,
you got fucking prices for Moscow in there,
like Russian prices.
Like that's, that just kind of blows your mind
to think about because of the Cold War
and all of that stuff.
I know that that was mostly 80s,
but we weren't exactly that friendly with Russia
in the 70s either.
That's kind of how Afghanistan got all fucked up.
Sam, I think if I remember correctly,
is like either he or somebody else,
like almost got caught up over there
doing all of that shit
when everything went to hell in Afghanistan.
It went from like hippie paradise,
the absolute war-torn hell.
And we're left with the dregs.
There's a lot of the weed that's being grown now
that people love, those big fat tight nugs,
says that that's, we have Afghanistan to thank for that.
A lot of it anyway.
So interesting little blast from the past
is of course the Netherlands is they had
is all mostly hash up there.
They had a little bit of import,
you have some Senegal and Congo,
and they got a little bit of their own low weed up there,
domestic grass.
I imagine that that's their nether weed,
their low weed that they, what they called it back then.
So that's like the people that really were into it,
I imagine it's like they're trying to find
the best flowers that they could in those times.
And just your average smoker was puffing on all of this,
Moroccan, Lebanese, Pakistani, Kashmiri,
all that hash.
Yeah, so.
Well, people, I think that's about all I got.
Come up, jump over here to the comments
and talk to you guys for a little bit.
Oh, here we got somebody from the Netherlands.
Thank you.
Oh, moving on me.
Good to know, Yuri, it's awesome.
It's, I've read stories about Old Ed over there.
I don't know if he was a part of that,
getting that going in 76 and all of that,
but I know that Old Ed and some of those guys were,
they were pioneers for sure.
As there's guys over here in America doing it too,
but it's like they had a nicer climate.
They didn't have a huge drug war happening over there,
or at least it hadn't come to them yet.
Oh, okay, there's Perpetual.
I think from the past, I remember Netherlands also.
So 79, so Ed, this is, 76 was before Old Ed's time.
Pretty cool.
This was kind of my secret motivation
for putting this little show together
is I was hoping that some people would have some comments
from back in the day,
it's like I knew a little bit
about what was happening back then.
Cause my parents hadn't even met at this year.
So it's like, I wasn't even a thought.
More information from Perpetual, Wernard.
He seems like a really cool motherfucker.
Like with all of the interviews
that I've seen with Wernard,
it's like he seems like a really cool dude.
Adam Neville, he didn't come until like the mid 80s
or early 80s.
And he started off as a grower.
Like he got, he started off on the government tit actually,
according to him.
It's like he got his lights and a grow set up
from the Dutch government
to try to get him off the horse.
As he was there trying to battle some demons
and tried to hop off that horse.
As somebody bringing up Arjan.
Now Arjan goes pretty far back.
As say what you will about him
is there's a picture of Arjan with Old Ed.
And it looks like a really old picture
from like the late 70s, maybe early 80s.
That's a really...
So he's not just some fly by night dude.
As a lot of people give him shit, me included.
But yeah, as you give credit where credit's due,
in my opinion.
So yeah, it's been really cool hanging out with you guys.
If people are into this, let me know.
I'll check the comments on this for the next couple of days.
And if people are digging what they're seeing here,
I've got a bunch of these magazines going up
into the early 90s.
It's like my newest episode or episode edition.
And I would love to go through some of these.
It's, oh, here we go.
I wasn't trying to start a big fight
over fucking the greenhouse and all of that.
A lot of people know that history, man.
It's really not worth fighting over.
The people that were there are doing their...
A lot of them are still doing their thing.
And yeah, there's no reason to be fighting
and divisive over things that really don't matter.
As we're already a minority
and further splitting ourselves into groups
isn't really gonna help anyone, especially our cause.
So yeah, yeah, true fact.
That has to be admitted.
And it's like, as I saw in RIP Franco,
Franco, he was a cool motherfucker.
He had passion, absolute passion, Franco did.
You could just see it pouring out of him.
It's like the way that he went out.
But that can't be denied,
is putting that bullshit out there the way that they did.
I know that everybody feels
that they're doing the right thing.
When you look back in history,
it's not like that the people are out there
trying to destroy things.
It's like, I really don't...
Some people are, but I really don't have that type of...
I'm a pretty cynical dude, but I'm not that cynical
to where I think that people are just going out there
to destroy and protect their market share and all of that.
I truly think that he felt like he was trying
to help those communities.
It's like that he would get something.
Yeah, I don't think that I put the name Arion and Breeder
in the same sentence.
And if I did, I apologize.
But I think that everybody knows who did the real work there.
And I think that I've been pulled into a rabbit hole
and I think it's time to call it a day.
And like I said, if people are digging this
and they want me to do one better the next time,
leave some comments.
Like, let me know how I can do this better.
What would be a better method?
Any requests, I guess.
If you're digging what this episode was about
and you want another one, just let me know.
All right, so peace, everybody.
It was good seeing everyone.
And yeah, enjoy your day.
Be good to the people you know.
Be good to the people you don't know.
You only live once.
And I hope you have a great day.
And I'll see you next time.
Bye.
Peace.
