They have many deities many different Buddhas and they represent a certain type of thing
So you have Buddha of compassion Tara
Akhla-Kusha Tivare she encompasses both male and female points of view
To see things neutral somewhat
Give you try to give you a neutral perspective. That's kind of her teaching
Give us into what do you got back there Peter? I was curious. I always see all this stuff going on back there
What is all that stuff back there
Well, we got seeds
We got this is like bio AG stuff, but then stuff over here is I?
Mean here is like a rolling tray. Oh, that's cool
That's from
So this guy this artist I've done stuff with mossy giant is
the one who did that and
he's off like all his
illustrations are these
Kind of like nug
Characters. Yeah, they look cool
But uh nice I mean there's
We got
We got some some Beatles some
Oh, yeah
Back here, we got a
Back here we got a quasar. It's the the big party hookah. Oh
That's new put a ton of hash in there
Oh, yeah, so here's another one that he did
Man guys does some nice artwork reminds me of Jimmy Phillips
And then
Some hash pipes, yeah regular bubbler, but hash pipe style
The was that the Gandalf or whatever? Ah
This
Shoot so one Stan Alba made one of them which is
Hold on let me find
Where's here we go. Here's a sidecar. Oh
Yeah, and
then I
Don't have much glass like that
I had the old school the vapor domes and the atom smashers and the skillets and all those still
That's nice some agate or rock or something yeah. Yeah. Yeah Katie Wright made
Yeah, she made this one
Thank you for being my memory Peter Kostrava and then Stan Alba made this one
Sour silicate made this one
Psycho glass
Have I ever heard of psycho glass
Yeah, I got a couple of those I get kind of interesting dude I
Bought one for my son and I got one
Got a couple of pipes from Kim dog here you go Pete. I know you'll dig this
Can you see it I can see the surfboard original lightning bolt
From the 70s, yeah
Then what what kind of what is that like
I got all kinds of goodies even your sergeant pepper you were talking about but I got
power hitters
the original Kona gold cans
like these are their first
Bongs that we had we had to get him in like music plus and the record stores back in the day the first class ones
That's this is all my old glass all the nails with the domes oh yeah
The old school skillets
Big yeah, you're going back there Dave. Oh we can go deeper
Orders oh
I beg yet eight track cassette sneaky pipes
This is kind of funny
This is an eight track tape that's actually a pipe
So you're gonna old days you don't want to get popped in the car
Nice
You could see it back there, but the sergeant peppers
Yeah the the Frankenstein
Yeah, like hookah pipe yeah, so silica glass this is clock glass this is the weasel made this one
Huh?
It's this way
This one I'm really stoked on I'm into prospecting in the gold
I found I had this dude make this pipe and he kind of made it put my gold
I found and kind of made it like a nugget. That's awesome. Awesome
And he melted the goal right around the
Surfskate snow weed 70s 60s
So I have I'm younger than both of you, but so the the first pipes I smoked
Yeah, and then the good old baddie
Yeah
What's that what is that oh yeah, and you got the little that's a baddie yeah, I'm the weed in the little thingy
Yeah
Those are nice
You know
A lot of the other day is with all the vaporizing and stuff
I hope it doesn't go that way in the future because you know there was some about rolling a joint the
Conversations you had the time you took to get the weed ready to roll a joint or to do a bong toke or whatever
If the future goes all vapor man. We're gonna lose a lot of the
Right the socializing the talking the part of the whole weed thing
Just gonna be like rip out the electric vaporizer hit it boom. That's it. You're high the weird high
There's so much like you know with your buddies
Grinding up stuff getting in a conversation
Talking you know it's like that whole process is part of the weed thing. I think I hope doesn't disappear in the future I
Mean I love
Like when we do these LA events
It's just people rolling joints and like getting it like pass it and that one just goes out and
Goes all over and then the next one and the next one and the next one more social interaction when it's weed
right versus
Visors and all these things these by in the packages already pre-loaded if that's what the future is
They'll lose a lot of the socializing and stuff
I'm sure Mike you've had some interesting conversations over the times rolling joints and prepping weed and whatnot oh yeah
Proper way to roll a joint
Don't get it all wet. Don't roll it
No
I
Don't know
One
Right back in the day no one used what crutches the little filters on the end no yeah
We in Hawaii they were doing that Hawaii forever
And I always went to Hawaii and came back and go I don't know why we don't do that because you can literally smoke it
Down to the end of the weed too with the regular joint with no tip on the end
You're always throwing away a little bit unless you're saving it in a film canister to smoke it later in a pipe or something
Right I used to have but they tasted so foul after a while man. I went yeah
Yeah, July August comes and you ain't got nothing those are the greatest things in the world
Although bud bud is
Defending the dab a lot of conversations happen in between dab hits as they clean the banger for the next
I don't mean dabs and that type of concentrates. I mean vapor pins. Oh like
Yeah
Preloaded and ready to go that's what I meant like like just disposable vape pens. Yeah, yeah, yeah
Stuff we know like you carry in your pocket with a battery
You know that type of thing right, but no no the whole hash scene is total
Socializing and interacting with cannabis same thing is wrong and joint
Maybe have been more so because these guys are pretty tech that nail how whatever it is has to be a certain temp
Right I'm old school if it looks hot enough. I'm throwing it on there. I don't care
Sam did this come from you I
like I and I thank the person who
reminding me that Katie Wright was the one who blew the
Gandalf but like I can never keep track of like I always have to write like sticky notes of like who
Sent what?
But anyway
Yeah now I mean it's interesting like growing up I hated joints because
they would a hundred percent of the time stick to my lips and
Then like rip your lips skin off you get the little resin mark right here, yeah rip your
The skin off your lip every time you took it out of your mouth
but uh
Growing up joints were because he had to roll a joint
We've my everybody I've known my whole life has been bones. We've always been bongs bongs bongs
Yeah, join
Had to like you're going somewhere. Whatever. That's when the joint came into play
I don't like him because your fingers get stinky and you're real stinky after a joint
If you go out in public, you're pretty
Resin II smelling with a joint
Low-key, I don't like to advertise weed too much in public
So like doing bong tokes
Straight to the point how high you are and the way you go
I'm reading the the chat is quite active right now. Fortunately, there are no
No squabbles yet. Chad's gonna keep it clean and orderly
He promises but uh, all right, so
We're here talking today
Specifically we can go in lots of different directions, but the starting point is
Michael
Has for the past year been working on some new lines that he's sent in
We might even have one of the testers jump on I can actually see if Lance can jump on but he's at Spanabus right now
But do you want it? Do you want? Yeah, I
Think it's gonna be fun
I'd like to go well, maybe maybe we all can we can do like the the the Cali crew can
Can all fly out together?
That'd be fun
next year
Next year, right
But yeah, no, he he flew in like two days ago. So he's had
You know because I think Spanabus starts maybe Thursday or Friday
But uh, so yeah like five days in Barcelona
Which is fun pre event and then I think Friday night they have a party at one of the social clubs
so I think
London who works with us on the FCP stuff is there too. So he's gonna go to that but
So anyway, the context is you
So anyway, the context is you
Actually, it's right here
So we have going down the line
the Kona gold tie
so you have actually someone asked
And we don't have to answer it now, but like the tie that you use
Is it a different tie or the same tie in like the Kona gold tie?
The Maui why we tied is the watton a hotel
All the Hawaiian heirlooms is crossed with the same time male. It's a
72
type that people got some seeds of tie sticks tie sticks from 72 and I got
those seeds from
A fellow that passed away recently used to he lived in Alaska
Alaska seed cash James friend of mine
and
Is one of the females what you posted on Instagram recently of that particular type?
One of the females yeah, you posted on Instagram recently of one of the tie buds
No, that was I think that's another that's some other tide that I grew
Different
Kunran or
Something I don't know I turned out pretty good didn't really taste all I will after cured, but it might need a longer cure
How I see it the Kuhn whim
Yeah, the Kuhn whim. Yeah, yeah, it's pretty tight woods for a tie
I think they needed a more of a cure they grew till
beginning of February
and
Yeah, that one
Broke and kept growing
That's a classic tie look from what I would think
No, it's a nice strain. I'd like to I'm waiting on some more seeds of that. I'd like to work with that a little more
But picture too it looks really good. Did you have a picture of a dry bud up there also?
Hold on
maybe
Sorry, this is the Kona gold tie or let me just go through yeah gonna gold
Those are really tasty
Needless to say the plant was kind of small so I never got a lot of here here. Sorry. This is still it
That's still the
Kuhn whim Kuhn whim green and then there's a purple
That's the purple expression
They look pretty nice, I mean I think
Like to try those again in some different soil mixture and see how they turn out and give a good cure
Here here is the okay hold on
This one oh, yeah there
Yeah, yeah, that's that's tie day. Hey, I
Yeah, I
Imagine just smash it up and then it would really look like the tie where he used to if it was all smashed
Yeah that that
Holy smokes, that's it right there
Yeah
yeah, I mean I've grown a lot and then until I got these and I I was impressed with these a
Few strains of tie that I got last year
Because I've grown the lemon tie and a couple other ties are real airy and
Not much of anything. Those are
Pretty darn nice actually
Yeah, that one looks really nice
Yeah, I want to work a little more with those
Here's some more hold on yeah, that one's nice there
So so this is this is
the stuff from Botan
From Misha, yeah
Did you get any from him
Yeah, I grew out
Some doi chang and then I had
Some Simone seeds and I only only one male
Germinated and
But I still have that male so now I have
clones of the male
Oh, so I was gonna I was hoping you'd send more over so I could at least see what
What the Simone is all about
Yeah, I don't have that one I
What's that
How was that strain was that a nice one does it smell good or you just had a B
This Simone. I only had a male the doi chang. I like that
It was like a perky high
And
Yes, so I'm so I'm giving seeds of that out and
Hopefully other people can play with it, too
But uh, okay so going through
So the Kona gold tie you want to talk about that
Yeah
The Kona and Maui Wowie those were also acquired from
James in Alaska and
And he lived in Hawaii
And he lived in Hawaii in the 70s and actually
Was caretaking the choir electric. I had no idea at the time till we met
behind this gate up by the
power line and
Kind of where he had the key and everything so we kind of got acquainted
That's how I authenticated the reality of it
Because he wouldn't know that otherwise
and
He was an electric over there at the time
but
Yeah, so I haven't seen too many that really knew
actually where they were grown and actually did sit there and work with them, but
Yeah, that's a kind of a funny story I think I might have already told I can mention it again the choir electric
Was bred by a friend of mine who's over there now, but he had another buddy of his
A
surf guy was I
think he had
Fairly well offers folks were or whatever and he sent him over to Afghanistan and came back with the seeds
So they're they're Afghani seeds and he grew them out over there
and they really liked him and then
He sent some back to my friend and my friend crossed the choir electric with Afghan number one
And
That's the one that I have I still have some of that those are really nice also
Whereas this one is just a choir electric
Cross with the tie, but yeah, so it's a
Pretty interesting strange nice
That doesn't really need much I mean most of these don't really I didn't use any fertilizers to speak of I used one
Round of bloom last year none on the tie
And I came out real dark green, I don't know why I must have been the lighting
And I didn't take another picture
That was a pure tie that still caring
Yeah, that was quite electric tie, okay, okay
And
And it's still caring I haven't haven't tried that yet
Should I tell Jackson you'll you'll give him some beans if he jumps on with us
Did you see his request or his question
No, I
Love to score some of these I live there for a little bit and it's definitely legendary on the island
There's one Ridge on the north side people pointed out as the neighborhood that had the dank
You want some of that
That's that right there
It's a little small on the screen but
Yeah, it's okay yeah, I I got plenty
When damn man, oh
Was that gene
Yep. Yeah
Now here's another one he is
He is
At martial arts with his son. Oh
Okay, it's doing dad stuff cool. I
Actually like the quiet electric with the Afghan number one two that's actually is really that's really a nice nice one
That's enjoyable
Some of the
Kawaii electric to one year. I don't two or three years ago. I'd be longer than that
four years maybe four years ago I
had made some selections and a couple of the plants had huge big bats on them boy, they were huge and they
one of them smelled
Really
Earthy
Kind of
Incense
See a little bit but real earthy strong real expanding expansion good expansion
Sorry, I was just I'm telling Jack's or mean gene that uh becomes and says hi you'll send them some
Seeds
And then this is a different so blue Hanatai
So what
What what did the tie have that that uh that you were looking for
Well, I was just looking for the old tie stick
That I remember of course it's been so long ago the 70s like hardly can remember what they should like
But yeah, I was disappointed in the blue Hana, I'm not gonna release that as real leapy
Yeah, it's
Yeah, it didn't work out I'm not happy with that at all
So that's gonna probably I'll probably be putting that out in the bird feeder. I
Share the I share the good food with the birds here the local
Santa Cruz birds keep them happy
Some happy birds
So you have a just a quick let me make this bigger for
fading eyes
But rotten skateboards asked you do flavors correlate with effect with tied genetics
how diverse our flavors and effect ranges and
Tie stuff that you've explored
Most of them were kind of wiry kind of uplifting some so subtle that
You didn't really notice much and then you found out that you're out there doing stuff for about an hour
So it kind of gave you a subtle energetic
effect some of them
Years back we're real wiry if you had smoked too much you'd feel a little uncomfortable get a little heart rate going
Which I didn't like that particular type but
You have to use that in moderation
See what else what was the last part of that question
It was do flavors correlate with effect with tied genetics how diverse our flavor and effect ranges in tie
Genetics that you've explored
Yeah, they pay they like the
One was kind of it wasn't the mango type, but it had a slight smell of mango and
They were very crystally
And
Actually pretty tight buds for tie
Whereas a lemon tie years ago
They were very crystally
And
Actually, they were very crystally
Whereas the lemon tie years ago from Sativa fiend you guys know him he used to live in Thailand
Was from Bodhi from him. Here's a real airy lemon tie
real strong lemon taste
Got the lemon there Dave
With a lemon I'm a thing
I don't have a lot of Thai experience, but I think most people from America that are smoking Thai
It's cured for a while
whether
In your trichomes are gonna oxidize
So the high is gonna be a lot different than let's can we call it fresh Thai
Yeah, we was recently harvest and cured properly and stored properly. It's gonna have a quite a different effect
And I think put away so
Pierce Bell asked a question about the chocolate and from what we learned from Mike Ritter and those guys that
There were no chocolate favors in Thailand, so it must be in the cure process
Probably what I'm guessing is all the trichomes are oxidizing in the weeds getting much more rich and musky
Therefore the high kind of correlates with the richness and the musky becomes more heavy
Because I know in the summer was the time we got Thai and oh god you couldn't even get up off the couch
It was like an indica. It wasn't racy. You weren't amped to go do stuff you were zombie
So that must have been from all the trichomes oxidizing
Because when the trichomes oxidize and weed when it's over ripe it gives you more of a sleepy effect
Did everybody lock up or just Mike?
What
Can you you can hear me right yeah, he is very very still
Which there is which actor grace will come in gray squirrel
So that's the experiments
I'm gonna try and try to get my hands on some Thai and leave it in a cupboard for a couple months
Maybe even smash it try it
We never asked
David how old those sticks were when they picked him up, but they kind of did we ever talk about that or what?
Well, I tried to ask and they said it could be anywhere from like a month to two months at the longest
But that was uncommon for it to get to
You know
I don't know if it's a good thing or a bad thing
But I think it's a good thing that we're doing it
From like a month to two months at the longest, but that was uncommon for it to get to the mainland, okay
Yeah, so
Right they cut it down or they drain it outside in the Sun
How long is it drying forward before they rip it off the stems and pack it however?
They are to give it to those guys to get it onto the boats
That's when the time actually starts right because now it's on the boat on the way
So we have no idea how long the process took from the time the plant was harvest to the boat
Yeah
Two weeks to two months I
Would think the weed would go dark
Just like Mexican if you cut Mexican fresh and dried it right and brought it right up uncompressed
It's gonna be green and a lot different
But that by the time you get Mexican it's so compressed and not dried right and all that stuff
It takes on the darker type profiles
Yeah, we used to get some bales of the hand-pressed like the nairite and the zocotec is boy that was good
Lightly pressed wasn't smashed like a lightly pressed or whatever. Yeah, those are nice
Yeah, Mexican wise my favorite was the Mexican indica
Yeah, they said likes. I don't care. How come pack smashed it was there was molds in it
We didn't care it tastes good
Real good big huge seeds to huge seeds. Yeah
Yeah pretend to cut whoo that carried us over for a long time pretend again
So I imagine
We
Some of us have experienced these strains
But a lot of us just get to read about them and see pictures and other experiences
I think we've came to a point now that
we're able to
Try these things firsthand where you didn't have that option before back in the day via the laws and transportation
Or your network or whatever. So now
We're gonna get the same stuff but in a different profile in a way probably what to the older people were used to
Even though we can call it the same type of weed. I bet the profile is gonna be different
Yeah
Different fertilizers much more knowledge now and growing plants. They're not going to be compressed
It's not gonna take forever to find its way to where it needs to go
So the weeds gonna be in a lot better condition than back in the day
It was yeah get the best weed
But how much we need to get as much as we can over there and space is the thing
So if they're gonna compress it however, they need to to get it over. Yeah
I've never seen unpressed high
Right, so one would have to grow it
But I've never in my life of weed seen weed from Thailand that wasn't pressed in some way
Yeah, the untied was very light. Yeah lightly perhaps
But nothing remember who is that?
Who was that guy
Andrew
Marala, okay, but I butchered your last name I
Do remember all the tie was really
rich
musky
kind of roast beef chocolatey
It didn't matter if it was the little sticks or the big sticks or the big brax or the little brax
They all had kind of this similar profile
So I guess all we can do would try to grow some ties I'm just gonna let mine care some more
Sit and see what we come up with
Just smush it and leave it for a long time. Yeah right by the ocean
Yeah, I'm gonna let mine care some more
I'm gonna let mine care some more
I'm gonna let mine care some more
Leave it for a long time. Yeah right by the ocean wherever wherever
That's like the Malawi cobs is the magic in the curing of the cobs
Because they wrap them in the husk and bury them for months. Yeah, but but I
Guess the question here is
Because what Mike and those guys said is is that in Thailand? They didn't have that
flavor profile
No, it's not that yeah, it's not that it was cure because then you would have experienced it there
so
your theory that
It's the long
arduous transport
Meaning we've all had weed that we found that we didn't know it was there
Right and it got real light and golden and the flavor profile was completely different than when we last
Forgot it
Pretty much most of it over two three months
Especially if it's in the light will go will get real golden. We'll lose the chlorophyll and get musky
Or it'll get real kind of sharp peppery that THC type of thing because all the
Chlorophyll the turps are gone. So your main it's mostly THC
Yeah, all my old
Well Hawken tie from what three years ago is all golden now, and it's got a different profile
The
Akapuco gold is a combination of both the curing and then they girth the plants right before they cut them
They cut the Cambrian layer at the bottom of the stock and that cuts out the nitrogen of the plant
So they golden up while they're growing and then they cut them and then by the time you get it
Super golden akapuco gold
Colombian gold most of the gold weeds I think were via the cure
See that's interesting the coffee turns to chocolate
Yeah
Well, what's interesting is there's many different ties and Thailand
locally with different profiles because we heard Mike talk about juicy fruits and berries and
Sharp peppery ones and sour ones, but all the tie I've ever experienced in America all had similar
profiles rich and musky you didn't get fruit ease or none of that kind of thing I
Don't remember any lemons either
No
No lemon. It was lemon
from
Sativa pain that was that was definitely lemon that was you take a dry strong. Yeah
I don't know what maybe it's Cambodian pro. I know I don't know. Yeah, he was living on the border there, Cambodia
so
May have been fresh and that's why it was nice and lemony
Yeah, that could very well be too
Who knows what it's like after a couple months what the profile goes to?
Right because some beans are highly volatile they evaporate really
They're called like sub sub squints and terpenes or some weird thing and some terpenes have a longer shelf life
They can handle sitting there a little longer than others
The sesquoia versus mono. Yeah, exactly
So it's maybe tie has a lot of the sesquoia that
Takes off right away and then the rest set in
Or what's remaining becomes the dominant profile?
Yeah, I I'm gonna ask it later
But I'll probably forget that's why I'm saying it out loud so someone reminds me but
The Burmese you did the Burmese IBL and at some point but I want to get through kind of the Thai stuff
I wanted to
Talk about just Burmese in general and then line breeding with land race
So
The Maui wowie tie actually had the
This is the Maui wowie tie
Right very nice. Yeah
That's still Karen I only smoked a little bit when I right after I harvested it, so I just I got it in a jar
I'm
Trying to be patient with some of the
And has that working
So sesquoia runs through the whole smoke
Yeah, but we're talking about cure time
Sorry, so what what were you
What were you
What were you said I missed the the Maui wowie tie
Can you talk about the Maui wowie side
Yeah, I
Smoked just a very brief brief small amount when I a little while after I harvested and then I haven't pulled with it. It's curing
So I don't have any
Report on the small taste of that
I
just have a like where the Maui wowie came from and
My same friend James
He got it over when he was living in Hawaii in the 70s
the Maui wowie came from him the Kona gold the quiet electric and
Then some other things that I didn't grow yet, but
Yeah, so those are
They'll be
Try those some of the Maui wowie
Here in the next day or so just to try them because they've been in there for a little while
The
Zee what mayo tie is
that's
One of my favorite
It's like smells like juicy fruit
Very strong vanilla peel
This is from a report from Elka
heckler Elka
Elka Elka. Yeah, it's a stage-two
Elka Elka. Yeah, it's a stage name
Yeah
Yeah, he wrote a pretty good report
So you're frozen so you're gonna have to start from the top again
Wait till he comes back
Yeah, the one thing I hate about dabs is the cost well that means it's worth back
Can you hear us
Okay, say say something you move for a second
He's dealing with weather related internet issues
Yeah, I might be where the phone is and in the house or whatever
That night now you're back so can you start from the top of that grow report?
Yeah, so
Elka did this grow report on the Zee what mayo tie knows hints of bubblegum he had but it's
That I grew was juicy fruit
vanilla with ripe orange deal ripe orange peel and citrus notes
taste a blast of powdered sugar
blending into vanilla bubblegum
It begins in the back of your head and moves into the eyes and then moves into the body
Helps restless legs helps with sleep and
Trying to see he had a delta 9 of 9.7 and then
T HC BA 5.5. I don't know how much he got it
Wow
Move your phone right come back
Haha, wake it up
Let's see, uh
There you are you're back
Did you get any of that at all or what yeah, we got up to the to the cannabinoid numbers so he got it tested
Yeah, that's impressive. I have him send me a copy. I just wrote it down
It's a good tester. Yeah, I did. I'm sure every period
grew it I tested it I
Sent him some yes American scum Colombian also to try and
He sent I sent him a couple packs. He said and one to his friend in Colorado is a another hemp grower. I
forget the fellas name
cool
Yeah, I texted him to see if he can jump on
So hopefully he'll come on a little bit but um
So did that
Go ahead
The Irene
You're about to see the Irene
Yeah, the Irene Colombian is one of my favorites I got the cut from Radio Ridge and
What was that David's a bubble or oh dear we don't know for sure do we yeah I know
controversial
Kemi-ogy, but grows like a pure cush
Kind of a little stocky. That's what I was told
I'm green really good flavors real strong. It's very strong. Yeah
Family or something
Yeah, my buddy that I got the what Neho from
He loves it. He smokes like crazy and he smokes it at night
so it
Found you're pretty good. Yeah, I like it
Like the like the GMO I dabbed on last night which knocked me out
Yeah, I bet it's really good me right cap did an alien cross with a Colombian and
People were quite happy with those results. I couldn't see where you go wrong with Irene and Colombian
no, I was a
Perfect match actually. Yeah that
Colombian is the
Choco Chiba, that's a real nice old
Colombian red
Did you do a headband Colombian also or something?
Yeah, I did. That was I
Got the headband from Radio Ridge also
Few more that really turned out good
Peter
Hold on someone needs a spelling of Zawad Neha some okay Z I
Knew I'm just gonna post it in the okay
There we go
Yeah, there you go
Z I H u a t a n e j o
Sorry, what what was the other one it was the headband cross I think I have yeah the redhead
Yeah, headband cross with a Colombian. I bet those are good, too. Oh boy. Yeah, that's very good
that's from
That guy's uh, you know, you know him right Dave
They had been right. Yeah, I
got a
Lumpa yeah, okay. Lumpa's headband. That's a good headband
right, it's
Underdog slash day record or something like that. It's a little controversial
Yeah, that's that's good. I can see the profiles harmonizing real good
Sorry who who had that headband cut what was his name?
Lumpa
Lumpa, okay
Yeah, and where's he based out of nor Cal guy I think the trend the emerald triangle area
Yeah, what did I have
He's I think yes
What's that? He's known for a lot of gas
Okay, yeah
Sorry, this is a headband cross
Can you see that that's a sour diesel I 98 and then that's crossed with a headband
No, I 95 or I 98
Sorry, I 95
I 98 yeah
Mike that breeds for top dog. He made the I 95
So yeah, I see what's going on with that cross
You'd like that headband Dave, oh, it's great. I've had it it's amazing. Oh you got it. Okay. Yeah
Yeah, that stuff was so strong one time. We were going up to
The Emerald Cup I got so torqued out. I was just gripping the whale as like a
You know vice grip driving with BAM and I just he's cracking up and I'm looking at him what the hell's wrong with you?
I'm just I'm just I'm just I'm just
Driving with BAM and I just he's cracking up and I'm looking at him what the hell's wrong with you, man
You ought to see your face
It's like you got to be a professional will smoke weed like that it's like Jaeger Meister of weed
Yeah
I prefer Jaeger Meister. I'm a weed a holic I guess. So yeah, I need Jaeger Meister to get me high
Trying to think of the last time I had shots of Jaeger it's probably high school
What's that I was drinking wine the last time I had that at a party
Here in town and I don't know why I got talked into drinking some of that and I puked my guts out of that sweet shit
I
Consider myself lucky. I've never liked the taste of beer. So I never started drinking ever I
Like to taste a beer
It looks so good though like grapefruit juice it looks delicious but I'm like, oh get that out of here
Yeah, I know when uh
when kovat
first hit and
I was like, oh my god, I'm gonna get that out of here
I was locked in this garage
24 hours a day and I have a fridge eight feet right over there
And I would just stock it with beer and I'd probably go through like a six-pack a day
And then like three years later, I'm still doing like the six pack a day and I was like I need to slow down
I haven't had a beer in a while. I
Guess I don't know. I just never liked the taste so never got into it
Not to say that I'm anti-alcohol beer guy, I just never liked the taste.
It's okay.
I haven't had a beer in a long time.
I enjoy them, but I haven't had one in a while.
Did you get a beer, David?
I kill a kombucha now.
I drink a lot of kombucha.
That stuff's gross, man.
I love it.
It's too peppery for me.
It's extra bubbly.
Bubbly water, five times the bubbliness.
I think it's super bubbly.
I think that's what gives it a little peppery.
Yeah, a little snap to it or something.
Water with gas is big in Europe and it's super bubbly like that, all their waters.
Vasa con gas.
They like the- Vasa.
Vasa, yeah, with gas.
They enjoy that stuff.
What were you going to ask, Michael?
I was going to ask, did you have anybody respond much to the Antifaruk Colombian?
Did you ever get any of that?
Yeah, no, I haven't.
Actually, that's a really nice Pakistani, actually.
I mean, I know I've sent some out.
I have probably like five packs left, but what you want to talk about the Antifaruk?
I found it online one day from ... Tell us again, name of that guy.
Anyway, it's a Pakistani and I liked the way it looked.
It was tight.
It looked like an Afghani, of course.
I crossed that with the Colombian also.
It turned out really nice.
For people that like purple, it turns purple.
I could care less about it.
If it turns purple, that's fine.
But some people, that's what they like.
If I was in a position to give everybody what they like, I think I'd be pretty crazy.
We don't segregate.
Right, Dave?
Yeah, we like everybody.
I make some purples and some new stuff.
There's been some lemon cherry gelato and rinse and stuff in this house.
Yeah?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Like I say, I don't segregate.
Good weed is good weed and your people are your people.
It's the combination of the both.
The question I wanted to ask earlier was the Burmese IBL.
What were you selecting for?
What was the kind of variance or diversity before you did what you did?
I grew that probably three seasons.
That also got some bubble gum out of the Burmese.
Also, for some reason, two years I got bubble gum and then the other I didn't.
I realized that it was a great breeding tool to pass on terpenes.
It was pretty actual floral and kind of incensey.
There's different.
I only did one selection and then I just kept it that way for a breeding stock.
I just picked out two beautiful males and I think I had like four or five.
I can't remember.
Four or five females.
They get pretty good size.
They're big.
I like it as a breeding tool.
It seems to work well with different things.
I'm going to be working more with them at some point.
It's interesting because I was thinking about that because I think it was Dave Scott.
I think it was on Facebook or something that he made a comment about using Burmese in certain
stuff.
That's why when I saw your Burmese, I was like, oh, someone was just talking about this.
I'd imagine Burmese strains are really rare, very difficult to get in and out of that country.
They're sandwiched right between India and Thailand and China's right above.
They're like right in the Mecca of all that area.
Fighting and all that.
Yeah.
Really special stuff there.
It'd be probably difficult to get.
You could probably get it out, but I don't think it'd be that easy.
The thing is, is foreigners can't go there.
You're going to have to know somebody there to send it to you because foreigners are not
allowed really to go in that country.
They have a lot of civil wars going on and whatnot.
They're coming.
They really don't like Americans.
I think originally that Burmese came from ... I got it from Bodie, but I think he got
it from ... What's that guy's name in Canada?
Biker dude up there.
Remember him, Dave?
The breeder guy?
Yeah.
Is that the green thumb or something?
Who passed away?
No.
I don't know if he passed away.
That's his name.
I think I know who you're talking about.
Early on, he had a lot of good land raise when he first got started.
It tells that guy's name.
Yeah.
He's kind of a controversial guy because of his beliefs?
Yeah.
They said he was controversial.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I forget his name, but yeah.
I don't know if he's still alive or not.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Anyway, that's-
We'll see if someone in the chat knows who you're talking about.
Yeah.
I think that's where Burdie got it.
You could say he probably was in America.
He'd probably vote for Trump, and I wouldn't be surprised if he wanted to invade the capital,
but he's Canadian, so right?
I was talking about reefer man before, Andrew.
Oh, yeah.
That's what you're-
Yeah.
Reefer man, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's-
Oh, that's who I was just talking about.
That's who you're talking about right now?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, it's the same guy.
He's in Jamaica.
Kind of controversial, you know what I mean?
He was in America.
He'd probably invade the capital building, but luckily, he was in Canada.
He's that kind of guy.
Are you Jamaican?
Let me in.
Well, whatever.
We haven't really traded.
We don't trade.
Or talk.
We talk a lot.
You talk genetic.
All right.
Interesting.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Dave doesn't want anything I got.
I want them.
Mike doesn't want anything I got, so it works out perfect.
Yeah, he won't give me any of his.
No, I think Mike grew the Vietnamese something.
He drew some Vietnamese of mine before.
It was the thing.
What was that?
It was the...
Vietnamese Mandarin.
Mandarin Vietnamese.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can't believe that thing finished in the yard tight big huge buds and it never molded.
Unbelievable.
And talk about getting wired up smoking that.
You don't even realize it and you're out pulling weeds in the yard for two hours.
Wait, so I need this.
What is this?
So this is the stuff that you shared with him.
Okay.
Yeah.
I crossed my lemon with fire and it came out Mandarin, just like Mandarin.
I had the Mandarin for a while, and then I grew the Vietnamese seeds. I got my dad's friend via Hawaii old
Vietnam Brotherhood guys grew those took that mail put it on the Mandarin that was the Vietnamese Mandarin
And I crossed that to white fire and
Something else that mail I did four crosses with that mail
I
Liked it I think yeah people like it some guys in Maine grew it they really liked it some of the other crosses
Yeah
Well the amazing thing of it is it finished here with our weather. I mean I normally can't
finish tight buds like that so I
Think the lemon influence because the lemon is really fast. Oh my god. It's fast
I mean if you go little plants in Rockwell
It's almost done at the end of five weeks
Seven weeks was too long when we were growing it so it was just like wow this is amazing
Every six and a half weeks. It's coming down. That's fast. Yeah, that is fast strange plant
Looks dead like a tangy
Won't get purple though from any kind of shock whether it will not go purple
It won't go purple, but it's dead lemons just like tangy is tangy, but it's like pink lemons
It has that same kind of hybrid II looks indica type of structure
So I got lemon kind of
5060% of all my breeding just because it tastes so good and it's so frosty
And it's so quick and it really leaves its presence
It's almost like you have to do a cross with it to something and then cross that to something because the lemon is so dominant
It just overpowers everything usually I
Have some ABC going outside right now I
Don't know ABC
It's the Australian bastard cannabis. It's the wacky the fern yeah
Wacky leaves I think the reason I don't grow mics is they probably sit in the fridge because I can't do
Really long for days and plants because I'm 80% indoors and that'll won't work out
so outdoor I can
but
It's my fault
I don't like to spray spinel sad and that's the only thing it gets rid of the moss because every year my plants get
decimated by worms
Subconscious
No sad so I don't want to spray spinel sad, so I just chased my tail
Yeah, I had massive worm damage last year. Yeah the
My Wally I had to pull about a week
I had a time because of worms they were just getting I couldn't get rid of a money is a
pheromone strip try and then maybe some
BCG that's next year I
I
Liked I had these Panama Red Crosses that finished in kind of January and what I liked about him was
They were kind of behind the caterpillar season
So like those didn't really get caterpillar
Yeah, if you could get it like December through February. It's a little too cold for him
Right those other months is this year's gonna be nuts with all the water we have we're gonna have bugs like we've never seen everywhere
Have the bug apocalypse and yeah, so Cal pesticide companies are gonna be loving it
Yes, so I went
Kind of in an area where like in August is just like
Topanga
Just the dryness so long so much of the year and then suddenly you get these spring rains and like
Everything comes to life for like the ten days. It'll be able to live. It's like it got a mate
got a procreate throw seeds off and then die and
Right now just in all those types of areas. It's so
It's so
It's so
Right now just in all those types of areas. It's so lush and it looks beautiful
Yeah, it's gonna last longer this summer. That'll stay green longer because there's just so much saturation
So it'll stay a little greener and then right I'm born in Cali. So, you know, what comes next will be
September October fire season and we'll probably have a
Devastatingly bad fire season if everything dries out too much because everything's gonna be overgrown
right
My side of the hill I've never had so many poppies and daisies right now
So they must have been dormant for a long time and all of a sudden when hey, this is the water we want
Which ones are the orange ones that just make season? Is that the poppies and daisies?
Okay. Yeah coming back from Big Bear. There were just like sides of mountain just had explosions of
Yeah, the orange flowers, yeah, that's awesome
It's glowing super and it's a combination of poppies and daisies
Right, and that's California State flowers the golden poppy
So, yeah, I know this this year will be tough
So if I want to do outside, I'm gonna have to really pay attention and go full bore spin a sad guy
Unless you have like a greenhouse to help keep those moss out
That's the ticket could you just build it like a
Yeah, just like a temporary like mosquito netting
Yeah, I don't I'm over a part of the airport where they turn and I just don't want to attract too much attention to this house
Like what's what's that new
Like be that guy where all the neighbors start going
Oh, he put up a greenhouse and then they get real curious and then I start drawing attention to this house
And I don't like attention
This mum's a word low-key, my name is putting tame I come and go as you know, and
But I'm quiet. I learned that right away. You're you're you're
unremarkable like if there were a
news report on something you did
The neighbors would be like he was so unremarkable
What I learned is just an average guy becoming friends with your neighbors is not good
You don't want to get too close
because
Right there in your business. Maybe when you don't want to be or right
It's just you don't want to get too close to your neighbors
If you're doing stuff like you're we're doing probably don't want to get too close to your neighbors
Because right they'll come over and knock on door. Hey, how's it going? Everything's friendly like normal people
But outside we're normal. But here we're like, whoa, got to put this away running around kids spraying stuff, right?
So I've learned not to get too close super friendly. Hey, what's up?
But yeah, I don't want to be the come to the party guy
And get real close to where people get comfortable just coming over right away or oh we saw that by your fence
Oh, we saw that by your fence, so we decided to do this all that kind of mumbo-jumbo
Or oh he's alright go ahead and park right
You got no place to park
Yeah
You believe can see it should go through a free cycle like I don't freeze them
But I keep all my seeds in the fridge and I think it helps I
Think it replicates nature
Yeah, right they mature at the end of the year it gets cold
They follow on the ground and they sit there till spring and when the ground warms up they go
And if you keep your seeds in the fridge, then they won't dry out your cells won't dry out. They'll be good for a long time
I don't
Freeze any seeds myself because I go in and out of my seeds too much and the condensation can mess them up if you're doing
that
Yeah, I'm a refrigerator guy
Good fences make good neighbors. I agree
Yeah
The other thing to right here the seeds you can't rip the seeds out of the nuggets and plant them right away
They won't grow seeds need to get cured
Yeah
This person outlaw asked me if I release
My Colombian pure I haven't
with that
Colombian I've been using
But I I may hear
At some point
All right, I missed whatever you guys were talking about but uh, there's a
Question for you. I have not had it tested. I
Didn't test anything this year this last year
I'm actually gonna start looking for another lab
Way past Salinas there was out there that came out
And they were pretty reasonable but kind of a long ways to go but
Like to get some of these tested especially these Thai plants
Especially these Thai plants and so this this Salinas ones like a couple hours away
Well
This is our hour and a half. It's the next
Yeah, it's a new we met him at a convention two or three years ago and they were just opening up a new lab
And who sorry who is that
The name
Escapes me for the moment I can let you know who that is
Okay, I have to look it up I don't remember I haven't tested anything with them in a couple years
There was a nice place in Alkice either but he got with the
Virus and everything it got to where people weren't paying him and then he kind of closed. I don't know if he's
Back up again
So so dot Don Irie is watching we got to get
Don is the guy we have to get on
Dono Dono needs to talk
Tomo
right
Dono and Tom Tom Tom legend legend, right? Let me see our legacy legs
and
His actual last name is like Tom's door Don get him on I
Know your phones wireless over there in Hawaii. They got satellites and stuff
And I just totally forgot
What were we just talking about
Classic we show right
Yeah, right
Fortunately people in chat can remind you where you
Yeah, see
Storing seeds and guys are asking does the cold have any effect on male ratios or whatever?
I just saw that in there. I think from what I heard from George Cervantes and other guys
warm germination and
induces males
Colder temperatures induce females. I don't know if it's true or not, but that's what those big boys are saying
Yeah, I'm not sure on that
Isn't that your friend yeah, that's my dad's buddy old old buddy. I
Have his chocolate tie, too
Storage of the seeds if the cells are moist, it'll work if the cells dry out the seed won't work
No, I
Yeah
Yeah, some of those seeds are really old he's got there I don't know if he's if they're in the refrigerator or not
I know he's got some real old ones. He's got some
Really old stuff from
super sativa seed club
genetics from years back and
Yeah, we're gonna he's gonna he's supposed to be trying some new auger to try and germinate some of those
I don't know if you got it or not
But do a little embryo rescue
Well guys, I'm gonna have to go
away
Let's do it
You guys we appreciate it
Now we can I got stuff to do too
Always good. I gotta go to the CVS
Curious
The curing seeds is when you
Pollinate and your buds are done and you rip the seeds out
You're gonna want to let them sit for a week or two weeks before you put them into the fridge or try to grow them
After that point you can either grow them or put them in the fridge for storage
Yeah, yes
Go ahead
Here quite a while before I put them away. I make sure they're dried out well enough before I put them away because
Some of them have those sheaths on there and
You know and if you put them away with those in there they could mold
Because it's still they're a little moist the sheaths on the outer part of the seeds
You don't circumcise your seeds Mike not normally days
Another thing too is I think the shell is pliable
So the seed can't push through the shell when the shell gets dry
Then it's able to crack from the crown around the seed. It's able to crack open and germinate
But if they're too moist, then they're they'll expand and then the embryo can't come out
I've grown seeds even recently. They were 20 years old though. I think they're in the fridge the last forever
They don't get moldy or moist though. They'll last forever
So Don the next show is whenever we decide to do it
I think I think we planned this one what this morning or last night was it last night now yesterday? I sent a text, right?
Yeah
Look at us today
Yeah, these are very spontaneous and it's just kind of whenever people can do it so
By with some of his Hawaiian buddies and you guys could talk Hawaii stuff with Dom
Yeah, Don you got a
You got to reach out and make it happen and
then get a see if Tom wants to
talk with these guys but uh
All right, well, you know this Peter
Yeah, no, I'll yep. I'll send it when we get off
Raja Don
All right. See you everyone
