The Cannabis Coutiné Podcast
Why hello, hello, hello, everybody.
This is your host, London Nero, back again for another Cannabis for Breakfast.
Hopefully you had a lovely Valentine's Day with your wife or significant other last week.
We had a great episode last week in the evening on cannabis for sex. I definitely asked some
of the most awkward questions ever done. We learned a lot. We laughed a lot. We had a
lot of fun. I definitely suggest going to check that out. I'm pushing the envelope
a little bit there over on FCP02, our second channel. It's a lot of fun and something
neat to check out. We are back in gardens today and we are checking out an Aeroponics
grower. She's a little bit out there for us. Let's invite up Frank and the team.
Frank and Joe, welcome, welcome, welcome. Sumo cannabis. I love the background. It's
nice and polished. I love it. Half the time people don't. It's very fun. Why don't
we start off with you guys introducing yourself a little bit, letting everybody know a little
bit about what exactly sumo cannabis is. What exactly are you guys? Who are you guys?
And located too, because you got a very neat location. Of course, we're Canadian and
this is a fully licensed facility, which is interesting for people to see. So go ahead.
Let me know a little bit about you guys. Hi everyone. I'm Frank and this is Jonathan.
We're the co-founders of Sumo Cannabis, which is situated in a small town between
Montreal and Quebec called Trois-Rivières. We've been running for a year now, but we've
been working on the project for quite a few years, more than that. So we're French Canadian,
so be patient with our English and accent. I love it. We need more French Canadians on
because you guys actually have a very neat, like it is a little bit of a separate Canada
when you go over to Quebec and you see French Canada, even from Southern Ontario to Quebec,
it seems like a different world sometimes. But there's a lot of similarities, but there's
a lot of these awesome things going in it. And I always get a little disappointed when
we don't get as much as we would like, whether it be a language barrier. So we're patient
and we're totally acceptable. I mean, we're cannabis folk. We're good to it. We're patient
people. Jonathan as well. Yeah, well, we, Frank and I was working in, for helping people
like I was a social worker and Frank is a psychologist. So we were working together
the same place. And when Justin Trudeau was saying, okay, I want to legalize the cannabis.
So we just work hard, make numbers and do it like finding money. So we worked hard for
the facility here, but now we have a year now that we are running and today we are packaging
our first 3.5 grams pot. So we are pretty excited. You're packaging your first batch
going out to market today. Yeah. That's a cool first episode, man. What are you guys
doing? You got your first packages going. How do you have the time to hang out with
us? So that means that we don't have time. We take time. So you're a social worker and
a psychologist. And one of the great things I love about doing the show is I get to get
to know people a little bit more. And one thing that I find that people that are in
your space that have put that much effort in and that much time in to get to where they
are to do that is a lot of work. And usually it's not. You're not just doing it for the
money. I mean, there's not really any money in cannabis right now when it comes down to
it anyways. It's a farming. It's an agricultural industry. There's not going to be a lot of
money in it, but you're doing it for the passion. And it sounds like as a social worker and a
psychiatrist, this was something that was a big part of your life. You were about community.
So it's clearly a little bit more about advocacy. Is there a point in time where it switch from
consumption of cannabis to advocacy for cannabis?
Well, when you say advocacy, you mean promoting it? I want it to be a... What do you mean
by that?
Like, wait, like by advocacy, I mean like someone that that like promotes the plant,
you know, like that's upfront and forward about it. That is not afraid to be a little
bit more bold. So, you know, kind of, you know, if you're growing, if you're running
a farm, you're definitely, you know, part of pushing that envelope forward.
Yeah, when we was working in the school, I was, we were like defending the plant and,
you know, just talking about, well, yeah, but alcohol is actually very common and we
don't make a lot of story about that. So the cannabis is like pretty safe and people were
at the beginning of the legalization and were like, oh my God, wait a minute, we have to
take it by, you know, like by risk and we accept the risk of alcohol in the society.
So it was fun to have some talk with people.
And during my studies to become a psychologist, I had some really, I had one nice course about
all the geopolitics around drugs. And that's why I was already a consumer and I was already
convinced that it should have been legal. But what went that course, I just realized
all the history behind the fact that it's, that was illegal. And as Joe said, just to
compare it with alcohol, which is a far more dangerous drug. Yeah, we've been advocators
for a while.
Yeah.
So what is it? I love that because it's, it is like, it's, it's part, one of the thing
cannabis has is a community driver. I find it drives people to come together as a community
and talk about what they're passionate about, maybe coming together over some challenges,
some adversities. I mean, cannabis being illegal for so long, it's been naturally pushed
into that envelope in that space. And the acceptability of what people do in the cannabis
space is awesome because they're just so nice. They're so friendly. They're so accepting
of each other, which has been really great. But one thing that we, we often get, I mean,
like Frenchie cannoli is huge. And for, for, for cannabis, for, for North Americans and,
and French Canadian or Canadians. And we look at French and I know, you know, we, we
think of French cannoli when we think about French culture and cannabis, you know, maybe
that's just, I'm just your basic white guy from, from the West coast. But that's usually
what pops up in our minds when we think about French and, and, and cannabis culture is,
is really great hash. Yeah. So my question for you as French Canadians, what do we see
as the culture there? What's the, what do you, what's the passion there? Is it, is it
around flower? You're, you're mentioning you have your first, your first apes coming to
mark, but is, is, is, is that the focus is around flower? Is there a great about a hash?
I want to know what, what's the French Canadian cannabis culture like? Are there, are there
events? Are there like cannabis competitions in your area? What's, what's it like in your
region and, and does the government make it easy to do things to create more culturing
community around it? A lot to cover with that question. Sorry. It's a big one. Let's
start with your last part, the, the government here. Well in, it's, it's surprising
because Quebec is known for being one of the most progressive province in all Canada.
Most of the time we've got some, but as, as for cannabis, it's the contrary. We, we, it's
the, we have this strictest rules here in Quebec compared to everywhere in Canada.
No, no leaf, no leaf visible anywhere. Right? Like they're not allowed, you're not allowed
to show a leaf.
Marketing is, there's no marketing allowed. We can't even go out with these caps on.
Really? You can't go out of your space without caps on. So things like this are great value
for you guys to be able to do because it's so difficult to be able to market.
We respect the law.
It's better, it's better to go with it. Some go with the water than fight it. Sometimes
I'll tell you what.
And another point is it's, you cannot sell any product over 30% THC in Quebec, even, even
for concentrate extract. So yeah.
So that just destroyed the hash market then.
Exactly.
No, you can't do hash.
And Sumo is, was born with that dream. Sumo is represent that, that power that, you know,
bang. And that's always, it's our goal to become, so we don't have to sell our good
products in Quebec if they don't want it. But we have, we have contacts in other
provinces. So to answer your first question, we're, we're growing slowly. We want to do
quality. So quality starts with flour and slowly but surely we'll get to ash making and
rosin making too. We like solventless extracts.
This is the main goal, but we have step to do.
To do, yeah.
At the beginning, it's flour that we have to do pre-roll in flour.
I think they say quality in, quality out.
So we're working on the input.
Yeah.
And we're pretty, we're starting to be pretty confident and satisfied about that.
And the next goal is going to be ash making and rosin.
So, so that like that, so I just want to touch on that back at that point there is in
Quebec, you're not, you're able to produce ash.
You're fully allowed to produce the ash.
You just can't sell it in your province.
Yeah, exactly.
We could produce flours at 34% THC.
We're allowed to do that, but we can't sell them.
So we have to go to Ontario or elsewhere.
That's interesting.
That's a really interesting challenge that you have to face there.
Cause there's a lot of high level consumers.
Like one of the things that we find in as a therapist, or even like a lot of doctors
that we talked about when we're talking about, you know, lose using medical, you
know, practices like you using it as a medicine on, you know, we're not going to
specifically talk about the same, but like Yodri, for example, brings up an amazing
fact is he talked about in California when he was a kid.
He talked about in California, when he had his dispensary, he had the compassion
program where the dispensary would give away cannabis to, to people that are dying,
you know, as, as, as a death aid, these, these people that are on their deathbed
with these major dosage of cannabis are really high.
Like they're, they're taking a lot of cannabis, whether it's digesting it or
smoking or consumption extracts and high dose products are critical for this group
of people that need them.
Yeah.
So, you know, I find it challenging when we look at like Canada, as we develop this
recreational market and then we create provinces and systems where they, where
they prevent people create challenges in those, in those routes.
What's your thoughts on that?
Like, is there, is it, is it just, is it just silly bureaucracy and people need to
need to stand up and say, Hey, this is just, this is just stupid guys.
Or is it like, you know, is there, is there some major hurdles to get in social,
socially wise to get there first?
But just to make a little nuance, we, the people in Quebec that are, that, that,
that have the chance to have a prescription, they're allowed to, to, to buy
any kind of product, higher product, but not, not in the, as they say, that the
distribution centers of Quebec, they have to go on the website and, and they're okay.
So they, they have access to that, those products, but for your question, yeah.
It's about the government in place.
We're pretty sure they're on that.
They're pretty conservative.
So I'm pretty sure that when the plaque is out of the picture, that the portrait
here will change and get closer to what we have in alcohol, because alcohol is
completely the other end of the spectrum with, in Quebec, there's a lot of drinkers
here and alcohol is easy to get.
Well, we, we've created this perpetuating culture of like, what do you do after
work? What do you do in your free time?
What do you do when you, when you don't have anything to do?
You go drink with your friends.
Yeah.
Right.
And, and, and it's just, it's, it's a culture mentality and, and, you know, it
was an example to go smoke pot with your friends.
You know, I hate using that term.
And, and alcohol is the only drug that you have to justify when, when you don't, you
don't take any. If you don't drink, you have to justify why you, why you don't drink.
That's weird.
Exactly.
Yeah, it's weird.
It's the weird issue.
Marketing's been a challenge and everybody's careful with marketing.
We have this big fear that we're going to throw, like, kids under the bus by creating
a font that's a little bit too alluring, you know, and stuff like that.
How is the dispensary side of Quebec looking?
Because one of the big challenges too is, is once you get your product into market, you
got to get it sold, right?
You got to get it into those end users' hands and get that turnover to happen.
But we find there's, there can be some challenges in these newer markets where there's
rules in place that make things preventative.
In BC, like, hash, like really high quality extracts, in my mind, in general, should be
kept in a freezer.
Not in my mind, but this is like from the best of the best.
It said like, this needs to stay at minus blah, blah, blah to prevent the volatile
organic compounds from breaking down and going elsewhere.
And, but it's literally just very specifically stated in the rules here that you can't buy
a freezer or a TV for a dispensary in lieu of something like, hey, you know, carry my
product, I'll buy you a freezer so that you have a proper place to store it.
We do things like that.
So it just, it creates an inability for maybe, you know, these small businesses that don't
have a versatile amount of cash to go buy a freezer to just sell it off the shelf.
Right.
Thus creating challenges with the product that don't meet the expectations of the end
user. Right. So what are there things like that that you see out there?
Or I mean, like.
There's a couple of things.
Jump in if you like.
First, it's not a an hybrid system like we I think you have in BC.
I think you have some government stores and you have some private ones.
Yeah, it's a split now.
Yeah. Here is just a government run stores and they don't have enough.
Really don't have enough.
98 stores in Quebec.
For the second largest province in Canada.
So that's the problem.
People can buy through the Internet, but people want to go and check product by
themselves. So that's a problem.
And about the fridge, they have fridges, but not freezer.
The fridge, the fridge are used for for beverage.
But put all the weed, put all the weed and put it in that fridge.
Exactly. Exactly.
Now it's all shelf, even ashes and keef.
And yeah.
Is it what the question is, is it a rule?
I think there's just the stores are set up that way.
And if even us as producer, if we said, I wish you kept that in a fridge, they'll say,
no, we don't have any.
So.
That's that, yeah, that's a problem here, but we have the possibility to sell
everywhere, even in Europe, so.
We'll wait for the rules here to change and to slack a bit.
So in your opinion, this is a great question from John Kinney.
He's asking, what are some of the terps that you see or flavor profiles that you see that you feel people really like in your area?
Like, what are you what's what's the flavor profile of the eight coming to market?
And what do you feel like the drive is in the market right now?
Good question.
The way I see it now is unfortunately.
The market seems really not educated enough.
So a lot of the thing is around THC, how much THC is in the product.
So even the terpene profile here, I don't I don't find that people are that much educated or even interested in it.
The real user, the smokers are real used to that.
They'll check at least the percentage of terpene and the products.
But there's not a it's a good question because I don't I don't think there's a real trend here in Quebec about terpenes for now.
Sad, but we'll get there.
We'll get there, right.
It's an education piece and people don't get it.
And and I find that one thing that I find is that when you go to really high THC levels, like you go over 21 ish percent, you limit yourself to like two.
You get like gas or you get fruit.
You know, like those are your two like like like citrus fruit, like those are the two.
And the problem is, is that cannabis is like kind of an exploratory thing.
Like people don't I've never run into something that I I want to smoke all day, every single day.
Maybe that's maybe that's the connoisseur in me that wants to explore and try different things.
But a lot of people that I know also don't consume one thing every single day.
They love changing it up.
They actually always change it up.
Right. Yeah.
A bit like wine.
Exactly. So I wonder, you know, like what's like how long it's going to take before people get bored of those two flavors that are in the high end THC, right?
Like we did the Unicorn Cup recently last year.
We had the second place winner was a one to one.
It was 16 percent and and CBD and 12 percent THC.
So it was like interesting that when you take when you take it in blind and make it a blind testing, that it never usually gets those high THC winners.
I like seeing all those cultures as well.
I'm excited to like check back with you guys and like over the years, do like, oh, man, everybody's going towards fruit and berry now.
Or it's like it's like nobody gives a shit about THC anymore.
Yeah, I think people like make an equation with the high THC will equal a higher buzz or a better trip experience, which is really not the case.
The terpenes are that have a lot to do with that, too.
And just the people have to learn that once they do that, they'll they'll say, OK, I can have a better experience with a 20 percent than a 30 percent flower.
So. But I think it's just that the equation is the more the better, the more than there is exactly in the more.
And it's also like getting new people to try stuff, right, like getting new new folks interested in cannabis and like getting them to try things out, because like there's there's a passion cannabis works out there forever and they're going to smoke cannabis.
But it's like the ones that need it that haven't explored it yet are always where I find it exciting or like people that that find something new in cannabis is always very fun and enjoyable.
So what are what are some of the cultivar?
I mean, we're going to get into the farm in a bit because we are going to tour you a little bit shortly.
But why don't we talk a little bit beforehand about your your methodology?
Like, are you going like what what type of system are you growing in?
And what's your average flowering time?
And and how do you guys like to harvest and finish your product before we get into the tour?
We'll probably talk a little bit more in depth about these things, but give us the nice overlay of workflow of your farm at this point in time.
I would say first we grow in our reponic system, so there is no any soil, any any rockwool and anything so that the roots are are in the air and we spray them regularly.
So and we control everything automatically with with sensors and all that stuff.
The good thing on that is is that we see that we do faster for for the flower time.
Like maybe we can cut five or or a week, five days or a week faster than than we would do.
And it's also like my cleaning and we don't have any soil to buy.
We we save the nutrients.
We can do a very nice flush on the roots at the end of the cycles so we can put it on all the nutrients in the plant.
It's it's easier to do that in our reponic.
So and we do like you talk about what is your average, it's it's getting better every every harvest.
We are not at the point that we can say, OK, we do that like that each time because we are, you know, trying different genetics.
We so it's hard to say, but we we aim to do 160 kilograms per room per harvest.
That's our goal.
Ultimate goal.
But we're not there yet.
Big, big, fat, hairy goal.
We already always got a hell of them.
Yeah, but but we we are getting there each time we harvest.
It's better. The quality is better.
The size of the nuts are bigger.
So we we are pretty happy about that.
So, yeah.
Yeah. And you will see all the facility in a couple of minutes.
Awesome. And then what was what was was there a particular I think maybe maybe you touched on it.
Maybe you could go a little bit more in depth on it.
Was there a particular reason why you went aeroponics?
I for one, I really like like we got a very large regenerative community that follow us on future cannabis, brought a lot of organic guys, a lot of soil guys.
But I really I love seeing all the different systems.
Aeroponics, I find very, very interesting because a the trace like you can really track what's happening in aeroponics like nutrient intake and levels and exactly what's happening in the plant at all points of time.
I find that really, really cool.
Root health.
Root health.
You got root health.
It's an amazing, measurable thing.
You can change one number, one factor, one digit and get a whole different plant.
Right. And the thing is, is it's consistently usually repeatable.
So I like aeroponic systems, and when we're looking at like studying plants and testing plants and and also maybe producing them in some of these in some of these more interesting or unique environments, the there's always a need for for new methodologies and stuff like that.
So I love aeroponics in this fact.
And that you can take one thing and add it to the system.
And it's very easy to measure your calculated goals and what would have happened throughout the plant cycle, which is very cool.
Is there a specific reason why you picked your system?
When we were looking everywhere, you know, on LiveExpo, everywhere in the world to find what we were thinking was the best in aeroponic because of the time.
It's most of the time.
The biggest reason is the time that we save.
It's cleaner.
So and all the economy on water and nutrients and electricity.
So, yeah, those those factors have made us decide the system.
And after that, ESS for us was like the more reliable system for now.
Because we used to grow with my own permit, my own medical permit.
We tried. We were pretty comfortable with Rockwool too.
But Rockwool, I don't know if you have other information about that, but Rockwool is not that eco-friendly.
So your grand great, great, great, great, great grandchildren will inherit your Rockwool at one point or another.
It is absolutely not.
And we would have produced a lot of those and put it in the garbage.
So we don't have a lot of, you know, we just have a small bin outside and we don't produce a lot of garbage.
So this this is a good thing to just to to be efficient.
And the aeroponic is a challenge.
We don't want to sell it like it is.
I just plug and play it.
I compare it to F1, the Formula car, you know, it can go real fast and be, but it's real technical.
You got to tune it fine.
So or else you're not your first car, not the first car you drive.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
Exactly. And the experienced driver, which we have now, and we're pretty happy about him.
I mean, it's cool.
You got to push the envelope and running those type of things are always interesting.
That's fun. So what we're going to do is we're going to take a little moment and we're going to take a break here.
We're running about 30 minutes.
We like to run the show about an hour.
I'm going to take a little break here, check in on the rest of the community and other things going on.
We're going to set up the other camera and we're going to get a good tour of their facility and check out other things.
I believe you guys are under LEDs, if I'm correct.
Nugs Champa was asking.
So we're going to check out they're under LEDs and we're going to roll through their facility, have a fun tour and get into that.
So you just hold on one moment and we will be right back after these messages from me, I guess.
Thank you. Thank you.
So you need Joe to stay here?
No. Yeah. Joking.
Set up and go to the other one and sign in and stuff.
I'm going to do that.
OK, whichever.
So do we close this one or you?
And we are slowly getting back in as they get suited up.
I forgot in Canada, you got to put on the big outfit.
So I do have you.
And that's just a quick one.
That was a who you were fast.
Yeah, man.
Which is awesome.
Do you think you could switch your phone to landscape, like turn it sideways for me if possible?
Of course.
I'm just trying to.
Our camera.
Yeah, I do.
Will be this on the bottom, this setting, you see the little gear.
If you click into that and go camera, there's a scroll down thing that will say front or back.
I don't have that setting.
Oh, it should be.
There you go.
Yep, yep.
Oh, I can just.
Can just turn my phone the other way.
Either way.
OK, so everything is pretty secure here to wash.
It's here where we wash our hands.
I'll do it pretty quick.
I won't touch any cannabis.
So this is the long, long corridor when we come into the facility.
Awesome.
And one thing that we find, like, so you got it, you have a very strong entering the building IPM protocol, right?
When you have such sterile, clean environments like this, I imagine like any any entrance of anything is high risk.
Yeah, exactly.
And we need access to everywhere.
So, yeah, it's really secure.
And we have SOPs for everything here.
Very clean.
Yeah.
Look at the shine on those walls, guys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And on the floor, too.
Spotless.
So here at Delaf, we've got the post production, where is the drying and trimming and our safe is there, too.
And here's the production area.
I'm going to show you the propagation room.
There's no plants in there because we just transferred them to to the flowering room.
So the machine is just taken apart just to have a good clean up.
So cool.
That'll be neat to see them.
We've seen them whole.
We don't get to see them when they've been taken apart a little bit.
It'll be neat.
I'll show you that right now.
I don't know if you see.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, they look quite a bit different because they're usually paneled up all on the sides, tops and bottoms and everything.
On those trays here.
So that that's where the little cuttings take their roots.
And it's by Aeroponic, too.
We start them off with the Aeroponics here.
And we've got two of them, two machines for that for now.
Everything is starts from here and that.
And that tub here where the nutrients get mixed up and they go through all the machine.
OK, so that's your mixing station and that'll automate.
So how many clones will come out of that one rack?
Every every rack here has 73 clones.
So so you have as you see, you have four layers.
Of of of nine trays like that.
And we have both sides.
So there's a lot of space for clones.
Yeah, it's like, well, I don't have I don't have the number by my heart, but it's like nine times 63 times for
times eight per machine.
So it's a lot.
So that's for the propagation.
And how long do you find you keep your clones in this propagation stage?
Do they go pretty quickly?
Do they come out pretty fast, like from cutting to planting in the next room?
How long do they go?
Most of the time, what we see is about in about a week, roots are are out and about in about 10 days or they're
prepared to go to the other room.
And we and we we we find that we could just keep them there for three days on bed stage.
And after that, we switch in the flower.
So in that from from the cutting to the getting into flowers about two weeks and it's done.
OK, cool.
So that's very quick turnaround.
Yeah, pretty quick.
When everything goes well, there is pretty quick.
Well, that's life farming.
It's a bit of a gamble.
Here here's our washing bay.
So got Francis here cleaning up things.
There's a lot of cleanup here, so we don't.
Yeah, well, you have to put a large amount like they're saying, like hospital clean.
It's kind of like things coming through the the comments.
And it's like this is like in an aeroponic facility when you have this type of systems like back to like a little bit of
bacteria, like the wrong type of bacteria in the wrong place.
You know, like a couple of spider mites, anything that comes off of clothing, anything that might be left over from last
time, like these are huge deals.
And one thing that comes up is also in systems like this.
It takes a lot of cleaning and there's a lot of pipes.
So do you use any sort of specific product for cleaning the lines or for the aeroponic cleaners?
Yeah, as you said, I just want to we we as you said, there's a lot of so we don't have soil and we don't have to clean up
after that, but we have a lot of pipes cleaning to do because if they get dirty up, it's going to show on our routes really
quick that the the products we use for cleaning is a lot of what they call it's a French Canadian company that that
sells us some biochlorists and we have some green clean too that we use for for cleaning up the air system.
Cool, cool, cool.
And then so one of the other things is systems like this, these are these are fully electrical systems.
These aeroponic rooms, right?
And while you're in between the rooms, because I know it's a little bit loud in there.
What is the do you guys have like a backup generator and a backup generator?
We have two double backups.
Well, we have two.
So, yeah, we have two generators and and we we had the chance to use them this this winter.
We had a power shortage and it allowed us to verify that they work really well.
There was no no no issues, no problems.
We're pretty happy about that.
But yeah, we need those.
Yeah, especially if you're rural Quebec and the power goes down like holy crow in a facility like that, you lose everything.
Right. Like every like how how long would it take for for things to go bad with power off?
Well, we thought that we had like a really narrow window for that at the beginning.
We thought that we had like three hours and everything would be dead.
But by talking with other LPs that use Essence, they they pushed they did some tests and they pushed the envelope up to eight hours without any issues.
The problem is, well, the the thing is that once the plants are pretty big, they they they develop like a carpet of roots at the at the bottom of the tubs.
So this helps because the water don't want to just drain right away.
They stay a bit like a deep water culture, not that much, but just a bit enough to keep them moist and make them survive.
But we have to they will they will get stressed and it won't hurt.
And we need to to turn around quickly when there's a problem like that.
It's awesome because like it's interesting to see, but like I imagine clones are like you get like freaking a day.
With that being said, like a fresh cut clone kept in a cool environment will last quite a bit, quite a while.
You're in like rural Quebec, too.
So I imagine if your power ran out in the middle of winter, you just open all the doors.
You know, like this is getting real cold, you know, like it would slow things down enough.
OK, so where are we?
Where are you going to show next?
What are we jumping into next?
Here is one of our two mother rooms.
We used to have mothers here, but the.
We did.
Pain and just some clothes from a from another producer.
So but here we got some little
things that we had from a tissue culture.
There's a company that made tissue culture with one of our strain.
They cleaned it up.
It's a super lemon Bruce.
So it's a mix between Bruce Banner and the super lemonade.
And so we did some cuttings here.
So the room is pretty empty for now, but soon it's going to be full of those SLBs.
So those super, super lemon grooves.
Oh, yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy.
That sounds delicious.
So here is the door.
You got two doors here.
That's going to be our two next doors.
That's going to be our two next flowering room.
There are in the project for now.
There's nothing in there.
But these are going to be two other flowering rooms.
But we'll go into a flowering room right now.
Cool.
Ron says stoked your generator turned on, because that's like that's
that's always the clinch man.
I mean, we were talking with with the rare in Michigan,
and they think they ran into like a switch or a power issue.
And they're like, yeah, even though you don't lose necessarily the plants,
like four to five hours of loss of flow of your plants like can slow them down.
And when like the big goal is to shave five days off of your total grow time
by switching aeroponics, it's kind of like that's that's a big detriment.
Yeah, it is. It is.
Well, I'm going to go into a flowering room.
This one is we got pretty small flowers.
I mean, plants, because they're the one that that were in the propagation
a few days ago.
But there's going to be a lot of noise, so maybe we'll have problems
hearing ourself, but I won't stay there.
I'll show you a bit of
of the of the room and I'll go outside for us to talk more.
OK, I'll mute your mic so you can take a little bit of time and show us this stuff
so we won't hear too much of the feedback noise.
But if you can hear me, give me none.
So we have a I don't know if I don't know if you can hear us.
Yeah, you can actually come through.
OK, we have a four layer system.
So there's a you see our our
our workers are are working in sky jack lifts
because they have to do to go four layers off.
So this is our.
They're not that small.
No. And so these whole shelves move.
Yeah. So these are.
Like in the archives,
you can move the road, you know.
Don't squish the poor man.
So how many do I see in the beds there?
One, two, three.
I'm going to go out because I can't hear you.
There we go.
Sorry. Holy smokes.
I wasn't expecting four stories of plants
in aeroponic. That's pretty
singular and particular.
Yeah. Well, when square footage becomes a challenge in Canada
because every square foot is expensive, just stack it.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
I'll go in the other one.
Lo Lugo, we're in Quebec.
We're in Quebec, Canada.
Oh, here we go.
So this row has been harvested, but these are about two.
So here we. I'm going to try to show you.
Very cool.
This is the air in system.
Well, probably.
Frank, what day of flower are these at?
Sorry. What day of flower were those plants at?
I'm going to go a little bit further away.
Yeah. What day of flower were those plants at?
Where? Say that again, sorry.
What day of flower were those plants at?
Oh, there. The last one we saw, there's about a week left before harvest.
OK, cool. So they're just finishing up their bulking stage there.
Then did you want to maybe go back to the other spot
and we could go in there or did you want to show your processing area
before we do a close out of the show?
Of course, of course.
So in this room, what you saw is some apex OG and triangle cush.
Both both.
Strange. How often do you have to change your filters?
Every every time needed, but every grow, we just replace everything.
What do you mean the HVAC filters?
Evolve just said filters, but HVAC is probably my guess.
HVAC is done regularly by our maintenance guy,
but we have also filters with the essence grow for the water, too.
So these get cleaned up a lot of times
when we are talking about our small destruction room.
It's just that little space here.
It's not that big, very little.
So you guys have separate processors.
This is just the destruction room.
So we have to every time we in Canada, every time we
we throw away leaves, even families,
we have to destroy them.
So we have to grind them or mulch them
I think with the cat litter.
And I didn't I didn't expect that the destruction of cannabis
would be such a management thing in the cannabis industry.
It's ridiculous. Yeah, it's fucking moronic, man.
Like, like it's it's really stupid.
It's leaf. It's green matter.
Compost outside back like just what are you going to do?
What's the leaves going to do, man?
Exactly. What do you got? Nobody wants that.
Yeah, nobody wants your crap.
You know, like, oh, yeah.
Here we got our two drying rooms.
There you have some some some stuff drying.
We hang dry here.
I like that. I like that.
And it looks like you're stripping a bit of leaf off, but not much before the hang.
No. Yeah, we not that much, though.
Yeah. And we bought it after that.
We'll be the balking stage and the trimming after that.
We have some clients in Europe that just they they want it like that
because they had to do the the trimming and the balking themselves.
But yeah.
And here.
Is our trimming room.
There's nobody here for now, but we we work with Mobius
trimming machine just to have a quick first run.
But after that, it's mostly hand trim to finish the product,
to have a good product.
Yeah. You got to keep that dollar that dollar price point low, right?
That cost of dollar production is low as possible in machines like that,
even though they won't do the job like when it comes to like
that level of quality that we're looking for.
It'll do the it'll get things rolling.
You know what I mean?
Like when you're doing that much, like you don't need somebody like
that that takes up three people's jobs and you can have one person going through
and checking through and and making sure that everything's nice
instead of the other way around.
And that being said, when I'm home growing, you know, I'm like,
I'm a hound trimmer type guy. I don't like rolling stuff around.
But everybody like every every system has its way.
Every place has its thing.
And every every, you know, son has its day, I guess. I don't know.
Yeah, but we do like like to finish our product with then trims.
Just make sure that it's a good quality.
I said, yeah, that's about it.
It's about it. We've got here are our safe.
Which is a pretty exclusive access.
Oh, exclusive.
This is where all the fire is.
This is where you don't destroy the cannabis.
Wink, wink, nudge, nudge. Yeah. Wow.
So we have a lot of cannabis waiting around to be trimmed or to be shipped.
How long like so you guys have just started production in the last little while.
Like how long do you guys
does it usually before it moves out?
Like your cure process is like probably six, eight week period,
like two months and then it gets out.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's you're you're about right.
It depends on, of course, on the harvest and a lot of things.
But yeah, you're pretty much that's pretty much it.
Yeah. And that's time to let me have that cure out, but not so much.
It's going to degrade. Right.
Like that's kind of the thing that we see here
and that we've actually seen a lot of the far the purchasers
change their route a little bit going towards the idea of like, hey,
let's purchase enough for what we need and then make another smaller purchase
a little bit later so that we have a constant flow of fresh product.
You know, that means that some some of the best fire
we'd have ever had in the world is well-trimmed cannabis.
But every strain in every plant is unique.
So like some don't cure out and they taste terrible after a year.
But some you absolutely have to wait here before you you smoke them
because it's insulting. Otherwise, the flower is my.
So what about like what do you find for the market?
This is what people are looking for is that fresher cannabis to as well.
So what have there been a lot of challenges in setting up the facility
and then and then after that, we'll run down and kind of let us know
about where we can find support and check out more about Sumo.
Of course, it's it's a challenge in Canada because of all the rules and
and the way it's set up.
You can't end them in the beginning when I started the
the project and I talked to Joe about that.
My mind was like I was I was watching what was what was happening in Colorado.
So I was I was naive, but I was I thought
it's going to be kind of the same structure.
But no, it's not.
You can't you can't have a mama's papa's shop here.
It's it's really hard.
You need to be at least we're not that big in Canada,
but it's pretty much a big setup for me at least.
So you have to the way the laws are set up.
You have to you can't even have a mom like you can't have a relation
in the ownership or in the leadership of the business on your security side.
Right. Like you have to have separation.
So you have to have a board of five people to run a business like that.
Yeah, exactly.
And and it's all private money because we want
no no banks or no banks will
finance that kind of project.
Once you're up and running and you show your profit profitability,
you'll have help.
But at the beginning, it's that's the I'd say that's the biggest challenge.
Just run all the country,
put all everything up and run the operation until we get some money.
It's all private money.
So that's a big challenge.
It's not easy.
So how can we as a community support what you guys are doing in Quebec?
Where can we find you and learn more about you and your brand?
We have our websites and
Sumo can smoke and it is that calm.
And we also have a Facebook, Instagram page.
It will be selling our cannabis in Quebec
and it's QDC in April, about an April.
And same thing in the OCS in Ontario.
It's going to go out around April.
So if you want to go and check that out, we're pretty confident
you'll like our products.
Awesome.
That's great.
Well, thank you so much for coming on the show.
When I'm out and out in the area, I'm going to try and dip up for a visit.
I think it's like an eight hour drive, but I'll be able to come up and
and pop in to Quebec because I'm going to do that anyway.
So, yeah, if you are in.
So what provinces are you listed right now?
In Canada, we're we're listed in Quebec and Ontario for now.
But once our production gets bigger,
we'll try to reach out to at least BC and in the West.
And as I said, we have some contacts in Europe.
So we're about to sell to Germany, too.
Oh, cool. I'll be in Germany in a bit.
But that's that's really interesting.
And so if you are in Ontario or Quebec right now
and you don't see their product listed.
Requested at your local dispensary and help them get it listed,
every little bit helps, you know, in Ontario, it's a little bit easier
because their model is a little bit different, but in Quebec, regardless,
go in and ask, make sure they have it stocked in their station
because they have to order a purchase stock.
And those big things help out small businesses like yourself
that are trying to get things rolling.
Like you said, it's not exactly built for a small business.
The way that the government legislation is designed.
But thank you again, Frank.
And thank you very much.
Don't let Jonathan know.
Thank you so much for coming on the show.
We appreciate it.
And we look forward to growing with you again.
It was our pleasure.
And come and visit us anytime you want.
Awesome. Happy growing.
