And I affectionately call this the early bird conversations.
Since the average age is veering
into early bird special territory, affectionately.
So welcome everyone.
Thanks for, so we also have Kagyu
who should jump on shortly, hopefully.
But Bob, you were just talking about seed interactions
with that Dave and sending seeds back and forth.
I think I was looking for something with the lemon, right?
You didn't call it lemon, you just called it the lemon.
Is that right, Dave?
Yeah, it's the lemon, yep.
That's just what it was always been known as.
So why you changed the name, right?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I think you might, I know you got the Mai Tai
which was Big Island Hayes crossed with the mango,
crossed with the Cambodian Thai, crossed with the lemon.
And then you sent me, I don't know,
30 or 40 seeds of some kind of chem.
And then when I told you what I got,
you realized you sent that wrong package to me
and I ended up sending them back to you
so that you could send them to somebody else.
Yeah, there's been a few times where people said too bad
and they don't send them back.
So yeah, thanks a lot, I appreciate that.
Sounds a little more common actually.
Yeah, I ran the lemon and the Hayes
and then I still haven't got to them
but you sent me a few of the Calio
times the original Hayes also.
Oh, those are really good.
Yeah, I ran some Calio and hit the Panama with them.
I actually hit the Panama red
with five or six different orange strains.
They all seem to come out really well
so I concentrated just on the orange stuff.
Dave up top, Alaska Dave, you know,
you're right.
You're muted Dave, you muted yourself.
If you tap on the, you see that little microphone icon?
Yes, perfect.
Dave, you know Frank, right?
We're in Fairbanks.
Yeah.
So he spent two years I think,
searching orange strains.
Do you remember that a couple years back?
Yeah, yeah.
So he went through and I ended up getting
the original Calio from him.
He sent me a cut but I think he spent two years
and went through at least eight
or nine different orange strains.
He was on a kick where he was just looking
for orange and orange and orange.
I sent him a couple of things to search too
so I remember he was looking through about a dozen.
Was it a dozen?
Yeah, he did that for about two years.
So, and he did a cross apeshit orange
that came out of AK that I tried.
I ran that, that came out pretty well.
That actually added some potency to his.
But when he ran all the oranges for, I don't know,
year and a half, two years, he ended up coming out
actually kind of recently I think in the last month or so
talking about how probably the best orange he'd had
was the bag of orange from Useful Seeds.
Yeah, so and Useful and I have been doing stuff
for a few years so he gave me a whole bunch
of the bag of oranges which is a fem.
And I'm trying to think what was that?
I think that was Bodie's Blood Orange
and then Tangerine Power from Sin City.
And he bred it, then ran a whole bunch,
found one that he thought was the best orange he'd seen
and then S-1'd it.
And that was the bag of oranges.
Always sells out pretty quick.
He's, he moved around so he, I don't think he had anything
on the market for the last year or two
because he physically moved quite a few states away.
But I found a really, really nice one
and I bred that to the Panama Red
that came from John's Snow High Stock.
And that's how I got these.
I call it, not very creative, bag of oranges
and Panama Red so I called it Booper, B-O-O-P-R
because that's kind of what it is.
Yeah.
So the funny story on this one,
just to give you a little background on the one plant,
I literally am taking down a plant today
and I took one bud and I got 55 seeds.
I'm probably gonna get 1,200 to 1,400 seeds
off a tented plant that I'm taking down today.
And on the Booper, there were four that we selected
out of a few packs, four females to do the final run.
And I seeded the Booper and then left it with a friend
just to finish it off, let it go through the time.
And when I harvested the plant, and this is no lie,
I started at the bottom and I just crushed everything.
I figured I'd keep the keef and all the weeds gone
because I was looking for seeds.
On the very last apical bud, the very top bud,
I found one seed.
So I went through the whole process and got a single seed
and that's all I got.
So on that one seed, that was the Booper.
That was the bag of oranges times the Panama Red.
So you get a thousand or a couple thousand seeds
and you go through and you do all these selections
and all the search criteria.
And then I get one plant where I got one single seed
and it ended up being an absolute killer plant.
That's the one Peter just showed.
So those are the seeds that I just sent to Peter at Dagger.
But yeah, it came from a single seed
and the weed was so good.
I still have the mother that I S1'd it
and created, I don't know, a little less than a thousand
seeds and the ones I sent over for him
to help the FCP, that's kind of the last batch.
Eventually I'm gonna go back and probably hit it
with some type of Calio and try again.
But yeah, it turned out to be a really, really nice plant.
Stinks of orange and then has this background of spice in it.
So it's really spicy orange.
It's really kind of unique.
It's really, really nice plant.
And luckily I've not lost that in the last few years,
but Peter, you kind of wanted me to start off on the seeds
and talk about that Panama and that Bupra.
So that's really the story on that one.
It was also, that's why I asked Dave Pope.
It's kind of nice to see all the work
that Frank did up in Fairbanks,
spending all the time going through those orange drains
and he came out pretty much with the same plant I did.
So kind of interesting.
Yeah, sorry, Dave, I'm muting you when you're not talking
because we're hearing like ambient noise, I guess.
Like what kind of noise?
Like a...
There's a fan on, let me go turn it off.
Yeah, it could be the fan.
And then let's see if...
Cogu, can you hear us?
Yes.
Amazing.
I don't know why I got the picture there.
Your video is not working?
I just have a picture of myself, my son
and my granddaughter there.
I don't know how that came up.
Yeah, it's a good picture.
That's a good picture.
Yeah, well, let's see here.
Hey, shut up.
There we go, amazing.
So Golden Coast, Dave, some of the topics
you had wanted to venture into hazes
and stuff like that, right?
We can go wherever.
Yeah.
I just know Mr. Dave from Alaska,
he's got all those awesome catalogs
and I know he has grown some of those genetics.
So man, we can go anywhere.
All the Super Sativa Seed Club stuff, right?
Yeah, a little bit of it I've grown out,
but yeah, I know a lot about it.
Yeah, I don't know many people have been fortunate
to be able to grow that seed stock,
you know what I mean?
Do you know D-Hash?
Excuse me?
Do you know D-Hash?
Dwight, he was a friend with Neville,
a good friend with Neville for like,
since late 90s, he's Canadian.
But yeah, he just finished off one of the Williams Wonders
and sent me back pictures of it.
You know, it's really, that's a really cool strain
that SSSC put out and I reproduced the seed from some
that was saved from original stock and reproduced
and sent to me and that's a really cool old strain.
I ended up meeting the guy who produced
the Williams Wonder to begin with
and lives there in Williams still.
I think they pronounce it Willam, really,
instead of not Williams, but he still lives there.
Dave Stanley, he's like 76,
but he's the one that actually put that together,
brought up his seed stock from Santa Cruz in 68
when he moved to Oregon and then met a local grower
40 miles away in Wonder and had an Afghani
and they put their, he told me it was O'Hawkins stock
that he brought up from Santa Cruz
from import budget they were getting.
You know, he sent me a bunch of these old bootleg,
kind of hippie pictures of them sitting on top of bricks
and shit that they didn't part of.
They were cool ass old outlaws, you know.
That's Mr. Mike down here, Santa Cruz guy.
Yeah, yeah, these guys were probably in the same,
running in the same circles,
because in 68 he was 18 years old.
Yeah, that's Mike, and he built Troublemakers.
Yeah, he was 18 years old in 68
when he led out of Santa Cruz
and then moved up to Williams there.
And he's been, he's got so many stories.
You know, he's best friends with Willie Nelson's bassist
and they've still been friends,
even though they're just like old timers now.
But you know, he used to vacation with Willie in Hawaii
for two to three months over the winter.
And then, you know, he'd both bring a suitcase of weed
that he said, that's what Dave was telling me.
And they'd smoke all winter and compare their bud and shit.
But that's how Willie's weed became about,
was from stock that Dave Stanley brought over there
to Hawaii and gave to him probably in the,
probably early 82 or something like that year.
But yeah, there's some crazy stories
that old guy told me about all the times that they had.
They'd go around to tour with those, with Willie Nelson.
And he's got a ton of stories, that old guy.
We had to get him and Kagyu together
and do an old timers catch up.
Yeah, what's going on up there in Santa Cruz?
We're hearing all these great stories.
Did you come across what he was talking about, Mike?
Well, I ran across some of those seeds not too long ago,
but I haven't grown them though.
I don't know if they were reproduced
or they're the original ones,
but I was always interested in that strain.
And also I've worked a little bit with the
Capcani number one,
which sometimes they'd called it Super Sativa one,
but there was a little discrepancy on there on dates.
So I don't, I'm not really sure.
Yeah, when did Super Sativa seed club
first release their stuff?
84, I think, 82, 84.
First catalogs that I have are from 85 and 86.
So they were probably established before that,
where a few were on vacation over there
that you could run into the star.
Yeah. Yeah.
Cause they were like out lost pedal
and shit on the streets.
You know, they were running trap houses
and who knows what was going on before they were official.
I know Mel Frank did make Afghani one,
the one that's classified as Afghani one.
He made that in Massachusetts.
In New York area, along with the Durban.
Was that the sacred seed stock?
I would think so because right,
it went to Holland and all those guys
were getting their hands on it.
All those guys are playing with it.
Yeah, both Neville and the SSSC,
the seed bank and SSSC had the sacred seed stock logo
on their original Afghani one offerings.
So after that, cultivator's choice, I mean,
and then after that, they kind of both went their own way.
Yeah, cause you know, like in Neville's catalog,
he calls it like Kiber, right?
He has different names.
He called it M10, I think.
Oh, and Neville, I forgot what Neville called the Afghani one.
Well, I think they had like Kendo, Kiber, Afghani one.
I bet the Afghani one was sourced through Mel Frank though.
And then the other ones were ones maybe they collected.
Yeah, I'm not sure on that Afghani one.
That's an interesting subject right there
cause it's called M10 for the SSSC stock,
but Neville kept calling it Afghani one
and then maybe something else, I'm not sure.
I think it's the same thing.
I'm not sure though, but I was in Afghanistan,
Afghani number one originally came from Mel Frank,
but I don't know for sure.
You know, it's real distinct, right?
Nog Chompa, it's got that real Nog Chompa incense smell
and the genes dominate,
no matter which way you go with that thing,
it overpowers everything.
Yeah, it's, the Afghani number one is strong.
I've used it a little bit.
I'm gonna be working a little more with it,
with some male pollen this season, I think, or I may.
Still up in the air on what I'm even doing this year.
And speaking of super sativa seed club,
the Friesland, right?
That one's real orangey.
That'll be good for the Boston Bob Orange crew.
Which one's that, Friesland?
Yeah, I haven't tried it,
but I heard that one's very citrusy, orangey, orangey.
What, do you know where it comes from?
Super Sativa Seed Club, old stock.
You got that one, Dave?
Not Friesland at all.
I have, I've had Bush Brothers Friesland,
which is a cross of like Pluton and the Friesland.
Okay, so that would mean the cross of the original, yeah.
Yeah, the Friesland, it was real popular up in Canada,
and everybody, you know, it's still pretty popular up there.
The finish is pretty fast, like 50 day and 55 days,
and withstands really shitty cold weathers
and a lot of the humidities.
I don't think it rots.
It's hard to get it to rot.
You can have old vegetative material dead on the plant,
and stuff won't get metritis or, you know,
aspergillus attacking it,
and it might even be PM resistant as well.
I've never, never found much PM testing with it.
That's tough.
It's like bulletproof for the East Coast, Upper East Coast.
They get that shitty,
Bob would know.
Does it have a good profile?
Is it got good taste?
Is it loud, kind of?
I guess it's like piney and hashing
what the Friesland is basically.
That's not bad.
Not much citrus at all.
It's got huge resin heads on it.
It's got like a lot of pink pistols,
about 50% has a pink pistol,
so it's a unique looking pretty indica.
I think that's from the pluton,
a lot of the pink pistols.
Yeah, maybe, yeah.
That's just,
just people like that,
cause it's one of the backup things you could put in,
and they will usually make it.
Then you can go the other direction
and get riskier and riskier.
That's one of the,
usually the things that will finish off there.
Yeah, we could use a little more PM resistance
in the Northeast.
I think everywhere now.
We never had it in Alaska.
We never had PM, let's see, eight or 10 years ago,
and then when the sub-rec market moved up,
a lot of cuts were brought up here from,
you could just go to a cup and buy dozens of cups,
different cuts and strains,
and then might bring it up here.
We also didn't have brusset might,
so we brought up a lot of stuff to Alaska,
so we need more resistance, for sure.
Did you ever, Dave, did you ever know James
up there in Alaska?
Yeah, I knew him.
Yeah, he's,
yeah, it was a horrible accident there.
He was on his way down, man, to visit.
We were going to talk.
We'd been talking for a while, and we traded a bunch.
I got some really rare stuff from him that,
one of which is called Golden Voice.
It's a real rare tie grown on an island.
Yeah, it's a shame that he went,
he's going to be missed,
and there's nobody that can replace him.
No way could people replace him
on the amount of work and dedication he was putting into,
and his knowledge, and what he knew, my God.
Yeah, we talked about the old days,
and a lot of the old strange, Kauai Electric, for one.
Yeah, yeah.
He was living in Kauai in the 70s,
and grew it up there on Powerline Road,
or, and yeah, it was kind of interesting.
We had a, we didn't chat too much with too many people,
and we got started there, and we'd chat for an hour or so.
Really a great guy.
Sorry that that happened to him.
God damn.
Yeah, he knew a lot about the old stuff.
Of course, he's closer to my age than not, but yeah, it's.
Yeah, I would never would have thought
that that's how he would have went out.
He's having all his heart problems,
and kept like running back and forth to Seattle
with his heart problems, and you know,
at one point, it looked pretty bad with his health,
but I never would have thought
that's how he would have went out.
I don't know if his son's gonna work with his stuff or not.
I don't know.
I don't know.
He didn't relay much to me.
He said his son was taken over,
and was already doing a lot of his, at the resort.
He was taking over whatever they had
for the outgrows that they had,
but it didn't sound like he had a lot of confidence in him,
so I don't know what's going on.
Yeah, he may not.
I tried emailing, and I didn't get any response,
so he may not be active, but yeah,
not too many people have that super sativa seed club stuff.
A friend of ours down in LA,
Snow White's got a bunch, but they're real old,
and he's got problems germinating them.
My friend lives in, or he's in Detroit.
He doesn't live in Detroit, but he's out of Detroit right now
and has been for a long time running a medical grow
and program.
He has a lot of the old stock of SSSC.
And what he did was bought almost everything,
the seed bank and what the SSSC put out.
He either grew it or he just put it in the freezer,
because all the packs he still has
are original manila envelopes.
He would reproduce a bunch of stuff,
but now he's up for mid-70s,
and I know that his plan was to always reproduce
and put out a bunch of the old stock stuff,
but he's always been super busy
with his running this medical co-op deal for cannabis,
and he's super dedicated to it,
so his side projects doesn't get done much.
He's reproduced, like last time he did
the Nigerian Kandahar.
That's already coming up on a couple years ago,
the last thing that he did reproduce
from his original stock.
But he has a lot of those old classics like that,
and he was on a lot of the, like ICMAG
or some of the old forums,
and he went by Old Detroit,
and he was offering the SSSC stock to people,
and 15, and I'd say 20 years ago,
nobody was interested.
You'd look at the threads where he's actually offering it,
and nobody picks him up or even takes him up on it,
and then about 10 years later,
it's starting to become rare as hen's teeth.
Hey, Mike, where were we at?
How come we didn't see that?
I didn't see that.
He's still real willing to share.
I don't know if he wants to be brought out,
but he's on IG as Ted Ganaway, I think is his IG,
but he has a lot of the old pictures
of a lot of the stuff that he's reproduced
and what he's had,
but that's really the source of a lot of the SSSC stuff
that I got, like the M48.
That's a really rare South African cross to a haze
by Carl there at the SSSC.
Yeah, I was just gonna say,
they have Philippine crosses, African crosses.
Those guys were really ahead of their time.
Really ahead of their time.
That's some pretty spectacular stuff.
Yeah, none of the other guys
were trying to replicate California stuff,
while these guys were grabbing stuff
from all over the world and crossing it to each other
and making hybrids back then.
And I bet a lot of the stuff we can't solve now
are gonna come from their crosses possibly.
Because I know you've probably saw it.
What's interesting is their description of the skunk.
Right, it's Afghani-Colombian tie in their description.
And I thought that was really unique
because Sam Skunkman says
it's Afghani-Colombian Aqua Pupo Gold.
Yeah.
So their description with the tie in it
kind of makes sense the way some of these chem dogs
and OGs that have that skunk profile,
that they do have,
what reminds me of a Southeast Asian something to them.
High ceiling, high tolerance.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, no ceiling, yeah.
That's a Southeast Asian weed
is high ceiling and high tolerance.
So I'm wondering if,
it is always trying to solve the mystery, right?
Who are the dads and who are the grandparents
and the great-grandparents?
I suspect a lot of it could have came from these guys.
Yeah, it's really never gonna be told
because when I talked to Carl's son,
Carl's son, Tease,
he didn't, every time I tried to get good information
about a lot of the lines that they did use,
he would just go back to his dad,
didn't even really know
because they were like 30 years.
It was right, wasn't it Carl's brother
or something like that?
Pardon me?
Carl had a brother.
I think it was them two doing it together, I possibly.
Yeah, it could have been.
But when I asked a lot of specifics
and I sent them back a bunch of stuff
and then I'm kind of really surprised
that they didn't bring it back.
I sent them stock from my buddy from Detroit,
like William 200 M48 Beatrix Choice.
Yeah, the Beatrix, yeah.
Yeah, that's really a cool thing.
Al Capoco and Afghani,
that's a really interesting thing right there.
Yeah.
They were ahead of their times
with those hybrids like that.
That's what I was telling Mike,
if he could cross an Afghani to that golden voice,
it would be similar to probably something they would do.
You're probably getting something great.
Yeah.
Be nice, yeah.
You know that Nigerian Kandahar,
that's supposed to be a killer strain.
Yeah, he said it's near psychedelic on the smoke.
It's, there's no ceiling to it.
And it has, you'll see colors.
You can see a little bit of,
you know, I don't know if you're gonna see rainbows
and butterflies, but he said it's near psychedelic effects.
Yeah.
How long has weed been legal in Alaska?
Since 75, it's been a regular mainstay
where you grow for yourself.
Yeah, that's what I was telling people.
You guys have been ahead of everybody.
They're just not aware of that.
Yeah, we weren't allowed to transport it.
So you could always get,
this is a shady area there.
You could grow, you know,
you could have four ounces in your house
and grow like 16 plants, but you couldn't transport it.
So.
Can I imagine as the seed company started in Holland,
guys from Alaska were probably trying to find stuff
that worked there via the seed companies?
Quite a few of our old lines that have been up here,
you know, old heritage stuff did come from seed bank stuff.
Yeah.
Not so much SSSC.
I hardly met anybody that got SSSC.
That's interesting, right?
Cause everybody kind of thinks West Coast,
West Coast, West Coast,
but actually you guys were doing it first.
Well, a lot of our stuff came up from the Seattle area too.
So the NL stuff that, you know,
Seattle Greg and his crew had real early in the 80s,
it was moving up here.
Cause it was like going to catch a cannon coming up here.
And it was like some of the first,
I was just getting onto the scene, like in say 85.
And that was like one of the main cuttings
that you could go get just called NL.
Wasn't NL1, wasn't specifically called NL any number,
but NL.
And that's probably the very first
really good, impressive thing.
I was probably only about 15 years old.
So it's.
Same thing, right?
Same era.
Yeah, it's just like so impressive
to see something be that steady
and mainstay for that long.
And it's still here today.
It's.
Plus when you saw it,
you always knew it was grown indoors
and then it had that special glowy look to it.
You know what I mean?
Just perfect buds, not weatherized.
Yeah, like hash on a stick almost, you know.
That stuff.
Well, Dave, you got, Dave,
you had some of those old blueberries
up where you are too, right?
Was it, is it gooseberry?
There's a lot of good old blueberry up here
because Frank up in Fairbanks,
Professor Frank, he has,
he was raised with the Colettes.
John Colette was a commercial tomato greenhouse grower
in like 90 and had a,
maybe a backside of one of the greenhouses
was a commercial.
He's grown a bunch of blueberry bud
and the black market,
that's where a lot of people source their blueberries
coming out of Fairbanks.
So it was distributed widely,
but the DEA came down.
You can look up, Google John Colette
and his story about the DEA.
He got busted and then he took off on the run,
took his family, went to Costa Rica,
he's on the lam forever.
And they, after years, they finally got him extradited
or he came, he was sick of screwing his kids' life up,
whatever happened and came back
and dealt with all the troubles and stuff.
But as far back as late 80s,
you could get two or three strands of blueberry,
just regular blueberry indica,
some that was a lot thinner leafed than,
you know, I've gotten different cuts
of Arctic blue is one of the blueberries,
beans, beans, blueberries, one of the blueberries.
They're all 30 year old cuts
that are still around and still alive.
And so the blueberry has just been
a real good mainstay thing up here.
The Kinnick gooseberry blueberry
is a super sweet blueberry indica
and it's probably about 22 years old cutting.
Yeah, I grew that from you.
I grew that, we grew a whole bunch of them outside
the last year or the year before.
And it almost looks like an OG, big, chunky, sticky.
Yeah, it's a really good,
it was found and made by AK Legend up here.
He's been up here and collecting
and been doing a lot of preservation stuff.
And I mean, he probably has about 30 strains
that he's collected and saved
in the library for his own use.
He doesn't, you know, like Highland Sweet Stumpkin,
I don't think he ever flowers a thing,
but he's had it for 20, 22 years or some shit.
Hardly ever will even flower it,
but he holds a lot of cool old stuff.
Well, you know what?
I need a good librarian on the East Coast.
They're hard to find.
They are.
They're really hard to find, more rare nowadays.
Yeah, I've sent some stuff to Bob Hemphill
so that he can keep some stuff,
but I need somebody out here
or I need a pretty big facility that I can't afford to buy.
Yeah, we kind of discussed if we would go,
like, rent a nice house and convert it
into like a mother house in between four or five of us
with all these heritage old strains,
just get together and put them in mothers
in like the slow grow mode,
just like housing for these old gals
and reproduce them when we need to.
He-
Yeah, like cocoon, right, for plants.
Yeah, man, shit, just go utilize it,
your little coalition of guys,
and utilize it whenever you need to.
And right now, I guess TC is the way
that people are going for storage
of a lot of the old plants like that.
Seems like high maintenance.
I'm not too, I'm almost way too old school
to wanna get into doing a TC bank for storage of mothers.
Pretty expensive.
You know what, you load them up with a ton of blue light,
you feed them about 25% of what they can take,
and then you clone them every six or nine months,
and that's about it, and it's just work, work, work.
Yeah.
Anybody's interested in being a librarian
in the East Coast, love to hear it.
Yeah, it's a lot of work.
A lot of work, yeah, you gotta keep them
in that stunted mode,
or if you get it in any kind of growth mode,
then you're reproducing and chopping and cutting back,
and oh my God, what a ton of work.
You can't even really get them happy,
because then they're just going nuts.
No, you keep them long enough,
then you gotta throw them outside,
let them come back to life.
That's a good thing up here.
If you go do that up here,
you're getting 20 or 22 hours of action.
Yeah.
Really hard and intense.
What a great veg setup out there.
Yeah, plants tend to love it
during the peak of our summer.
Our UV's not that high,
so they do pretty good once you get them,
and get them past the initial sunburn that they'll get.
But yeah, you can regenerate,
rejuvenate a mother pretty well up here.
You do that on a regular schedule?
Yeah, you know, I don't have as many plants.
I've really reduced my library,
but I've done it plenty.
MTF's gone outside in the dirt,
and put a nice four foot mother outside,
and then as soon as our dirt,
we can't hardly put anything in the ground.
So an above ground garden,
it's in the dirt,
but you gotta have an above ground garden,
because the soil's 50 degrees at best.
It's very cold.
So you get a little above ground garden going,
and stick it in there,
and soak a lot of roots out,
you can get a lot of regeneration out of it,
and just take your cuts into August,
something like that,
and chop her down.
Or if you could get it,
I don't, not many of them like to be transplanted
at that point to be flowered.
So you basically, she's gone at that point,
the old mom.
Imagine the soil is good though.
You got lots of minerals up there.
It's really good soil up here.
It's not depleted like a lot of them, yeah.
Yeah, a lot of minerals,
a lot of minerals.
Up in the valley, really good soil.
They have record vegetables,
just growing in sandy loam soil,
and they can grow just crazy great produce
up in the valley.
Yeah, that's what I do in Santa Cruz.
I've got the sandy loam,
and then I get down into the clay,
and man, boy, that clay has really got a lot of nutrients.
My plants hit that and they go nuts.
Yeah, we have compost that's about four feet deep,
but it's heavily forested,
and then right underneath that's clay, heavy clay.
So the plants never,
they don't get roots that deep anyway.
So yeah, and it gets cold soil up here.
So I'm kind of in an area that doesn't get that warm.
Gardening and agriculture up here is a challenge.
So yeah, you're almost better off
with the artificial environment indoors.
Yeah, I can't imagine growing up there.
Short grow season.
Yeah, I also got something from James.
What is that?
Dave and I were talking about Alaska thunderfuck.
Is that?
Yeah, MTF, the Matanusian thunderfuck.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He had two different lines, a 74,
and then I think a later one that was a lot more indica.
Yeah, he sent me some.
I don't remember if it was earlier or later.
I haven't done anything with it yet, but.
It's really good.
I mean, I've seen a 74 grown out by multiple people,
and then he had sent me the later one,
which was a lot fatter leaf.
Oh.
Pretty impressive bud.
Both very good.
Pardon me?
Both of them are equally as good?
I have never gotten any,
I've only seen the 74 grown out.
It was listed and talked about as a sativa,
but it's a really fat leaf sativa,
that's, if anything, a sativa hybrid.
But people talk about it being great.
The people that were in his group that grew regularly
and really were into his strains,
I've seen it grown out by those guys,
and it's really fantastic looking.
Nice, yeah.
There's one guy up here,
Dank Research, he's done a ton of Jim's work,
ton of it.
He's passed a couple of things on to me,
the Rhodesian poison, once he grew it out,
it's really a nice durban.
When he was over in Africa in like 86,
I think before Rhodesia became Zimbabwe,
he collected what they called,
it's what he told me,
he was trying to get weed to smoke and seed source,
but the villagers brought him a couple of bags,
a couple of fist-sized bags, seeded,
and they called it poison multiple times,
not the name like durban poison,
but they were telling him that it was like a poison,
basically.
They weren't naming it like the label durban poison
or anything like that,
but it was what he called Rhodesian poison,
is one of the strains,
but it's a really nice South African,
he had so many different things though,
a lot of the things that he kept and did pure
and reproduced, pretty unique,
and be hard to replace or get a hold of now.
So like those ties, yeah, you should get on that stuff.
Yeah, the Rhodesian sounds interesting.
Very interesting.
I think my uncle Dave had that,
because he was all into that
and got a Rhodesian Ridge back
and named him Moa Dee back in the early 80s and stuff.
So I'm pretty sure he had that weed too,
and that's what got him all on that kick.
I'll ask uncle Dave about the Rhodesian.
Yeah, I'm growing some Thai out right now,
came out of Australia,
was Thai Buddha,
came from down under,
and I crossed it to the wild Thailand,
a very nice female that a friend sent me from Colorado,
and I only got a few seeds,
and the pollen I used was, I don't know, four years old.
Holy shit.
But I used pretty much all the pollen
and I got four seeds,
and I got three going,
and I literally got the results today.
So I got two males and one female.
So it's not exactly gonna be an open pollination,
but that's what I got.
Sometimes you gotta work with what you got,
just a little bit better than none.
I know, it's fun.
Yeah, Frank up in Fairbanks
had some pretty good Thais going.
He got them from Monkey Puzzle,
he had that Sunrise Thai,
and he's trying to get those reproduced right now,
but he's only coming up with females on those.
And it seems like, that's strange,
maybe it's S1 itself,
maybe that stuff is just inbred S1,
because he's yet to find a male.
I sent him Chocolo,
I crossed the Sunrise Thai to Chocolo,
and sent him some of that,
and he's probably gonna have to use one of those males
to reproduce the Sunrise Thai,
just do a back flip on it with that.
I think he's saving me one of the females,
actually, from that run.
It's gonna be interesting stuff.
Yeah, he's got one,
really deep, double serrated leaves,
nice node spacing,
little bit different than the other ones,
and I'm pretty sure he's saving a cut of that.
And if I get lucky with these Thais,
I'll probably try to bring those together,
because he's got a couple of pretty good looking plants
on that grow.
Yeah, the smoke's great on that Sunrise Thai.
Super happy, trippy, up, energetic as hell,
not where you get that paranoid edge.
I really like that shit.
Yeah, the only thing I crossed it to was the Chocolo,
trying to just get a little bit,
knock a couple of weeks off of it.
What's the bull style like?
The taste on it.
Makes sense to you.
The typical Asian sour, peppery thing.
I was just gonna say, yeah, typical narrow leaf grub.
You can get a little bit of a liminess to it too.
Yeah, that sharp limey.
I think I crossed it to a Billy Goat's black,
I mean, what was it, that Vietnam black too,
but I have yet to grow any of those seeds,
because that Billy Goat, the male,
it goes like 17, 18 weeks.
Too long.
You know what?
I haven't had the facilities to be able to run
those long run plants like that.
I just got some seeds from a friend in Seattle,
who is actually moving to, he's going to live in Columbia.
He's gonna permanently locate in Columbia.
And he went down in 2016, spent two or three months
searching for some Punta Roya.
And it's one of the ones that he crossed it to a Malawi,
and then I crossed it to the Panama Red.
And it's really, really nice.
But the seeds that he just sent me are,
at a minimum, eight, 10 years old,
and they're called the black.
So he said he didn't really like the weed,
and I'm not sure why.
But looking at them, it looks like they're
from Northeast Columbia, up in the plains,
and they can be a 30 week strain.
So I'm gonna start them out in the next,
probably in the next month.
I've got one more batch to run to get ready
for the outside season here in New England.
But I'm gonna try and run them.
So I don't know what's gonna happen,
but if they go 30 weeks, it'll be a pretty interesting run.
And there's enough there to hopefully keep them going
and reproduce them.
But that'll be a new one.
30 weeks will be a new one for me.
I've never even heard of a 30 week.
Really, I thought about 22 was about as long
as anything went.
The black trees in Kauai, I think, are growing that.
They're growing the black, and I think it's a Colombian,
but they didn't mention nothing about 30 weeks.
So maybe it's a cross of something,
but they call it the black
because I think the buds literally look black.
They're so purple, they look black.
But it's an NLD, right?
I mean, it's a really thin leaf.
Oh yeah, it's like, I guess what you'd classify
as a typical Colombian slash haze, narrow leaf,
little bracts, a whole lot of them, not too many leaves.
You know what I mean?
High bract to leaf ratio.
Right, I'm assuming kind of wispy,
but I have no idea until I get them going.
I have some Colombians going,
same situation, I'm not getting males.
They're either Colombians or the original haze.
And I get two types out of them.
And then within, so I get the super little bracts
with lots of hairs and no leaves,
and they just keep growing bract buds.
Big, huge, spongy buds of bracts and it dries golden.
Excuse me.
And it's got a spicy frankincense, honey type of thing.
Then I have three green ones.
And those remind me a lot of Cali mist
where it's a perfumy, sour apple type of thing.
Real sour perfume, kind of blossoming weird smell.
And those hairs are straight
and it's more green.
Like, I guess what you look as a typical Colombian
when you see it growing, where it's thin leaves,
big connected buds, but real erect straight hairs.
Whereas the other two golden ones,
they get the hairs that come out and bend right away.
Interesting.
Dave, you're doing Cali mist right now, right?
Well, that's no, I'm doing the Colombians,
which reminds me a lot of Cali mist.
Oh, but I think, I think, I think AK Dave,
I actually do, didn't you just do some Cali mists?
Not me, no.
Oh, Cali mist is, I reproduced some not too long ago
to a F5, but yeah, it's like a spear bud.
I don't know what Cali mist is.
Cali mist is, is that supposed to be Colombian or something?
Well, they didn't know, and they're not listing it,
but it's sativa, costa sativa.
Yeah, it's just always listed as unknown genetics, right?
Yeah.
See, that's the thing, I had it in Holland
at two of the coffee shops,
and it was the best weed ever sativa I had ever tried.
It's amazing.
And it did grow a five foot spiced lemon buds with the thing
that grows these big, long spear buds pretty easily.
Was it pure sativa or hybridy or?
You know, it had about one,
the first time I reproduced it, I got about one in four.
It wasn't, it wasn't wispy or crappy like loose buds,
they're pretty nice, but one in four was pretty short
and fat and it was two weeks faster.
So it definitely had a fatter leaf, more indica in it.
And then the F, that was F4.
F5, I used a 13 week really sativa lemon,
and a couple of males that were just like her.
So they are all more like 12 and 13 weeks
and pretty common to see those little short,
short, faster ones, it's more like one in 10 now.
And I know the F2 was weeded out.
A lot of the ones that were probably the better
after I heard the story, people say the looser ones
were pretty much the better weed
because it was closer to the original.
But, you know, growing indoors,
people, a lot more selection gets done
and it gets steered one way or the other.
So shit gets just changed down the line.
So F2 weeded out all the looser ones
and that made it more appealing and easier to grow.
And then F3 tried to weed out the oddball
little indica ones.
And then F4 was another thing.
So they're as close as, I never had any of the original.
People always talk about how good the original was.
They'd go to the coffee shops and said
it was one of the best things they'd come across.
My friend, Jeremy, AKA Sensei up here,
he used to go to Amsterdam all the time
and he told me about all those old classic strains.
I never had them and then only had them
25 years after the fact and had to reproduce it
and dig into it from there.
So, you know.
Have you ever grown any of the original hazes
or Columbians before?
And did you notice any similarities in the Cali Mist?
I don't know what I would say was original.
I've come across cuts, but was,
I don't know, closest of old hazes I've had
would be NL5 haze and then a lot of inbred stuff
with that A5 NL5 haze.
Yeah.
What about Columbians?
You know, pure hazes though, not much pure hazes.
I've done old timers ones haze
and it's like a 20 week haze.
And it's kind of like,
I'd say one of the original hazes for sure.
But it's a challenging thing to deal with that thing.
Yeah.
And Columbians, I've had some pure Columbians,
but I don't like to go back down that road again
because they're like 20 weeks and they'll,
they'll be 12 or 14 foot indoors
and you got to bend them over or run them down the wall.
I've actually done stupid shit.
I'm just wondering if you notice any of the similarities
between those and your Cali Mist stuff that you're doing.
No, the Cali Mist is pretty much dedicated
to a spiced lemon haze.
It doesn't have the frankincense
or any of the other type of haze herbs in it that come out.
Gotcha, yeah.
Okay.
None of that East Coast flavored haze coming out, no.
Yeah, that's like these ones.
I have two with that East Coast thing,
but I have the other three
that lean a little more sour, acrid.
Whereas the two with the curly hairs everywhere
and no leaves and little bracts,
they're that frankincense, myrrhs, honey type spicy thing,
like cloves kind of in a way.
Whereas these other ones are kind of acrid, sour apple,
but sweet in a way like a blossom.
Yeah, definitely got a lot of the Moroccan spice stuff
on the back of that Cali Mist.
It's got a spice to it that's pretty wild.
Yeah, strong.
Was it strong?
Yeah.
Potent wise?
Yeah, very strong.
Yeah, that's what I remember about it too,
it was really strong.
It wasn't racy, it was just a really good, strong sativa.
Yeah.
Yeah, the times that I've grown it,
both times I smoked whatever I had during the summertime
and it's great fishing weed, I know that.
Out there on the boat, I have a jar of it,
it's one of the main sources for summertime fishing weed.
It's got a pretty good up to it, but it's potent.
If you smoke like a whole joint,
you're about to have to take a nap.
Yeah.
I crossed it to NL1 to try to shorten it down.
Make it a little quicker and more manageable.
More manageable, because it gets four or five big spear buds
that will come up from the base
if you trim it to be that way.
And they're strong enough to hold themselves up,
they're not weak and spindly, but it gets unmanageable
unless you're just doing one or two plants per bite.
That's right, these ones, I flip them quick,
like third or fourth node from seed,
I flip them to keep them a little shorter and quicker.
Just to get through it.
I've been doing that with the chocolate pie lately,
get them about 10 days old and flip them.
Just because you can knock four foot of growth off of them
and still get that nice three foot,
near three foot solid bud out of the thing.
Yeah, knock a lot of time also.
Like you say, you can manage them better.
Try to knock 25 days off the total growth time, yeah.
Yeah, I've been, I take off the top,
take off the apical bud, bend them over,
and cut off the away from light leaning branches
so that basically I end up with a half a dozen branches
on one side and those become the buds
that go straight to the lights.
So the actual plants go on sideways
because I physically don't have the space, right?
And they go forever.
They'll burn right into the lights.
So I literally, I wire time, I bend them around,
I get that main stock so it's almost level with the ground.
And I just use the branches to create the buds
and I've been able to grow some of these,
the land races and the long-term stuff in a regular tent.
It just takes a little work.
It's actually the opposite.
Everybody says you throw the sativas in,
you put them in flower right away.
What I'm really doing is I'm probably
vegging them for two months.
And all I'm doing is training them
so I get the branches to go straight up
and not using the main stock.
And I can actually get them to finish inside a tent.
It's a little more, not a little more,
it's a lot more work,
but I don't have the space to grow 12, 14 footers.
So that's how I'm trying anyways.
You've got some pretty good challenging projects.
I always watch you do them and you always seem to kill them.
So pretty interesting.
I don't know if I'm that adventurous half the time.
Well, you kind of grow what you like
and I like the daytime stuff.
And I finally, I look at the dispensaries
and the cultivation sites and everybody wants 53 to 63 days.
And I'm thinking, hey, I just got something
all the way down to 75 days.
So.
Yeah, we just did a cross of the A5, NL5 Hayes,
the double bred NL5 Hayes to the,
it's a down from the Connect Newspape Blueberry.
But the, when we crossed it to the Americana,
which was NL5 Hayes, big stump NL1,
we watched the fastest ones be 85 days.
And then the longer run ones,
they were really impressive, hazy, 105, 110.
I think one could have gone longer,
but I think that it basically got taken down
about 110 days.
Yeah, it's funny.
I've done a couple like on the Panama,
the stuff that I got from John from Snow High
is if you know it's gonna finish at 90 and 95 days
and you feed it a little more and turn up the lights,
it just keeps growing.
I mean, it actually gets a second growth
and it just could, I mean, you could probably keep it going
for another 30 days.
So you can either let them go
or you can just keep pounding them and they,
yeah, they fought the nice little foxtail buds,
great, great, great high.
And you keep the plant going for 110 or 120 days.
They're kind of fun if you have the space.
One strain to grow that Panama.
Great.
I love it.
Honestly, I got very, very lucky.
We did a couple of runs on that one male.
I selected another male
and we thought we had four females going into flower.
And three of them started shooting pistols
and the other one wasn't showing.
It was still probably another two weeks after that
that they were actually in flower.
We realized the fourth plant was a male.
Yeah, boy.
So we took them and we separated them, took cuts of them.
And that plant, it was just an absolute beast.
I mean, very happy and very thankful for John
for bestowing those seeds
and take good luck that I found that plant
because that's been a great, great plant.
But I love the Panama.
Love the spice.
Adds kind of spice and potency to almost everything.
One of the early strains I did was an orange limeade.
And I sent the seeds back to the person
who gave me the cut of the orange limeade.
And he responded back that he hated the weed.
It was too sativa for him.
And thank you, but he's not growing it anymore.
I took that as a compliment.
He said, it's stronger and it's got spice,
but it's not for me.
And I'm like, oh, that's okay.
Too much awareness.
Now, when you were talking about the Colombian
and that black, isn't that a 14 hour day time regiment
down in that area?
I think it's, I mean, if you,
I was trying to dig up a little research
and if it really is from the Northeast of Columbia
or up in the Plains, it's a true equatorial.
I figure when I'm gonna run it, I'm gonna run it,
probably 18, six for two months, try to train them,
do the same thing I've done before
on the really tall ones, assuming it's gonna take forever.
I'll bend them around and let the branches come up.
And then when I go to flower,
my guess is probably 10 and a half light is where I'll go,
either 10 and a half or 11.
And I think, John's got,
Snow High's got a lot more experience than I do on it,
but I think he's probably right in that 10 and a half
or 11 hour range on those.
And we'll just see how long it goes.
I'm gonna dedicate at least one full area for those beans,
assuming I can get them all to crack
and just see how it goes.
But yeah, I'll definitely do a shorter light cycle.
Yeah, it's gonna be interesting
to see what you come up with on that.
Gotta crack them first.
Oh yeah.
What was that sativa that you sent up here
to Savage Organics?
I think this last year he grew a massive sativa indoor
that was a long run one.
Oh yeah.
It had like six inch wide buds on this.
Yeah, the plant was about 15 feet tall.
Yeah, it was crazy big.
So what he did was really nice.
So what I did is the Panama Red male,
I crossed to Frank's Apeshit Orange,
and then I also crossed it to the Bag of Oranges.
So I took those two crosses and then I went back
and it seems funny to call it a back cross
when you're using the male instead of the female,
but I went back with the exact same male.
And I hit the male to the Apeshit Orange Panama,
and then I hit the same male to the Bag of Oranges Panama.
I sent him probably a dozen or 20 of each.
And he said he'd grow them side by side.
So what he did is we just called them A and B.
I didn't even tell him which ones were which.
I just called it Panama back cross A and back cross B.
And then when he grew them out,
that's where he got those huge ones.
And the ones that he got the really, really big buds from,
that was from the Bag of Oranges
back cross on the Panama Red.
But so he did the two of them.
The interesting part is Panama is always,
for me, it's been really strong coming through.
I like males that add stuff instead of just structure.
I'd like to see him add something to them.
And the Apeshit Orange, which is a great plant,
the Panama took over in the back cross.
And it came through as kind of spicy,
barely, I don't know, nutty in sense.
I'm kind of weak on the smell gene.
But the back cross with the Bag of Oranges,
even though it'd been hit by the same dad twice,
still came through with the citrus, orangey, spice smell,
even on the back cross,
which is one of the reasons I've always been focused
on that Bag of Oranges with the Panama Red,
because that Bag of Oranges just added a lot
and for it to overpower a strong male
and combine the two together, that was a nice cross.
But that's what it is.
I sent him two different Panama back crosses
and he grew them outside.
I think the one he showed in that picture,
he kept me posted very well.
He did a really nice job.
Besides the size of the buds,
I mean, that thing had to be at least 15 feet high.
And I could never...
It was like a giant improved Calio, original Calio.
Yeah, well, I'm gonna do...
The problem with the Calio is it seems
to have a little less potency
than some of the other oranges,
but all the progeny seems to be really good.
The other day, if you've grown Calio, right?
I know you have.
Well, I have a California Orange Indica.
I don't think it's the same thing
because it's more Indica.
Okay.
I think the Calio is a little slightly more hybrid-y, right?
Right, it's not a real sativa-oriented hybrid.
No, kind of like right in the middle,
you know what I mean?
But it's not a solid Indica style plant,
chunkier nuggets.
The buds are slightly more delicate, I guess.
I don't know what to call them.
Kind of like NLs, right?
Is NL an Indica or hybrid?
I think it's a little more of a hybrid type of thing.
What do you think?
Most of them are.
Between one and 11, there's a lot of hybrid in there.
Yeah, versus like an Afghani or a Mazar,
those are true Indicas.
And then you start drifting
and you get into the middle, right?
And then you start leaning out of the hybrids
and into the sativas.
Yeah, I thought-
Was there a green Albert Walker before, Dave?
No.
That one's interesting.
Kind of-
Yeah, a lot of stuff never made it up here.
And I look back, I wish I would have been more active
on searching things out.
Yeah.
Everybody thinks that, you know,
but a lot of stuff, when we're isolated up here,
a lot of stuff just never made it up here.
So.
And on the same hand,
you guys got stuff that no one else has also.
Yeah, a lot of stuff stayed isolated up here too.
So there's always the other side of the home.
A lot of stuff stayed unchanged.
Yeah, with that John Colette,
my buddy Frank up in Fairbanks,
he was raised up with the Colette kids.
So they were all running around
and there was this, the old blueberry, salchow blueberry.
That was a killer blueberry in itself right there.
That's another thing when you go thinking
about the blueberry, that John Colette went on to breed
for a Scherbinsky and made gelato.
He basically went from old school,
true humble beginnings of just like blueberries
and tomatoes to becoming a breeder that made,
what isn't gelato, like the mainstay
in about one half of all of the modern strains of cannabis
that are out there today.
At least in the way it is, gelato and rinses and everything.
Yeah, yeah, it's crazy that he went on
to breed for Scherbinsky and made that.
The old school stuff stayed up here and stayed isolated.
So it's always a blast.
Same with Jim, he didn't share a lot,
but he was kind of like super paranoid
to send anything in and out of the Ketchikan post
because they had cocaine DEA dogs in there all the time.
It was like a main import for drugs for fishermen.
And he'd be paranoid to send any live plants in and out.
And he was paranoid to send seeds in or out.
He didn't even want to receive seeds and shit.
But because of that, some stuff stayed up here isolated
and didn't ever get infiltrated too much.
He didn't share that golden voice very much.
I brought it up and he said,
wow, I haven't talked to too many people
that even know about that.
No, I never even heard him talk about that at all.
He's never brought that up to me at all.
Came through Santa Cruz one time
and that was it towards the tail end
of the tie smuggling thing in the seventies.
Are you gonna try to grow that this summer?
You know, I'm thinking about it.
I did ties crosses last year.
I tie Hawaiians and I don't know,
I'm thinking about it.
I got some, Dave and I were talking the other day,
yesterday, there's so much going on.
I mean, I probably should.
I got another friend that happened to get some
from James, he's in New York.
But neither one of us got very many.
I think I got six, seven seeds
and then my buddy got seven or eight.
And I think we were the only ones that really,
he ever let that out that I know of.
I might've let out some to somebody else,
but that and the Koi Electric,
I didn't share too much.
Yeah, I think I only know one person that grew that
and that's the bank research guy
right up in the valley up here.
He grew the Golden Boys or the Koi?
No, the Koi Electric.
Oh, okay, yeah.
What's the background on the Koi Electric?
Well, there's a lot of different stories.
My buddy in the seventies,
he's an avid surfer.
A little younger than me,
but he sent over one of his buddies in Hawaii
to Afghanistan and brought back seeds.
And then they grew those and then they sent them back
to him and then he crossed it with the Afghani number one.
And those were the original ones that I had.
And then James, we started talking and he says,
oh yeah, Koi Electric, yeah.
I had the key to the gate and this and that
and that sparked a long conversation
to legitimize everything.
And he didn't really know that one surfer
that went over and got them,
but I have a kind of a feeling
that they were the narrow leaf Afghanis,
but I'm not a hundred percent
because they've never said that.
But now these that I grew last year,
they were a little more narrower
than the ones crossed with the Afghani number one,
of course.
But-
What's the flowering time?
End of October here.
Anything I do, like you were saying,
they all want really quick flowering stuff.
I mean, I don't even, I mean, I can,
I barely do 10 weeks stuff.
I'm working a lot for land rates and heirlooms.
So October, end of October here.
Yeah, the Koi Electric tie,
I got the tie from James too.
That was a, came off the pie sticks from 72, 73, 74.
And I had a gorgeous male, a gigantic male of that tie
and I just let it pollinate everything.
All the Kona Gold, Maui Waui, the Oaxacan,
and the hibiscus.
I'm not really sure on that one.
I mean, I grew, when I grew out the hibiscus tie,
they were a little more hairy.
Well, the straight hibiscus is the purple corinto
crossed with a Puna butter male and they're more tighter.
They grew them up in a Seattle company
called Kiona, I believe.
Gorgeous.
I actually like the straight hibiscus a little bit better,
but you never know what you're gonna get.
I mean, I just took a chance on it.
If you've only got six or eight of those seeds,
you better give it a chance this summer.
They're not getting any younger or any more.
He reproduced those, those are fairly fresh.
He either talked my buddy into New York,
giving me his or else I'm gonna send mine to him
and have him reproduce them.
If nothing else, I mean, I could grow out what I have.
I don't have that many though, that's so rare.
I really can't.
Well, good tribute to Jim, do the work and then share it.
Man, the places that he showed up
and was at during his life, it's crazy.
He showed up at the right place at the right time
on a lot of those strains.
Yeah.
Good fortune is not a bad thing.
He was an adventurous cat, I can tell you that.
I've been locked, I mean, I hardly ever go on vacation
once a year to go wild pig hunting.
I went down to Salinas, right where you used to have
that coastal seeds.
What's the story with that?
Did you live in Salinas?
Me?
Yeah.
No, I lived in Santa Cruz.
But when coastal seeds was around,
wasn't that right there in Salinas on Harkin Road?
No.
Well, that wasn't the same coastal seeds?
No.
Where Bob used to live in Salinas.
Didn't he just live in Salinas?
Bob, I don't think so.
Oh, okay.
He lived up north.
I haven't talked to him in quite a while.
Okay, yeah, I thought that's where coastal seeds was
because there was-
I started right here in Santa Cruz.
We did do a project with a wave rider over there for a year.
And we just did one year and it didn't really work out.
So we ran some stuff over there, flowers and some pets.
No, I don't ever remember him living in Salinas.
The only place I really go to vacation myself,
go wild boar hunt up in the hills up in there.
Oh.
Sure they got plenty of boar up there, I imagine.
Oh yeah, there's excess of them.
I went hunting last weekend,
but I was hunting pars and birdies.
Right on.
Golf, that'll keep you in shape.
It's fun.
Can't get perfect at it, which is why it's fun.
Yeah, a lot of work and not enough time.
Hey, last question for you guys, for everybody.
Does anybody work with the Cuban black haze?
Just the cutting that's been distributed around.
You like it?
I thought it was pretty good.
You know, it's hard to say what's legit.
And I've had so many people question
whether that's an NL5 like it's said to be.
And there could have been a way better cut
than the one I have, but I think I had a legit one
and I did like it, yeah.
It's like about a 11 to 12 week, super frank and sensy.
Yeah.
I guess that's just it, real, you know, churchy.
But it's not as larfy as some of the other stuff.
No, it was dense, quite dense.
Yeah, it's got some meat to it.
Easy to trim.
I've seen quite a few NL5 hazes
that come out like that for sure.
And then some are just.
That may be the piff,
because I think the piff is across of that.
I'm not sure if hardly any of those like Uptown Brown,
Franklin Heights, yeah.
I think those are the cross.
I mean, the logic dictates, right?
Because they'd be into the same problem.
Huge Columbians that would take forever.
So I would be, let's add an Afghani.
We'll shorten the time and the height
and we can get this shit to market right away.
So that would be my guess is Uptown or piff
is probably an Indica Columbian cross.
The Cuban Black is interesting
because that brings us back to those,
what we were talking about earlier,
the guys in Kauai are growing the black.
Right, Cuba, Columbia, they're all really close.
So I'm wondering if these genetics are the same ones,
but like us, those guys back in the time
were trading their good stuff between that area.
Yeah, and it's probably like,
I've got the Cuban Black Haze.
So Dave, you've grown a ton of NL5s, right?
And NL5 hazes.
How do you think the Cuban look compared to those?
It's kind of similar structure,
but different blood book to them.
Okay.
So I have experience mostly with like the original haze
before it went to Amsterdam and Columbians.
And to me, they're virtually same family.
They're almost identical,
but there's slight drifts between them.
I'm not too familiar with later hazes
when they made it to Holland
and those guys started doing crosses with them.
Okay.
Because I know that when you get to Holland,
they were acrid and sweet, a lot of them,
not all of them, but a lot were acrid,
cat pissy or sweet type.
And then you got some that were metallic and silver, right?
The silver hazes and whatnot, super silver haze.
Yeah, this one's pretty piffy, pretty incense churchy.
It's a nice cut.
I would think that's what I would call a Columbian profile.
Like that profile probably originates from that area
because that seems to be a common note with the originals
before they made it to Holland.
And if like a lot of guys,
so if we look at the East Coast
and then the smuggling routes,
I even asked my dad,
how come we don't have lots of Columbians?
Because he says, well, the cocaine and the smuggling routes
went from Columbia right up to the East Coast.
And that's why they had Columbians
where we had all Mexicans because we were next to Mexico.
So early on in the day, the West Coast had more Mexicans,
whereas the East Coast had more Columbians, right?
And this is early on, the 70s, early 80s to that era.
But a lot of it had to do with the smuggling route.
And then I know what-
No, I was just gonna agree with you.
I think when I started in the 70s,
it was Panama Red or Acapulco Gold is what we got.
That's what came up the East Coast in the 70s.
Right, you're right in Panama zone and right,
it's actually, I think still closer
if you left from the Panama area to the East Coast.
Yeah.
So, and yeah, what's odd is my whole entire family
is from Massachusetts and Boston.
Very cool.
But my dad, I asked him, he didn't smoke weed there.
They moved to California, I think in 63-ish or so.
But he started smoking and I think 64, 65,
but it was in California.
The damn hippie movement.
Massachusetts, there's a lot of weed DNA
in Massachusetts people, because they're everywhere.
A lot of people in Massachusetts.
Still trying.
Must be that Pilgrim DNA.
All the Pilgrims must have been stoners.
The DNA carried through, I think so.
They brought it over on the Mayflower.
Yeah, on those little ceramic pipes.
That's what was in those suckers.
Did you guys ever get any of those Colombians
that were wheels, they were rolled like a cake?
No, the stuff I got in the 70s was,
it was called lids back then, right?
You either got a four finger or a five finger lid.
And then every once in a while,
when there was nothing around, you got the Mexican brick,
where at least half of your bag was sticks and seeds.
Yeah.
One year we had the-
Elbows and lids.
Yeah, lids and elbows.
We had those, one year we had Colombian gold.
Everybody wanted that.
I didn't particularly care for it myself.
And then my buddy had these touristers
and he had the whole tourist was just one wheel.
And it was Colombian red rolled in a wheel.
It's kind of hard to explain.
Like a cheese wheel?
Yeah, you could just, if you stood it up on end,
you could roll it out.
And man, that shit was strong.
Real greasy, oily, expansion, this really, really strong.
That was the only time I got it one year, that was it.
And yeah.
Somehow we got a lot of Colombian
in the early, early 80s up here,
but it was just heavily seeded,
just micro black seeds in it, little tiny seeds.
Yeah.
About 30% seed, but it was some of the headiest weed.
It was real expansive and you'd get like low blood pressure
and could definitely hit the earth by smoking that shit.
Yeah.
Really, really, really heady.
Still a favorite.
Yeah.
Yeah, I still like it.
Like the Portuguese fishermen
were always importing it up here.
We have only so much stuff came up here
and it come like it through Portuguese fishermen
would hit Hawaii and then they would, I guess,
bring it straight up on the chain.
Soon as those red salmon started up here,
they'd all be up here hitting that season.
And I guess that's where all of most of our imports
came from.
Other than that, it just like outlaws with airplanes,
I guess.
Yeah.
We're a long way from you guys,
so you'd get stuff dropped off a lot quicker,
but there's always that big money
during the pipeline days, in the seventies up here,
there was a lot of money and they had it all up here.
It was coming up no matter what.
I bet you're super appreciative when you got it though.
Oh yeah.
But a lot of it wasn't good.
A lot of people, I mean, it was crazy amount of money.
So the cocaine was just insane up here.
They have no problem bringing that up by the times.
Well, that's a producing drug.
That helps you work too.
They don't want them smoking weed up there
cause then you'd be like, ah, fuck this job.
I'm not going, I'm hanging out here.
Cocaine's like, yeah, let's go turn some,
let's go rent some shit.
Let's go build a pipeline.
Let's go turn some nuts and weld shit.
Let's go.
Where's the weed?
You'd be like, ah, fucking, I'm calling in sick.
Yeah.
That's what that, that Bob's type of a daytime weed,
that stuff don't allow you to call in sick.
You'd be up and tearing it up.
That daytime weed, especially if it's a 30 week.
I want to, I can't wait till that stuff,
even if it comes in 20, 25 weeks,
but that's the most up,
buzzy ass energetic stuff there is.
Well, hopefully I'm wrong and it comes in at 15 or 20 weeks,
but we'll find out soon enough.
It might have a couple of different waves of maturity
where the first wave's completely converting
into CBDs and CBNs while the middle wave's doing one thing
and the end wave's just pure race.
I think cause the light, the tops get mature first.
Yeah, those ties will do that.
The ties tend to just flower in two or three waves.
The sunrise tie would have,
you know, had the really tall pistols,
like you were saying,
that one line of the Columbia in there
just like super tall straight pistols.
It looks like 1970s Harry Bush style, insane hair.
But that second wave, when it bursts out,
it'll completely engulf that first wave.
And those, all those crystals that are on that,
they're turned amber.
They're turned amber for about three or four weeks
while that new wave is just pure clear.
All the trichomes are just pure clear and hardly,
by the time they're cloudy, you know,
that first wave has actually started to convert.
So you get such a complex high on that stuff.
It covers almost every base of cannabinoid range.
I guess that's why that stuff's so funky.
Tie can get pretty narcotic for a sativa.
That must be the cannabinoids oxidizing, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, that's what I think it is, yeah.
Cause some of it can be,
the chocolate tie is what I'm smoking right now.
If you get it to the 12 and 14 week,
it does have that oxidized first wave.
And it can get you up and there's like no ceiling,
but let's say on the second joint,
it starts to take over with the narcotic side.
And that shit can be pretty-
Is it chocolatey flavor?
It's pretty decent chocolatey flavor, yeah.
It was from Ozark Nation.
It's something that he had.
It's the one that John at Snow High
has been putting on everything right now.
I think he got it from Ozark Nation
and might've crossed it to two or three different ties
that he had.
But it's a really, really good tie for sure.
Ozark has some nice stuff.
I always notice his stuff.
I know the first joint when we smoke it in a group
is pretty up and happy and high,
but the second one we'll actually be laughing our asses off.
So up and energetic and happy, good wellbeing feeling.
But the third joint though,
it takes over that no ceiling shit
and you kind of start getting that racy edge to it.
Yeah.
And it's narcotic as hell though.
It must just be because the first wave of Trichome
would mature in about nine weeks.
And when you get it to the full 14 weeks,
that stuff's oxidized and it turns into half down
a little bit on the sleepy side.
So it's fighting itself, that stuff.
Sounds yummy.
I like the narcotic stuff.
I'm the OG, gassy, chemi, all that, anything narcotic.
I smoked a bunch of drugs today,
but it's like drinking coffee.
So I like more of that down to the earth shit myself.
Yeah, so I'm the opposite.
The stuff you're talking about, Dave,
I'd cut that stuff early and stay up all day.
Yeah, I can't judge the Teva high.
You smoke it at home, you don't feel high,
you smoke a bunch, you go out the door
and go to talk to somebody and you're like,
ah, blah, blah.
With the Indica's, I can judge my high better.
And I like that heavy feeling, right?
Kind of like a dirty high, real heavy.
You feel it in your bones, in your blood.
Yeah, no, I got a bunch from these Panama's
where when you're smoking it,
you sit around, you look around, everything's clear.
And you think, huh, my high.
And then somebody walks in the room and talks to you
and you go, huh, I guess I'm pretty high.
Yeah, but otherwise you don't notice it.
Yeah, so Teva's always screwed, even as a kid,
because I didn't want to tell my parents I'm getting high.
And this stuff tastes so good, you keep smoking it
and you don't feel high and you're like,
screw it, I'll do another hit.
Then you got to go talk to your parents.
You're like, oh shit, I'm fucking wasted.
All fuzzy face, all fuzzy and shit.
That's the good stuff.
Some of those Sativas are just too floaty and too heady.
You know, it's like putting your head on a kite,
on a string and you're just like out in space.
So I prefer to be way more grounded,
like a lot of body with 50% head, maybe.
I like to be with heavy body.
Somebody's got to make the other stuff.
Well, there you go.
Well, that's what's great about weed.
I like Indica and drink coffee.
So if I do the Sativa and drink coffee,
man, it's like a whole other thing.
Yeah.
It's like a Red Bull times 10 right there.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, for fishing, you can't beat that Sativa shit.
We keep some pretty racy shit on the boat
because when you're fishing in the summertime up here,
you work your ass off.
You don't even realize how many,
what you've done to yourself.
You might be at 10 o'clock at night,
start cleaning fish and the sun's still up
for another couple of two or three hours.
And then at midnight, you're having your dinner
after finally getting all your
stupid recreational fun done.
You know, you don't know how bad you need
some of that up weed and coffee.
And coffee combo.
I feel you, because I like to do gold prospecting
and smoking the OGs were terrible
when you're out gold prospecting.
No shit.
And the heat too.
Anytime you're in the heat,
you don't want to smoke a lot of them real heavy.
No, or doing manual labor.
You don't want to.
Freaking log yard work, any of that.
Yeah.
Gardening, hard, hard outdoor work.
Yeah.
Something that'll get you through the finish line.
I still do like those Sativa crosses
that are pretty 50%-ish though.
I think I like those about the,
some of the most, unless it's like,
you just want to get totally ripped.
And then, you know, NL1's a really good one for that.
You can just get super narcotically high.
A friend of mine used my NL1 for
colon cancer pain for three years.
He didn't want to get on the pharmaceuticals
and he was fighting it and it was shit.
And he could hardly, you know,
he didn't use that shit for pain relief and sleep.
And did pretty damn well and finally
through all of the trouble and shit,
got rid of his cancer.
But a lot of that was due just to that
heavy, heavy, heavy narcotic on that NL1.
It's a pretty impressive flower there.
Have you grown the two and three before?
I've grown the two, but it was not from decent stock.
And it was like feminized maybe from the,
what's that big,
what's Argen's?
Greenhouse.
Greenhouse, yeah.
So it was big, long killer juniper flavored colas
are really crystally and stuff.
But I think it was like missing quite a bit
because of the S1.
I've seen other people have more of the pure,
I think it was, I forgot what stock it was now.
Jim Ortega stock or something.
They were really impressive NL2.
And I've grown that NL9 from Jim.
Dirty Jim gave me that NL9.
That's a real interesting thing.
I always thought it was a Burmese cross or something.
It gets to be bushier, it's kind of fat leafed.
And even though it's NL9, they rated those
from height from one to 11.
And nine, it didn't ever grow super big and tall
and bushier.
I mean, like he would think something up on that end
of the spectrum.
And I've seen the NL7.
That was real close to what I thought NL1 and 2 were.
You don't hear much about the nine.
No, it seemed like,
and Jim didn't put that out much at all
because out of kind of respect for Neville's family
in case they ever wanted to put it out
or get back into it.
I know his sister and her kids
in Byron Bay in Australia, they have restarted growing.
Yeah, I sent them all of the old,
I sent them all of the old,
like four sets of the old seed bank catalogs,
all the ones that I did have a full complete set.
And they framed up a whole set of those old
seed bank catalogs and it's in the office of their growth.
So they have like a recreational, it's not medical,
I guess it's not recreational, but a medical grow.
I don't know.
I keep always wanting to call it recreational,
but I guess it's just a medical grow
and they're looking to turn recreational
over there right now.
I think it was supposed to happen already
and something's holding it back on the recreational side.
But yeah, apparently they have a lot of his old haze lines
and different things like that.
I reproduced it and I've given it out to people as gifts
quite a bit of time and never really sold much of it.
But I've only seen maybe three or four other people
that ever mentioned the NL9 too.
It's not real common at all.
Yeah.
Hear a lot about NL5.
Which is the three and the two, or is that just-
No, five.
Five as far as height.
Five, which is, it's said to be Hawaiian for us.
Yeah.
And I think the three is the Oakland Indica
cross with tie, supposedly.
Yeah, it could have been that.
The three was definitely much more Indica.
Yeah, that's what I'm wondering
what maybe this Albert Walker might contain that.
Because you know, the Asian strains have double charades.
What's interesting is if you look at the old NL3 pictures,
it also has the double charades.
The Albert Walker's got the double charades.
I'll see if I can see.
I think a lot of Mexican has double serration too though.
Yeah, possibly.
I don't know if you can see this.
It has the classic NL look.
Oh yeah, it does.
That's what I call hash on a stick.
Yeah.
That looks like a NL2 bud right there.
But it has that little bit of that sour Asian,
you know what I mean?
Like you were mentioning earlier.
And it's got the double charades.
And when you trim it, it's golden kind of.
Yeah, that looks like classic NL, so great.
Wait, hold that back up.
Let me see, there we go.
I dug through some of my older stock of NL1, NL5
and had good selections from it.
And it's the same batch that the NL1
that Graham has right now, Bob Hemphill.
He got that from me.
No, he has an NL1 female cut right now
that came from me.
Oh, okay.
And I have the sister to it.
And I used a pretty good selection of NL5s across that,
checked it out, really liked it a lot.
That's just like, now I'm doing the F2 and checking it out.
But it's a really good combination.
What I had never done before, an NL1 by five.
I'd done it before, but with no selection.
It was just doing increases on things that I had at hand.
And now that I dug back into it,
I love digging into the older genetics like that.
So it has like flat petiole stems coming out of the buds,
really tight, instead of splayed out fingers on the leaves,
they have these just old school 1990 look to the buds.
It's pretty cool to see the,
working with these old things and bringing them back around.
Yeah, I did a reproduction for a friend of mine
up in Oregon, classic seeds.
I don't know if you know Terry.
Did you know Terry?
I know that, no, but I know that you had worked
with his NL1 and then-
I did a large reproduction
and it was like five different females that I sent him.
And so I got a bunch of those.
I haven't really worked with them all that much.
Bob's got some of that.
Yeah, he's in a tight spot right now
with that damn tree crushing his house.
Yeah, it sounds like it.
I don't know, what are they planning on doing?
I don't know.
He's just in temporary digs up in Eureka,
I guess right now,
and housing's like few and far between over there.
So I don't know.
I do not know what his plan is.
I know he is, I don't even know what he did
with his cactuses.
He was right in the middle of having to move everything.
Yeah, man, this weather, I mean,
it's just been pouring all day here, windy.
God.
Have you-
Yeah, you guys definitely got your rain for the year,
rain and snow for the year.
Yeah, I'd say.
Have you grown any of the Shiva line before, Dave?
You know, like one time, what is that?
That's NL5 skunk, right?
Shiva shanty?
Yeah, they have a few across.
Yeah.
NL5 skunks and NL5-
I think maybe some early, mid 90s or something
from Paradise might've made it or something like that.
I forgot who made it.
Not Super Sativa, Sensi seeds.
Oh, Sensi.
Oh, yeah, you're right.
But I think somebody-
Well, Sensi got their seed stock
from Super Sativa when they closed down.
Well, I think, well, Paradise was Super Sativa
when he closed, right?
Forever.
Carl just started Paradise,
and that was their brand name even for five years
when they came back.
That was the license they worked under when he came back.
Because when I remember that weed from back in the day
when all the cups and that's all the weed
we wanted back in the day.
That was super good fucking bud right there.
The chem totally reminded me of that in a way.
I was like, whoa, this is like Shiva shanty.
It had that-
I would say it's so too,
it's an accurate skunky-
Garlic thing going.
It had that accurate side to it that was-
Same structure.
If you look at the,
even in your seed catalogs that you have,
you can look at them and hold the buds up
and they're almost identical.
The chem D between some of the NL Shiva's
and all that stuff in those catalogs.
It is, they're pretty close structure.
He's right.
I've heard that subject brought up plenty of times.
People are always suspecting this or-
I think if you just have strain experience,
you can't help but notice the similarities.
Like picture proof also.
Cause right, I guess that's the Holy Grail.
Whoever can find the daddy to those
can actually rework them without playing a guessing game
of who the daddy is.
Yeah, I don't look that far back.
I'm kind of like,
I don't really want to dwell on the past like that.
There's so many people that, you know, want to know.
I just really don't care.
I only want to know for proper ingredients.
Not about the chef or the chef's history.
Like I'm not interested in the chef or the history.
I'm just interested in proper ingredients.
So when I make something-
You know the recipe,
you can just do it again anytime it will.
Yeah, well, that's the thing is you do the homework
to try to get an idea of what the recipe was
at the best of your knowledge and then apply that.
Yeah, that is a touchy subject,
but hey, it is what it is, right?
Everybody is-
Yeah, I've never dealt with chems much at all.
I've very rarely until I'd say 17,
I didn't ever see a chem or smoke any of it.
So I never focused on it or, you know,
wanted to mess with it much.
And it was so widely known and used and coveted.
I just kind of ignored it and stuck with other stuff.
But I can see the appeal to it.
In fact, I'm gonna cross a Chem 91 to my TK-N05A
just to have the double OG type of thing going on
with the back of the N05A.
You almost can't beat anything.
N05 backs that lot of stuff up really good.
Yeah, it's a taste profile thing for me.
It's like I'm not trying to replicate Chem D or Chem 4
or any of the chem lines or any of that.
I like using those components
because of that profile and the effect that we, right?
It's strong, whatever it gets crossed into it's strong
and it leaves a good profile.
So that's, I really like enjoy those ingredients, so to say.
Plus I'm an LA guy.
We just love OG as well.
We love OG.
Yeah, I'll tell you what, 10 years ago
when I was visiting California, it was like an OG.
That's all the place was about.
It all there was, a thousand different named OGs.
It blew my mind because I'd never seen an OG before.
That's like the only thing that you could move.
And that's what everybody had.
Yeah, how quickly time changes.
And then the next wave was Gorilla Glue.
In 17, I went down to like the SoHo,
I mean, what is San Bernardino,
the Southern California High Times.
That's when the Gorilla Glue wave hit.
And then the next wave was-
Alien was around for a little bit.
Yeah, yeah.
We had your Tangies,
that Strawberry Banana and Tangies was the next.
That was big too, for sure.
It was mixed in there for sure.
Yeah, cookies, some of those extracts.
First I went OG cookies, then the glue,
then the Tangies, blah, blah, blah.
And here we are now is, you gotta have super purple weed
and it's pretty much has Rents or Gelato in it.
But now they're shifting to where you can have
some green in it, but it's gotta be candy gas.
And that's why you can now have green in the weed
because there's gas.
But like last year, if it wasn't black, purple,
frosty weed, nothing.
No one, you couldn't, it hadn't been that.
Green weed didn't sell.
I didn't care if it was the best weed on the planet,
no one wanted it.
Yeah, I remember in, say about 98,
my buddy was selling, he was in Cabello
and he would go down to Oakland and drinks,
he'd have like 50 pounds of Super Silver Haze
and 50 pounds of that SR71, I guess,
the Oaks for them, Purple Kush.
Man, nobody wanted, at one point,
nobody wanted that Super Silver Haze.
They only wanted that purple and they would go,
he'd get rid of all 50 pounds of that
and he'd be sitting on the Super Silver Haze.
And before that, the Super Silver Haze was the ticket, man.
Like in, like 97, man, that's all the,
that was the shit down there.
You could, when before it was legal,
if you were a connoisseur, you knew your weed.
It didn't matter what it looked like, you knew the weed.
But as medical came, more people got into it,
they didn't have weed experience,
so they went off face value, right?
And it's all about chunky, purple, frosty, or is it loud?
It doesn't matter what the effects are,
that's the appearance.
A lot of it is just social influence so much.
Yeah, now it's even worse.
Everybody just wants to be in line.
I don't wanna get in line.
Whoever, yeah, whoever the cool guy is at the time,
if that's what he likes,
that's what they all want nowadays.
I'm not against any of that though.
I liked when that strawberry banana sherbet wave hit,
I was going down and DNA had their,
they had like a big booth, they're selling all their shit,
but they were giving out,
what they had loud packs, extracts down there
of that strawberry banana sherbet.
That was one of the tastiest, coolest things there was.
And from up here, we didn't have it.
We didn't have any retail at all.
Even though it was legal, we didn't have any retail
or any place that you could go medically wise
and pick it up.
And it was weird, we had legal weed
and we never had a medical system up here for it.
So when I went down to like the different high times
and Emeril Cup and shit to see that whole thing,
what a eye-opening thing, you know?
I met good hog hunting friend of mine from Texas.
He drove over there to these,
doing some LA dealings with the same guy
I was supplying a lot of seed stock for.
He went over to the high times,
the Southern California high times cup
and he went in there and we came out of that place
and he said, you know Dave, if I can imagine hell,
I imagine that's what it would be like.
I mean, that's just the craziest.
The ones in San Bernardino were terrible.
Yeah, the San Bernardino is like the loudest crazy music.
Every single one had its own super loud music.
There was like a lot of chicks just painted up
with like marijuana leaf over their nipples.
And there's like hundreds of these girls
trying to hawk the shit.
And what a crazy situation.
But my buddy, he was like old school dog man, hunter.
He went in and out of there.
He literally, he thought if there was hell,
that's probably what hell was like.
The San Bernardino high times.
Pretty much, I'm from this area and it's bad, yeah.
And half those people were meth heads in there too.
There was like some freaky out meth heads.
Oh yeah, San Bernardino is one of the worst counties
in California.
Like San Bernardino is like really bad like Oakland.
So it's amazing they even held the event there.
Yeah, I had, oh yeah, my friend,
he got robbed out in front for four or 500 bucks.
They had like stick up for his.
It's really bad out here.
Oh, pretty crazy.
But that's the first time I'd ever seen any of that stuff.
Because we're just like at home, personal use, legal
and no infrastructure past that, you know.
Yeah, I remember, yeah, seeing people
with little carts and plants in them.
And even I was going, whoa, I guess the future's here.
This shit is legal now.
We got people with little red wider wagons
with live plants rolling around.
I was like, whoa, here it is.
Let's get back out.
Hey guys, good talking with all of you.
Yeah, I appreciate it myself.
Thanks, Mike.
All right, take care.
We could use this as a nice wrap time.
I think we, to everyone watching,
we didn't really have an agenda or anything with this.
I would just kind of see where it goes.
So hopefully we can keep doing them.
And hopefully you guys get value out of it too.
I mean, the guys talking shop.
I had some, you had mentioned sensitive topics.
I was gonna ask, we'll save it for the next one.
But like sour diesels, a lot of people
are working that into stuff
and we could have a sour conversation.
But we'll save that for next time.
Take care, everybody.
Great chatting with everybody.
Thank you, Peter.
All right, everyone have a good day.
And you're in LA and coming to tonight's event.
You guys too, nice talking with you guys.
