Let's talk about that purple panty dropper. What is it? Why is it in everything?
Well, you know that, so the story behind that strain, which sometimes it's not great for me to mention it because it's not super politically correct,
but the purple panty dropper was something that came from some sort of hill seeds, I kind of call it, some friends, some old time growers in Humboldt,
and actually Southern Oregon too. And I crossed it with purple haze and Matanuscan mist, and eventually it just kind of worked its way into our breeding program.
And, you know, a good breeder should have kind of like a stud that they really do.
Yeah, and that's what it is for you. It's your mail.
Well, not anymore. It was for, you know, back in the early 2000s and, you know, up to 2010 we used a lot of it.
But the reason that we named it that isn't because we, you know, like to, anyway, it's not a PC name,
but the purple panty dropper got named when there was a party at the farm and I woke up in the morning.
I didn't even partake in the party. And I woke up in the morning and walked up to the garden and sure enough,
there's this pair of purple panties like right there at the top of the trail in this little circle of open clearing.
And of course, there's, you know, plenty of purple budding plants all around it.
Right.
So I went down to the party, which was still happening and said, you know, I got a good name for a strain now.
But formerly it was known as purple passion. So I guess it's always kind of inspired passionate behavior,
whether it was panty dropping or just being happy.
Awesome. And so you've crossed that into a lot of varieties over the years.
And well, you know, the interesting thing about like when you're really full disclosure about how you breed a strain.
I mean, if you whether something is still relevant is another question.
Like, well, tell everybody what we've used to make the variety, but it may not be necessarily very relevant anymore.
So if it was originally made with purple panty dropper or, you know, blueberry muffin, but then it's had, you know,
lots of back crossing happen like any true good breeder should be doing to provide like a consistent,
uniform seed line, then it won't really, you know,
display a lot of characteristics of some of those early crosses that you used to create it.
Sure. While, you know, it's still, you know, full disclosure to mention it.
And it's standard practice, too. And in cannabis industry, you see a lot of folks who are like, this is, you know,
blah, blah, blah, times green crack, times, you know, OG or whatever.
And that's doesn't necessarily mean that you're just going to pick up a bud and smoke it and be like, I taste green crack.
And then, you know, a hint of OG, it might be something completely new if you've spent some time working with it.
So absolutely. I mean, we're talking about hybrids of hybrids of hybrids.
You see these recessive genetics come out and you're like, what was that?
And all of some obscure trade in one of the great grandparents or whatever. Right.
And and that's why, you know, we like to reference the genetic variation.
That's sort of the hetero homozygosity that you can find out through genetic analysis using like phyllis bioscience or a number of the different
genetic research services that are available now to cannabis.
So you can actually like go ahead and submit a seed line and they'll tell you exactly how diverse or uniform the offspring will be.
So and a lot of our stuff, you know, we're pretty proud that it's really, really far into the uniform on the uniform end of the spectrum
rather than the diverse. And that said, you know, like, gosh, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 20 years ago,
we had a lot of diversity in our varietals. And since we've been around and humble for a long, long time,
you know, sometimes I get some shit about that. People will be like, oh, you know, you use the same, you know, purple panty dropper or whatever.
Like, hey, you know, try us. Give us a try again. Five years, 10 years after you had diversity in your garden.
And any seed these, you know, there's really at this point in time, there's really not any such thing as like a true breeding cannabis seed.
When you compare it to like a major agricultural crop like corn that's been focused on for, you know, a hundred plus years by breeders,
like with a scientific method and and breeding strategy, the traditional breeding practices and now, you know, genetic markers,
marker assisted breeding and and you can really have like a row of corn or an acre or 10 acres of corn that are almost as completely identical plants.
You know, even genetically, they're, you know, not much drift in the population, whereas with cannabis, we just haven't really gotten there yet.
And that's something that we've been really working on over the last five or six years internally is making inbred lines and then doing, you know, real F1 hybrids rather than, you know, what everybody refers to as as an F1 or an F2 or F3.
They're not actually, you know, in conventional agriculture, that wouldn't be even something that anybody would even share with the public, you know.
It's still in the realm of pollen chucking at that point for that.
Absolutely. And don't get me wrong, like we are on camera and on a microphone up and stuff. I don't have anything against breeders that do that.
That's how I started out. I mean, you know, if you're misrepresenting it in some way, then maybe that's not such a good thing.
And it does can give seed growing, you know, kind of a bad name a little bit.
I've I've gotten some of the most phenomenal product ever out of completely random crosses that, you know, friends of a friend of a friend have done.
And it's not any kind of bash against it. It just touches on a word that you use that came up earlier when I was talking with Beth about stability and what stability means.
And stability has until recently, at least in my world, referred to the ability for one seed to be similar to another.
And you have a line and especially when we're growing these big plants that are part of this one can be matched up with this other in the finished product.
Exactly. Well, that's that's a big thing that we that's the goal is like we started saying, you know, we guarantee you can walk down the row.
And of course, this is subjective because it's up to everybody's opinion.
Sure. But cut and throw it into the same bin. And, you know, that said, one of the hardest things that I've noticed to nail down is the level of anthocyanide purple in.
Yeah. In each plant. And that is kind of been sort of at least one of our golden grails is trying to breed a strain that is like purple every single time.
Yeah. Like the same degree of purple every single time. Right. And like our blueberry muffin strain, that one just, you know, continues to elude us like getting the purple super consistent.
The smell, on the other hand, like every single time is a blueberry muffin smell.
I mean, absolutely. That's that's what I've seen in in growing it is that it's just it's a it's a color difference when it comes down to the end.
Yeah. And how the color comes in, whether it comes in very much at the end. Right. Or whether it almost starts off the process is purple.
And that's going to be the case whenever you have purple cannabis. You're going to have potentially like the top of the plant or the south side might get purple quicker and the north side.
Not at all. You know, you're going to have a variable degree of of the purple pigment no matter what.
So it's just something to keep. We're going to keep working on it. And but it is it's like that's the crux of seeds and clones and breeding and that whole thing is, I think.
But then what you said, like distinct what we call distinct population crosses.
And so purposefully being like, well, I'm going to take something that is way over here from, you know, Columbia, Jamaican land race and cross it with something that's much more common and and, you know, sort of westernized or American or whatever you want to call it.
And that's going to produce a vast array of diversity in the progeny. And then the likelihood of finding something amazing is actually increased when you have that kind of a spread of diversity.
And but on the other hand, the likelihood of having something that's kind of like what, what, what is also increased. So the more diversity, the higher your chances are of finding something really cool and the higher the chances are of having, you know, a few entire plants that you grow that are just like, oh, man, this is going to be like the hardest stuff to sell.
And so it's not like what any commercial grower wants to be doing. And that's why we did that giant phenotype, our phenotype mega hunt project this last summer where we like looked through ten thousand cannabis plants at, you know, ten different licensed facilities throughout the state and tracked it.
And we have our own gas liquid chromatograph so we can test it. And, you know, we got our data spreadsheet that we enter all the info and it was a lot of goddamn work. Like, man, I still like that's why I'm late kind of getting here. Like, we're doing that right now.
I got my family is watching after all the babies and helping keep them happy. But we've narrowed them down significantly. So it went from ten thousand three months ago, you know, over the course of the summer, ten thousand cuttings off ten thousand unique plants quickly, you know, narrowed it down after depth.
You know, we essentially want to get it down to the best one percent. And then from there, you know, really now we're like the best point five percent, which, you know, so we really want to end up with 50 keepers or something.
Absolutely. And I mean, I think as far as the stability of the seed stock goes, there's there's kind of two different schools of thought is what are you doing with the seeds? Are you growing them in the nature that like you're talking when you talk about stability in these rows, you're talking about seed plants, outdoor, big picture, planting the plant to be the plant that it is versus other people are saying, no, I'm taking this seed stock and I'm doing a phenol hunt with it.
And I'm finding the keeper, maybe the two keepers, but typically just the best of the best in their eyes. And in that, how great is stability really versus having the potential to have the one that's that's so fabulous.
We have two programs, essentially, in the way we breed. One is looking for diversity. And that's the quickest and easiest program. You just take something that's really different and random and you want to mash it up and you mash it up and you produce seeds and then you plant them and hunt through them. So that's the really simple one. We never like sell those seeds, for example.
Sure.
Harvest into the same tote from plant to plant. And that's the idea.
So another thing we were talking about earlier, but just it's a perfect kind of segue into this first stability is the use of the word stability is that we've always used. And when I say we, I just mean my my smaller community within within this bigger community is that we use it in reference to what you're talking about, which is that this one looks like the other.
And in recent times with the kind of with all of the feminized stock going on with all of that, that we've started to see the word stability refer to its propensity to hermaphrodite.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. I noticed that as well. I always assumed that it would just refer to like the uniform nature of the rise. So that's how we've always kind of referenced it. But I do I'll get people being like, oh, yeah. So it doesn't ever hermaphrodite. And I'm like, shit, if it if anything has a propensity to hermaphrodite, we get it out the door as quickly as possible.
So it's not in the school that that's that's the good stock. That's the pollen source for the.
No, I saw that post. Did you see that recent post? I won't mention who it was, but one of the you know, one of the cannabis is pioneers. A really great person.
Just a little bit maybe missing misinformed about that was said, you know, oh, if you have a plant that starts to hermaphrodite on you, don't throw it away because you can make feminized seeds with it. And I was just like, no, because and that was like a post. It went all over the place.
People were like, oh, so, you know, I can keep my hermaphrodite plants and use any pollen that they produce to just make seeds. And basically, cannabis is a diecious plant, which means that it has male and female parts on separate plants. They're not on the same plant.
Right. Like an example of a money plant would be corn. So you've got the tassels that produce a pollen that falls down onto the silk, which is a pistol of a flower, which then produces seeds. So that's a money.
Money is cannabis is a diecious, but many diecious plants like cannabis have the capability as an evolutionary, you know, like last ditch effort to produce the opposite sex organ.
If it has noticed, it's like, you know, if there's stresses or, you know, all different kind of things. And some of them have a propensity to do that, which are hermaphroditic varieties. And some of them just can get stressed out enough.
Or, of course, there's making sex reversal of a plant, which essentially involves introducing an ethylene inhibitor that actually keeps the plant's natural hormone from allowing it to produce female parts, for example. And therefore it produces default, which is male.
So every plant has the DNA that it takes to be a male or a female, but there's a switch that essentially, you know, is assigned at conception that, you know, would make the plant turn one sex or the other.
And if the, if this, even if the switch is on and like an ethylene inhibitor is introduced, then it'll just go to default, which would be male. And so that's where you get the creation, the proper creating creation of feminized seeds.
Right.
And it could start to evolve into more of a monoecious, which would be real shitty because we'd never have a Sensamea anymore. So I think it is important that people understand this and don't like, you know, go, you know, breeding with just any hermipollen. You know, that's...
Absolutely.
You know, I'll give the guy a break who did that big post. I mean, he's got, I don't even know, a million followers or something like that. But I was just like, no. And a bunch of other folks hopped on there and they were like, no, no, no. Like, we don't want people to think that it's a great idea to just take a hermaphrodite plant and breed with that because the seeds will be mostly female or all female.
That's the worst.
Exactly.
Yeah, well, and as far as the hermaphrodites go, I don't know how much you've worked with plants that show hermaphroditic tendencies. But what we see is kind of two distinct paths that go down.
One is when it shows it early on in the beginning of flowering, coming off an apical calyx, versus later on, showing it through the flower, an expression of that same, you know...
Like you're saying, like the banana that comes out at the end, you know what I'm talking about, right?
Yeah.
So I totally agree. This is a very interesting subject to me and I've been talking with a lot of people about it and just in the last couple of months. So I do believe that there are two types of hermaphrodites in cannabis.
One is a little bit more genetically inherent and the other one may just be related to environmental stressors. So like what you referred to where you've got, you know, full on male and female parts coming out early on in the stage, in flowering stage.
That's obviously, I would say, you know, more of a genetic inherent hermaphrodite. And then when you have plants that will produce a little banana, I call it, but it's essentially it's an anther that comes out of the plant at the end of flowering.
That's more because, you know, this female cannabis plant is like, you know, sure. There's no good dick around, you know, like I'm going to make my own.
You know, that's, you know, some of the questions we kind of have as we go through these various stocks that we work with where we have some varieties that it doesn't matter the extreme temperature and humidity differences we have and the differences in nutrients and even more extreme stresses like in light depth, having some of the issues that we see.
We have these cultivars that don't really express this. And then in working, and I hate to say it, but I've seen it go way up as I've started to work more with feminized stock.
And I'm not going to sit here and make any statement that I could see that that's 100% what's causing it. But interestingly enough, I did a pheno hunt last year in two separate spaces, one indoor, one in the greenhouse.
And I saw more stress initially in the greenhouse, more variables, and a higher percentage of them show hermaphroditic tendencies. We got rid of all of that. We went back to our mom stock that we've taken cuttings off of and brought forward ones that didn't show anything.
As we go forward, now we're not seeing any apical calyxes throwing hermaphroditic flowers because we got rid of those. But we're seeing some of the other varieties now that express at the very end of flowering, they're throwing this out.
Yeah. And I mean, to me, like the ones that throw out the bananas at the end, it's a little less concerning overall for like the whole species. Like, you know, like, obviously, it's not something that's desirable at all. But, you know, I don't think that...
Trimmers don't like it.
Yeah. Yeah. Trimmers don't like it. But here's an interesting thing that I noticed this year is we did a ton of landrace breeding and crossing, just growing pure landraces or whatever. We ended up going to Jamaica last year, Ethiopia.
And then, of course, we had that Willie G's seed that Willie had brought back from Lebanon and a few more, too. But anyway, these ones that had, when people say landrace, different kind of definitions of that. But I'm talking like landrace, like...
Inbred line that...
Well, so inbred and selected by nature, not even as much by breeding. So like wild populations or populations... See you, Beth. Populations that essentially just the selection is natural. So, you know, it's an isolated population.
The selection is less based on somebody doing pheno hunting, for example, and more just like what grows best in Jamaica. You know, what works in a giant field in Lebanon that we can get the most hash with the littlest least effort, you know?
Yeah.
Six months later and whether there's seeds or not, we don't care. We're going to make...
Biomass!
Biomass and hash. And, you know, we're going to get all the different uses from it. So landrace can mean different things. But these, these, I would say, are the most purist form. They're both isolated and they're selected by nature.
And so bringing those back that actually we I noticed like those have a higher propensity to throw those little nanners at the end of the season. Now, none of them were full on, you know, displaying both sexes like you're talking about where you have more of like this monetious type.
But they were definitely like commonly showing bananas. What do you look for in a seed company?
Passion. Love, love, love for the plant. It's what I look for in anyone that I work with in this community. Like we all got families to feed. We all want to have a decently comfortable life.
I'm not going to play some game of being 100 percent altruistic all the time, but that money doesn't and in my opinion shouldn't come first all the damn time. And how kind of short sighted it is when people are constantly putting that dollar first. And I just I like to see that the people generally enjoy the plant.
That's great. I love hearing that. And I wholeheartedly agree. You know, I always tell folks like, well, you know, we get a ton of people that are like, oh, we'd love to work with you or whatever. And I don't ever say like, oh, they don't have enough Instagram followers for me to bother working with them or some dumb bullshit like that.
I try to meet people and decide like how, you know, smart and passionate is this person. And that's the only thing I care about. You know, like if you're smart and passionate about cannabis and wanting to, you know, work in this space and and improve things and share in medicine and and the fucking love for the plant.
And, you know, you're half of half a brand. You know, if you're an intelligent person, you're clearly an intelligent person. So let's work together. I think that's I've seen people that, you know, started with nothing and and.
And one year later, they're like one of our biggest collaborative partners because they just, you know, are they're smart and they know what's a good, no good idea when they see one or have one or whatever.
