And you're live.
Good morning Living Soil nerds.
Happy Thursday to you.
We got a rough crew today.
Peter's laid up with his bad back.
I obviously from yesterday, you guys know that I have coronavirus.
But we're all sticking it through so that we can basically remember one of the ones that we loved during the show.
For the past over like year and three months, I think it's been
a really good time.
And Pauline would pop on and kind of show her face and you could hear her in the background and was just always part of the show.
So this is a special show for us to be able to remember Pauline.
And I'm excited to have all of our guests here today to kind of talk about how cannabis is medicine.
We're going to obviously dive deeper into this.
Shout out to London.
Shout out to Greg.
Shout out to Shango.
And soon we'll have Kevin on here as well.
It's just to kind of celebrate the life of Pauline and Layton, I think I think it's good for you, buddy, to just kind of talk a little bit about Pauline and then we can kind of get into the show.
I know that for a lot of us, you know, having our wives and having our girlfriends and stuff, we wouldn't be able to really do a lot of the things that we do without them.
So I you know, it's really hard to even imagine what you've been going through, Layton, when you find that special someone and you've just been working hard.
I remember when I you know, you and I first started doing these shows together.
Pauline was really all that seemed to matter to you.
You know, you were working hard, trying to get the herbs for her, trying to just make sure that you could take care of her.
And I'm trying not to be emotional about this, man, but I just can't imagine what you're going through.
So, again, this is a light for her.
I hope that others see how important our community is and how important how important it is to see from our peers that there's just so much love.
You know, I mentioned that I kind of was hyping this show yesterday on our show with Marco and just the love that everybody was putting into the chat box and everything.
Layton, you know, people are calling you a G, Mr. O.G. and all that stuff.
So I hope that you realize that there's a lot of love out there for you, Layton, as well as, you know, everyone kind of missing Pauline.
So I'd love to give the mic to you. And then we're going to obviously talk deeper on to just how cannabis can heal.
Yeah, thank you.
The outpouring has been just overwhelming.
I hope to someday really be able to respond to each and every one of you that sent me these incredible messages of love, strength and appreciation.
It just it blew my mind. And so deep thank you.
Big hugs and love to everybody out there that has been so supportive for quite some time now.
That's not like it just happened. It's it's been going on.
So a brief start on Pauline is a lot of people didn't understand that she was certified, licensed or registered in 15 different modalities.
She did yoga certification that took over a year.
Nowadays, you can get it in about a weekend.
She was certified in Ayurvedic medicine.
She studied in India.
She was a masseuse beyond.
Not only deep tissue work, but regenerative work.
And I can go on and on. Reiki master, nutritionist.
So she was very, very well versed in the medical industry.
And when I met her, and I think this is an important story to share.
I had a friend, Harlan, who was also a cannabis enthusiast.
And he was all about his gems and his stones.
And he loved to do alternative activities.
And this particular time he called me and said, hey, there's a cacao ceremony in Washington Village.
I want you to come as my guest.
And I was like, what's a cacao ceremony?
And he goes, well, basically, you drink this extremely potent hot chocolate and you meditate.
And I was like, well, meditating, I love.
I've been doing that for a number of years now.
And I enjoy it.
And so I agreed and went to this cacao ceremony.
And I rushed in late and was disheveled.
And I found a little spot off in the corner, rolled out my mat.
And then the ceremony began by warming up this chocolate and saying prayers to it.
And then we all drank some and we laid down on our mat.
And to my surprise, Pauline, who I'd never met before, stood up and started guiding the meditation.
And about halfway through the meditation, which lasted an hour, she came into my freaking meditation.
And it was the most bizarre thing ever.
And when it was over, I came out of it like, you know, almost like dazed and sat up and looked at her.
And she looked at me and she came over to me and said, did something weird happen in your meditation?
And I said, yeah, you came into it.
And who the hell are you?
Like, what the fuck was that?
And the owner of the place instantly walked over to us and said, so you guys know each other?
And we both looked at her bewildered and said, no, we've never met before.
And so it was just a really bizarre thing.
And I asked her, hey, has that ever happened to you in the past?
And she said, no.
Anyway, we did the second round of meditation and I left and went on my way.
And I didn't really think much about it again until later on.
I had I slipped on some ice in October, broke a rib, cracked two other ones.
About a week later, I slipped on some more black ice, went underneath the car and fucked my back up like Peter.
I was down like hard, went to the ER, dragged myself in there.
Of course, they gave me oxy, steroid and muscle relaxants.
And I basically knew myself for a week.
And after that week, I was like, fuck these narcotics.
Fuck these drugs.
I can't stand this.
I can't stand the way I feel.
I'd rather suffer the pain.
So I basically locked myself in a room, turned off my phone, water only for three days.
And just meditated and slept and meditated and slept.
Finally, when I was out of it, I got in my car and I drove to the center where I had done the meditation.
I walked in and the owner, Christy, looked at me and said, whoa, what is the matter?
You don't look so good.
And basically I explained to her, I said, look, I ruptured my discs.
My ribs are broken.
I'm in really bad shape and I do not want to do these narcotics anymore.
Please, can you help me?
And she's like, yes, I'll put Jampa on, Chinese herbs and acupuncture, and I'll have Pauline do mild yoga,
regenerative yoga, deep tissue massage and Reiki on you.
So I spent a lot of time at the center for the next three weeks or so where I got constant treatments,
two to three hours every other day.
And so as part of that treatment, you kind of get to know each other.
And as Pauline is working my back and performing Reiki on me, we started talking as you would normally.
And she asked what I did.
And I said, well, I'm a soil biologist.
What the hell is that, right?
Everybody here says that.
And I said, well, basically I look at the biology in the soil and how healthy it actually is or not.
And so she goes, well, what kind of plants do you work with?
And I said, all kinds of plants.
And she said, well, do you work with cannabis?
And I said, of course.
She's like, really?
I want to bring cannabis into my practice.
And so I was like, okay, that's easy enough.
How do you want to use it?
Do you want to use it as a massage oil?
Do you want to use it as a tincture?
Do you want to use it as something stronger?
I mean, do you have sick patients?
And she's like, yes, I have patients all over the place with all kinds of different ailments.
So the treatments continued.
We got to be closer and closer as friends and eventually got to the point where we shifted into something deeper than just friends.
And at that point I said, you know, well, do you really want to be immersed into cannabis?
You really want to understand what it's about, where it comes from, how it's managed, how it's used in different medicines.
And she said, absolutely.
So I flew her out to California.
Went up to Humble, introduced her to some of my peeps and friends up there.
Kevin was one of them.
And of course, she just lit the room up.
She lit people's hearts up when they met her.
She was just probably the most powerful woman I've ever met in my life.
And I meant that like seriously powerful.
I mean, look, she came into my damn meditation.
So needless to say, our journey continued.
And then she was struck down by cancer, which was bizarre to me because this woman took such good care of herself.
Ate only healthy, nothing in excess.
And during the process of diagnosis and her operation, and not to be horrific, but she was basically gutted like a deer from the sternum to the pubic bone.
Ate organs, pieces and parts.
I mean, it really fucked her up as a human.
And during the process, she kept saying, well, I took on 80% of it.
I took on 80% of it.
I own 20%.
And I didn't fully understand what she meant by that.
But as time went on, she explained, there's a thing called basically, how do I say this correctly?
You're working with cancer patients and you, by default, take on the energy.
And that energy can then manifest into the cancer.
I mean, we all have cancer in us.
It's just a matter of whether our cells trigger it or not or allow it to mutate into something that's a lot more dangerous.
So needless to say, transference, that's what it's called, where you're around it.
I had an example of that in my life when she really explained it to me that reminded me that, yeah, this is something.
I had a neighbor who used to talk over the fence.
And one day I saw him and he was just really banged up.
And I'm like, dude, you don't look so good.
What's the matter?
He said, my wife has breast cancer and I feel horrible.
I'm like, why do you feel horrible?
He goes, I've been smoking my whole life.
And she's always taking care of herself.
She's never smoked or drank in excess.
And now she has cancer.
And here I am abusing my body with cigarettes and she gets cancer and I don't.
Six months later, he died of lung cancer.
So transference is real.
And when you're really super guilty about it, that's when you're probably at your weakest and the most potential to transfer it into yourself.
So just a warning to the audience is that if you are working or caring for cancer patients, just be careful to protect yourself.
One of the other modalities Pauline was into is she did a yearlong study with a shaman group on how to protect yourself.
And unfortunately, after she was struck down with cancer, she admitted that she was not properly preparing herself when she did work with her clients.
And so today we're going to talk a lot about cannabis in treatment for different ailments.
So as medicine makers here in the room, as well as out there, just be really careful about making sure that you're taking the necessary precautions to not feel guilty or not overburden yourself with the pain and suffering of your patients, because that's really dangerous.
And there is books out there that will explain this in much greater detail.
But I just I just warn you, because here here was a beautiful spirit, so powerful, so full of energy.
And yet she got struck down with what was called what is a death sentence, stage four ovarian cancer.
There are just very, very few percentage of survivors from this.
And especially when it's as how do I say this metastasized as it was in her situation.
So let's let's dive in a little bit deeper.
I mean, I'm going to, you know, reel her back in throughout the conversation today.
But I would really love Greg to, you know, step up and talk a little bit about the endocannabinoid system so that the audience out there has a better understanding of how cannabis affects our entire bodily functions.
So, Craig, I give you the microphone.
So thank you for coming on today.
Hey, thanks, Leighton. And thank you for sharing the story.
I certainly offer my deepest condolences.
I've never had the opportunity to meet Pauline, but you're it's I know it's a terrible time to be going through.
So I appreciate your sharing and giving that testimony. And this kind of the I'm grateful to be able to be part of it.
Because cannabis is safe medicine and that that kind of term that that always is what it boils down to me and a life of delving into sort of the hard science of the biological rationale for why cannabis is medicine and all the details about when it would work and with who.
It always comes down to the fact that cannabis is a safe medicine that human beings have coexisted and co-evolved with throughout longer than our recorded history.
It's a very special medicine and it's safe. And the fact that we've all been I'm grateful to be living through a time, you know, in my adult life to have seen so much progress in, you know, opening and accepting cannabis as medicine.
But anyhow, thanks for having me on. I've listened to you through Shango's podcast, Shaping Fire.
I'm a huge fan and admire of Shango and Kev and love to see to have opportunity to share a little platform here.
And I'm on to talk about endocannabinoid systems and help sort of add that piece. I've been fortunate enough in my career as a scientist to help make some early discoveries and what these things are called endocannabinoids and how they work.
And it's no longer that strange to much of this audience. The endocannabinoid system is part of how it's part of the language and safety mechanisms and defense mechanisms of cells throughout our bodies and throughout all living systems.
Honestly, the endocannabinoid system is part of the language of cells is one really simple way to get into it.
You know, my PhD is in pharmacology, which doesn't make me a pharmacist.
I've taught pharmacists and med students and doctors over the years on the pharmacology of cannabinoids.
Pharmacology is really the study of the language of cells through chemicals and electrical signals and contact mediated communication.
How do cells communicate with one another? And, you know, what was discovered in the early to mid 90s was that part of the language of cells are what we call endogenous cannabinoids, the endocannabinoids.
And it's probably pretty elementary to go through here that the term cannabinoids, of course, comes from the molecules that are special to cannabis.
THC, cannabidiol, there are at least 100 plus plant based cannabinoids that are likely to have biological activity.
I don't bicker about whether it's 120 or 15 or however, there's over 100.
And there was a long research pursuit to figure out how, you know, how weed works in the body.
Of course, as we all know, motivated by how it's dangerous, how to make you crazy, how it make you sick.
This incredibly entrenched and pernicious bias in research and in policy about cannabis being dangerous.
When in fact, when discoveries were made in the late 80s and early 90s, that THC actually has a cellular receptor.
It works by binding to what we now call the cannabinoid receptors.
That unleashed a whole flood of research that is now just enormous, showing that you not only have our cells, not only have receptors for cannabinoids, but these internal, this internal system called the endocannabinoid system.
So our cells release molecules.
The most prominent ones are called anandamide, which has got the greatest name of a chemical ever from Ananda, internal bliss.
Anandamide, another one, 2AG.
These are the endocannabinoids that act in many ways like THC, in many, many ways.
Cells produce them throughout our brain and body on demand in a way to fine tune their own inputs and communicate and be in a right relationship with their neighbors.
That's a little poetic license to talk about it that way, but that's really kind of the gestalt of what it's doing.
When I say that all of this has become so mainstream, I mean, in the mid-90s when I started studying this as a graduate student, what we knew were that these molecules exist.
Some real pioneering chemists like Rafi Mashulam and Daniele Piemelli and Vincenzo de Marso, just to throw out science names.
There were labs in multiple spots of the world finding that the brain produces these endocannabinoids.
And largely it does it to defend itself.
If a brain, I mean, and there's a lot of animal research involved in this, right?
But let's honor those animals for what they've given to the research.
If you give a head injury, a closed head injury to a rodent, these molecules, the endocannabinoids, elevate many times over.
They rapidly go up.
And that's because it's the brain's on-demand defense against injury, against ischemia, meaning like lack of oxygen during stroke, against hyperactive electrical activity, as with epilepsy and also happens with acute trauma.
More and more and more, there's evidence that the endocannabinoids are part of the equation by which cells regulate unrestricted cell growth, as in cancer as well.
And it's as mainstream as science gets.
So the endocannabinoid system is an enormous element, a cellular mechanism by which our bodies maintain balance.
The term homeostasis has gotten very popular in the medical cannabis world because it's how the endocannabinoid system works.
As someone who's been a professor of physiology for many years, that term homeostasis is the central theme of human medical physiology.
All of our systems work to maintain the proper balance of your internal chemistry, your heart rate, your blood pressure.
Everything is set to work in a sort of set point that's optimal for life.
And when you get out of whack, your heartbeat goes too fast.
There are neural and hormonal systems that bring that heart rate back down.
When you're hungry, you start seeking food.
That's a complex behavior of homeostasis to bring your body back into equilibrium.
And well, homeostasis rather, equilibrium is a different subject.
Anyway, the endocannabinoids are just so critical in all of this.
Cannabis is remarkably, has evolved to support and stimulate and interact with the endocannabinoid system in a way that just overlaps with the natural system so exquisitely in so many ways that one can go on and on about it.
I'll leave that for now as the introduction and just say that I'm happy to sort of be part of our session today.
Thank you. That was beautiful.
And Shango, why don't you pop in and let us know a little bit about your background and what you've been up to lately.
You're muted.
Yeah. Can't hear you.
You might have to leave and come back.
Kev, why don't you speak up now and we'll have Shango pop off and then pop back on.
Easy. Hey, what's going on, Leighton?
Gosh, you know, it's always a hard one when you're talking about someone that passed away.
Pauline was a sweetheart.
She was really, really a lovely person.
And, you know, in hindsight, you look and you just wish people had more time.
But she was a lovely gal.
And, you know, my experiences in medical cannabis, I think, are different than many because I entered it in a different way.
And I mean, I was in California when 215 popped, which was in 96.
So I had a 215 in 97 from Dr. Micaria, who was one of the original doctors.
But I didn't use medical cannabis.
And the way that a lot of people did because my level of activity was so much greater than a 215 would protect.
And so I really just used the 215 so I would have an ability to have personal use.
And I wasn't involved in anything to do with medical cannabis until really almost 20, 19 years after it passed.
And when I when I took a position operating a dispensary, it was a very, very long time.
And it was at that moment that I got this revelation that the number of people who are ill and use cannabis as replacement therapy was staggering.
And I realized that people don't talk to you about their medical situation.
It's private. And it was only when I got in the building that I was able to really start to understand just how powerful cannabis was as a homeopathic tool.
And what I tried to do in all the years that followed was try to be someone who was of service to these people.
I didn't have a medical background. I don't have one now. I don't claim to be a cannabinoid specialist.
The only thing that I was really good at was getting people to believe that I wouldn't abandon them during their struggle.
And that allowed me to work with a tremendous number of people, both in positive ways where we were able to pull them through a problem.
And then also in positive ways where I got to kind of take them all the way to the end.
And it just allowed me to see a very different truth about cannabis as a medicine.
So, we can go into all of this today, but it's a tough one because I like Pauline.
She was a really good woman and she was very, very genuine.
So we'll just keep moving forward.
Check, check. Did you guys hear me this time?
You're perfect now.
Yeah. All right. I just got these new Bluetooth headphones. Apparently they time out. So sorry about that.
So, I guess a couple of things. One of the things that I liked about Pauline, I mean, I liked a lot about Pauline, but she was somebody who was very experienced at healing healers.
And, you know, Leighton mentioned early on the idea of transference, about how we as healers can sometimes take on some of the attributes of the people that we're working with.
Because we're listening to them. They're giving us a lot of energy.
Sometimes these people are very sick. Sometimes they're depressed, you know, or worse.
And we can take that on. It's something that caregivers have got to find support about all the time.
But Pauline was the kind of person who was able to heal healers.
She saw this on a level of magnitude that always impressed me because she could take care of the patient.
But then if you were a healer and you came to her, you would be able to turn to her and then she would be able to help, you know, fix you, help heal you as well.
And that was especially...
Your headphones cut out again.
That's the problem with Bluetooth. I feel like that's why all of us have the plug in.
All right. Are you guys... Do you guys hear me again?
All right. Sorry about that. First time getting the new headphones out.
So I also want to expand on something that Greg was saying that I really like.
You know, he was describing how the endocannabinoid system, when it's working properly, is bringing the body to homeostasis.
And, you know, those of us here who are in the audience or are here on the panel, we're often put in this position where we need to explain to our family why or how the endocannabinoid system works.
And we don't always have a Dr. Greg Gerdeman to turn to, right, to explain it to us.
And I have found that no matter if I'm speaking to caregivers, trying to give them an initial understanding of the cannabinoid system, or if I'm talking to just like regular folks that I like I meet at the senior center or something.
Here's an example that I use that might be of useful to anybody in the future.
I always say that, you know, the endocannabinoid system is a lot like a second grade classroom.
That when the teacher is there, the kids are generally doing their work and they're doing what they're supposed to be doing.
But if the teacher gets called out in the hallway for a moment, the kids will be, you know, behaved for a while.
But then suddenly one kid will crack up and then another kid will crack up.
And the next thing you know, they're all kind of going crazy.
And it takes the teacher coming back into the room to settle everybody down.
This is very much like the endocannabinoid system, because generally the endocannabinoid system is self repairing and keeping, you know, all the systems in line.
If a system is running hot, it cools it down.
If the system is sluggish, it amps it up because it's essentially a signaling network.
But what takes the second grade teacher out of the room are these causes that Dr. Ethan Russo says lead to endocannabinoid deficiency.
And these things that weigh on our endocannabinoid system are essentially a description of modern American life, right?
High anxiety, poor sleep, poor nutrition, environmental toxins and taking pharmaceuticals that repress our immune system.
I mean, that sounds like most everybody's everyday life.
And so because of those influences on our body, the endocannabinoid system is weakened.
And then any one of the systems that we have starts to drift a little bit from optimum.
And then another one drifts and another one.
And next thing you know, you know, our body is a mess and doctors are trying to, you know, treat each individual thing without looking at systemically what's going on is the endocannabinoid system has broken.
And so so anyway, I just offer that example of a second grade teacher, because that seems to make sense to everybody about how when there is a moderator for the system, it can function properly.
But then when the moderator is gone, you don't know which part's going to fall apart, but some part does.
And that moderation ends when your endocannabinoid system becomes deficient.
So at this point, that's what I have to offer.
And, you know, we can come back to me later on.
Thank you, Shango.
Thank you very much for that.
And yeah, it was when when Pauline first learned about the endocannabinoid system, she was she was really upset at what we call Western medicine for for not even acknowledging it as a, you know, integral part of our life.
And she as a researcher.
She was incredible.
I mean, she she learned so much so fast.
It was it was it blew my mind to the point where by instinct she was using tools like TACA crystals, CBD crude, which was full plant spectrum to treat her patients by instinct.
And one time we came out to Vashon Island for one of Shango's get togethers and she wanted to meet Ethan Russo because she had read so much of his work.
And Shango kindly gave us his number and he literally met us that day, sat down for coffee, gave us two hours of his time, in which point she explained to him what some of her treatment methods were and why she took them.
And he chose to do it.
And he's like, wow, you you really on this.
I've never heard of anybody else using TACA crystals in medicine making.
And so it was it was really eye opening for me that she had she had researched this way beyond what she'd even explained to me in understanding medicines or cannabis medicines for treating different ailments.
So it was it was a really eye opening thing for me as well.
And, you know, Kev, I want to bounce back to you because you know, sir, you have been so kind and so generous and so genuine in the industry for so many years.
And I don't think you've gotten that recognition.
Your early days of juicing and helping people with with the leaves.
Can you talk a little bit about that work?
Yeah. And thank you.
And, you know, recognition, recognition is really not important.
I mean, it is for some people, but like I like the work, the work, the work is what I like.
It's what I've always liked. And I like to see people do well.
If you've ever had a struggle in your life, you you I think you have a different approach to life.
And so for me, you know, sharing info was a way to feel like you were part of the human race.
But we have to go back almost like to 2008, which is really when the beginning of like American CBD started really coming out.
And I had no knowledge of it.
I knew I knew of the cannabinoid, but I didn't understand the implications.
And I actually had a really good background in sports medicine, sports physiology, because I had been involved in athletics and I had spent time in Russia with the sports scientists with my son.
And so the idea of a cellular homostasis so that you have an equilibrium.
So in between excitation and depression, and that's where the body finds the balance.
I understood that concept pretty well.
But we had an opportunity where when I was running the facility, a doctor named William Courtney came in and said, hey, I have this hypothesis that the human race is deteriorated in health because of the lack of endocannabinoid stimulation.
He believed that when we took hemp out of the diet of all animals and people from the war on drugs, that he said that these data points track to a decline in human vigor.
And he had a girl that he had met that he married and she had inability to conceive a child.
And so he theorized that if he could get her endocannabinoid system to be stimulated adequately, then perhaps it would return her body to a level of stability that would allow her then potentially to have a child with him.
And so he said, you know, raw THC, THC acids, unconverted, unheated would be what he would utilize.
And so that kind of began Courtney's dive into this direction.
And when I met him, they were working with a guy named Jaime out of Spain who had discovered a 5% CBD plant, a can of tonic.
And so Jaime came in from Spain and him and Courtney and this other cat named Dreddy Aaron.
They got together and they started working on driving up the levels.
And what I did was they approached me because they needed a facility to do this.
And at that time, you know, the implications that Courtney was stating was so unbelievably over the top that I was like, it's almost impossible that it could be this good.
But I said, you know, if only 10% of what you're saying is right, then that 10% is worth me dedicating canopy space to this project because it was it was taking money right out of our company.
And at that time, there was no proof on this.
There was nothing. It was just conjecture.
But I sat down and listened to him for a while and I said, you know, this is kind of thought out.
Courtney is a you have to if you know, Bill, he's he's out there.
But he had a really pretty logical progression as to what he saw took place and what he believed could happen.
And so I said, hey, we'll dedicate the canopy space and let's go do the trials.
And from that project and I wasn't involved in the breeding of it.
I was just the one that, you know, allocated the space and then kind of just helped facilitate.
But out of that came ACDC.
And it was this unbelievable situation because we were able to do is we were able to bring in health professionals to help with the trial so that what we could do is we could take a look at the people coming in and then address a lot of their issues simultaneously so that we could try to get a better improvement in their health overall, including the cannabinoid therapy.
And it was an ungodly success.
And we had people pouring into the facility, not just for the the the CBD cannabinoids, but also for the raw juice.
And what we were doing is we were just picking the leaves and juicing.
And the irony of it was, is that when this project first started, we didn't have any of these plants developed.
We hadn't found the the ACDC plant.
And Courtney wanted to begin the process.
And I just started pulling leaf off anything, saying, look, let's just mine cannabinoids and let's see what happens.
So I know that the first juicing trials in the United States really were occurring with like sour diesel, green crack, OG kush, because we were mining from the canopies of things that we were selling at the dispensary out of the operation we ran.
And it was a process where if you got the people on the juice, typically two to three weeks is when you'd start to see change.
And the change was so profound and so broad based, it blew my mind.
I just could not believe how many different things were being addressed through proper endocannabinoid system stimulation.
And what happened next was Bill succeeds.
He was able to get his wife in a healthy situation to where she can conceive.
And he ends up getting an opportunity to run for Congress.
And he basically shuts the program down, so to speak, and goes into politics.
But the problem was nobody took the website down.
And so all of a sudden, with the success of the program, I got people from all over the world reaching out to me to be part of this program that didn't exist anymore.
And I had seen the results of it so intimately that I knew that it would have been a sin, a travesty to mankind not to continue the project.
So I personally took the project up and I just explained to people that I'm not a doctor.
I don't have any medical experience, but what I have is an ungodly amount of experience watching people benefit from the products we give them.
So what I know is some basic concepts and let's try to see what we can do.
And it was really, I think, the beginning of this entire CBD revolution.
So you had Wade Lauder with Harlequin.
You had Ringo.
And then there was Courtney with Canna Tonic.
And those three plants were the pillar, cornerstone of the entire movement.
And what took place next was nobody knew what to do with the plant material.
And because no one knew how to monetize it, because CBD had no financial value at this point.
I mean, when I talk about this shit, it's only 208.
But no value.
And everyone wanted to patent it or hold it or do something.
And what Aaron and I made the decision was because I ran the facility and I had control over the operation and Aaron had control over the genomics.
We both agreed to just put it into the system in quantity so that people would start to get their hands on the products.
And what we were able to do was start to drive CBD, cannabinoid rich medicine into people's hands.
And then I would put on programs to get people to understand how to run their own operations.
And we would, a lot of them we funded, where we would buy the tent, buy the lights, give you the plants.
I would come over and give you the education on how to cultivate.
I would work on getting groups together to work in conjunction together so that three people could run an operation for four months a year each.
And then you would switch the tent to the next house so that this way you only had to be tied to your home for four months to produce two cycles of juice.
And it allowed people to be able to have a freedom of life because for a lot of people it was very difficult to be tied down to do indoor cultivation year round.
Once we started to be able to get more awareness of what was taking place, we were able to start mining into local farms.
And the ability of the local farmers to provide material back into the system.
And so we would receive just truckloads of fresh material.
And then I would pull a batch.
And at that time, it was Samantha Miller was really, I think, in the forefront of testing.
And all of Ringo's work was being done through her and all of mine was done.
And so I would be able to get a sample of the leaf sent over quickly so that we could make sure there was no contaminants.
And I never had any contaminated leaf enter the shop.
The number of farmers who are running biologically derived systems and their desire to take part in something that was so unbelievably beneficial was a community milestone to me.
It doesn't exist anymore.
The new era of cannabis prohibits all of this.
But there was a golden moment where people realized that the things that were waste products on a cultivation site were absolutely gold for people who were ill.
And we pushed so much of this product into the system that we started having tons of people who were benefiting from it volunteer to be assistants.
And so at one point when I started Wonderland, we had a whole team of elderly that ran all the juicers that I bought.
And they would be juicing all the time and producing it.
And what we would do is we would give it to all the local juice bars and all the places you would go for health food.
And they would keep big jugs of it in the fridge.
And it would allow people who were going through chemotherapy and radiation to be able to go in and get a drink of it before they went through their treatment.
Because we noticed it had a huge impact on the side effects of chemo and the side effects of radiation.
So this was all grassroots shit.
I mean, I had the shop and everything, but it was the community around me that was really the driving force.
I just make it possible.
But it was the number of people that were trying to be part of this new world of cannabinoid healing.
And what I was able to do for a lot of them was I funded the research projects so that we could do breeding operations so that people could start to steer their own varieties in seed form.
Because many of the older people in our area, Mando, Trinity, Humboldt, are off grid and they don't have the ability to hold a clone.
So I could give them an ACDC cut, but they couldn't keep it.
They could only grow it outdoor and they didn't have the ability to maintain it.
And so what I would do is I would work with Samantha Miller and we would use her predicated analysis.
And I would go through and help people steer populations so that we could start swinging the levels up.
And within a year and a year and a half, there was probably 80 different varieties that were floating around that were 15 to 18 percent.
So you go back to 208, there's only two or three in the entire planet that are pushing five.
Within a couple of years of that breeding effort, there was over 80 just in the triangle.
And it was this moment of where you really felt like you were part of the human race.
Because I didn't really have any health issues personally.
I never used 215 to cover what I did because I was always way too big to use 215.
And when I met a lot of the people that were claiming to be 215 healers and all this other shit, they were charlatans as far as I was concerned.
And I always tell them, you're fucking hiding behind a wheelchair.
And I just didn't like it.
It was when I got in myself that I realized that many were charlatans, but there were real people who were genuine.
And I started trying to find those people.
And I used those people as my reference so that when people would come to me for assistance, I would be able to direct them to people who had a background in holistic healing and were good people.
And because I was providing everything for free, it allowed there to be this really unique relationship.
So the people who came into the facility, we never sold a CBD product.
So I gave away millions of dollars of product that I subsidized from the recreational op or whatever we want to call it, but basically I still call it the criminal ops.
And what it did is it allowed people to be able to get access to the degree they needed.
And it allowed there to be a different relationship between us, the career cannabis cats, and the people who are coming in who are trying to find relief from their issues.
And I think that the thing that made it work really was that I was really honest with them.
And they would come to me and I would tell them, look, I'm not the doctor. I don't have any experience in medicine.
The only thing I'm really good at is making shit happen.
I'm good at that. I know how to put A and B together and get C.
And so if you can just allow me to do what I do and then help you find the right people, we won't abandon you in the fight.
And it really changed my life because it was the first time that I was really able to do true charity where you were giving to people with no expectation of return.
And what I asked of the people that we helped was that, could you please do the same thing?
Could you please share the information with other people?
If you produce juice, could you give up the excess?
We paid for all the degradation studies because Courtney's idea was that it had to be fresh.
And I'm like, it's impossible. You can't have fresh juice for many people.
They can't run an outdoor crop, juice the crop, and then what do you do? You drink it all in a week.
So Samantha Miller did all the degradation studies and we froze the product and then we would have her test it every month over the course of almost a year.
And it allowed us to see was there any statistical deviation.
And because at this point we had so many patients flying through my hands that was so aware of what we were doing, the patients said, listen, you can replace my fresh products with frozen product and I'll be the guinea pig.
And so we had people that were willing to risk less health so others could benefit.
And so to me, the original CD work in the United States was as pure a program as there was.
And what happened over the next year or two after that, probably going in the 2013, 2014 is when all of a sudden industrial hemp came in and everyone started mining industrial hemp, pulling CBD only.
And it changed the entire course of medical cannabis because what you did is you lost this full plan efficacy.
You lost the grassroots. You lost the community connections. You lost the ability for people to take part in helping others.
And I think so much of that is really the basis of homeopathic medicine where it's the support.
For many of the people we dealt with that were dying, they would beg to come to the spot and work with me as a thank you.
And I tell them you don't have to. And it was really not that they wanted to do the help. It was they needed to do the help.
They needed to feel like they were still productive in society. They needed to feel like they still had a place.
And so we allowed them to populate my world.
So, you know, if you ever saw me at any of the operations, man, there was groups of people with me all the time that were all just doing anything they could in the shop to be productive or feel positive.
And we just wanted them to be able to have that opportunity because we realized that the ability to feel like you're still alive is so much the driving force of staying alive.
And I mean, it got to the point like before we had before a lot of this stuff changed out when we shot Wonderland down, it was the end of the era because it was the new legal and you can't do this.
But we were producing literally barrels of fresh juice and we were giving it out constantly.
We would do giveaways on the radio station. I'd get on the radio station for the summertime and all the farmers would come in.
People would come in from all over the world, really, to be able to kind of get an education about how to utilize this new technology.
How do we utilize cannabinoids in a non-psychoactive manner to drive wellness?
And we knew, at least I did, I knew that as soon as legalization really kicked in, that it would all end because there was no taxes being derived.
There was no money being made on this. And I knew that none of that would continue.
So we went at it as hard as we could. It was almost like I was possessed with this shit where I was trying to stuff as much into the system as I could.
And we did it by information, by providing the juice and by providing all the clones into the system where we gave away hundreds and hundreds of thousands of clones to people so they would have access to the material.
And I think it was really the finest time in my entire life of all the stuff that I've ever done except things with my family.
It was the one time that I was really doing something that had an impact that was genuine.
There was no deriving a secondary benefit. Nobody was used in any way. We didn't profit off of anyone.
And what it did is it let me just see the best of people. It let me see the best of the community.
It let you watch people recover and heal from issues. It allowed you to be able to work with people who were dying and you could kind of escort them to their grave like hospice.
And it's such an intimate relationship that's formed. It really does change you. It helps you really understand the nature of human beings.
And so I think I got more out of it than the people we helped and we helped an ungodly amount of people.
But it's just really simple. Unconverted cannabinoids seem to have a profound impact on stimulating endocannabinoid system response.
And once we got the response stimulated, the body started to work on issues.
And it was such a broad based thing that we were having people come to us constantly.
I ended up having the track team from the university come to me because they were experiencing too many issues from excessive running.
And so two of their lead runners came in and said, hey, we heard you give a lecture on this and we want to know, could we try it?
And the next thing you know, I'm providing juice to Humboldt State University's track team where they would come into the shop and utilize it to help them heal.
And so we started using it for all kinds of athletic stuff. We started using it for anything that we could put it in your system.
And the only time we ever had an issue was an individual who had high levels of Coumadin in his system.
So the blood thinners caused issues if your chlorophyll levels rise.
So if you're on blood thinners, you have to be cautious of chlorophyll.
So he couldn't have too much broccoli, too much green leafy vegetables.
And when he got up to about six ounces a day of juice, it started making him dizzy.
And so we had to back it back off. But that was really the only time we saw a problem.
And I don't think there's really anything that's less harmful to use with more benefit than green juice.
And then the number of people that came to me with serious medical problems was staggering.
And they were terrified to go to the doctor because they knew that they potentially were going to die.
They had a tumor the size of a grapefruit poking out of your neck.
And what we would do is we would put them on juice programs.
And if they didn't have the ability to access it, we would just buy the tent, buy the lights, buy the system, and then provide the plants and then help them, you know, with support.
But it allowed us to be able to take people who were terrified, having major issues, to start taking their health into their own hands.
And then I would recommend they go to the surgeon, go to the doctors, because you have a problem that's most definitely life-threatening.
And what we saw across the board was these incredible changes in how physicians started looking at cannabinoid therapy.
Because every time these people would go in to get a tumor looked at or something diagnosed, they would say,
Hey, wait a second, you keep having dead material from the tumor where something is killing the tumor.
And it had such an impact that pretty soon we started having doctors come to us all the time to speak.
And all I could really do is explain what I saw because I don't have a medical background.
But I'd seen so many people that it allowed them to be able to get an idea that there must be something positive if this many people are benefiting from it.
And this was their condition prior and this is their condition post.
So I think what it did is it had an impact in a way that I had hoped it would have, which would normalize cannabinoid usage for all people.
Because what we noticed was that people who had what they believed to be medical issues had a negative view against people who used it psychoactively.
When they didn't really understand that psychoactive usage is also medical and it's for mental stimulation, could be however you want to use it.
And what we wanted there to be was this one common belief that cannabis was benign.
That however you used it responsibly was okay.
And I think that that's really what transpired was we were able to start getting people to believe that cannabis was a positive plant to be utilized in any manner that was chosen.
And it started to really remove the contentious relationship between the non-psychoactive, psychoactive crowd.
And I think that it really changed our region.
And I know that all the genetics we pushed into the system changed the world because we were the source of all the genes globally.
And it was really all because we saw this effect in real time and I just knew that it was so important to push this into the system.
And it was just so strange to me to be the one to do it because I had such a different background than most people who were in medical cannabis.
But I think that was the advantage because at the time most people who were getting into medical cannabis were trying to come up.
And that's what people were saying to me. They're like, you know, you're not going to be able to come up if you don't sell this shit.
But I was like, look, I'm 42 years old. I'm already up. I didn't get into medical cannabis to make money.
I already made a lot of money. Money's what I made.
What I'm trying to do is go into the new world of cannabis.
And the only way to do this is to do it in the way I believe that I did, which was free.
Where we just subsidized it. We subsidized your support.
We would pay for the projects. We would pay for the lab work. We would pay for your equipment.
If you needed us to drive to your house, I would go to people's houses and deliver this shit.
So it was just really to start to get people to work collaboratively on homeopathic healing, using cannabis as the primary tool.
And getting people to start to support each other through struggle.
Because what I noticed was that once people get ill, it's so scary to other people that they abandon them.
Because it makes you too aware of your own mortality.
And it's too intense for some people.
But my background's a little different. High pressure doesn't really fuck me up.
And what I knew was that these people were desperate for help.
And it's the same as when we had the AIDS patients come in.
Nobody would touch them.
I would hold their hand when I talked to them because no one had held their hand probably since they got diagnosed with AIDS.
And I just always thought, because I used to get lectures on this, you know, you're going too far.
And I'm like, but if this was you, if this is your mother, would you want to see her abandoned?
And so it was just really a human push.
And because the time was right and the moment was right, it all worked.
But it allowed me to see some incredible things and it changed the course of my life.
And whenever I need a health boost or the family needs a health boost, we juice leaves.
And that was fucking beautiful, Kevin. Thank you so much for sharing that.
When I originally heard that story when we were chopping it up, I was just staggered, dude. Just staggered.
So again, thank you for sharing that and letting people understand that the THCA, the stocks, the leaves, everything has value.
It's not always all about getting high.
And so I hope that people hear this and realize that those sun leaves can have incredible value for them and their family and their overall health.
I tell people to compost them, chop them and drop them, but there's a medicine value to it, too.
So keep that in mind. Go ahead, Kevin.
Oh, I was going to say that the best story of all stories was a woman who had early onset dementia.
And her husband was a very successful, well-known architect.
And his wife within a two year period went from being fully functional to fully non-functioning.
And it devastated him because he had spent his life building this beautiful world.
And he was going to spend the last remaining years of his life with his wife and, you know, have the twilight years.
And she had become completely disassociated.
And it devastated him. And so we got to we bumped into each other.
And I said, hey, you know, there's really no damage to try.
I said, we can put her on a juice program.
And so three, three and a half weeks into the program, all of a sudden she comes to clarity and she looks at her stepson and says, you've got to be almost 40.
Why are you still living here?
And it was that she had returned to the degree that she was functional enough so that the husband and her could now have the time that they wanted to have together.
So it wasn't like she returned to her youth, but she returned enough to realize that the stepson was still living at home and that he needed to get a job and get his own house.
And, you know, it was it was little moments like that that it just.
It just it just lets you appreciate the process.
You know, it really does.
It keeps you coming back for more.
I keeps making you want to help more people.
Right. So and that's, you know, in many ways, that was what Pauline was all about, was getting the word out and letting people know that.
Like for her, she couldn't smoke it like she literally would convulse if she smoked it.
And so she had to use the THCA.
She she used the oils.
She did use some tinctures, but on low doses.
But for most part, she would make her capsule cap lids and use them suppository so that it didn't be so past the brain and the liver and prevented those, you know, incredible psychotropic effects.
I mean, she did she did walk around in circles sometimes when she took a little too much.
But for the most part, it allowed her body to get the the the medicine without really, really getting her super stoned.
And at this point, I'd love to shango to talk about, you know, some of the work that he's been doing, because he was very instrumental in, you know, some of the more exotic medicines that Pauline would would use with certain clients.
And so, Django, can you talk a little bit more about, you know, what you've been doing?
Yeah, sure.
And so one thing for anybody who wants to hear the long version of the story that Kev just gave about about them bringing CBD plants to the northern California market.
There's a whole episode of Shaping Fire about it.
Episode 12 of Shaping Fire.
He gives us a full 90 minute version of that story for anybody who wants to hear a longer version of it.
So the thing that Pauline and I usually talked about was complex forms of RSO, Rick Simpson oil, also known as full extract cannabis oil, also known as ethanol extract oil.
But, you know, most people call it RSO just as a shorthand.
You know, even though none of us really use Rick Simpson's recipe anymore that involved naphtha, most of us use ethanol because it works more effectively and it's less dangerous.
But, you know, for years, because we have bred the cannabis plant for the THC, because we like its euphoric effects, the other cannabinoids in the plant had been slowly bred out.
You know, so if a plant typically by weight has got room for maybe 40 percent of cannabinoids in total and the target was THC, slowly but surely the other cannabinoids, the CBD, the CBG, the CBN, you know, some of the other varieties were bred out so that there could be more and more THC because that's what sold the best.
And so that's why so often people are going back to the land races to try to find some of these cannabinoids that are not THC.
So what that meant was if at first you had the people breeding the other cannabinoids out of the plant in order to increase the THC numbers because the THC is what you got you high.
When we started to realize even more about the medical attributes after Kev flushed all of this CBD into the market, people are like, OK, well, where can we get the CBD?
There's so little of it. And then suddenly there were these plants that were showing up all over northern California and people started early on breeding the CBD back in trying to get, you know, one to ones and things like that, where you would be able to both be able to enjoy the THC and also the CBD.
Now, take this forward now, you know, 10, 15 years to where we are now. Where we are now is a place where we understand the importance of cannabis oil. We understand that THC causes apoptosis in cancer cells.
We understand the endocannabinoid system, that how it functions and that if it is strong enough, it will start to hunt down cancer cells or whatever the ailment may be that may be throwing you off balance and will start to destroy those cells, too.
But we still are trying to make RSO or whole plant oil from plants that are heavily THC and in most cases are missing the other novel cannabinoids.
And so, you know, when I originally started talking about this with Dr. Ethan Russo and Dr. Sunil Agarwal, I don't know, this was probably five years ago. You know, we all believe in whole plant medicine, right? We know we want the THC. We know we want the cannaflavin. We know we want any of the other cannabinoids that are in it.
We want as much of a complex plant that's possible. But when we're making RSO, we're making it from modern cultivars that have the other cannabinoids bred out because we wanted strong THC.
Well, at the same time, CBD isolate had just come on the market and I had talked with Russo and Agarwal and I said, listen, the plants that we have to make RSO from right now are like simplified. They're like dumbed down.
They're only THC and then like a breadth of these other cannabinoids where the land-raised plants have got, you know, a much wider variety. And that is what my goal is for RSO is to do it the way the plant had evolved in cooperation with humans for all these thousands of years versus what we've done in the last 30 years, which was breed everything out and just make it THC.
And so I asked them, I said, well, you know, I'm not a big fan of isolate, but can we fake a whole plant by spiking our THC oil with CBD isolate? And, you know, both Russo and Agarwal said, you know, while I would prefer the plant itself had a wider range of cannabinoids, since we don't really have those plants really available everywhere.
And granted, this is, you know, five, seven years ago. They're all like, yeah, for now spike with CBD isolate. But the goal should always be to breed plants with a wide variety of cannabinoids so that they can really interact with every aspect of the endocannabinoid system.
So bring us to like about four years ago, I've increasingly been against isolate. I don't think that it's as good of a medicine as whole plant. But I did find out that, you know, I make a lot of varieties of tinctures for myself and my family. And, you know, I've got THC based ones, I've got CBG based ones, I've got THCA ones. And what I realized is that, you know, when I would make these tinctures for myself, I was left with the plant material that I was going to use for my plant.
But I realized that there was still a lot of cannabinoids in it available for a second run of something I was I didn't want to re hit them as a tincture, because that would muddy muddy up the taste of the tincture and make it more chlorophyll based. And so what I decided to do is like, Oh, what if I did this second run as an RSO because RSO due to its you know, its form, you know, it's kind of like, it's kind of like a casserole, right?
So you take all the extra foods in your refrigerator and throw it into a casserole and boom, you've got casserole, but really, it's just like all your leftovers and you cleaned out the fridge. The same thing can be done if you're running plant material for other things. So I took the leftover THC material, CBG material, the CBD material, some of the weird land races that I had been given. And I ran that all again through ethanol.
And then and then, you know, removed all the ethanol through a distillation process and was left with RSO. And I was left with an RSO that was atypical to the RSO that we've been using for the last 20 years, which is going to be, you know, 72 to 78% THC, and then all the other cannabinoids will just be like a trace.
But suddenly you were seeing, you know, CBD and CBDA and CBC and CBN and like CBG and CBGA. And there's all this complexity in it now that I would have wanted in an original plant, but we have not bred those plants yet, right? Because we bred all of those cannabinoids out because THC has always been king.
And so I started, you know, using this RSO in my own life because I've got my own host of problems, including, you know, traumatic brain injury that I've been trying to get over now for 10 years. And instead of having a 70 to 80% THC, my THC was now more like between 40 and 50.
But then I was pegging high numbers like 30% of CBD, another 15% of CBG, and then all these trace cannabinoids all floating, you know, you know, 10 to 15%.
And the healing power of that complex RSO was astonishing. I could immediately feel the difference. I sent them to Pauline. Pauline immediately said, what is different with this RSO? You know, it's, you know, I don't think she was providing it to people, but she was using it herself because she's all like, I need this to be able to continue on.
And then, you know, when people ask me for it, I, you know, I can give it to some people for them to try and then teach them how to make it themselves. And so that is one of the two things that we can talk about CBG separately, you know, but I want to give somebody else a chance to talk.
But that is what I wanted to offer here is that's something that Pauline and I talked about a lot. It was the importance to diversify the cannabinoid content of the RSO that we make, where we can, by blending our own plants, like a wine vintner would, we can make a blended RSO that is way more dynamic, way more broad-based medicinal than simply an RSO that is just a blend of CBD and CBD.
And that pegs high THC levels that's hard to take for many patients. And we found, you know, as good or better results from the Y blended RSO with less THC overall than we did then, like the really spiky stuff at 80% that was, you know, making it very difficult for people to get up to taking a milliliter a day. So, so with that, I'll stop.
Thank you, Shango. And yeah, that, that, that material that you the oils that you sent her, she did share with with other patients that needed them. She was about that, you know, and she did have other oils here from other growers that she would blend with your stuff. But I thought it was really important that you that you tell people about that, that, that, because that was the key is that complete,
multi-leveled cannabinoid oils that are very, very powerful in killing, killing the cancer cells. It's called apoptosis. And just so the audience knows, there's a company in Greece that does what's called the Keras test. And if you ask your physician to perform the Keras test,
99% of the time, they will say, I've never heard of it. What is it? And it's basically where you send your blood that is got your cancer and it'll work part of your tumors to them. And they add different types of herbs and pharmaceuticals to see what is the best recipe to really push the cancer back.
And the interesting thing was that the only thing left other than chemo that caused apoptosis on the highest level was, was cannabis oils. And the only thing under that was was certain mushrooms that did it. And then there were all these herbs. So, but the, the top two strengths other than chemo was cannabis and mushrooms.
And then there were a series of other plant herbs that had caused the same thing, but on lower percentages. So again, thank you so much for sharing that.
Since I saw Dr. Gerdemann dropped off for a second, let me put a quick addendum on that. And that is that I want to point out the importance of including CBG in your RSOs or tinctures where you can. CBG is becoming more and more available through the hemp market, and you can still find it, the plant materials, make your own whole plant extractions.
But here's one of the cool things about when you add CBG to an RSO, a whole plant tincture, what we found is that yes, CBG does help with neuromuscular pain and it's helpful for that. But what I find more with the patients that I talk to is that it is an incredibly successful anti-anxiety and there's a couple of different ways that it helps as an anti-anxiety.
Number one, it helps with social phobia in case people don't like to go out and chat with people. You can take a little CBG tincture and it will calm out your need to run. Second, if you have to feel like you need to do public speaking, right, or get on one of these terrible like kind of Zoom meetings for work, right, you can take it and it will allow you to interact more easily like that because it calms the part of your system that feels like it's not there.
It's the part of your system that feels uncomfortable with that. But the primary thing that I have found a benefit of CBG when added to RSO is that the patients say that it makes them feel more capable of dealing with their suffering because the CBG in it. It's been more than once that I've seen them put their hands on their hips and they're like, I feel like I've got a cape, right?
So it makes them feel capable that their pain and their suffering may still be there as much as it was, but they feel that their capability of dealing with it has increased at a great level. So whoever that we're going to be giving this RSO to, sure, it's good for all of us to take small amounts of RSO, but pretty much anybody who's coming to look for RSO, they're in pretty bad shape, right?
If the THC and the other cannabinoids can help them with their pain and discomfort, but then there's a CBG component as well, that helps give them the attitude for survival while the THC is causing apoptosis for the cancer.
And so I only mentioned this because I want medicine makers and healers to start thinking about their RSO as a painting and that we want to paint particular types of medicine for different patients. And if there is a suffering component to it, to make sure that we try to add some CBG.
So not only are we curing, helping, you know, really reduce the suffering of the body, but reduce the suffering of the mind as well.
Shango, thank you so much for bringing that up. And I'm glad you did because Pauline wanted to live. All right. She was a fighter. She was doing all this important work, but she'd wake up days and just be horribly depressed.
And, you know, thinking about, holy fuck, I have a limit. I have an expiration date was really, really hard for her. And on those days, she would hit that little syringe of your CBG stuff. And it would bring her that peace, that inner strength to not dwell on the fact that the time was limited or that she was going to eventually pass.
So, again, thank you so much for bringing that up. And Greg, welcome back. I don't know if you caught what we were talking about, but I'd love to hear your input on that last session.
Man, thank you. And first of all, like, I could just sort of spark one and hang out around a campfire with Kevin Shango all night, no doubt about it. I had so many thoughts spinning off my head, Kev, with your story that I'll maybe chime into some of my touches on that narrative.
The story matters. It really matters. And I love how you share that this industry, the people who bring this medicine into their lives, we stand on the shoulders of a long string of giants and heroes and good energy that came into this.
But what Shango was just talking about, I caught the very beginning and then the end. And the thing that comes to mind as we're talking about things, talking about what gets referred to as the minor cannabinoids, right? CBG and the acids, the raw acids that you get in juicing.
Something that I think is really great. Excuse me, I'm sort of in a transition here.
About the work that, for example, you're doing, Shango, is as everyone on this call is aware, you know, there are real issues with CBD in medicine because of the way it ultimately got put into GW Pharmaceuticals' Epidiolex.
And because the FDA is not satisfied that CBD was used as a dietary supplement prior to being approved as a drug, it creates this massive roadblock for CBD oils to be implemented more widely.
And technically, the FDA doesn't believe they're legit. That's not going to be the case with CBG, CBDA, THCA, CBC, these cannabis specific flavonoids like the camflavins.
They are because of people pushing artisanal products like Shango and Kev and all of these folks that have been touched through the ripples that you guys have put into the waters.
There's a clear track record that these products are used in medicine, in supplements. Call them what you will, but there's a history of it.
And so I think that's a wonderful aspect of what you're talking about. And biologically, yeah, I'm just very intrigued by CBG.
Now, let me just pause for a second. As you can see, I'm pulling out from a car. I may lose a signal if my phone is having to shift from my wireless.
There he is.
There I am. Yeah, I knew that was going to happen. I'm in a car. I hope that made sense, what I was just expressing.
It's a sense of hope that I have that a lot of the full spectrum will not have the same roadblocks that CBD itself does by virtue of being developed into a drug.
Now, I remember Shango, I was on the phone to you, I think, the day after you had first cooked up some CBG RSO off of stuff you got from the Oregon CBD guys.
And you were like, man, I feel like a captain of industry. I tried this last night. And it's like, I feel like everything's possible.
And I love your spirit and your work of safe, respectful experimentation with patients who need it and communicating it. And same thing, of course, goes to Kev.
I'm a scientist who came into this through the brain science piece angle as a PhD. And I always had this sort of, I'm a white male PhD student.
I always had the ability to talk to people about cannabis as medicine and feel sort of shielded by that.
But I always am expected to fall in the same mantra that researchers do of saying, oh, we need more data. We need to do more experiments. It's inconclusive.
And for 20 years now, I've been saying, yeah, we really need to do more experiments.
But it needs to be in real human patients in the light of day where this medicine most certainly belongs, with compassionate protocols, and learn from them in their clinical successes and failures.
But this world is so full of clinical success stories with cannabis as medicine that get written off as anecdotes because they don't occur within the confines of a controlled, statistically set up trial.
That doesn't make them N of one. I mean, it doesn't mean that they are not N of one clinical successes.
And the sum of many, many individual successes is a medicine that doesn't always work for everyone, but is incredibly safe to try and can absolutely be life saving, create dignity of life, create healing in situations where it wasn't there.
I'm tempted to say a little bit about sort of my background as it led into that rediscovery and reemergence of CBD. Is that appropriate to go into a little bit?
Oh, please. Absolutely. That's why you're here.
And I'll plug myself a moment. When I signed back on, I put drgertiman.com down there because I finally listened to friends over the years and built a little home on the web that hopefully will be, grease the wheels for me to put more of a repository of my interviews and thoughts and put out more video content.
So that when somebody asks, you know, for example, when Shango was talking about his second grade, unruly second grade classroom metaphor, you know, when healers out there and patient advocates and patients themselves want to learn more things like what is the endocannabinoid system that I can at least show or have an easy to find reference for my take on it.
There are lots of thinkers in this arena now, but I am grateful to have been one of the early ones and I have a lot to say and share still.
And honestly, so where I was getting at with Kevin's this wonderful story about CBD is, you know, I remember going, I sort of cut my teeth at the International Cannabinoid Research Society, the ICRS meetings.
It's the only, used to be the only real scientific body studying the roles of cannabis as medicine and cannabinoids and helping to discover what these are.
And it changed me because I would go to these conferences and there was always an orbit of patients and advocates and the most and these intrepid physicians like Dr. Todd McCrea that Kevin mentioned, who knew that science was on their side about cannabis as medicine and wanted to learn more and soak it up.
And I was the kind of guy that wanted to sit with those with with all of those folks and help them soak it up.
I used to get together with the great Fred Gardner, who is a wonderful journalist and has run the O'Shaughnessy's sort of newsprint, Cannabis Journal for many years.
And I used to sit with Fred after these meetings and help him break down sort of the top 10 scientific discoveries presented, the top 10 talks.
Sometimes John McPartland would sit with us and we and he would end up publishing it in the next edition of O'Shaughnessy's.
And I would I started using a pseudonym right back then.
I wasn't people didn't know my name.
I was a NIDA funded researcher, the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
I wanted to be a college professor.
I didn't publish with my real name.
I started publishing. I wrote some stuff for Ed Rosenthal and used G. Lee as a pseudonym because my middle name's Lee.
And actually, I threw in the car Ed's latest Cannabis Growers Handbook that just came out because I'm super excited because my chapter on the endocannabinoid system in that book, very similar to what I wrote for him in the past.
I'm using my real name on it. And I love just personally that embodiment of how times have changed.
And also, I'm a disembodied academic now or deinstitutionalized academic to use Seth's term from Oregon CBD.
But what I guess what I'm trying to say is that we would I remember being in these little sessions with Fred and later with Martin Lee and talking about see that.
Look, this research is coming out with this molecule CBD.
That's been you know, it's been studied and found effective for schizophrenia in Brazil and epilepsy decades ago.
It's likely was a prominent component in the medicines that that the great physician O'Shaughnessy was using to treat seizures in India.
CBD, I think, is one of the hottest, most important things coming out of this.
And this is not to take over claim my credit. Lots of people were thinking this.
But I'm proud of having even through a pseudonym to have helped sort of disseminate into the California, you know, cannabis culture, you know, a scientist perspective on CBD being an up and coming important molecule.
And I remember Bill Courtney talking to him and exploring some of these ideas.
And I have such honor and respect to breeders like you, Kevin, who well breeders in general have worked in this when it's risky.
And for all these years.
There are many frustrations about modern cannabis industry.
I mean, hell, I helped to start one of the first cannabis companies in Florida, you know, Kevin.
And God, we would have big, giant trash cans full, beautiful, organically grown, clean, family sugar leaves, so much medicine that we had to throw away.
You know, as you know, we had to throw it away.
It was so freaking painful to not put together a business plan to be juicing that in the local stores, but couldn't do it.
And I guess the last thing I'll say something that came from what you said, Kevin, you know.
I was just reading some scientific abstracts this morning.
I do that a lot anyway, but I was also doing it to sort of prep my my thoughts on the cannabinoid system.
I was looking at this paper that just came out a little review in Science Magazine, the most prestigious American science public general purpose science publication, Biological Basis of Cannabinoid Medicines.
Again, it's as mainstream as it gets.
You can see little things here about how combinations of phyto cannabinoids might deliver relief to disorders of complex ideology.
You know, a passage I've underlined here about how THC induced activation of cannabinoid receptors can be useful in neurological disorders, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's, cancer.
The biological rationale for these things are coming.
I mean, are so solid.
But it risks being subverted not only in the ways that the legal cannabis markets are being controlled, but, you know, pharmaceutically.
I saw another abstract, a paper that just came out, talking about a synthetically derived analog of CBD.
So it doesn't really have a proper name.
It's got like a string of letters.
It's a drug being developed, but it's basic.
It's an analog of CBD, so it can be proprietary.
And they're reporting positive data in experiments of Paclitaxel, which is Taxol chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy induced neuropathic pain.
Exactly what Kev was describing earlier about some of the therapeutic uses of raw cannabis.
And there's lots of data to show that these chemotherapeutic agents, they cause neuropathic pain.
They can cause nerve damage that lingers, either tingling sensations or pain or cold.
It's a major side effect.
And there is way more than enough preclinical research to justify that nobody should be getting on these drugs without being able to preload on cannabinoids.
Why would they?
It's safe and it may prevent this very serious side effect.
And yet, as mainstream as cannabinoid science is, the state of affairs is that you can see a paper with a synthetic CBD version saying,
Hey, look, we think that this new drug might be able to prevent damage from chemotherapy.
Yeah, but there needs to be lots of people focusing on the broader education to say, OK, it may work for that.
I mean, that may work, but so does the natural plant medicine.
I think I've been a little off field here, so thanks for those comments.
That was wonderful.
And again, there is no hard line format to this.
It's a discussion.
And so far, we've danced around this.
So I'm just going to throw it out there.
And I think you all know what I'm about.
Biology, soil health.
And we've seen more and more evidence now that in a biologically driven growing medium, these plants are expressing minor cannabinoids that we don't even know about yet.
And so the future is very bright.
And I think that platforms like this, where we openly discuss how important microbes in the soil are, forgetting that plant to express these other minors that could very well be the future of where we steer this plant into more personalized, effective medicine.
And yeah, as I witnessed chemotherapy, you guys, and it fucking tore me apart.
It fucking tore me the fuck apart.
And the only thing that would help her get through those symptoms, fucking symptoms.
That she was going through was to dose with tinctures.
The fucking oxy they gave her, you know, they should be fucking strung up.
You know, there are so many better pain medicines that they could have given her.
And I kept screaming at the doctors and telling her, you got to get off this fucking oxy.
It rides you up like a fucking rocket ship and then crashes you down.
And the more you took and the longer you took it, the greater those fucking differences were.
And literally, if she didn't have tincture, she would have never made it through it.
And she only lasted five sessions before I had to put an end to it and just freak out on the doctors and say, you've got to stop this.
You've got to fucking stop this shit.
And to be honest with you, the only reason she's not here right now is because for some reason, and she never explained it to me.
She stopped all her herbs and all her cannabis about January or February of this year.
And I think that in a lot of ways, as the cancer came back, she was really angry at herself for doing that.
And the only reason I ever found out was one night after a chemotherapy session.
She was so fucked up on oxy.
She was in and out and she popped in for a moment of reality and basically broke into tears and apologized.
And I'm like, why are you apologizing?
And she basically said to me, I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry.
I did this.
I did this.
And I'm like, what the fuck are you talking about?
And she finally said, I stopped everything.
I don't know why I stopped.
I stopped.
And then she fucking passed out.
And I never really got the truth out of her.
But I just want to warn anybody out there that if you don't thoroughly believe in your treatment, it will never heal you.
If you are getting positive success and results from a treatment, especially if you're a serious stage of cancer, please don't stop.
Just under no circumstances.
Because you give the shit foothold to come back.
And that's when all the real bad shit happens.
So, again, I didn't mean to get off topic, but, you know, back to the point at hand.
The stronger we can make these plants and the more we can get them to express, especially through the work Kevin and Tango and other breeders are doing.
There may be tools that we don't even comprehend yet that are going to come out of this plant.
And anyway, I'm going to shut up for a moment.
I'm going to turn it back to Kevin.
You know, it's the access that's the issue.
I mean, it got to the point where there was so little medicine to really be given away that I started taking my home crops because we're allowed to do, you know, crops here in Cali.
Because I can't touch the farm or I'd lose my license.
But at my house, I can run a 400 square foot medical garden and I can do the six.
And I was taking that whole crop and turn it into RSO because I had friends that were dying.
And they were taking so much of it in suppository form that the quantity they were consuming was unbelievable.
And they couldn't afford it.
And so, you know, you give all you can, but there's a point where you run out.
I mean, so I'm providing, you know, 32 ounce cylinders of it to people.
There's a point where there's just no more to be had.
And there's no way to subsidize it.
And you can't just go buy it for people because you're paying, you know, 70 bucks a gram.
And I'm giving you $20,000 at a time.
That's the issue is that you can't get enough of this product into the system so that people can stabilize their situations when they're at catastrophic levels.
So there's maintenance levels where we can work to kind of keep your system stimulated.
But when you're going down the chute, you need unbelievable levels.
And I was trying to feed a friend and he ended up passing away.
But he was having such a heavy reaction to the opiates from the colon cancer that he needed such high levels of RSO to counteract it that I couldn't keep him satisfied.
Like, I mean, he was blowing through jugs of this shit.
And then, you know, one day his family hits me up and said, hey, you passed.
And so it just it kind of lets you understand that it.
It's such a big issue because people find out about this thing, but they don't have access.
And when they do get access, they eventually financially run out because really what you're doing is you're providing a hospice medicine where I don't think that when you're at a certain level, I don't think you're going to come back.
I'm like said, I don't have a medical degree, so I'm not quite sure what is the turning point for a disease.
But what I know is the majority of people I saw that were really going down the tube, they didn't come back.
The cannabinoid therapies just really made death a lot more elegant.
It allowed them to be able to function in a different way and not be under that veil of opiate, which is what's typically prescribed.
And it allowed the family to be able to enjoy them a little longer.
It allowed them to be able to enjoy their families a little longer, let them enjoy the things in their life that they still had a passion for a little bit longer.
But, you know, it's it's just really access in our system doesn't doesn't provide this.
And because it's not on insurance, it has to come out the pocket.
And so, you know, it's a tough one, man.
Like when when when Cam was hit me up and he's like, I need more.
And I'm like, Cam, I gave I gave you the whole crop.
I turned the whole crop into product for you.
I have no more to give.
And it's a fucking brutal thing to say to somebody that you have no more to give and you can't just go find it.
You can't just go mine it.
And at the level people need, you know, and so it's.
It's a situation where, you know, the older days there was enough of us working collectively to where we could create quantities great enough to be able to provide.
But with the change in regulatory process and how they went after all the small farmers with, you know, you have no license.
We're going to we're going to rain down upon you.
It changed dramatically the amount of material available.
So I think, you know, that the the the issue is we can get the education out there, but it doesn't change the fact that you can't get access to the degree you need.
And for most people, what I learned is that when you get ill, you go broke.
The number of people I met that were extremely successful, who pissed every dollar away trying to live and those that were poor just go through it a lot quicker.
They go from poor to dead and then the rich go from rich to poor to dead.
There's a progression. But the bottom line is there's no way to to really go about this until we figure out a way to get these materials into people's hands in a lot more readily available and highly affordable manner.
And it's a tough one. And I saw a lot of people at the time back in the day that were predatory.
Where it you know, if you're if you were medical, you had an incredible access to people who were desperate and desperate.
People cut off a finger if they can save the hand.
And I got to see some of the worst shit ever.
And so it it just gives you this insight into what happens when you're trying to fight for your life.
And we need to change how we treat people in that situation, that it's it's they're not a paycheck.
And it's really difficult because now it almost has to be because you're not allowed to do anything for free.
I'm not really sure how we fix it.
And someone just posted in the chat.
So true that this is an industry.
Cancer is a fucking industry.
The medical system is an industry.
I mean, you go by any hospital, the construction, the booming construction all around the hospitals, the big fountains.
It's like mind bending that our system is for profit.
Our medical system is for profit.
That's not the Hippocratic Oath.
That's a hypocritical fucking oath.
That's a recipe for disaster.
And Kevin, you're fucking spot on.
I'm a victim of that.
Trying trying to keep her fucking alive.
The cost of these herbs, which should be extremely affordable.
Everybody should be growing them.
I mean, Pauline, I don't know how many got how many farmers she hit up and said, hey, next year, cannabis plant.
Can you grow a few of these, grow a few of those and then dry them?
You guys know how to work a plant, you know how to dry and cure.
Please try and cure these these herbs, too, and make them affordable, because what I pay for for them is ridiculous.
It's just it's robbery.
So I wish I wish I had an answer to that.
How we could get more of these incredibly valuable natural methods for for healing the body or enhancing the body to prevent or at least keep at bay these these horrible conditions so that we don't just watch our loved ones disappear one by one in a situation where it's fucking treatable.
So I don't know if any of you other panelists have any suggestions on how best to to to move forward in this.
Django. Yeah, I've got I've got something to say.
I agree with everything you said.
And the fact that people have such a difficult time with access is.
Well, let's just say it's very wrong.
But I do have two points I want to make that are potentially good signs that we're seeing in the market.
I also want to throw out my my DM is blowing up with people asking to buy my blended RSO.
This is not something I sell.
I encourage it.
I advocate it.
I teach it on my podcast, Shaping Fire.
But I don't I don't sell this stuff publicly like other people do.
So so please don't please don't reach out to me to sell you stuff.
I encourage you to listen to my podcast episodes and make your own because my primary belief is that patients should be self-sufficient.
And that's what I want to help you be is self-sufficient.
All right. With that with that aside, two things I've seen are very are helpful.
Number one, there are so many more breeders now than there's ever been with the with the the rollback of so much cannabis enforcement, with the explosion of visionary breeders who are who are thought leaders like Kev and and people of his ilk.
There's all of these like like bedroom breeders, just like there used to be, like bedroom techno artists who were changing music.
All these bedroom breeders are making these new crosses that are more cannabino pathically diverse.
And and they are slowly but surely bringing them to the market in ways that that I think that we're going to see more of these, you know, cannabinoid diverse chemo bars coming out.
And, you know, they may never have the the commercial success that the heavy THC stuff does and, you know, that the fanboys are after and everything.
But if we're talking about people who need medicine and they need a plant that is got a wide range of cannabinoids in it, we are seeing more and more of that all the time.
If you look for it, you know, under the big excited crust of like, you know, whatever the next hot menu is of a THC only cultivar.
And I think that having more breeders, even though there's a lot of schlock out there, too, I think that more breeders is always going to be good because that's continued diversity, continuing creative minds on the problem on how do we breed these cannabinoids back into the plants.
And how do we make ailment specific plants that all we have to do is extract it down with ethanol and give it to the patient?
And it already has the blend that is best for their particular ailment.
So so my heart goes out to breeders and my support goes to them.
And, you know, may you have success both medicinally and financially.
So so that's the first thing I think that I think that the new breeders are great.
And then the second is I'm contacted a lot to consult for hemp companies who are trying to develop new products because, you know, as we've all seen, all these hemp companies blew up.
They all thought they were going to get rich on isolate.
The market is totally glutted.
You know, people are not storing their material correctly.
The price for CBD isolate has gone through the floor.
And most most hemp companies do not see the value in whole plant oils and hashes and things like that.
And then they hire me to teach them that.
But but what this means is that it is more it is more easily now to get, you know, a full CBD plant, a full CBD plant.
And now even some of the variants are, you know, you can get those made as single cannabinoid auto flowers.
And to to get these yourself as an independent medicine maker and then just make your own wide blended RSO like I was describing earlier, when these these cannabinoids have never been available on their own.
If you wanted to get some CBD in your RSO, you had to process a plant that was this much THC with a very small amount of CBD.
And then you process it and people say, oh, does that have CBD in it?
It's like, yeah, it's got it's got a CBD in it.
But you're going to get pounded with THC in order to try to get the small amount of CBD you're looking for.
And so with these new plants that are, you know, they you know, they they've got, you know, the cannaflavin and the and the various terpenes that we're looking for.
But as far as the cannabinoids, it's it's been trimmed down to just CBD or just CBD or whatever so that you can grow that plant independently, make a tincture out of it and then throw that in your blended RSO.
The fact that the hemp people made such poor business decisions and over planning hemp means that that healers can get ounces or pounds of this stuff really cheaply, even if it's just biomass, if they look for it.
And, you know, all of these people who entered the market and made bad business choices creates this amazing opportunity for healers now while they're all just trying to dump their flowers.
So so buy it and use it.
Their mistake is to your advantage.
That was a great suggestion. I had never even thought of that.
But what a what a great idea to to reach out to these hemp producers.
And I know, you know, I know we all know people that have grown, you know, acres and acres of it and have oil sitting somewhere because they can't even they can't even move it.
It's just nobody wants it right now.
So thank you, Shango. And I'm sorry about the consequences of saying what I did, because that was very special of you to to provide her as a good friend with the medicine that she needed and from your private stock.
So thank you for that. Sorry about the consequences.
Greg, I don't know if you wanted to add anything to that, to the last statement.
You know, I think I might because then I'm I'm going to need to sign off. I'm afraid I had a I have a prior engagement to get to.
I did want to ask you a question before you leave.
OK, please.
So when it comes back to the medical industry, my son's grandfather was a well-known spinal surgeon.
So he's I'm sure, you know, he's obviously been through schooling.
We were having like a late night drink for Thanksgiving a couple of years ago and he confided in me that that whole time that he was getting schooling, they never once spoke about the endocannabinoid system.
And I was wondering maybe you could give some insight into why do you think that is when the medical it's almost like they just disregard all of that stuff.
And I wanted to hear since you're involved in that.
Why do you think that is?
Well, it depends a little bit on when he went, what what he was going through schooling.
But it's also it's a variety of things.
Some of it connects to just the prevailing pernicious stigma around that.
If you're studying the cannabinoid system, you're studying, you know, psychoactive drug of abuse.
I remember being at at neuroscience conferences 20 years ago and walking up to, you know, researchers studying the neurobiology of stress and anxiety.
And there were, you know, the notion was developing new medications for PTSD.
And, you know, obviously, it's got a justification on bringing new medicines to bear or new treatments.
And I would say, well, have you looked into the endocannabinoid system?
Because it's literally all over the neurobiology, the neural axis of stress and adaptation and resilience to stress.
And activating the endocannabinoid system has got to help.
There's all kinds of evidence.
And people either scratch their head and didn't know what I was talking about, which is a little more understandable 20 years ago.
Or they said, well, I'm not interested in researching drug abuse.
You know, even people that are so focused and celebrated and, you know, academic researchers can just be living with blinders on.
That said, I also know that things are changing.
I mean, I left my college professor position in 2016.
And at that time, I was using an undergraduate neuroscience textbook.
I remember it well.
It was the most popular neuroscience textbook for undergraduates in the country as far as adoption in classes written by Dr. Mark Baer, primary author at MIT.
And there was a whole like double page sort of inset in the chapter on like neuromodulation describing all the stuff that I had a part in of the endocannabinoids and how they work as retrograde synaptic messengers.
And I underlined and showed my students this sentence in this undergraduate textbook calling this cannabinoid receptor and endocannabinoid system discovery, possibly the most exciting discovery in cell signaling in many years.
So at that level of education, and I've seen some similar examples in pharmacy textbooks where it gets attention, but it has not risen to the level of, you know, given like a whole, even a whole single lecture on the endocannabinoid system for most medical students.
There's no specialties recognized, not by mainstream academic medical schools that you specialize in cannabinoids as medicine.
To be quite honest, it's the opposite.
You know, groups like the Society of Cannabis Clinicians, which I have an involvement in as a side note, scc is cannabisclinicians.org.
There's a great place for curriculum that physicians can pursue and find for continuing medical education.
Why is it not more accepted?
You know, I just don't think it's understood well the scope to which the endocannabinoids act as an integrated cellular mechanism.
They're not just like a neurotransmitter system.
But there, you know, people study dopamine at great lengths and its role in motor disorders and psychosis and how dopamine targeted drugs work.
The endocannabinoid system honestly is probably going to have to get, you know, maybe tough to say, but does it have to be turned into pharmaceutical drugs and pharmaceuticalized and a bigger part of the prescription pharmacopeia for it to be treated seriously by schools of medicine?
I'm not sure.
But I also think it's changing.
I mean, we're only talking about a couple of decades and the wheels of institutional medicine has turned slow.
I've given grand rounds, which is the name that you give to when doctors are getting educational lectures.
I've given grand rounds lectures on the endocannabinoid systems at many places over the years from University of South Florida, University of Arizona, Sonoma State, the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville.
Awareness is growing and it should be driven by the fact that also medical cannabis is not going anywhere.
I hope that gives some context of my insight into it.
I don't know if it answers the question much, but it is a frustration that many physicians and healers go through of like, how is it that we know so much about this system and I didn't learn about it?
And I feel it.
When I was starting in grad school, the US drug czar was General Barry McCaffrey, who was prone to theatrics like, there's not a shred of evidence for medical marijuana.
And he named Todd McCarrie as this complete Cheech and Chong doctor and was gunning for him hard.
And as a young graduate student who was starting to study the cannabinoid system, my role, my purpose was to dig in and learn as much as I could.
And not only what's coming out of labs, but what's been learned before in the history of Western medicine.
And I'm like having this cognitive break.
Like, how is it that we can have this drug policy leader, obviously not qualified, a freaking general, saying there's not a shred of evidence for medical marijuana when in fact, what the history of Western medicine is absolutely rife with the widespread use of cannabis.
And how leaders, founders of Western medicine used cannabis preparations prominently.
And then just to complete that story a little bit, I really, really, my changing point was after an ICRS meeting, getting invited to the Wham Garden, the Women's Alliance for Medical Marijuana up in Santa Cruz and staying with Valerie Corral there.
Getting a tour of the garden, sleeping in the little trailer out by the garden in Santa Cruz Mountains by the redwoods, which I had never seen.
And I was one of, if not the last person to sleep out in the garden in their trailer before it got ripped up by the feds in 2002, 2003.
And that was a watershed event.
I mean, to throw into this narrative that in the stories matter where all this medicine came from.
People deserve to be honored.
Wham beating busted was so huge because they were such vital, good, compassionate healers.
And to be taken down like that was kind of the final break for me.
Like I can't continue in this escalator of biomedical research locked in my office studying animals.
I have to contribute to making cannabis accepted as medicine because it is, it's safe medicine.
And trying to influence physicians along the way is part of it.
And those things are changing.
They really are.
The last thing I'll say is just that, you know, I love, Shango, what you have to say about the trying to make more availability of, you know, innovative breeding and the whole, you know, bouquet of what this extraordinary plant can create.
We're at the, we're in a position where the big we, human society, human science, agronomy, breeders, we can know more than has ever been known about this plant and how it relates to the human being.
And it's a special thing.
I totally agree that the direction towards sort of mass cropping, I mean, I'm big into hemp, but cultivating CBD for isolates and now this flurry of CBD derived, you know, synthetic isomers, the deltas, I think is a huge fool's errand that distracts from the potential from this plant, both as a rich, robust medicine and as an industrial product.
For materials, which I'm going headlong into.
As you know, I'll plug a couple of things I'm involved in.
One, I'm strongly involved in advising and supporting a CBD company here in Tennessee called Tennessee Pharmaceuticals with an F.
And I believe in projects like this support local living soil, organically produced oils and try to get your hands on varietals that are new and interesting, like CBG column type four plants.
If you want, you know, high CBG, the variants, bring them in.
All for having small companies bring in that kind of diversity for the richness of medicine and help preserve it and keep taking steps forward in the knowledge base.
So with Tennessee Pharma, I'm doing some of that.
But I'm also involved with a company. I'm actually president and CEO of a new company called Nash Nash X.
We call it Nash CX, which is a marketplace, a commodities exchange for hemp.
And we're largely focused on industrial hemp and fiber.
But we are also collaborating to create digital marketplaces for other kinds of cannabis, biomass, cannabis extracts.
We're just kind of getting started.
But I can be found on Nash X dot com or my LinkedIn or Dr.
Gerderman dot com, which is just launched.
And I welcome feedback on that.
It's like I said, it's going to be my home on the Web for my different projects.
And I want to build a marketplace that is good both for supporting ag scale development of fiber hemp so that we can start to get to a future where where hemp ingredients are part of the supply chains of so many things that it can penetrate.
But also, I would love for it to serve in a way that small and midsize growers with something novel that doesn't have an outlet in the MSO dispensaries can find regional marketplaces where where growers might be able to sell their their distinctive products.
And I'm sure I'll be working with various people over the hopefully I'll have years on this project to try and dial that in.
But I love your thinking about it.
I defer to that.
And again, really grateful to be part of this conversation.
Hope to chat with all you guys again.
I can pause for any sort of questions or however, and then I'll sign off.
I'll just add one little thing.
And Brian, it goes to your question.
And that is I've ever since I found out about the endocannabinoid system, any time I'm involved with a doctor, I ask him two things.
Did you ever study nutrition?
The answer is no.
Which is a no.
And the second is you ever heard of the endocannabinoid system?
And I've yet to find a doctor that says that he's heard that he understands it or even has heard of it.
So it's scary.
It's just what Greg said.
It's it's it's pharma preventing this knowledge to come back.
They took it away from us when the pharmaceutical industry bought out the medical schools and began to teach that all you need is chemistry, like the big ag and the big chemical companies did.
And so nutrition wasn't even on the freaking radar.
And then when when DuPont wanted to take over the rope industry and banished hemp and then took it to the next level and made the farmers threatened the farmers that their land would be taken if there was any wild hemp found on their farms.
And all the animals stop eating it.
And humans started getting sick really quick.
So like like you said, Greg, I mean, if we can bring this back and use hemp as a mainstay for protein in animal feed that the animals that we consume or the eggs that we eat from the chickens that ate it, I think that that would be a huge step in the right direction.
As far as figuring out how to get RSO oils or hemp oils or cannabis oils into into the mass market affordably.
I I'm at a loss of words for that one.
But, Greg, thank you so much for coming on today.
And I wanted to ask him a question before he has to bounce.
Please go ahead.
Well, I hope you guys have a wonderful New Year.
I hope everything is on a upward trajectory.
Best wishes to the mates who are are down and sick with COVID or back injuries and all that.
Hope everyone gets better soon.
Has a wonderful start to 2022.
Thanks for having me on.
Thanks, Greg.
Good to see you.
Thanks, Greg.
Hey, Leighton, I would like to address Brian's question, too, about the about doctors not learning about the endocannabinoid system in school.
I don't remember his name, but I was on a panel at a medical research convention with some guy from the AMA who helped put together the the the test for doctors.
It's not called the bar exam, but whatever it's called for doctors.
And what he when I asked I asked him that question.
I'm like, why isn't endocannabinoid system taught in school?
And they said, well, medical school is primarily to get you so that you can pass the medical test to get your doctor's license.
And as a doctor, since cannabis is a schedule one, you are not able to recommend it technically.
And so since as a legal doctor, you're not supposed to recommend cannabis.
They don't teach it for the test because the test is only about things that you can do that are legal.
So until cannabis is descheduled, it will not be really legal at the federal level for doctors to recommend it.
And since it's not recommended, they don't teach it because then they can't put it on the test.
As simple as that.
Yeah, I appreciate you defining that.
My son was suffering from a febrile, grand mal, febrile seizures.
And the one thing that I was recommending is that, you know, you can put CBD on the bottom of his foot when he's having that seizure and it would it would stop it almost immediately.
And he was amazed by that.
You know, here I am just a Georgia boy.
I don't have any kind of education like him and I'm teaching him stuff.
And I feel like that night I just saw in his eyes where he just he just felt like he was defeated.
You know, he spent his whole life studying that a spinal surgeon.
I can't even imagine the stress that you have just kind of doing that stuff.
And he genuinely just wanted to help people.
And the fact that, you know, he saw with his own eyes that it was helping his grandson.
I feel like, you know, he started to tear up.
I just wanted to kind of I guess I appreciate you guys kind of walking me through that because I just never understood why someone here is, you know, one of the best in the country and has no idea what we really can what the plant can really do to help certain individuals.
And I don't know if you've ever had a seen somebody with a seizure, but it is a nightmare experience, especially the first couple of times you go through it.
Seizures are scary to be around.
You know, I had I consulted for patients about seizures for years, but I had not actually seen one in person until the first time I visited.
I think all of us know Nick Risen in Michigan, where I'm from.
And when I you know, I knew that he got seizures regularly.
And when I first got to his house, you know, we did hugs and all that.
I said, hey, man, I figure you're probably gonna have a seizure while I'm here.
I want to do the right thing.
So what do I do if you start to have a seizure?
And so he explained it to me and that he was probably going to slump over, maybe fall out of his chair.
But then he was going to start apologizing.
And he said he's just sit with me.
And I'm getting choked up.
It's one of the most helpless I've ever felt sitting there next to my new friend as he went into a seizure.
And you could see you could feel his body sending all these distress signals.
And I was just sitting there and and then he started apologizing, just like he said he would.
And then, you know, within like seven or eight minutes, you know, we were able to get him back up in the chair.
But my heart goes out to you as a dad who is trying to support their kid with seizures.
Because, you know, as a parent, so often you feel helpless anyway, because they interact with the world.
But the fact that you have to be there and there's nothing you can do in the moment when there's a seizure.
That's one of the hardest experiences I've ever had sitting with another person.
So I hear where you're coming from.
You know what I see? You know what was is a good tool for that, Brian?
I was over at Dennis Perone's house years ago and we were all just hanging out.
And one of the one of the guests, a woman, had a seizure at the house and she collapsed, fell down the stairs.
And her caregiver, her friend that was with her, said, oh, hang on a second.
And went over to a purse and pulled out an aerosol bottle and then squirted the aerosol into her mouth.
And within probably 30, 40 seconds, the tremors completely subsided.
And within maybe 90 seconds, she sat up and had consciousness again.
And I think that with the advent of nanotechnology in terms of how we get cannabinoids to be more available,
that for people who have seizure issues, you have an ability to create aerosol sprays that are easily able to be applied by anybody that's with the person.
And it's just it's just really trying to get the information out.
You know, Risdin was really a me and Nika buddies, too.
But I think that what Risdin did was he put his struggle on line.
And so he said, hey, I'm going through this shit.
But instead of me just benefiting from it, let me let me try to get the information out about what I'm doing and how I'm doing it.
Because I think he really wanted to see other people benefit from his struggle.
And it was huge because he was really the first person, I think, that ever really brought forward the idea that you could mine properties from cannabinoids to fight viral contamination such as Lyme's.
And so he was the first person that I I can't find any reference of anyone prior to him going at it from that perspective.
And it brought a huge level of awareness on how we use it.
But the idea of creating these, you know, these emulsified sprays, we're using new technologies so that you can just spray it into the mouth of the person and have, you know, immediate, immediate change.
I watched this woman and my mom was epileptic, so I grew up with someone who had extreme seizures.
So. I recognize what was taking place when I saw her fall down and I went over to her, we were just going to kind of get her positioned and try to get something in her mouth so she didn't bite her tongue off.
And her care, her caregiver partner said, oh, wait a minute.
This is what we do. And I'm telling you, a couple of couple of aerosol sprays in the mouth and 30 seconds it stopped.
90 seconds she was sitting up communicating.
So if your son is going through some of those issues, you know, I would say you might want to put together a little aerosol spray set because it's just so easy for anybody to administer and it's not toxic.
They can't overdose on it. You can't screw it up.
I appreciate that, fellas.
Yeah, sublingual, right, Kev? That's probably one of the quickest ways to to enter the human body.
The new nanotech makes it different, though. It makes the availability because the molecular size is so much smaller.
So you get a much faster delivery. And I think that when people talk about time.
People misunderstand the importance of time, and I'm always like, well, look, if you want to understand time, let me choke you for a minute.
And you'll see that a minute's a long time with no oxygen.
So. It's really trying to, you know, get that seizure to subside because the damage they do to themselves while they're convulsing, you know, and I mean, it affects other people, but really, I could give a shit about anybody else.
That's your emotional problem. Watching someone struggle.
The person who's struggling is the one who needs the help. And what we need is the ability to, you know, readily affect it in a really, really simple manner.
And I think that like I really love these new nanotechnologies where they're breaking these these cannabinoids down into a level that can easily pass through that that blood barrier and get into the system extremely quickly.
So that what you're able to do is stop the damage from the seizure.
You know, can you talk a little bit on that? Because I recently talked to a friend back east who's got a company and he he's invested in or he's waiting for the equipment to come.
And it makes it it makes it a nanoparticle that can then be added to water.
So your oil can mix with water.
So, yeah, it changes the solubility. I'm not a nanotechnology expert. I just looked into it when I started seeing the phrase applied to cannabis.
And then when I was over at Natura in Sacramento, they have an incredible facility. So Natura is a I want to say like it's a campus.
But really what it is, is it's a place where one could go and create their own brand where they have the ability to produce the product and turn it into any type of product you want.
So you could you could sell flour or you could sell any derivative of flour.
But what they did is they went really, really deep into technology so they would be able to really touch what's the future right now.
And when I toured the facility, I was amazed. And the idea of creating these nanotechnology sublinguals to get in your body instantaneously so that the effect is is right now.
And I think that that's what's important. And when it comes to kids, you know, the the thing that drove so much of the work we were doing was the the parents who had children with autism that was extremely aggressive.
Where, I mean, we had we had one woman and the husband that came in and the boy was if he wasn't fully sedated on some type of narcotic, he would bite chunks of meat out of his arm.
So he he would bite himself so badly they'd have to give him stitches. And so what they did was they they put him on heavy narcotics so that he would basically not eat himself alive.
But it turned him into a catatonic state. And so they they had heard about some of the work that we were doing and they had some friends that had dealt with us that had some success.
And she came in with her husband and we said, well, let's try to get cannabinoid therapy.
And what we were able to do was we were able to work with Samantha Miller from Pure Analytics. And I always give Sam and Jason nothing but props because they couldn't have done more work to help more people understand how to formulate.
And what we were able to do was we were able to create lollipops. And this was there was no lolly. This was the beginning of this of this whole process of how we deliver.
But it had to be an item that the boy would be able to self take so that it was possible to give them the medicine.
And we were able to figure out through Sam how to how to create the right levels through trial and error. And what we were able to do is we were able to get the boy to be able to reduce these incredible outbursts where he would bite himself terribly.
And they were able to get rid of the narcotics. And what it did was it allowed the mom and the father to be able to enjoy their son and it allowed their son to be able to enjoy being alive versus being sedated till he was going to die, which that's no life at all.
You know, and so anything that that allows there to be a better quality of life is is is essential. That's essential. You have to be able to make it so that it's deliverable and simple and easy.
And I think that as we start to get into higher science, we'll be able to start creating products that are a lot faster and easier to use. And once you start to have people get some success, they spread it through word of mouth.
We never advertised any of this stuff. I mean, the people will come into us because they had heard from someone who had success. And the next thing you know, you have a building full of people that are bringing in volumes of their own research on trying to heal their family members.
And they're the most committed people you've ever met in your life. And all we tried to do was really just a system in that process. And I was lucky that I was able to work with some brilliant, brilliant people far smarter than I am in terms of what they do so that we could try to move it forward in any way we could.
And I think that that's really what nanotech is. It's just the next wave of of technology to be able to make it simple. It's just a matter of, you know, how do you get it into the public and how do you provide it at a level of cost that's reasonable?
To me, that's the whole issue with medical cannabis. That's what I learned more than any other fact was that when you're ill, you're broke and you can't afford the medicine and you just don't have the ability to be stable and your body doesn't like to fluctuate. It doesn't want to go from stimulated to depressed.
It wants to stay in some type of cellular stasis, which is what homostasis is. It's the condition of normality. And when we can't maintain that, the body starts to stress out and it re-stimulates negative effects.
And so when people get on a homeopathic regime, they have to remain on it. And what I noticed is that most couldn't afford it. And that's where, you know, for me, it was so real that I just started and I own the company.
So it wasn't like I had to answer to an investor. It's just that we took every extra dollar and just pumped it into that situation. And you can't do that in normal business. It's dangerous. It puts you in a really precarious position.
But at the time, I just I couldn't stop because I. How do you tell somebody no? How do you how do you tell somebody no when they're they're basically begging you for help? And it's just so most people never in this position where they are approached by people that are so desperate.
They're willing to cut off their own fingers. They would gladly do anything to help their husband or their wife or their brother or their sister or their friend or their child. It's just so fucking intense that you do what you can. And so it's these conversations we're having right now that kind of bring that forward because it gets enough people to understand that if if I can provide the genes, if you can provide the lab analysis, if you can provide the formulation, if you can provide the emotional support.
Between five of us, you know, we can actually do something. And I think that that's really the essence of homeopathic medicine is that it's it's it's it's a spiritual medicine as much as it's a physical medicine.
You know, and that brings up a great point. There's a gentleman actually in the chat here, which will pop up in a minute, who's been talking about getting getting cultivators to move CBD or flour or extracts into into the farmer's market and do it quickly.
And then when THC becomes legal, then by default, that will slide right into those markets as well and begin to take back the power that we had prior to legalization. Yeah, you can go to jail, right?
It's a good idea, but there's too much money being generated on taxes. Like I'm telling you, the the idea that they're going to back up from extracting the money from taxes on THC. I just don't see it. They they're addicted to the money. They become addicted to the tax money. And the I just it's like in California right now with the small farmers, everyone's saying, you know, like, let's go fight and get reduced taxes. They're dependent on these taxes.
They have allocated this potential tax revenue into their budget. So when they suddenly start chopping all that money that they were supposed to get, where's the where does the money come from? And so the issue is just really, it gets down to more than anything. I think you have to be able to like like Shango.
Shango and I have the same approach where what we try to do is we try to educate people so that they're empowered. My goal when you met me for medical cannabis wasn't so that I could sell you any product because I didn't. I would provide you with everything you needed until I could get you to the level that you could produce your own. And once if you couldn't produce your own, we didn't abandon you. But if you had the ability to produce your own, we encouraged it.
We did everything we could to drive it forward. And we created all kinds of support groups. I mean, I was digging people up out of the ground to work together in groups so that what you'd have is a sustainability. There was enough people working together to where when you collapsed and fell, you were not trampled upon. They picked you up and you were able to remove forward so that when the next person fell, they would get picked up off the ground.
I knew that the only way to do this was that because I've always believed that as soon as we move these things forward, the taxes mandate that there will be no free product. It's just too valuable as a commodity to the government. And so it's really trying to get people to understand that if you got cannabis, you can grow cannabis in California, you have a 215 that's still valid.
Medical cannabis is still alive. You just have to be able to grassroots it. And you create product and you share product and you share information. And what you do is you get enough of the people in your local community around you to understand so that what you're doing is you're creating pockets of resistance and acceptance. And those pockets grow and move and then they influence other people.
Until eventually what you have is enough strength to be able to have a voice. But the idea that anybody's going to give you anything or do anything or it's just not. And once they turn it into a pharmaceutical, it'll be a single element. They won't go whole plant or whole crop.
And what you've done now is you've really lost the efficacy and you've lost the broad based applicability. It's not just I need CBD, but I need X amount of CBG with it as a catalyst. I need these things to work in conjunction or I do not get the benefit. And that's what we noticed. I didn't provide anything from single plant.
We would do multi plant, multi crop so that what we had was always an array of cannabinoids. Once I started to really understand what was taking place, I realized that what we needed to do was do as much stimulation as possible. And from my sports background, I looked at it like food. You can't just have protein. You have to have fats and carbohydrates and vitamins and minerals to make this work.
And that's to me is what the basis of cannabinoid medicine is, that it's not a single cannabinoid. It's always been a matrix. And historically, it's been an entire crop turned into a product. So what you got was the most broad array of cannabinoids and other phytochemicals possible. And that seemed to have the greatest effect, because if it didn't, people wouldn't have moved this thing forward for the last 14,000 years.
If it wasn't working, they wouldn't have done it. There's this assumption that people before us was somehow stupid and didn't understand what they were doing. And I was laughing. I'm like, that's just such an odd point of view. They had an understanding that was unbelievably intimate because they relied on it.
And so what all I'm trying to do really, or what I tried to do was tap back into that old knowledge and bring it forward and get the understandings and then be able to figure out, you know, where do we get products that we can move into these systems? But ultimately, to me, it's always going to be home users creating extra product, sharing it with one or two people. And if one person shares with two, you've had a pretty good impact.
You'd love to share with 200, but it's very difficult. You know, the Wonderland days we could because the nursery was making so much money that I could afford to subsidize everyone. But when you're subsidizing millions of dollars of plants and you're subsidizing hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars of medicine, I don't think there's any other company that did it.
I don't know of any other company that went that far. And so we were in the anomaly in that. And it wasn't because we were so good. It was just because I think that we were so touched by what we saw that it impacted us so greatly because we were so intimately involved.
But the education has to happen in the community. It has to happen between individuals. And I think that that was the basis of all homeopathic medicine, that it was your community that you lived with that helped you survive. And in turn, you were able to still be an actively participating individual bringing your qualities forth.
Takes a village, right?
It really does. And sometimes you're the one receiving the food. Sometimes you're the one growing the food. Sometimes you're the one cooking the food, but you're part of it. It can't be all extraction. And what we noticed with people that came in ill, they were always just fucking miserable. I mean, oh my God, they were miserable, angry, enraged. They used to scream at me because they were horrified they had to come all the way down.
I used to tell them, I said, I know it's terrible. You got to come all the way down into the pit of hell and need a drug dealer to get you medicine. But I'm here to help you. And I'm not here to judge you or fight with you so you can vent. And my coworkers used to trip out because I would allow these people to yell at me and have full blown blowouts. And I'm typically not known for that.
But I am if you are in that situation where what you needed was you needed someone to vent that and you needed someone to express your rage. And when you were done, you were able to better understand us too, because we weren't here to hurt you or take from you. It really was genuine. And it was so emotionally intense that it broke the people down most of the time.
And all we tried to do is just make sure they understood that we were there for them as human beings and that we'll try to put you into the right situation. And I still think that that's the right approach. I think it's the only approach you can take because the system is not designed for community healing.
It's really meant for financial extraction. And I love to make money, too. I need to pay my bills. I got to feed my children. You can't live on air. But when it comes to sharing medicine, ideas of medicine, how you go about it, you can look at look at Shango's podcast.
And it's a cornucopia of information that people can mine into to be able to really understand how do I better use these things to work in my situation. And there's no payment. There's no I owe Shango. I owe the people that run the podcast. It's no, it's here's empowerment and go forward.
So it's happening. And, you know, I'm looking at the group right here that, you know, between you and Brian, you guys are spitting information out constantly about how to how to understand what you're doing, how to grow better cannabis, how to grow healthy cannabis, how not to destroy the world in the process.
So, like, we're doing it. It's just such a slow, small pace that it feels like there's no movement. But the reality is, every now and then somebody reaches out to me that I don't know and says, hey, I listened to something that you told me, you know, that I listened to on a cast. It sent me down a trail. It let me find relief. And I just want to say thank you for taking the time to say it online.
So it lets you know that the impact is real. You just got to continue. And that's really all we got is is be cool.
Dude, this thing can be a very impressive expression of the things you're doing. You know what I'm talking about?
No, you got to use it for the right purpose. You know, everybody has an agenda in life of what they want to do. And it sometimes it's bigger or smaller. Sometimes it's bad or good. But ultimately, you know, if you're if you're trying to have some positive impact on the world around you and you're not looking for the glory of it, you're not you don't you don't need to be enshrined for what you did.
You just trying to share your experiences and you're trying to make sure that they're pretty honest. It's a beautiful thing. You get to be part of the human race. And until you experience that, I don't think you really understand. And it's tragic. But almost most of the time, you almost have to have a catastrophic thing happen for you to understand it.
And I always tell people, I said, you know, I had a serious medical issue a couple of years ago, and I was getting wheeled into the operating room and the surgeons are freaking out and the everybody around me is panicking. And I realized that this shit was going bad. And I asked myself, did I have a good life?
And I did. And the thing that really made me realize I had a good life was that I was involved in medical cannabis. That was when I knew for a fact that it was real, because it was the one thing I had done in my life that was genuine for people that I did not know and did not expect anything in return.
And it gave me a comfort that said, all right, I did everything that I could do. I loved my family. I loved my friends. I got to live my adventurous life. But I got to do some really genuine shit for people that needed it. And it made me feel like I had really lived. And then I went into a coma. And when I woke up, I was all right.
But at that moment is when I realized that it's these things that we do that resonate that allow you really to feel like you're part of the human race. And I think that that's the basis of all of this is that the people that I saw that were ill, because they were ill, they felt like they were isolated from others because they were so myopic in their problem.
And what we tried to do was make it simple and make it easy and make it free. And if they wanted companionship or comfort, they could have it. And it's just, it's, I don't think it's that original. It's just, it's just seems it was the only thing I could do. I couldn't do anything more than that. But it worked. And it just taught me a really valuable lesson.
Yeah, it did, dude. Yeah, it did. And that was that was really well put. And yeah, I remember seeing you after you got back out of the hospital. You pretty much shit. You were fucked up, dude.
I was jammed for a while. And it took a year to recover. You know, it took a full year to recover. So I went back to work two days out. I came out of the ICU and went right back to work. I think one day off. I took one day of recovery and I was back at work.
I think that's when I met you.
Yeah, I had the coop hanging out of my neck. I was a mess. But the industry was collapsing and we were fighting to keep the businesses running. And I was like, fuck it. I'm going to die here or it's what it's going to be.
I tried. But I think that's what you learn from the sick people. I got to really learn it from the people that I helped. The people that I helped taught me really about. And then I know how to struggle. I'm pretty good with struggle. But they had a different approach where it was just like, doesn't make a difference. You just fight.
And it was just such an inspiring thing to be part of that it did. It changed my life. And that's really what we hope other people get out of it is that there's people out there that are willing to give you information. There's people out there that are willing to point the right way. If you fall down, there's people out there that are willing to lend a hand to help pull you back up to your feet.
And that's really all you can ask for. That is the miracle. The miracle of human support.
This is all fucking magic. And you're missing the whole fucking point. Being miserable. And it's horrible. It's fucking horrible. They're Disneyland. They're fucking miserable. What the fuck are you miserable about? You're here, right?
Well, you taught that though. You taught misery because it takes away. Once you're not miserable and you're happy, you start to have clarity of thought. And clarity of thought is dangerous in a society that likes control.
So if I can keep you on your heels, just like if we're in a fight, if I can keep you on your heels, you're not executing very well. If I can keep you shifted and move you left and right, you can't execute back.
And what we really need to be able to do is on an individual level, start to understand that you have some level of control over your reaction. And that the ability to live your life and maybe have a positive impact on others in a positive way is probably the richest thing that you can do.
Amen. Amen to that, dude.
Hey, Leighton. I'm going to have to jump off here in a second because the oil truck is going to make its delivery early. But I did want to bring up one more topic since we're talking about all this and how it relates to Pauline.
I want to point out that so many of us see cannabis as being almost a panacea. It's important for us to realize that cannabis alone is not the thing that's going to solve everything.
It's so common for people to come to me and ask me about their insomnia. And they want a recommendation. And for insomnia, I usually recommend a tincture made from purple cannabis flowers, right? Because they tend to be a little bit more lethargic in a lot of cases.
But then I asked them, I said, do you drink coffee in the morning? And they're like, oh yeah, I have coffee every morning. I'm like, all right. And then I'm like, do you know the half-life of caffeine? And they're like, no, I didn't even know it had a half-life.
Well, caffeine's half-life in the body is about 14 hours, which means tomorrow morning when you have more caffeine, you haven't even processed all yesterday's caffeine.
And so I tell folks, I'm like, if you want to get rid of your insomnia, yeah, use this cannabis tincture, but you also should get rid of the coffee. And they're like, oh, I could never do that. And they're more interested in just taking more of the cannabis and not giving up their coffee.
And I think that's important to realize that cannabis is only a part of being healthy and living a healing lifestyle where it's, yeah, it's cannabis, but also it's not eating so much fast food and eating healthier non-processed foods at home.
And getting toxic people out of your life and making sure that you're getting some movement or exercise every day so your joints stay mobile.
If we want to stay healthy people, it's about doing all of these things together. It isn't just about live a trashy life and then try to make fix it all with cannabis.
And Pauline was really big in preaching that about this holistic approach where she would always come back to me because I often focus on cannabis because that's the perspective that I look at most things from.
And she would always bring me back to, well, are you thinking about this? And it'll be food. And are you thinking about this? And it's sunshine. And that level of holistic medicine is really the future, understanding the whole human.
And before I dropped off, I wanted to make sure that I mentioned that point because in any praise of Pauline from me, it would involve her teaching me or reminding me what I already knew that you have to treat the whole person.
And it isn't just about having this toxic life and then dissociating with cannabis or hoping cannabis can make up for all the bad living. It's about deciding to care about yourself and doing all of it. And that's an important reminder that I think Pauline has for all of us.
Oh, I fully agree, Shango. She embodied elegance. If you spent time with her, she was just an elegant, lovely person. And she wasn't toxic in any way.
It was just a beautiful quality that came from her because she lived that complete life. She had someone in her life that she loved. She had a history, long history of being healthy and helping people be healthy.
She was just really a unique woman. It's rare you meet people that are that quality. She definitely going to be missed.
All right, I'm going to drop off. Thank you guys. We'll see you all later.
Thank you so much for that and that ending. That was beautiful. Thank you for that.
Thank you for the invitation, Leighton.
Much love, brother.
All right.
To be honest with you, I don't know how you... I mean, if I lost Natasa, I mean, I don't... The fact that you're just holding it together, man, and talking about her and all that, it's just... Do you mind showing the bracelet that she got you?
This is from the Weishall Indians down in Mexico. They do some amazing work. And if anybody wants a connection for them, just hit me up. She got me an original bracelet, oh, God, probably six months after we met and became a couple.
And I wore it daily for a while until it fell off my wrist about just before COVID. And so she got me this replacement for my birthday this year and I plan to wear it till it falls off again. It's very powerful. It not only protects, but it also pulls in energy from around you, positive energy, not negative.
But yeah, you know, Brian, I'll be honest with you. I've mentally prepared myself for this ever since the cancer came roaring back. It was inevitable. I'll be honest with you.
I'll be honest with you. When the very end when she was suffering and I was just losing my mind because I didn't want to see her hurting anymore. I was like, I just want you to go, baby. I just want you to let go. And then when she did let go, it was a lot harder than I thought. That was the fucking knife in the heart.
But I've been sitting, you know, I've been sitting quietly contemplating meditating on her work. She's come to me through all different things, you know, from hummingbirds to that hawk that landed next to me the other day to her little boy Poe, who's my little angel now, his actions.
So she's still with me, Brian. She's still all around me. And, you know, I told this story a few weeks back on one of the podcasts where I said that someone had come to me in my sleep late at night and pulled me out of my body and explained to me or showed me the ethereal world.
Flew me around a place where the joy, the bliss was just the only thing I could compare it to is like getting up when you're a young child and beautiful summer's day and you just you have this incredible energy and euphoria and you're just so excited and happy.
That's what it felt like. And and she explained to me why it was that that afternoon when the doctors came, well, the doctor, I chased him out, basically told me there's nothing more we can do. She's gone. And tomorrow we're going to pull all the tubes out of her and put her into hospice.
And so she basically explained to me that what I was looking at when I was trying to talk to her or touch her was the lights were on, but nobody was home. And she goes, that's achieved by leaving. She kept the what came to me. And again, I'm going to use things like words, but there were no words.
And I'll be quite honest, after the experience, I literally laid in bed for two fucking hours trying to just trying to process what the fuck had happened. And the the the notion of a hundred. She kept using a hundred, a hundred drops of light, a hundred drones in the swarm, a hundred rainbows.
And basically, the hundred was the pieces of your soul. And she explained by leaving five pieces left behind. And it's kind of ironic that we have five limbs, you know, two legs, two arms and a head. But by leaving those five pieces behind, she could go back and forth.
And basically also explaining that she wasn't that she wanted to go and it wasn't that she wanted to stay, but she knew she needed to stay around long enough for for people that needed to say goodbye to her, as well as, you know, for her, like Kevin talked about her last breaths of joy.
You know, the people that reached out and thanked her and she touched people all over the world. She had clients in England, France, Sri Lanka.
You know, just so all those people got to say goodbye to it. It wasn't a selfish thing. It was it was more of a giving thing to make sure that she was around long enough that anybody that needed to reach out could reach out and that they all knew that this was this was coming to an end really fucking quickly.
And then I said my goodbyes to her. And I drove home thinking that she was gone, that that was the last time I would see her. And the craziest thing was I was texting her daughter saying that, you know, I chased the doctor out. He said, This is it. Tomorrow's they're gonna start hospice and you need to get out here like now.
And I said, I have her phone. There's probably 50 messages or texts or phone calls. Should I reach out to these people and let them know that this is coming really quickly? And Mackenzie said, Yes, you should.
And plus, we don't want to lose those contacts. I need them. So if that phone was to disappear out of a room, I wouldn't have the ability to reach out to some of these people that have been instrumental in my life and her life. So I took the phone.
And I got up the next day. I was actually at a job site and Mackenzie and I were talking about all right, what when do you come in? When is he coming in? I talked to hospital this the hospice, they're going to let two people in the room at a time, no dogs, no babies. But at least two people can be with her at a time.
And all of a sudden the phone rings and it's the hospital, right? I'm like, Oh, fuck Mackenzie. Oh, fuck. Just stay on the line. I got to take this. I hit the button. I'm like, Hello. And this voice comes across and said, Do you have my phone? And I'm like, Pauline. And she's like, Why did you take my phone?
And I'm like, Oh my god, Pauline. Well, the doctors and she interrupted me and just said, Why the fuck did you take my phone? And all I could do is say, baby, I'll drop off at home. And I'll run this down to LA. I'll be there in an hour and a half tops. And she hung up on me.
And so Mackenzie comes back on and I'm like, Mackenzie, that was your fucking mother. And she sounded crystal clear. Like this is the first time I've seen any clarity in her voice in fucking two months, maybe longer going through chemo and all that all the shit.
I don't know what to say. And Mackenzie's like, you know, it's so fucked up. Layton. I, I read that there's this thing called end of life rally, where people just come back from comas or, you know, almost the brink of death.
And they rally and they all said they want food and they want to get out of the hospital and they want to go for a walk. And I was like, I've never heard of that. She goes, I was reading about this yesterday. And, you know, forgive my lack of clarity. But, you know, I was I was telling Mackenzie, the story about what happened the night before, with the five points of light or five, you know,
beams of sunshine, whatever it was, that was left behind. And, and, and I go, and literally, I said to her as the fucking phone rang, that she can still come back. That's what she told me she can still come back. And that's what fucking happened.
I know this is all anecdotal, but I hope you understand that me as a person, I've done a lot of spiritual work in my life. I've done a men's group and understanding how to act and be responsible as a male in this day and age. How to look yourself in the eyes and ask yourself questions that are really, really hard. Like, am I a good person? Am I doing the right things? Am I helping others? Is it all about me? You know, so fucking hard work.
Man, really, really hard spiritual work. So I do have some credibility as a human because I've done this work. I've studied the religions. So I'm not just this whack job when I when I tell that story. I am in touch. I'm very, very much an emotional human being.
I'm very, very aware of people's feelings. I can often see what's going to happen next in either relationships or circumstances, kind of like seeing the future, but a little bit shorter.
So I have these gifts and these talents, and I hope that in if any way, these words will help anybody else out there as they suffer through one of the hardest things you'll ever do. And that's to watch someone you really love and cherish deteriorate in front of your fucking eyes.
But understand that there is the other side and that they can come back. And I have actually an article in my inbox about the multiverse. And I have the understanding. Oh, that was the other thing she explained to me was that, Leighton, you were right. The energy cannot be created or destroyed. It's just moved or shifted or transferred. Maybe it's separated into many, many little pieces.
We don't have all the answers, but but I know people, other people have had similar experiences where they've lost a loved one. And for whatever reason, something happened in their life and they knew it was that person.
So unfortunately, Brian didn't get to hear all that. But but that's the reason why I'm I'm staying calm and not getting, you know, emotional right now is because, you know, I have those tools in my toolboxes. So Brian, you'll have to listen to the recording on that one because you popped off. But so that's that's that's how that's how I'm here.
Yeah, right on. Um, if I'm continuing to throw up and there's blood, do you think I should go to the doctor?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. You got you unless you're throwing up blood because you you got you bit your tongue. Then no. But if you're if you're if you're vomiting and you're having blood coming out, you need to go get a look.
Yeah, dude, that's that's probably you know, could be a tear. It could be a vein. So that's no joke. And we've almost gone three hours. So
no, I'm sick is
yeah, no, you white bro. You got to go get looked at. You might have some internal bleeding. You're pale.
Yeah. How are your eyes? Are they yellowish? Or are they white?
I don't even I don't even know, man.
Go get checked out, Brian.
Sometimes when it's when you got a real problem, it's best to get looked.
So you do better and I got to jump to I got some stuff I got to run to late and man much love brother. Yeah, you know, you always welcome if you want to come out and hang and get a little break and stuff and
thank you. You can't say nice good things about your gal. She's just a sweetheart. And I'll always remember the goodness that she she brought to the room. So thank you so much for inviting me to just be part of the tribute because she really was a lovely, lovely woman.
Thank you guys for for for doing this and allowing me to celebrate her. And I'm Brian. Godspeed to you, brother. Text me later. Let me know you're all right. Kev, I will take you up on that. I'll be up.
You know where I'm at. Have you been here before?
I will be up for a visit.
All right. Much love, brother.
So thank you, Kevin. And late. And I just want to say I have sunglasses. I've been hiding in the background because I've been crying out this episode.
I hear that. And best of luck with all of you. Okay. You guys have a have a wonderful. I had I had a recent passing of my sous chef last seven years. Just like I would have no inner sleep. So like I can't I hear where you're at.
Yeah. The beauty of it was she had time to say goodbye. You know, the time to say goodbye. And that's that was really, really incredibly important and helpful.
So thank you for the words. Take care of yourself.
All right. Peace out, you guys.
Yeah. See you.
Yeah. Take care of yourself, Brian.
Yeah. I'm going to go to the doctor.
All right.
