Yeah, just like, like, uh, air dropping.
How do I do that?
You have the picture?
Is that an iPhone?
You have your picture?
Oh, so I'm going to mute them for a second.
Cause we're, uh, going live.
All right.
James loud.
Take it away.
Hey everybody.
How's it going?
Welcome to a week four of the James loud show this week.
I got the cannabis brothers, uh, from LA.
We've known each other for, I don't know, eight, eight plus years, I believe.
And, uh, we met at a cannabis cup show from, uh, our good friend
best go, who you guys are partners with, uh, with Mr.
B's extracts and, uh, yeah.
So take me back to the beginning, guys.
I've seen some of the classic photos of you guys way back in the days in the nineties.
How did you guys get your start with cannabis?
Um, well it's, uh, it's been a, uh, a long journey.
Um, probably I first started getting high in 92, 91.
Yeah.
Somewhere with, uh, my brother, uh, he's older.
Um, yeah.
So we just, uh, getting into trouble, getting into trouble and just love cannabis.
It just, it's crazy.
I got high with our, with an older fella, uh, named Weege and our
neighborhood that lived around us.
I kind of looked up to that kind of guy and they were always getting high.
We just, bam, we just love the, love the plant, love the weed.
And we just started finding bags, you know, seeds in a bag.
And we were curious, like, wow, let's plant this fucking seed in the, and my mom was,
uh, um, into plants.
So we always had a greenhouse in the, in our backyard.
So mom was always into exotic, uh, plants, different, different style of plants.
Right.
So we had the, we had the soil there.
We had the pots there and we were like, oh, let's just plant some seeds.
And I started reading high times.
Yeah.
I kind of got us, he collected them all the time.
I would collect high times.
I was about 15 years old and, um, just started getting information, man, from
high times, high times kind of gave you the recipe of how to do it.
And, uh, we just started planting a seed from the local dealer right there that
he would go, I remember him going up to high times.
I remember him going up to humble and, uh, just coming back with really, really
good weed and he just gave us some seeds and, you know, we threw it on the roof.
At my mom's house.
And, uh, that was like the first plant that we grew.
And, um, after that, man, we just started growing every year.
We were mainly outdoor growers when we first started.
Um, but yeah, we started doing that and, um, shoot, what else?
Getting into trouble back then.
Got into some trouble back in the day and into trouble and in trouble, but we're
always known for having a really good weed, man.
Really good weed.
We were really.
Into quality back then.
Yeah, actually 92 93 is when also, uh, I had a, uh, I was dating a girl back
then, which is, uh, you know, I was dating a girl and Marco was his name and he had
the Gany, it was called Afghani and super scum, which was super fire.
He would front me the peas that they got 5,600 back then.
Something like that.
Some way back crazy then.
And we always were known the Cabral's house was always known to have the
fire at that time in 92 93.
So what else were you guys living back in LA back then?
Yes.
Nice.
Doritos, California.
Cerritos.
That's like a suburb of Los Angeles, Southeast LA.
Nope.
Yeah.
So California will be the California orange blood.
Yeah.
That was back in the day.
There we've always a chocolate time.
My boy used to come by.
Yeah.
The chocolate pie was fire.
Yeah.
There was a lot of Brown weed around to the next.
That's what we started off with.
That's what we started selling.
We, my friend Tommy, uh, actually.
My friend, dial dad actually gave me a couple of pounds and cut me
at our first couple of pounds.
Right.
Yeah.
Pauly from our TJ gave us our first couple of pounds.
You dial and then that's when we started slanging and that's
when Marco came along about a year later, a year later and started.
That's when he said, well, chip this.
And it used to come in Tupperware.
The Ganny, it was at get Afghani and super scum and he used to
bring them in these Tupperware.
Dude.
It was the best weed back then was just unbelievable.
Yeah.
Nice.
Yeah.
I used to weigh 2.7, 2.8.
Ace like 10 of them and walk to the park and sell them all for like 60, $65.
Crazy.
Yeah.
So tell me about the LA scene before prop two 15.
Um, and, and how that changed with a medical for you guys.
Um, it was, uh, it was a little different, you know, it was, uh, kind
of like the wild, wild West man before prop two 15, yeah, it was really.
Yeah.
It was, um, Canadian.
We're getting, yeah.
Remember the Canadians were dropping off 50 packs, a hundred packs in
hockey bags, right to our front door.
Oh yeah.
All the, all the cops.
I mean, man, we were making a killing back then.
But, um, and then going into the medical side of it, that's when we were, you
know, rascal was our good friend.
It was our good friend.
We grew up with, uh, OG rascal our whole life.
Yeah.
Um, right.
Yeah.
Then he's, he's the one that kind of turned us on to the medical marijuana.
Like, yeah, I think it was 90, 2001 or something when they started issuing
licenses, I think, or medical licenses.
And we were doing that for a while.
I think, uh, he had seen how good that we used to grow, you know, and, uh,
we kind of partnered with him.
How that was later, like 2007, eight, but 2003.
That's when I think all the OG Cush was, was flowing.
It was really expensive.
I think I remember that going for like 500 bucks an ounce.
Yeah.
And, uh, we were growing, um, I think we were growing like blueberries and
scott, our first set of clones in the garage or train wreck.
Yeah.
That's when we started messing around indoors probably about 2002.
And then I ended up buying, uh, the OG Cush for like five grand for some guys
in Hollywood and, um, that's when it kind of changed the game for us a little
bit, because it was with the OG Cush was hard to get back then and the SoCal master
Cush, you know, it was, it was kind of hard.
And, uh, and, uh, yeah, so that's when we got introduced, like with the
cushions and early 2000, then I, we, I ended up getting into some trouble 2003,
2004 and giving a rascal look, the cuts I gave him the OG Cush SoCal master.
A super skunk.
Um, a couple other cuts did a couple of years, got out and that's when, uh,
then he had created rascals, always a breeder.
And he was always online.
Me and my brother were always like still behind the scenes.
He was on, um, what was the overgrowth?
I think it was overgrown back then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's when he created a white fire with the, the OG Cush cut that I had
when I got out of prison and, uh, that's how that kind of came about.
But, and then we jumped into the medical side, kind of like, yeah,
you know what I mean?
Getting our script, getting our shit together.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Jack a whole bunch of scripts and put them together, put them together.
They pull them on the doors.
To the point where we make copies of them and put them down in front of our lanes,
our roads in the trap spots, right.
Hanging them on, on front of the first rows, you know, we really got into it.
They can feel really official for us.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Feel safe.
A little safe at least.
We both been a prison for the plant.
Yeah.
I went in 96, 90, no, 96, 97.
I think that's what I got.
Yeah.
I got busted for marijuana cultivate, uh, transporting cultivation and the
whole line.
Nice.
So then you guys were your own equity partners when you got into a legalization?
Yes, we, yes.
So we just, yeah, we just, uh, qualified for a social equity on a store retail.
We just got our license.
So pretty cool.
Yeah.
That just happened last week.
So I guess it did pay off a little bit, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
So, so the big strands, you know, you guys have the OG cushion and the master and you
guys were saying train wreck and Afghani.
Uh, you, you guys didn't see a lot of hazes or anything like that.
Did you?
Other than like maybe some stuff like the train wreck that leaned that way.
Yeah, we really did.
Cause we were from LA.
I think those strings were more towards North.
Yeah.
It was OG.
Kush was like the takeover.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was exactly.
That's all it was.
For that it rained for years, dude, from like two, I don't know, 2000, 2002, 2006,
like where it was really expensive and that's all people wanted, man.
That's so Cal master.
Kush was fire too.
Yeah.
The SoCal master.
Kush.
We had a master.
Kush.
They had, it looked, had a Christmas tree branching.
So like the, even the small woods would kind of suit out to the side with the, with
the nodes.
Yeah.
I remember that one get all purple and frosty and smell like church was really
good.
That's so Cal master.
Good.
Wrong.
Super strong smoke.
Yeah.
So you guys, you guys have, uh, we've known each other.
What do you guys think about cannabis cups and you know, how have you guys feel
they've helped the industry taken away from the industry and how's your, uh,
your opinion of it?
Yeah, it's definitely helped us, man.
Yeah, it definitely was 2000.
What did we win?
14, 2014.
We want a couple of, we want a couple of that.
It just kind of brings recognition to the underground growers that have been doing
it for so long and putting people, you know, that have been doing it in there,
you know, on their own, puts them on the map, you know, and getting the public to
recognize their, uh, the quality that they bring.
But, um, yeah, the cannabis cup on my neck.
Yeah.
With my face in it.
Yeah.
So it's, uh, so I'm going to have two cannabis cups on our old school.
Mr.
Beast extracts, uh, logo on the box.
We have it.
I'll show you in a minute, but we have it inside the box too.
Yeah.
You guys started Mr.
Beast extracts in what?
2013, 12, 13.
Yeah.
12.
There was Besco.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Besco.
He kind of gave us the idea and actually turned us onto a lot of shit.
He did, bro.
He turned us on to the high times, all the high times.
We never knew nothing about high time.
He was like, bro, you guys should be doing high time.
What are you guys doing?
And that's when I think that we did the first high times.
And I think 2013, Rasta was all nervous because they were nervous.
He was nervous.
Like, oh, I was like, fuck it.
Give me the seats.
I'll go sell the fucker.
Yeah.
So we ended up.
We all used to do the loud seeds in the silica glass and the
rest of the best will turn us onto a lot of good shit, dude.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He knows what's up with glass and everything.
Yeah.
Super passionate about weed.
Oh yeah.
Definitely passionate.
Yup.
And, um, what else?
So how about international travel?
You guys used to do the Amsterdam cups and slept like that a few times, right?
No, we never made it out there.
We were going to just recently before the pandemic, we had the, it was in the, in
the, in the route, but not back in the day when, you know, a lot of people were
going, we had never made it out there.
Always wanted to go to Amsterdam.
Yeah.
Since we were kids.
Yeah.
Always wanted to go.
Yeah.
After this whole pandemic thing, we need to go over there, man.
It's amazing.
Definitely.
Yeah.
I still have my, uh, my flight, you know, I was that close to jumping
on the plane for a span of this.
I know.
I remember.
Yeah.
All that shit happened.
So thank God I did it.
Cause that's when I, when they closed down and shut it down.
Yeah.
It was so hectic, man.
We literally got, uh, so Trump was on the TV at like two in the morning over
there on a Wednesday or leaving into Thursday.
And I had friends heading for the airport 45 minutes later.
I had a bunch of business to take care of.
It was like, I had to wait two days and we weren't sure if we were going to get back.
Man.
It was, it was pretty hectic.
Um, we didn't have to do like this crazy security when we got back,
they rushed everybody through.
It wasn't until the next day where they were like straight screening people and
forcing them to go home and you know, all this stuff, it was kind of, wow.
That's pretty wild.
That sucks.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know we spent a lot of money having, you know, setting up this booth and doing all
this stuff and then having it, you know, I still am owed money by Spanavis.
I mean, I'm hoping we can contribute it towards the next one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They've been reaching out, sending stuff.
So I don't know.
I don't know.
Hopefully this thing blows over and get out there next year.
Yeah.
I mean, I wanted to open a seed shop up.
We were that close to signing a lease on an apartment right before we, we left over
there.
So yeah, I mean, I'd love a Barcelona seed shop.
I think that'd be ideal.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Seriously.
Crazy.
Nice.
You guys have done a really good job of maintaining quality.
Uh, ever since I know you, you guys had the fire.
I mean, you guys always brought the best weed, the best strains, the best genetics.
Um, you know, what can you attribute that to?
You know, is it your connections?
Was it your palette?
Uh, I think a lot of it has to do with passion.
Um, and then maintaining quality in your grow rooms.
Yeah.
You said it right there, man.
Honestly, it stems from passion.
You know what I mean?
Uh, I think it all stems from passion because just wanting to keep the flowers
looking beautiful, you know what I mean?
Like just to the best.
Best of ability.
And we've done it all, man.
Tried so many different recipes to find what it's not just about the look, man.
Cause a lot of, we can look great, but the second you burn it, it's
like, this don't taste right.
You know what I mean?
Burns black.
It's just not grown properly.
And we've done it all.
We've tried all the different methods from salts to hydro to you name it.
All the different methods.
The water.
All right.
Everything.
Let me tell James, we fail a lot.
A lot.
Yeah.
Faith.
I mean, more times than you could count to get to like what we'd like.
And we got it down finally.
Not down, but we got it.
We're we, we got a recipe that works.
That yes.
Super killer by far.
Um, outshines a lot of the other, you know, a lot of the
other brands that are out there.
Um, and just on the taste and quality, we've really been able to get.
The feedback now that we're on the recreational market from a broad
audience versus, you know, smaller audience goes down here in like LA,
knowing people always love her flower.
But, um, yeah, it's, it's, it's great to, um, to get the feedback from the
consumer, but it has, it's been, it's, it's not easy when you do use a lot of,
uh, organics, I could say that, you know, a lot of organics, all our systems are a
little, it's a lot more maintenance cleaning stuff.
Um, you guys use cocoa.
Yeah.
I want to cocoa.
Yeah.
We're in cocoa.
Yup.
We love cocoa.
Yeah.
Um, we were soil growers for years, you know, love soil.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We definitely love soul, but as you scale up, it's a little bit more
to, it's harder to control.
You know what I mean?
So we've learned with the cocoa, you have a little bit more control, um,
of the crops and just, uh, yeah, it's, it's been a lot of trial and error, but
yeah, we've got a recipe, man, that, that works very, very well right now.
And the genetics, you know, the genetics play a huge role too.
Um, but at the end of the day, I think it's, it's kind of the methods and just
having the, the, the passion and just really learning the plant, you know,
what to feed them, what not to feed them.
Notice when your plants are getting over fertilized, what to cut back.
No, I think that a lot has to do with, uh, really dialing in our strains
because you know, they all, every strain is different.
And you know, that lights, a lot of lights, some don't like, like a lot of
lights, some like a lot of food, some don't like a lot of food.
It's like just dialing each strain down is, is especially for, uh, large scale
production, you know what I mean?
Because you definitely want the high yielding high terpene short crop cycle,
you know, um, PM resistant, you know, like a laundry list.
No, you know that.
Yeah.
So it's, it's, it's been tough, but it's been good.
It's a great, really good journey.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts on high THC as opposed to, you know, I think the hype
right now is all about having like 30 plus THC, if you can grow it.
Um,
ah, that's a tough one, man.
Like, I don't believe like you need all that.
You don't need that because people don't understand terpenes.
Like terpenes plays such a big role in, in, uh, in the flower when you smoke it.
You know, I think that when they mingle, you get just different effects.
Um, but, uh, yeah, that's what everybody's geared toward.
Like a lot of our strains test high.
Yeah.
Cause a lot of people just go to that box.
Yeah.
A lot of it's kind of messed up the way the consumer is.
I don't think they're educated enough to know, you know, um, it's not about that.
You know, it's like you got the full entourage effect.
You have all the different cannabinoids that play a synergistic role with the
terpenes that give you different effects, you know?
So I think, yeah, I don't, I think it's a lot of it's hype.
Um, but yeah, you just got to, um, find the right strain, what works for you, not
pay so much attention to the, uh, high THC, you know, the hype, the billboards,
the, all this, yeah, a lot of hype.
Yeah.
So yeah, a lot of people fall into Instagram and they get, they go follow
the big pages and then they want stuff.
And a lot of people don't know the difference too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like, if I smoke something and the first tit tastes good, I hope it tastes
good all the way down to the bottom of the road.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We can agree on that.
And a lot of companies, it's like, you might have beautiful weed.
It's super crystally.
That looks amazing.
And then you go to smoke it.
It tastes okay.
And it gets you high, but it doesn't taste good down to the roach.
And you're not firing that roach up the next day.
And it tastes good.
Yeah.
And we really look for that.
I, we like, definitely.
It's gotta have that terps.
Gotta have the tasting, high tasting flower.
Yeah.
It's something you guys have done extremely well.
Um, what do you recommend for some of the smaller companies and growers that plan on
scaling from a small company and growing into a larger company like you guys?
Um, just keeping it, just keeping it, I don't want to say like organic, but kind
of keep it organic, you know, as far as like quality, we believe like organics
really play a big role in the finishing product, you know, um, we've learned
to from like having different partners, different ventures, like our last
venture with these guys, they just wanted to, they wanted us to use always the
cheapest route, the cheapest route, the nutrients is because we are not
expel.
It was like, no, we're not changing.
I'm not doing it.
You know, cause the salts were a lot cheaper.
Like, no, we're not, we're not going to do it, man.
We'll rather sacrifice being a little bit more cost of use because our cost of
produce is a little bit more than your normal.
Um, but yeah, man, I would stick to what works for you.
You know, if you're getting bomb quality, we that you're growing stick with it, man.
And just really dialing your SOPs and then first and foremost is your team.
Like you gotta have a strong, loyal team that are all CEO, you know,
that are all, everybody's on the same page, have that vision.
But yeah, definitely.
Um, it gets tricky too, going from, uh, from, uh, from 10 lights to
a thousand lights is it makes, uh, yeah, you gotta have your shit together,
have your shit together and you gotta have good people working together, man.
I'd have the, I like you do, you know what I mean?
Like, I really care about these plants and that's what we kind of do is just.
We're in there just always looking at everything.
You know what I mean?
Looking at the plants, what's wrong with them?
Just making sure that they're, they're in the right path from that week one, all
the way to week 10 or whatever, all everyone would take them, you know?
So it's just really paying attention and dialing in the plants, you know?
Yeah.
It's a, it's a, it's a big, we failed a lot, man.
We've, I mean, yeah.
From learning up in Seattle, Washington.
Yeah.
Coming back here and going back.
It's we've learned a lot from a 10 light to 500 lights.
It's it's yeah.
Gotta have a good team.
Gotta have a good team.
You know, your SOPs.
Um, yeah.
That quality of the same.
Yeah.
Trying to keep that quality of the same from a 10 light to 500 lights.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then, so, so it seems like there's learning curves along the way.
When you go from 10 lights to 20 lights, 20 lights to 50 lights, 50 lights,
a hundred lights, and then 500 lights after 500 lights, do you guys feel like
that's kind of where you have SOPs in place and like, once you follow the SOPs
and your systems are in place, you're going to get the same quality.
Yes.
Yes.
As long as you have, you know, some good management underneath you.
You know what I mean?
You gotta have a good team.
Yeah.
You gotta definitely gotta have a good team.
No way we could be doing this.
Just me and him, but just having that good team of growers and being able to, I, we
always still have to be monitoring stuff no matter what, you know, because once you
start getting into those big rooms and after a certain amount of lights, it, you
know, there's a whole lot of plants that you got to keep an eye on, you know?
So, um, yeah, I think it is a little bit, it is a tougher challenge.
Going, yes.
Going from smaller to bigger, you know what I mean?
Cause you're feeding these long runs and it's just, there's more challenges and
thank God the technology nowadays that they got a lot of new, great stuff on the
market that can assist in, you know, in the feeding temperature control, you know,
a lot of that plays a huge factor in these big rooms.
And
what kind of systems do you guys use for environmental controls?
What's that?
What kind of systems do you guys use for environmental controls?
Um, nothing crazy right now.
We're just, we mess around with, we just use like a little bit of a mango tech.
We use
yeah.
Yeah.
No, we don't got really big rooms.
Um, right now I can keep them smaller.
Yeah.
And we're between like 40 and 50 lights.
Max right now.
We're right now.
72.
Yeah.
Right.
We're, we're crushing it right now.
These 72 items.
Nice.
Um, but ideally we like the smaller rooms we prefer.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, I think we just think you have more control and if something happens,
it's, it happens in that smaller room versus, you know, a hundred or 200 light
rooms.
You monocrop those rooms.
So you have one, one, a variety per room then, or
we'll split, we'll split.
So we'll put strings to that, that eat similar together, um, that we can feed.
Um, some of the rooms we'll split into three and put, just put them on separate
reservoirs, you know, split it into three reservoirs and, uh, do it like that.
Cause we got some strains that just don't like food and we got some that need a lot
more phosphorus than nitrogen.
There's just a lot of strains that we've kind of dialed in, man, that, uh, that
really produced for us.
Um, but they need to be fed a certain way.
Second, they get too much food.
They just, it messes them up really quick.
You know what I mean?
When you're talking to these big rooms, it affects people don't understand how,
like you really gotta dial your shit in and pay attention to your crops.
You know, it's not just about plugging in a number and feeding your plants through
a computer.
You know, you have to really see how they react when you feed them or the changes
that you make, uh, just really paying attention to them and on making changes
and just everything, you know,
So you guys are a family run business, family owned business.
Tell me a little bit about, about that and you know, what, how many people in your
family help out?
I know you got a big family too.
So
on, on, on our team is a meme.
Me, my bro.
I got my two sisters and we have our CFO Jory.
Yeah.
That's our, that's our group right there.
Yeah.
My sisters play, help play a big role.
Shout out to my two sisters, a massive role in, in our, like we grow the weed.
They do all the other stuff.
Go ahead.
Talk a little bit about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we kind of, um, there's my two younger sisters.
We, uh, we kind of pulled them in or they kind of were curious.
Come about 2013.
Cause we, we come from a fire protection background, construction background.
Also we're a union pipe fitters by trade.
Yeah.
Um, but we've always grown weed.
You know what I mean?
I've always had a hobby for it.
So we did that for like 15 years and my sisters, uh, kind of worked with my dad.
That ran the office.
And we used to have, um, one of our spots literally right next door
to our fire protection business.
So my sister would always, you know, kind of curious, what do you guys do over there?
You know what I mean?
Like what's going on over there?
And she knew that we always grew weed and stuff.
And then it got to the point, I think 2015, she seen us go out to Seattle.
I think it was like more 2015, 16.
So she started getting really curious.
And then we just started putting, you know, numbers to paper numbers on paper.
And she was like, oh my God.
And kind of was tripping out.
And that's when licensing kind of was going to start coming on for, uh, for
caliber, I think we were doing the co-op thing with the Caleb, Caleb.
Yeah.
My sister.
So we kind of like, they kind of seen what was going on.
Before I know it, by 2017, we were able to get both of my sisters on board.
Um, just on the business side, you'd like, they do payroll, payroll,
everything from admin.
We've done multiple applications in Long Beach, um, different states.
Um, but they, they do all the infrastructure stuff, uh, for the company.
Yes.
Yeah.
So they've been a huge asset, a huge asset to our company, to all of them.
You guys do consulting as well, right?
Yes.
We've talked about in the past.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How's that going in the, are you guys doing consulting currently or with the
co we do a little bit of consulting because just cause we're so busy right
now with all the current stuff we've got going on, so we do, yeah, we do some
consulting, we do, my sisters do a lot with, um, applications for different
cities and all that good stuff.
We do, we've done some stuff in Virginia.
We've done some stuff all over, all over the country, a couple
of little things here and there.
But it's not our main thing.
Our main thing is we're, we're trying to acquire more space right now.
But, um, I think I got a spot for you guys in Oakland.
If you guys still want to come up.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I love Oakland.
I love it.
Oh yeah.
A hundred square feet.
How much?
A hundred thousand available.
Oh yeah.
Throw us a, yeah.
We'd love to go out there.
Yeah.
Awesome.
So yeah, we're just looking at the other day.
Um, so, you know, with Mr.
B's extracts, uh, where, where is that going right now?
Cause I know that's a whole separate entity.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
And you guys use your, the trim from your, your grows to supply the.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's what's kind of the staple of the Mr.
B's extracts.
The brand is just trying to keep everything single source.
You know, um, we have a lab, we have a type seven, six in long be
80% right now built out in Long Beach and Long Beach.
Yeah.
So that's going to be coming on board pretty soon.
But right now we have a third party company that real good friends of ours
that are, um, processing a lot of them are too right now we're in, I think
like 60 plus stores right now with our Mr.
B's.
Yeah.
So it's on the market right now.
Yeah.
It's on the margin box too.
We're doing some rousing.
So we got a kitchen kitchen.
What else do we got in the whole Ross in the room?
Yeah.
VHO stuff.
So we'll be coming on board and that's with best.
So yeah, yeah.
Best.
It will be, we'll be bringing him back on the team and we're super excited about
that.
Really, really excited.
Totally.
Yeah.
So it'll be coming soon, but we're all, we already are on the market right now.
Yeah.
So let's talk about genetics a little bit.
Um, what do you guys think as far as like front from past to present, we kind
of talked about what you guys did.
What are you guys doing now as far as, uh, strains and varieties of cannabis and
what do you see as the future?
Um, that's a good one.
Shoot.
We're, uh, he, this guy loves to create shit.
So yeah.
Didn't you guys grow chili Verde?
What's that?
I saw some chili Verde from you guys gave me last year at a MJ biz.
Was that what, I'm not sure what it was.
Was that for months?
I'm not sure.
Was that us?
I, I, yeah.
Cause I was at your spot.
I don't remember the name of it though.
It was so good though.
Oh, the flower.
Yeah.
Flower.
Yes.
The Pina Grande.
You need to go.
Yeah.
That's what I mean.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like that one too.
That's coming.
I'm going to, that's a good one.
That's a good one.
Thanks.
She never had that bike.
That's a good one.
James.
I like that one.
Yeah.
It's funny how you say that, man.
She's a kind of a bread and butter right now.
Um, cause we've, now that we've got her in the mass production, she
just does amazing man in the rooms.
She, uh, she gets huge, smells crazy.
Um, high potency.
Uh, just yields really big.
It's a pineapple chunk cross to Skywalker OG.
Uh, and we had gotten those seeds from a TH Caesar back in the day.
And I think, uh, who created that?
I think Kaiser, Kaiser, Kaiser created, created that.
And, um, yeah, we're, uh, and then talk, we could talk about, uh, what, what
other ones did we just create?
We did write a whole line of, yeah, we're doing all our sour, our sour Sandia.
Um, we hit to everything.
So we hit sour Sunday up to white Tahoe cookies, great pie, TK GMOs.
Um, some OGs, we got some old gear too, man.
We had old gear from about two years ago.
We just, it's just, uh, we need more space to test a lot of our stuff.
And then that's one thing about us.
We've kind of always kept a lot of our genetics proprietary.
We really haven't released anything because of the, you know, because of
the license market now, you know what I mean?
So we're just trying to, I think seeds are going to be coming.
I think, you know, more about that info with California and the
seeds coming on board, but you know, we would like to be dropping them.
On the rec market.
Yeah.
The rec market, but yeah, we've got a lot of stuff, man, that, that we have
in our, in our little seed bank that haven't been released and, and we're
just anxious to be testing and we're creating new stuff right now.
Can we give anything away to the show?
How do we, how do we, uh, give back to our listeners here?
What do you think, Peter?
We, we can make that hat.
Well, I'm in LA too, so we can, uh, we can, uh, link up and
we'll maybe do some giveaways.
Okay.
We're going to leave you guys and we're going to give them, we've got
some seed packs and stuff to give away in a couple of boxes to give away.
Yes.
Yeah.
Here.
Yeah.
Some stuff.
Yeah.
Um, beautiful.
Yeah.
But the seeds, uh, it's something that we love.
Yeah.
We love, and we don't do a lot on a large scale or anything like that.
We do everything something smaller scale and we kind of just, we do our own testing
and searching and what we like and don't like, and we're kind of more breeding
more towards the rec market for large scale production, um, just because it's
a very viable to us right now, you know, getting these strains that can pull
three plus light with the look, the taste, the smell, you know, and it takes,
it takes some time man to create some stuff and to find exactly what you're
looking for.
It's, it's not an overnight project, man.
Like, you know, you know, James, it takes years.
Anybody knows.
James knows.
Yeah.
I'm sure you've got a lot more.
So when you get some, when you get a new seed and you want, you want to test it
out, how many times do you grow it to determine if it's going to be a keeper?
And a couple of times,
three, four.
Yup.
Yup.
We'll do it on a smaller scale R and D and then we'll throw a, once we figured
out, okay, this one might make it to production.
We'll throw on a small batch in a production and see how she does.
See if she does just as good as our stable strains.
Cause we got some, probably a good solid six to seven strains right now that we
have in production that are the ones that we got mass produced, the consumer loves.
We can grow enough of it right now.
Everything that we drop is just like pre-sold out.
So, um, but we, you know, you know how it goes, man, people like different things.
So we, we were crossing all those strains now strains to each other, bring
these great, great summer every, every year, every year or two, you know, try
to bring a few strains, new strains on the rep market.
Yeah.
It's like a new cell phone every year or something.
Yeah.
People happy, you know, bringing in new flavors.
And I mean, people it's, it's funny cause I don't think that's going to be like, I
don't think it's going to be like that in the future.
I think in the future, people are going to love their varieties.
I don't think we're going to have to constantly be having to create new things
because everything is so derivative of each other for the most part.
And people are just happy with something.
That's just another gelato right now.
Whereas I feel like we're going to create these staples and then people
are going to love those staples and they're going to come back for those
brands.
And maybe you release something special once a year, but you don't have to
constantly be thinking about what's next.
And that's good.
Right on the nose with that, dude, because the strains, the six strains that we have
in production right now, like people just love them.
They keep coming back for them.
I'm like, fuck, should we put this other strain on?
And then we get kicked back from, you know, my sister's like, there's too many
strains.
Like there's a lot of stuff that our sisters help us balance with everything.
Cause it was up to us.
We'd have all kinds of strains on the market.
But you don't want to have too much man.
Like, and what you said, it's, it's all these strains that derive from stuff that
people already like.
I don't think that is a good one because people love the strains that we already
mass produced, you know, and, uh, just dropping strains, maybe seasonal, that
kind of makes more sense, but yeah, I do kind of see it going that little bit
towards that way.
Yeah.
Good to see it.
I mean, it's really hard to stabilize genetics.
Uh, you know, by the time we get something that we really like, you know,
two or three months later, they're onto the next and onto the next.
And it's, you know, it's rare that you get those unicorns, those OG cushions,
those sour diesels, you know, things like that, where there's something that's
going to be popular forever.
Yeah, no, 100%.
It's, uh, it takes a lot of space to find exactly what you're looking for.
No, yeah.
To create these palm strains.
Um, yeah, totally agree.
Yeah.
Light one up.
Yeah.
Let's see it.
Join.
Yeah.
So you guys had different growing techniques back in the day compared to
now you want to kind of talk about what you guys said, soil, and we have some
crazy techniques back in the days from, from a shell to you name it, to.
Fucking drilling a million holes in the side of the pot to fucking yeah.
Doing GWC toads.
Oh man.
We've tried every damn way.
I think you could.
Yeah.
Adding shit to the soil, to this, to that.
Yeah.
We went learning over time.
You just need stuff that's simple.
You know what I mean?
The efficient, uh, yeah, that's what we've learned to narrow down.
That's why we kind of, I don't know.
A lot of people can argue though, people that there are a lot of people, man,
that kill it with soil, you know what I mean?
Cause they, they've mastered it.
You know what I mean?
They've mastered a lot of people that kill it with rock.
Well, and that's why it's like, whatever works for you and you've learned to dial
in and if you can get, you know, what you're looking for and what your method
is, um, do what works for you, man.
That's what I tell a lot of people.
What do you think I should do?
I'm like, well, what's working for you?
You know, do what's working for you.
And if not, I can give you some advice on some things that we do.
But yeah, that's what I tell people and do what works for them.
You know, when did you guys transition from hand watering to automated?
Um, I still love that water.
I'll make some of these guys water that whole row.
I'll fill up a 40 gallon trash can and say, Hey, knock these roads out.
Keep making new, you know, but it's been, it's been some years.
It's been years.
The irrigation definitely makes a drastic difference.
It makes a drastic difference.
We water still a lot of our veg, you know what I mean?
But majority of the flower gets, uh, is on, on irrigation.
We do certain things where we come in and got to do trenches.
We run a super tight IPM, which is very, very critical in, um, you
know, large scale cannabis.
You know what I mean?
You got to just have that insurance policy in there, no matter what, even
if you don't have anything, you always got to make sure you're keeping your
shit nice, tight and clean.
And that's the most important thing.
But it's been a couple of years.
Yeah.
It's been some time.
They're automation.
It's make a drastic difference, but you know, like the way we, we.
The, with the year, the, the nutrients and stuff that we use, you know, we
have to change a lot of change.
We've got to change a lot of the stuff more often than you would with, you
know, a lot of use, you know, but it is, it's just part of the price that we
got to pay to keep the quality to our standards.
You know what I mean?
Like we just, we've tried a lot, man.
And we just seen what we, what we use is we get, we get great results, you
know, so we just kind of stick by it and people love our flower, you know?
So I'm like, you know what we're doing it right, but let's not change it.
We've changed so many things in the past.
Right.
Just stick to what we know and what works.
So, so with the organics that you guys are using, do you, uh, you flush, uh,
flush the lines to keep them clean between cycles with, uh, anything?
I mean, we go through, yeah, we use like sanity.
We use some other stuff.
Um, but that's important.
That's important.
It's cleaning those lines.
Yeah.
And then, and then after probably a good, I would say four runs,
we just replace everything.
You know, we were a lot of replacing the pumps get worn out a
little bit more than often.
Um, but yeah, we do, we do, we do a lot of flushing the lines.
We even do it sometimes during the, during the cycles where we have to flush the
lines, we clean the palms during the cycles.
Um, a lot of maintenance on those.
Yeah.
A lot of maintenance definitely going towards organics, but you know, I think,
you know, we've seen that it's, it's paid off for us, you know, and that's one
thing we won't sacrifice that we told ourselves is like the quality, like we
won't sacrifice quality because Joe Schmo wants us to save money on, yeah.
On his fucking bottom line, you know?
So yeah, totally.
Yeah.
So it's been rough and still a little rough, but we love what works for us.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The end of the day, you got to go with what works for you.
And I think a lot of people, you know, there's a lot of learning
curves to figure out what works for you.
Like you were saying, you fail a lot just to get to the point where you're
successful.
And I think a lot of people don't ever see the failure.
They just see the good stuff.
Yeah.
100%.
They don't struggle that, you know, that we all got to get to the points where we're
at.
Yeah.
It's been a journey and we're still learning, man.
We're still learning a lot of good people out there that help us out, you know?
Yeah.
So are you guys doing stuff in any other States besides California right now?
Um, we were going to do some stuff and not currently at the moment.
We're talking to people from Oklahoma right now that want us to go out there.
We're talking to people in Colorado that want us to go out there, Vegas.
Um, that was on the horizon.
That was right.
People were right before the virus hit.
Yeah.
Then the pandemic hit.
Yeah.
We had a real lean, everything, man, it was all lined up and then the pandemic
hit and everything just kind of shut down.
But we're, we're starting those conversations up again.
I'm not sure.
I don't think the, the demands as high as it was before the pandemic out there yet.
But, um, yeah, we're talking to people.
We're, we're, we're interested in going out to different States, um, to expand the
brand as long as it makes sense.
You know, it's gotta make sense because we're so busy already in Cali.
Um, yeah, but if it makes sense, man, we're, we're, we're willing to go out there.
Definitely.
So with COVID, how has COVID effect?
I mean, it sounds like you guys, you know, fucking prices are outrageous.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, the demand is through the roof.
People growing.
Garb, not say garbage, but people that were before the pandemic were losing money
or losing money or making money right now.
Yeah.
No.
So it's a good thing.
Yeah.
But yeah, it's been, uh, yeah, it's been a pretty crazy man.
Since the pandemic, I was kind of shocked to see everything go through the roof,
like the way it's been going, you know, you, with all the recreational stuff, man,
it's just all the pounds are going to suffer.
So expensive right now.
It's crazy how licensed brands, man, that, that do their sourcing can make it, you
know, so it's like all over again.
What's that?
Like 2008 all over again.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's pretty, uh, yeah.
And then the exotics it's like, they're in such high demand right now because.
You know, it's only 1% or less of the market.
There's so much middle grade stuff out there that like, you know, the exotic
really, you know, and even that stuff is selling.
Yeah.
No, it is.
Yeah.
Even that stuff is selling like fuck.
Yeah.
It's pretty, um, I guess it's a good thing for us in the industry, you know?
So, yeah.
What do you, what do you guys think about light assisted depths?
I think, uh, that's a big thing coming on the market as far as you keep your, your
cogs low.
Uh, so what, what are you guys' thoughts on it?
I mean, I think the quality is good in my own opinion.
Yeah.
There's some guys crushing it out there, man.
You can, um, yeah, you can, you can.
That quality is, you know, we were not in any, we would love to get into some mixed
light space because I think we would crush it in some mixed light, you know, the sun
and some light and everything that we do with our recipes.
A lot of people are doing good with that.
Yeah.
Um, it's hard to argue with the sun.
You know what I mean?
Like that sun, you know, the bulbs are, you're creating these bulbs to try to
mimic the sun.
You know what I mean?
You get that sun and the right conditions and it's going to be really, yeah, it's
going to be hard to, uh, you know, it's pretty, it's right there next to the
indoor.
You know what I mean?
If you get that, you do it right.
You do it right.
I've seen some pretty spectacular stuff.
Better and better each year.
Yes, exactly.
100%.
And just like LEDs.
I don't know if you guys are using LEDs right now, but, uh, I'm totally impressed
and sold on the whole led model, which five years ago I was garbage.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They just started.
Yeah.
We're messing around with some LEDs right now.
And, um, they're, they're fucking killing it, man.
I can't, I'm kind of blown away.
Like how good they're doing.
I just think when it comes to like the big giant, in my opinion, when you have the
big giant rooms, the 50 lighter or a 70 lighter and the HPS is hard to be.
Yeah.
You got those, the Vita space four by four.
And it's very hard to beat the, I mean, dude, we got some big ass buds right now
that are like, just I'm blown away.
Yeah.
But we do have some leds that fucking kill it, man.
Like the double stack.
You just gotta have them close.
I think, believe, you know, but then you got some new models.
I've seen these longer ones.
I haven't messed with them, but I see some stuff that other people are doing with
these, they're really high up from the plants and people are crushing it, man.
With these other types of LEDs, you know, so I'm sure they're only going to get
better.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm going to get better.
Yeah.
Sticky water cooled LEDs.
I mean, they're just amazing.
Have you, yeah.
Have you seen, so you've seen them in action too.
They're probably fucking just crushing it up.
Quality.
You know, I w I would say the one thing is if you're growing stuff for color, which
I'm not a huge fan of color myself, although that's what the market's leds that
I've seen, don't give you the same color that you can get from a Gavita or other
lights.
You know what, dude, that's funny how you say that, but 100, you hit it right on the
nose, man, because a lot of our strings, uh, did it purple out?
They didn't get all purple.
Like the strawberry bubble didn't fucking purple out under my LEDs under the HPS.
They got fucking black, like completely trip out.
I mean, a lot of our other strains aren't, that's funny how you say that, man.
It's you hit it right on the nose.
They don't get the color, but they get the high potency and getting the weight off
less wattage, you know, which is super crucial when you start scaling up, man.
And you start paying all these big bills, like those numbers make a drastic
difference, uh, on your bottom line, you know, so if you get the same quality, and
then I heard something about 2023, is that true about the way California
is switching to LEDs?
I don't know if that's true or not.
I don't know if it's true either.
I heard the same rumors and I haven't seen any official paperwork, but yeah, I
mean, I've, I've heard the same thing, so I think, I think it'd be crazy personally,
but I mean, I understand it.
We're trying to cut back, but, uh, you know, I, I don't know if people are willing
to pay for it.
You know, I feel like the electricity is just going to keep going up and up and up.
Madison.
Fuck.
Yeah.
Chop the top of all our buildings off and just use the sun.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
No shit.
That's a good one.
Yeah.
So last time we were in Vegas, man, you guys were flying in on a private jet with
your personal chef.
Um, yeah, I want to thank you guys again for the good times, man.
We had some amazing times there, man.
And, uh, when you guys were younger, did you think this was what life was
going to be when you were older?
No, no, not at all.
No.
I mean, perception's pretty crazy.
Yeah.
A personal chef's my cousin.
He owns a bunch of restaurants.
Um, but yeah, it's, it's, uh, never thought it'd be no, never thought we'd be doing
what we're doing.
Support my family off of a legal paycheck for growing weed.
Yeah.
Never thought, never thought.
Yeah.
We, we left a fuck.
We both had a great job being union.
Excellent money.
Like, I don't know what we're going to make right now.
If I went back to it, they're making like 80 bucks an hour.
Yeah.
75 bucks an hour.
And we left that to fucking, you know, roll.
We need to go straight growing straight into cannabis.
Never thought, never thought.
Probably fifth 14 is when we made the transition straight into, I'm not going
back.
I'm not putting, not putting my tool bags back on.
Yeah.
But, uh, yeah, it's been, uh, it's been super dope, man.
This journey.
Yes.
When super dope.
Yeah.
Um,
so if people are looking for your flower or extract, where do you recommend?
Is there a website they can go?
Yeah, you can go to our website, www.tcgindustriesllc.com.
Um, you go to that website and that'll pop up all the retailers that we're in.
Um, or you can also put, you can click that link in our bios, our Instagrams.
Um, which is the, uh, the cannabis gardener and I also grow, I also grow on
IG and the cannabis brothers.
You used to have quick on Instagram back in the day.
I remember it was like overnight.
I'm like, what is this guy doing?
Yeah.
That's how my account got deleted.
My account got deleted for like two and a half years, dude.
And one of my boys just said, do this, do this.
And for like two months straight, I would email this email for an idea five in the
morning, every fucking day for like two and a half months.
And my account went right back on.
I was like, what the fuck?
Yeah, it was pretty, pretty dope.
So that shot out to a four seats for that one.
Yeah.
We're seeing this up with the connect to get our accounts back.
Yeah.
I was shocked after years of not having the account.
We got them back.
Yup.
We both got back.
Yeah.
Wow.
So how, how big of a role do you think Instagram has played with your careers?
Uh, you know, on the, on the rec market.
Oh, the Instagrams.
Yeah.
James.
Oh my God.
A hundred percent, dude, we don't even have a sales team.
Put it that way.
We have no sales.
We have no sales team.
No off, no crazy set dude.
It's me, him, our IGs that we get.
Yes.
And then maybe just word of mouth or I, we have, we've heard about a lot.
Yeah.
It will be a sales team is going to be coming on pretty shortly, but.
It's a made us, it's given us the recognition.
We've had accounts since 2013.
You know what I mean?
So you can scroll all the way back and show like, Hey, these guys have
been doing this shit for a while.
So it gives, I don't know.
It gives a authenticity of, of who we are.
You know what I mean?
But the Instagram has helped drastically.
Yeah.
That's how we pick over DMs all day from retailers, man.
Yeah.
How can we get your product in your store?
How can we get your product in your store?
How much time do you guys spend on Instagram a day?
I know Miami mango.
He spends like nine to 11 hours a day on my girlfriend in real quick.
She gets, she gets up.
I even got her double checking.
Like if I write something like I'll hand it to my girls to help me out.
She gets so mad.
Like, are you going to pay attention to me or yeah.
I'm always on there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A lot of time on IG.
Yeah.
And you can really branch out to the Twitter or the Facebook or anything.
You focus on Facebook, Twitter.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I'm all of them.
Snapchat.
Got all that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Hard hub.
You gotta be on.
Yeah.
This is honestly James too.
This is like, we're the first time we've really, really done like an interview.
Like we don't really talk very much or come out.
He tells me, Oh, I love it.
Uh, he tells me last week, or was it last week?
Yeah.
Hey, you ready?
James wants us on the show.
I mean, you're Sunday at 11 o'clock.
Fuck it.
I've been panicking all week.
You see, I'm sweating a little bit, but yeah, this is really our first
interview that we've done really in a minute, in a long time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I try to keep it fun.
Yeah, man.
I really appreciate you guys coming on.
It's been fun.
And you know, it's like, uh, I try to keep it simple and fun and I'm going to
quit doing it when it's not fun anymore.
Yeah.
But you know, it's like, I'm able to have my friends come on the show and
talk about what they're doing.
And it's like, it's great.
Catch up during COVID.
Yeah.
Right.
And no shit.
Yeah.
I have my mask on, by the way, I heard I was watching your last one.
We're both prepared here.
Yeah.
Hey, so Peter, do we have any questions from the audience?
Uh, I'll wait for them to trickle in, but, uh, I have a bunch of questions.
I mean, one of them, you guys kind of touched on the, um, you know, it's like
you think about your next business moves.
I mean, one of them that I've like a trend I've seen is, is brands opening
kind of their flagship retail shop.
Do you guys have that kind of in your mind?
Yes.
Yeah.
It's funny how you say that.
Yes, we do.
We got blessed just, you know, like last week ago, we just paid the invoice for,
uh, the DCR and, uh, for Los Angeles, Los Angeles, the, uh, social equity.
So yeah, we do plan on opening up a flagship store.
That's, um, cannabis brothers, cannabis brothers, flagship store
right there in Los Angeles.
I think we have a location, but that's in the works right now.
Work out, work out by next year.
And then do you want to take on cookies and, uh, start like the
Starbucks model of, I mean, they're everywhere now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They are.
I mean, you, you, you got it.
You gotta, uh, love the, I mean, burner, I mean, a genius for
what he's brought cookies to, to be.
I mean, a lot of people, I get a lot of hate from the guy, but
he's a fucking genius man.
Shout out to cookies, burger, baby bash, all the cookie crew.
Yeah.
Good shit.
Yeah.
But definitely would like to get on that level.
Maybe not that crazy though, but I would like to have just a few cannabis
brother stores in Los Angeles, couple up North, maybe one in Oakland would be
beautiful, but you know, not too crazy.
So, uh, in terms of scaling up a city, soul shine, uh, asked, you talked
about not compromising the synthetics and sticking to organics at scale.
Kind of what are some of the issues repeatedly coming up as you scale
or issues that came up that you had to figure out a solution
and what was the solution?
Um, the, what we've seen is, is the final product, man, the way it, it, it
smokes, like the look would be there.
I would say a lot of the stuff would be there, but.
We would, I think it would be the final smoke.
The final smoke would differentiate the, uh, the organics, you know, getting
that final taste and being a little bit more louder and a little bit more
stickier, you know, we would see that with the organics, get a little bit
more taste out of it when you smoke.
Cause we, we smoke a lot of joints and that's the first thing we do, man.
We harvest, we break it up.
Once we're done, like once the harvest is done, that's the first thing we do
is roll it up and see how it smokes.
No, I mean, it's got to pass that smoke test before we put it on the market.
And there's times man, where we're like, oh my God, this isn't burning.
Right.
We won't, we won't shelf it.
We'll, we'll, we'll turn into concentrates or we'll, we'll do something with it.
If it, if it isn't up to our standards.
But, um, yeah, the final product, man, smoking the weed, I think would be the,
and the, and the life, the life cycle I've noticed on, of the dry flow.
Yeah.
That you could have a bud sit in a jar for, I don't know, three weeks.
I have, uh, Jared from West coast cure had a jar, some cookies and candy
had from us and he's, he literally opened it a couple of days ago and he
said he had it for six months and it still had the same stickiness and
texture, texture, and the same.
Like if it was just harvested last week.
And he told us like none of the other week does anything like that, but I
don't know how the other people grow, but we've just seen that just on our
firsthand knowledge and that's what we've stuck with, you know, kind of
answered the question a little bit.
Yeah.
Um, so someone early on when he, when you guys were talking about 1993, he
said that a lot of Cypress till must've been playing in the trim room.
Oh my God.
That is so funny, dude.
Yeah.
Cypress hill was a huge staple and a chronic.
And yeah, that was like three, like 92, 93, the chronic, the chronic
we had that beat.
We had the CDs.
Yeah.
We would constantly be bumping.
I want to get all kinds of different jams, but yeah.
Cypress hill was.
One of the top and the high-ties magazines.
I remember you and the high studio.
So love the high tide magazine.
Yeah.
Got a lot of knowledge from my time.
There was no other source of, of how to do this and how to do that.
Yeah.
There was no go to the high times magazine.
It'll tell you an art of this article.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's funny.
Cause high times back in the day, there was a Valentine's day magazine that had
a candy box with different kinds of hash and they had green hash in there.
And I was like, man, I got to try this green hash.
I don't know where I can get green hash.
I was so disappointed.
The first time I smoked green hash, it was the most garbage shit I've ever seen.
Yeah.
High times, you know, sometimes the pictures can be misleading, but yeah.
Especially back in the nineties.
I feel like that was for me when high times really peaked, you know, it was
the million dollar grow room was my favorite issue.
I ended up getting the million dollar grow room.
Like almost 20 years later, I was featured when I was on the cover.
My, my room was on the cover.
Oh, that's a shit.
Oh, now we got to do the billion dollar grow room, you know, right?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
High times.
Yeah.
So your, uh, your transition to cocoa, have you, have you noticed anything
from, from like soil to cocoa in terms of the smoke and the high and.
Um, no, we can't, uh, we get really good results with it because
we use a lot of organic inputs.
So that's one thing that we had to do is put a lot of organic inputs in the
cocoa, um, to get that, to, to maintain that flavor because with the soil, man,
you, you grow some soil comes out bomb.
You do it right.
Like soil's hard to, uh, to, to, to be, you know, shout out to Chris.
Yeah.
From Athens.
Yeah.
He's, uh, he's helped a lot, but yeah.
What was the question?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what, what are some of the organic, like, can you talk about kind of your,
your feeding regimen and are you doing any sprays and yeah, we, this top secret.
Yeah.
A lot of it's top secret, but honestly, it's like, I can give somebody the
same fucking recipe and the same fucking, it's all, it's all going to come out.
I don't, you know, I think it just, um, we use a lot of app, this nutrients.
Um, bio-biz, use some bio-biz, uh, just a lot of other organic amendments that we use.
Um, but yeah, are you playing with like microbials and things like that?
Yeah, we have, we, we input some microbials.
Yes, sir.
Yup.
And then any like foliar spraying or
lots of four years brain.
Um, not a lot, but yeah, we implement a couple of foilers in there.
You know, it's so important that the plants uptake so much nutrients from the
leaves, people don't understand that, but yeah, we do a lot of foilers, all through
veg, through flour, which we stop those couple of weeks, the first couple of weeks
in flower, we stop once they, the flower starts to onset.
But yeah, I recommend foilers.
Definitely.
If you guys are growers out there, man, foilers, we have a big difference.
And what part of the nutrient regimen are you applying as a foliar?
Like what's like, what's something you're spraying?
Try, uh, the RNA is great.
Yeah.
That one.
Um, we do a lot of, a lot of the app, this we do, we do four years phrase with it.
Um, the bloom boost, the facility, the facility, yeah, we do a lot of, uh, peak
depending on what sometimes the plants may need.
Sometimes in the first couple of weeks, you may notice, Oh, shoot, we
need to give us some more phosphorus.
So we'll do a foiler of, uh, our peak boost.
You know, some, some may need more nitrogen or something.
We'll do a foiler with CalMac, not just input it in the, in the, in the, the, the
nutrients, but we, uh, foilers may, you know, you can get to the plant a little
bit quicker sometimes than the, than the, through the root zone.
What brand cocoa do you guys use?
Just curious.
We use charge.
Yeah.
We're recording shit.
Yeah.
Michael, he's a good friend.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, that's when we seen you in Vegas.
I think we all like to party.
It's always, yeah.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, we love, we love their stuff, man.
We do like a 50 50.
We love the 50 50.
Yep.
Yeah.
We believe in, you know, dry downs and metabolize, metabolize a little bit
faster and more of an aerated medium than a non aerated, you know, you see
the plants just explode with growth, metabolize a little faster, smaller
pots and more feeding than I take it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yep.
Threes and flower threes.
Wow.
Yeah.
Sometimes it depends though.
Do we, we do different, we have different systems.
Sometimes we'll do two.
It all depends.
You know, sometimes we stuck them in there.
It all depends on, on the rooms, you know, but you do different plant
counts per, per light, depending on strain.
So yes, sometimes.
Yeah.
Yeah, definitely.
Cause some just, you don't need to pack them in there, you know, because
they just branch out and they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't
just branch out crazy though.
Geez.
We got to pack in there, you know, cause they're a lot thinner.
Um, our dragon's breath, like you only need to put a couple of the max, like,
yeah, we have a different, we definitely have different plant counts, definitely,
but not by too much, you know, not by too much, but definitely different
plant counts for different strains.
Yeah.
Can you go ahead, James?
Oh, I have a friend that's bumping it up to 24 plants per a four by six.
And, uh, he's getting really, really good results.
He's getting over three pounds per.
Oh, I could agree with that.
I could agree with that.
I could agree with that.
We were, we were doing less and we were doing okay.
And then we really started packing them in there and we're like, oh shit.
Okay.
It makes a difference.
You just got to make sure you're doing all your de-leafing and you're getting
in there and cleaning them up, dude, because it can get too conglutinated
word, you know, you get mold or shit.
We'll start.
There's not air moving through everything.
Been on strains too, where you can really pack them in there.
Cause some just get really, I like the 24 hour.
Yeah.
But you just got to, you know, making sure that you're de-leafing a lot in there,
making sure that all those butt sites are getting light, super important.
Even canopies and yeah, all that.
Yeah.
It's, it's tough man.
Maintaining fucking those even canopies, especially those first couple
of weeks to the transition, like, you know, they just fucking explode with growth.
Yeah.
And you just got to have that team to help maintain that canopy, which is, uh,
it's a learning process for new people, you know, for different strains too.
They all grow different.
So, yeah.
Well, actually, can you give an example of two cultivars that you just have
to feed them and totally different and give them totally different lighting
schedule, like two that just are as far apart, like our dragon's breath,
like our dragon's breath, like we can talk about that dragon's breath.
What, what is that?
Dragon's breath.
No, that's, um, what is that?
That's our male, that's Colorado German fruit, fruity pebbles, OG, OG, KB male.
Uh, to our white Romulan.
So we did a little selection and found, uh, um, a nice one, but she
just can't take so much food, man.
Like we have to feed her a lot.
We literally have to give her own feeding schedule.
She's up 2000 plus PPMs consistently.
Or our great pie is just like, man, and way less on the
base and high on the phosphorus.
You know what I mean?
And they just pop because if you give too much to like our great pie,
they just, it just gets real leafy.
You know what I mean?
They don't, they won't produce.
Um, the big fat buds, a lot of people are like, how do you
get your great pie like that?
How do you do that?
And it's like, you gotta know what you're feeding your plants and, and.
You know what I mean?
Being able to isolate the different nutrients.
Um, that's the one thing we love about app.
This is like, they have, it's like eight bottles, but everything's isolated.
You know what I mean?
Your phosphorus or make me everything's isolated.
So we're able to see what plants like, like more food, more phosphorus
than others, it's easy just to get more feet boost back on the
base, a lot more control using the red, the nutrients that
resin crusher don't like a lot of food or a lot of light.
Yeah.
Dude.
Or a lot of light that Sean and a prostitute.
See those.
Yep.
Sean, what's he, he's got a four windy, four, you know, genetics.
There's a, yeah, that's a couple, but yeah, we have some heavy
feeders and we've got some light feeders, you know, what those were
two good ones, right?
Yeah.
Dragon's breath and our great pie and the white tall cookies.
It's very similar to the great, so we can put those together in mass production.
They literally look identical to, but just completely.
Turpee in different ways, you know, but they look identical.
It's a trip on which they look alike.
Uh, but that's a whole different life feeder heavy on the phosphorus for her.
You know, the other one is just a lot heavier on the base, but the dragon's
breath, man, that's shit's hitting three light and they form like arm fist
buds, like crazy, the way she stacks.
And she, she got to go about 65, seven days.
Yep.
A little bit of sativa in there.
What?
Yeah, that's 63 to 70 days is kind of the window you guys looking for, right?
You guys don't, he likes to 56.
What?
So, so the great pie tall cookies are done at 65 cookies.
Those are done, man.
We can get them done at 56 to 60, 60 days.
I don't know what I mean.
What 62 somewhere, but they are the lighter yielders.
Like our heavier yielders are.
You got to take them a little bit of the distance.
You know, I can't take them 65 to 70, you know, like our cookies
and can the dragon's breath.
Uh, all those ones are all 65 days, 70 days.
Some strains and that's why we're doing some crossing right now, because
we're ideally looking for, you know, short, you know, you can get another
cycle, you get a screen in there.
That's producing done at 56 days.
You know, times you almost can get another cycle in a year, you know,
which is a lot of money, especially when you're scaling up.
So that's what we're kind of looking for.
You know, less problems, shorter cycles, less problems towards the end.
You know, more problems tend to settle in towards the end when you're finishing up.
Um, but yeah,
Steve Blanco asked, is the five KOG still in the stable?
Five K O G.
Oh, that's the fire.
Oh, gee, that's the OG push.
Yeah.
We have her, uh, in the stable.
Yes.
We're going to be sending her to a teacher pretty soon, but we haven't,
she's not in the, in, in, she's not in production or, but we have her in the
stable for some future process because she's been, damn, she's been with us
since 2003.
So yeah, he said OG rascal used to call it fire OG, I think.
Yeah.
Yes.
Correct.
Absolutely.
Right.
Correct.
Yeah.
And he had a bunch of OGs that he was going to choose to use the cross with
the white and he chose that one.
And that's where he's like, dude, this one's fire.
And that's where he just came up with the name.
Like that's the fire.
OG.
He had a bunch of other OGs.
I remember him telling me, he's like, nah, the one I got from you, bro, was
the fucking one.
And that's the one he created the white fire.
So Maria Cabral asked what differentiates their brand slash flower from other
brands and their flower.
Who's what was that?
Who's flower?
What, what, what differentiates you guys from the pack?
Quality.
Um, I really think our, our, as for the, for the product, I would say the, you
know, the end product, man, the flower, when you guys, when you actually try our
flower, um, I think it gives you it, you know, it gets really high.
You get a lot out of it.
That's what we've gotten a lot from our consumers telling us that they use less
of our product than other brands because it gets them higher, faster.
They don't mind pain a little bit more because it gets them higher and it's
better, a bit overall, better product.
And then our strains too, our, our, our strains, you, you won't, you won't find
everybody growing it, like being grounded.
I don't think nobody has that.
No one has that.
Strains are raw are dragons breath.
No one has that.
Um, Oh, we got that from Colorado.
Yeah.
Sean, you're getting a lot of, uh, that one from Colorado, but no one really has.
You don't see it everywhere.
You know what I mean?
That kind of makes us, makes us a little different from the cookies, the connected,
the, uh, you know what I mean?
We are, our strains are kind of like unique.
I don't know.
Unique.
You could say.
So a lot of people come back to us for our streams just because they're
different than everybody else's.
Yeah.
And I think you guys, we just taste better at the end of the day.
There's a lot of stuff that looks good on the market, but it's for me, it's flavor.
Yeah.
Let's say that 90 plus 99% of the commercial brands, their weed looks good,
but it doesn't necessarily taste good.
There's only a handful, even the big companies that actually taste amazing.
Yeah.
I think that's the real, for me, that's, that's what I see about you guys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
It's, it's the end product.
Yeah.
That the big Kush said Canada brothers versus jungle boy is salt.
Oh, man.
Shout out to my friends at jungle boys.
My friend, Chewy, Chuck, Chuck, uh, Ivan, those guys been killing it since Dave
Ivan's been, when we were in growing two lights in our garage or four lights in
our garage, he had fucking 30 lights, 30 lights in a warehouse, you know?
Uh, yeah, that guy's killer.
I can't have they, have they kept their consistency as they've said?
I don't know.
I don't want to answer that.
I know.
I'm just thinking out loud.
Yeah.
Hopefully that's a good sewer to answer that one.
Yeah.
Um, Scott Richards asks why the fire OG going to tissue culture.
And then just from me, generally, uh, James, we, we talked tissue culture last
week, so can you guys talk about what excites you about tissue culture as a
part of your SOP?
Um, yeah, it's, uh, why the fire OG just cause it's been a while we've, she's
had some problems, you know, as we've over the years, moving location.
Yeah.
So when we try to put her in production, she just wasn't doing right for us.
Um, so we were like, she needs to be cultured, you know, bring her back to
life and bring her back to life.
But yeah, tissue culture literally like turns and brings the plant
back, back from seed again.
So right.
James, or what do you think about it?
We haven't tissue culture.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We're looking.
Yeah.
I mean, I got the perfect guys for you.
You know, that's awesome.
Yeah.
So I think tissue culture is a huge game changer in the sense that you can, you
can revive genetics, especially if they have problems with viruses, bureau.
Uh, no one's proven that they can cure, but I've seen firsthand difference in
specific varieties going through tissue culture and how much they've gotten
better and how much more evenly they grow as far as the canopy is concerned.
You know, I was at finest a while back and it's like their grow, you know,
everything's even across the board.
So they're growing stuff from tissue, actual tissue culture, and
it branches just like a seed.
There's huge benefits to it.
You know, I think there's huge benefits to having them score.
If you're not working on too many varieties, having them bank your
genetics and then every, you know, every two cycles, you cut moms off a tissue
culture mom, new one, every, so you're, you're constantly, your mothers are all
tissue culture and then you're going to have more consistency and better plant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's what everything you're talking about is what we've heard.
And that's why hearing all our stuff, but yeah, it's during, during
our stuff towards tissue culture.
So Jiggy Johnson, uh, with a critical question, what's your favorite
sativa and production right now?
Yeah, I would probably say the dragon's breath probably.
Yeah.
The dragon's breath.
It's more sativa dominant.
Yeah.
Um, she's the only sativa we have right now that's in production.
We have some that are, we are in, uh, R and D testing.
Yeah.
The consumer demands a lot of sativas.
So we're going to be bringing this since we have some, I think lemon sugar, I
think is kind of more sativa dominant.
The phenols that we found.
Um, but yeah, but right now we're in production.
To his question right now in production would probably be the dragon's breath,
which will be dropping in a couple of weeks.
Yeah.
Dropping in a couple of weeks.
Yeah.
Is that Romulan, uh, white Romulan cross to Angus?
Yep.
Dragon.
Smash cannabis asked, uh, was it you who put out the extreme cream?
No, I don't think so.
Okay.
We'll move along.
Uh, someone simple to see, uh, fire OG is a nice choice for breeding.
Uh, what you, so with you guys, I mean, you talked about seed packs.
So are you breeding?
And yes.
Yeah, we are.
We are breeding.
Um, more like we keep a lot of our stuff in house, so we haven't really
released anything to the public, but we do have a very wide, uh, library of seats.
Of seats.
And we actually want to give away to the audience, give some packs away.
Right.
People, some stuff, cause we don't release them.
We just always thought about giving away.
Cause yeah.
Yeah, we can definitely do that.
And then we, we have some, uh, some fundraisers coming up.
Uh, like one of them is probably for people.
Uh, this one's probably near and dear to you guys who are currently in prison.
Um, and, uh, we have some fire relief stuff, uh, so, but yeah, I'll talk to
you guys after this and we can, we want to give you guys and everything.
Anything?
Yes.
Anything to, uh, we'd love to be a part of that.
Uh, Flora knugs asks, is the fire OG dark heart nursery cells that cut from OG
rascal, anyone know the answer?
James know the answers to that.
You know, I think dark heart has some good stuff.
I don't know for sure if it's verified through those guys.
It may or may not be.
Um, I think we're the wrong group to ask.
Okay.
Uh, sorry.
I'm scrolling through, uh,
so with, with, with kind of your product mix, I mean, you, you had what live resin
and now you're adding Rosin or what's, uh, in terms of the concentrates and kind
of what, what excites you in the concentrates world and yeah, consumer
market and then own personal tastes.
What, what do you guys like dabbing on?
For the taste part, I would say, I would say, I would say, I would say
I like the library.
I like the live resin.
The VHO library.
Yeah.
I think has a little bit more flavor.
Um, for personal, but I don't know, man, you can get some Rosin.
Yeah.
That's fucking pretty fire.
Yeah.
That, that competes with it.
Um, especially some of the turpey strains.
Um, and the high is just amazing though on the, on the, on the, on the, on the
high, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's
just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's
rozen.
It's really amazing.
And we've noticed that like, on the market, that a lot of people are the
consumers gearing more towards the rozen.
So it's kind of changed a little bit.
So that's why we're kind of just going with whatever the consumer wants, you
know, so we're gearing more towards the Rozs and right now, uh, but we are
still using our VHO because of the, it's our staple.
And where we vote, and what we came from,
how much
concentrator you guys smoking these days?
I know for myself, I smoke more joints, uh, but
I mean, I got 50 dad rigs or something like that.
Jesus, James.
My dab email stays on in my room.
My girls, I think it smokes more than my shit.
Yeah, I'm a joint guy.
I love smoking joints, but I do dab.
Yeah.
I would say, I don't know,
maybe a half a gram a day with the concentrates.
And I just love smoking joints.
What about a gram?
Before I crash, before I wake up.
I think I get more of an effect from a joint.
The dabs just really rock you like damn.
You know, they rock you a lot more
than the joints or the flower.
But I love my flower.
I like them both.
Yeah.
They're kind of balanced.
It's a 50-50 for me.
Cause if I'm rolling around, it's joints.
You know what I mean?
But if I'm literally at the house, I'm dabbing.
Yeah.
If I'm out and like bullshit around, I'm joints.
And do you have your go-to dab rig within reach?
Oh yes.
Who grabs?
Can we see what you...
Oh, I don't have it here with me.
Oh.
Shit, usually we do.
Or the Puffgoat.
We have the Puffgoat.
We have the Puffgoat.
The new one?
No, not the new one.
Everybody's telling me you need to upgrade.
I'm like, fuck, I know.
I've seen it.
Yeah, we're going to get one pretty soon.
It's so convenient.
The Puffgoat.
You bought one, James?
Oh, you have that dab?
What else is it?
Hold out the...
Fucking Honey Badger.
Oh, the Honey Badger the other day.
Is that like a nectar collector?
Yeah, it's like a mini nectar collector.
Pretty good, it's heavy.
Yeah, Scott Richard said Puffgoat Pro
or Carter or Honey Badger.
I'll take the Puffgoat.
I like the Puffgoat.
Yeah, it's classy too.
Yeah, I like the Puffgoat.
The Puffgoat, it is my go-to,
but the Honey Badger is like kind of convenient
and quick.
Just make some, you gotta put your rig,
you know what I mean?
It's like...
Well, if you get pulled over with a Puffgoat,
the cop's not going to think anything,
but you get pulled over with a torch and a rig
and you're...
Yeah, oh yeah.
You're fucking, what's going on here?
Time to get out of the car.
It's a tough crack habit.
Yeah.
Nice.
Nice.
Yeah.
Oh, shit.
So Joanna Bellinger said,
well, basically of your own lineup,
what are each of you kind of smoking on currently?
I'm actually...
Not to say that everything else isn't amazing, but...
I'm actually smoking on our Sour Sandia
cross two white Tahoe cookies,
number four, Fetal Form.
That's what I have in the jar right now.
And then I'm always opening these things.
So different flavors.
This one's Great Pie.
We were actually smoking on the cookies at Camp Herger.
Yeah.
Pina Grande, I was smoking earlier.
Some Strawberry Bubba Kush.
That's what we smoked today.
Yeah.
Lemon Sherbet the other day.
One of my top favorites is Sour Sandia though.
If you ask me, the taste, the high is amazing.
Yep.
On our Sour and the Pina, that shit's really strong.
Super strong.
Have you guys tried the RS11 yet?
The rainbow? No.
Oh man.
It's good.
I mean, it hits on all the points,
but it looks just incredible in the bag.
I mean, it has some of the best bag appeal I've ever seen.
What is it?
The Rainbow Sherbet 11, number 11.
I haven't seen the other one.
I guess there's a seven and some other ones,
but that RS11, it's from Dio Farms.
And dude, it's on another level.
You know, I feel like every once in a while
we get one of those unicorns that comes out
where it's like, oh shit.
Yeah, yeah.
One of those ones.
Besko had some too.
But I should try that.
Yeah, definitely.
We love fucking different flavors, man.
I love trying different.
Yeah, we love different flavors of candles.
Yeah, especially when they hit on the fuel,
they get a little bit of that floral.
You know, it's like multi-layered now.
You know, people don't want Agent Orange,
or you know, not that Agent Orange is bad,
but they don't want something that's very linear.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's gotten pretty,
the stuff that's been coming out, man,
again, that potency and everything
has just really gotten pretty fucking good.
Know what I mean?
Like all these new strains and new stuff,
I'm like, wow, just getting better and better and better.
You know, people, I don't know,
just a lot more potent cannabis now,
I think, than there ever was.
What do you think, James?
Oh, I totally agree.
But I think the thing is,
is a lot of the stuff that has real high THC
doesn't get me nearly as high as some of the 22s.
Fat's a good exception.
If you guys ever have a chance to grow,
or I can get you guys clones in the system from Finest,
though it's like amazing because it's super, super high
in THC and cannabinoids, but it gets,
there's no ceiling to it.
You smoke it and you keep getting more high.
You smoke a whole joint, the whole joint through,
you're like, fuck, I'm getting more high the whole time.
What a strain was that?
Malfatso, it's a cannabinoid.
That's one I've been seeing on Post-it.
I've been seeing that.
It's ridiculous.
It's got good flavor and everything.
But a lot of the stuff I feel like that's the 35s,
I'm just, I don't get that excited about.
A lot of them don't taste good.
They taste kind of hashy after you start smoking.
Even if they're grown really well
and they don't get me as high as like a good sour diesel
that's like 18%.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
No, for sure.
I agree on that.
I agree on that totally.
So people on the chat are talking about the RS-11.
Budrick said, I keep seeing people posting RS-11.
Scott Richards, RS-11 is wild.
That's the new flavor I keep seeing.
We definitely need to try that.
Yeah.
Yeah, I feel like that's kind of the new kid on the block
for the week or two.
Is that down here in LA area or is that more,
where are you at, James?
I think they're up in the, not the North Bay,
but they're in the Santa Cruz area.
Santa Cruz area, gotcha.
Sorry, who's behind RS-11?
Dio Farms.
Right, okay, yep, someone mentioned that.
I think I've seen a follow them, Dio Farms.
Yeah, they're pulling some chronic for sure.
For sure.
And I don't think they sell seeds.
They're just in-house breeders that, you know, it's like.
Kind of like us, yeah.
Yeah.
One of my other ones,
I don't know if you guys seen the Pluto.
If the Pluto's made it down there,
that's one of my favorites.
No, haven't seen that one.
It's a wedding cake gelato cross,
but it's not like all the other gelato.
I feel like it stands out and it's super amazing
as far as visually, but dude,
the taste of it is what I really go for.
It's not the strongest,
but I don't always like smoking super strong weed.
I love the taste, you know?
It's like. Yeah, so do I.
I can put that joint down and then I can fire it back up
and put it down and fire it back up
and it tastes good all the way through.
That's the ticket.
Yeah, I love great tasting weed.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, Pluto, we gotta try that.
Yeah, I'll bring that down to you guys.
I always have a stash of it.
Yeah.
A little freezer full of like my personal,
you know, at home tour.
Cause I get like this and that.
And so I definitely have to keep it as fresh as possible.
I feel like it cures it out a little better too.
What, in the freezer, right?
Oh yeah, I got a freezer next to my desk.
Yeah, that's funny.
I have my cooler too and I keep it in the jar
and I throw it in the cooler, man.
And it, it fucking works amazing.
Keeps all my weed fresh.
Yeah, and for me that's important.
I mean, when I smoke,
cause sometimes I'll get a bunch from somebody
and then frigging, I want to keep it as fresh as possible.
You smoke it six, I feel like I'll smoke stuff a year later
and it still tastes amazing.
Yeah.
So I mean, if you want cups off stuff
that was over a year old in a freezer.
Yeah, no, it works great.
Yeah.
So the big Kush asked,
which strains of theirs dumps for the rock,
for making rosin basically, which ones dump,
what are the high yielders?
Yeah, so we're, we're in the R and D phase right now.
What's the initial research telling you?
Resin pressure did good.
It did okay.
It did okay.
Only did like 4.7%.
But we're doing, experimenting with great pie,
white tall cookies,
just cause they look like they're going to dump.
So we have a lot of stuff frozen right now.
We're going to be doing some stuff next week,
but we're going to be testing all of our strains.
We barely just started messing around with the rosin.
The rosin, yeah.
So it's definitely a trial
because a lot of the strains that dump for us in DHO
do not dump for us in rosin, you know?
So two totally different processes
and you got to find the right one for, for the rosin.
I just got some, some cuts gifted to me
of apple fritter, frosted mints.
And he's telling me that that shit fucking dumps.
So I don't know.
We just got to keep doing R and D.
Yeah.
So we don't have an answer for right now.
Now with the rosin, did you bring someone in house
or are you collaborating with cash makers or?
Right now we're collaborating with Air Labs.
He's the one that did our rosin run for us.
He killed it, but we will be doing,
we do have an in-house.
We have an in-house during the last.
Yeah. Once our labs built,
we got DB that's already been killing it.
So yeah, we do.
Couple months.
And can you talk a little bit about kind of the,
the, the Hash Lab setup?
Like, what are you, you going like with Bruteless or?
The equipment, the equipment wise,
that's not my department.
That would be up to my lab director.
Yeah, I have no clue.
Yeah.
You could ask me anything about the grow room,
but when it comes to that lab shit, I,
Yeah.
Absolutely not my department.
Sorry. So Liam Malone, big, big shout out to Eddie Lep.
He needs a fundraiser.
I I've actually been talking to his,
I don't know if it's his girlfriend or a wife,
but yes, that will happen.
Hopefully in the next couple of days.
Let me, sorry.
What Wes and John asked how you guys pick a breeding male?
Ooh, that's.
It's a common question that comes up in every show.
Yeah. We, we, how do we just, we look for,
what do we look for is,
we look for males that really form a lot of pollen,
don't quick, thick stems, gotta have the stem rub.
It's gotta stink on the stem rub.
It's gotta have a little bit of crystals.
Gotta have some, it's gotta show some THC when we flower it.
Cause some males don't dump at all,
any type of THC on the male flowers.
And just make sure that they dump a lot of pollen
and they stack really crazy short growing ones.
We've selected through a couple of males,
but it's, it's kind of hard, man.
It's hard, but those are the things that we look for.
So this is a question for our resident breeding expert.
This is from Ezekiel Vasquez or Vasquez.
Do you know if Skywalker OG is a cut only
or if you can get it from seed?
Skywalker OG, the original cut?
I'm not sure.
I don't know if that was an OG Kush renamed or,
I don't know the history on the Skywalker OG.
How about you, Jay?
It's, Skywalker was an original, it was clone only.
There's never been real seeds.
I mean, other than if somebody makes S1s,
you could call an S1 a Skywalker,
but it's like, that's clone only.
It's just like a lot of the stuff out there,
like the original OG, the Krippy, all those.
Yeah, right.
The Diablo, those are all, you know,
those are all clone only.
Yeah.
Yep.
I agree with that.
We had a Skywalker.
Yeah.
And we had the fire and they were a little bit different.
They were a little bit different.
It's like, they're all a little bit different,
but they were definitely distinguishable.
Yes, 100%.
Yep.
Some of them even, they grow the same,
but then you just get that flower and it's like,
fuck, the smoke is either a little more piney,
a little more gassy, a little more.
Yep, all those OGs.
Talo, Talo's like a little bit more piney,
the ones that I've seen.
Yeah, I like all of them.
Yeah, right.
Those two.
I'm not sure I'm hearing her correctly.
Sorry, I'm scrolling through the chat.
Where's that at?
How do we get people to find that?
It's just on YouTube.
Oh, that's dope.
Oh, you wanna know that?
Has she been in the chat?
I hope.
I am in the chat.
I admit that you guys do not know who I am.
I know.
Are you defending their honor when,
the chats are always a mix of people who love you,
hate you, or are somewhere in between.
It is a mix, it's funny though.
Yes, yeah.
It seems like people unanimously love you
more than the Jungle Brothers, or the Jungle Boys.
Your main LA competitors.
Yeah.
Well, how about this?
Who gives some love to some people you guys respect?
DNA, Aaron.
Yeah.
Some old school.
I'm obviously, Colorado, obviously, James Loud.
I was connected, Caleb.
Crocket.
Caleb's helped us out a lot.
Helped us out a lot.
A lot, connected from connected.
Who else?
What did you say right now?
How about some brands in the California market?
On the rep market, like flower brands?
We could go both markets, but yeah.
Who is Instagram only,
and who has a license behind their name?
That we do, what, different shades of green?
Different shades of green.
Our boys.
Dude, Ivan, Jungle Boys.
I've always watched Ivan.
ADLabs.
ADLabs, yep.
Teddy over there, ADLabs.
Shit, who else is out there?
You know, Kelly Farms?
Kelly Farms?
Oh yeah.
Master Yoda.
Master Yoda.
I know who you're thinking about.
Kelly, was it Kelly?
Kelly, no.
What is it?
If I see it, I, hmm.
Yeah, that's, what, it's about it.
I mean, who else is out there?
That I've always watched and looked, like, scoped out.
Cookies, man, cookies.
Cookies.
Big inspiration.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
A lot of people don't like them.
But from like, our end, I really, yeah,
it was Ivan and the Jungle Boys,
and who else is there?
DNA, Aaron.
Yeah.
Aaron, Aaron from DNA.
James.
James Loud.
And then the other guy.
James, and then Prockett.
James, no.
Prockett, yep.
Yep, Prockett.
You better give Don some love, too, from DNA.
Oh yeah, Prockett.
Yeah, oh yes, definitely.
Yep.
And your other partner, Soulja,
I've always been following his,
Genefinder OG, or what's his?
Genefinder OG, yeah.
Yeah, he's been real inspirational, man.
Karma.
Karma Genetics.
Karma Genetics.
Yep.
They've always fucking crushed it, man.
Yeah, Sjoerd's amazing, man.
He's another level.
Yeah, he's really, really cool.
Greenhouse cultivation, dude,
there's nobody that does it better.
There's a lot of guys that wanna say they do it better,
but there's nobody that does it better.
Yeah, he kills it.
I've always followed them in just the way
how they kill on the mass production,
do the big greenhouses and their consistency.
He's so humble, too.
You know, it's like, he doesn't brag about himself.
He's very, very, you know,
very quiet about what he does for the most part.
And, you know, it's great seeing someone like that.
And he's always willing to share knowledge.
I feel like the best guys are willing to share,
like you guys, we're all willing
to share knowledge with each other.
And there's some guys that wanna keep everything
top secret and, you know,
some stuff we do keep proprietary,
but we're always trying to help each other out.
I love helping people out,
especially the guys that are learning,
or got a couple of lights at the house,
got a couple of lights in the cabinet.
I try to go through my DMs and help every person.
Some people I'll miss, but I love helping people out.
Most people I love giving info on helping people.
That's what it's about, man.
Yeah, giving back.
What else?
What else?
Anything else, Peter?
I'm just looking through the chat.
You talking to Shannon?
Yeah.
No.
Thanks, all right.
Well, it's interesting.
I mean, I've, you know,
I've followed you guys for a while
and just always been impressed.
Like, you know, you grind it out
and build your like Instagram, no marketing team.
And it's interesting to see kind of how different people,
you know, you gotta build out your brand, right?
And some, you know, in the chat,
I think someone was talking about
some people hire like professional photographers
to make everything look amazing.
I got my photographer, right?
Our guy out there, Wap City Productions.
He's behind the scenes.
But sometimes there's a disconnect
between that beautiful image
and then like someone smokes your product
and they're like, that's not the same thing.
Whereas you guys seem to match,
like you back it up with quality.
But obviously there are a lot of hype brands out there
that are kind of all fluff.
Yeah.
No, there are a lot of-
No stuff.
No, yeah.
No, exactly what we post is what we put in those jars.
These are for the,
these is what we're gonna give you guys.
Some seed packs.
I don't know how you wanna work that out.
Excellent.
Yeah, where in LA are you guys?
Downtown, downtown.
Okay.
Downtown area.
Are you in LA right now?
Yeah, I'm on the West side.
Oh, perfect, perfect.
Yeah, we'll figure something out.
During coronavirus, it's easy to drive everywhere,
which I love.
It's like, you know, in LA,
every holiday, whenever you have to drive,
you're like, the streets are empty.
So like Easter, Christmas, or, you know,
and you're like, LA is amazing today.
And every other day it sucks.
But that's what coronavirus has been.
It's been like holiday driving every day.
Yeah, this virus is something else.
I mean, yeah, fuck.
Something else.
Yeah, we're blessed we're in the cannabis industry.
You know, it's like, there's a lot of other industries,
like the restaurant industry that's been,
you know, they've been suffering.
Oh, yeah.
My cousin.
I have a cousin that's been-
Shout out to Amoritacos.
Yep, fly on more.
But yeah, it's been pretty rough.
Yeah, it's for the restaurants.
We have our cousin that's in the restaurant business.
We know, yeah, he's gonna be manning up our kitchen
at the lab, dropping Mexican candy line edibles.
Nice.
We love edibles.
Yeah, Jack Greenstock said 710 Labs, Wonder Bread.
Do you guys hang out and talk to like other
kind of growers in the LA scene?
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Wonder Bread, shout out to Wonder Bread.
We are 200 facility, chop it up with them.
Yeah, we chop it up with them all the time.
Who else?
Who else?
Louie.
Oh, Louie.
Where's that box at?
Yeah, King Louie, chop it up with him.
Yeah, but we do.
Shout out to Jared Westcoats, Jared my friend.
Shout out to Louie.
These things are fire.
Yeah, but we love talking and chopping up
with the whole community, man.
Yeah.
I think that's one thing about the plant.
It's like, just brings everybody together.
It's one thing we miss about the events.
It's like everybody can co-meet all at the events.
You know, it's super dope sharing genetics,
just the whole culture.
Yeah.
I mean, missing the high times where everybody can consume.
Yeah, I miss those times.
Shout out to-
A lot of weed with all our friends.
What's that?
Everyone's smoking a lot of weed, man.
Oh, yeah.
That's how it brought us all together.
Fucking high times.
Yeah, it's funny how high times evolved
into all these other events,
like Cannabis Business Times and MJ Biz,
and, you know, the Cannabis Conference,
and some of these more techie-sided events
where, you know, we mingle with the Brads and Chads.
Yeah.
MJ BizCon.
Well, MJ BizCon.
I love the secret session, man.
Shout out to Tim.
Well, man, I really appreciate you guys
coming on the show today.
It's been a lot of fun.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Thank you for having us.
Yeah, thanks for having us, James.
It's been awesome.
Yeah, this is super dope.
Yeah, you guys gotta come up to Oakland,
or I'll come down there.
I'll see you guys soon.
Yeah, definitely, for sure.
And then we'll definitely link up after,
and we got some giveaways for all the audience
and all that good stuff, however you guys want.
I'll give you a giveaway.
Yeah, I'm posting your Instagram,
because people were like,
I'm trying to find Cannabis Brothers.
Actually, it's not easy to find you guys,
because if you just type in Cannabis Brothers,
you guys don't come up.
It's not Cannabis Brothers.
Oh, it's not Cannabis.
No, no, I understand that.
I'm just saying, like, if I were to start,
like, usually it's smart enough to, like-
Pick up, yeah.
Right.
Yeah, our main page got deleted a couple months ago, dude.
Such bullshit Instagram.
But, all right, well, that's a good,
let me see if there are any last.
Yeah, so actually, so tonight,
we're gonna be washing with Live Bubble Hash.
That's at eight-ish, depending on when I finish dinner.
But-
Okay.
And then, James, are we gonna keep people
in suspense for next week, or?
No, actually, we have our guest all lined up.
We got Energeem coming on.
Oh my God.
I'm on it, man.
All right, wait, so say it again out loud,
loud and proud.
Loud and proud.
So we got Energeem coming in.
We got Ori, who's calling in from Israel.
And we got some, maybe a couple other guys
that are calling in from San Diego or Colorado.
We're gonna be discussing molecular breeding,
but even more so data-driven breeding,
which is kind of what they're doing.
So we're gonna have a topic.
It's gonna go from an entry level
to more of an advanced level.
So hopefully we'll get a lot of people tuning in
with some fun questions.
So strap in.
Oh yeah, we're gonna have to-
Strap in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How you can breed using data.
And it's creating inbred lines and using markers,
marker-driven breeding, as opposed to doing it old school,
which most of us have done our whole lives.
It's like the technology is getting so advanced
that we can do accelerated breeding
and we can get from point A to point Z,
skipping a lot of the steps that we used to have to do.
Wow, that's amazing.
I'm tuning in for sure.
Yep.
Yep, that sounds great.
Excellent, well, we'll see you guys next week.
Thank you for coming on.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you guys for having us, Chase.
Appreciate it, man.
Peter Wright.
Yep.
All right, brother.
We'll link up soon.
All right, thanks everyone.
And with that, I will-
