Welcome, everyone. We are live, The James Loud Show, and that is your host, James Loud.
How's it going, everybody? Welcome to week five of The James Loud Show. This week we
have Energine. Energine is a company based out of Israel that works with genomics, plant
genomics, animal genomics. And before we hear from Gene, do you want to tell us a little
bit about your company? Sure. So we're not doing that much animals or humans anymore.
We did a few very interesting projects back in the day with human, but most of what we
do is around plant genomics. I would say about a third of what we do in the last three years
revolves around cannabis and hemp, but the other two thirds are regular crops, maize,
wheat, and potatoes, and canola, and what stuff people eat. This is what got me into
the whole... Well, I started working with Canadian companies and around Canadian crops.
So sooner or later, we realized that Canadian crops means cannabis at some point. So that's
how I got into the field of cannabis genomics. Fantastic. So as far as with Energine, how
has COVID affected you guys? I know we can... Okay, but you know... Well, it affected the
world dramatically of how people do business. So the work itself, we could do anywhere from
home, computational work is computational work. And most of our providers, after about
a gap around February or March where people kind of didn't know how to deal with it, learned
how to deal with it and reopened, and we can now ship DNA from clients to providers, perform
the sequencing on time, and the analysis is data. So that is effective. Sales and human
interactions have been affected kind of in a difficult way. It's very difficult to actually
close deals or advance new deals without meeting people in person. And I think that's... I miss
it. Ongoing projects, and most of what we do, we're talking about anything from, I think,
the shortest duration of what we do is three months. Most of what we do is two and a half
years kind of projects. So these have been ongoing and people kind of set aside their
funds for this and have kind of anticipated. They have budgets already allotted for working
with us, so that hadn't been influenced. But new business coming in is difficult, and that's
totally COVID.
So do you want to explain a little bit about what you guys did, a little history, and maybe
a little bit about the process of what you guys do with crops?
Okay. So we've been around since 2010. I just graduated from my PhD in Jerusalem, and I
joined a company. I worked on rice breeding. I had rice plots in Israel and in India. I
had several projects, and I grew rice. I was a breeder for rice, and we started developing
genomic tools. There was not much, definitely not commercial, mostly academic, but there
was not much outside of the Monsantos and pioneers out there. They were the only ones
doing advanced breeding outside of academia, and even these big companies like to outsource
pure research into academic institutions. So we got into that. We had several projects
in maize and in rice and chili pepper, which is an interesting analogy to cannabis. I'll
maybe touch that later. We did all this project, technically, technical season in Israel, actual
field work and molecular work in India. That was 2010. The final output was genetic markers.
We delivered to the clients very good genetic markers, sequences that can let you track
disease resistance for diseases prevalent in India, and also for other traits that affect
the quality and the price of the product. For rice in India, it's the length of the
grain, for example, that really affects the price. Basmati rice with the long grain, way
more expensive than your regular short grain rice. So this is how we started. We were very
successful at that project, and then we realized that the world is not exactly ready for genetic
markers, so we had to reinvent ourselves to get something more widespread and more applicable
to other crops. So we got into doing genomics for others as a service, and we started assembling
genomes. We have developed kind of a software slash hardware protocol and algorithms that
did a much better job than everybody else back in the day. This is around 2014, 15 already.
And I think the height of that was the bread wheat genome that was on the cover of Science
Magazine. It was a challenge that people worked on for decades, and within less than a year,
we brought a wheat genome that was like no one has ever seen before in terms of quality.
So we realized we're good at genome assemblies, and we started assembling genomes like crazy.
And we did about 450 genomes of pretty much anything, from mango trees to hummingbirds.
You'd expect people to not breed hummingbirds, but we've had paying clients for hummingbirds.
That market kind of faded away because now people can do a pretty good job on their own
unless the genomes are complicated. So we specialized in the more complicated stuff,
and then we started really taking the basic genome assemblies into using it for agriculture,
for breeding. And that opened an entirely different market for us. So we have several
alleys of actually kind of building high quality genomes and then comparing them and employing
them and making tools for breeders to make the breeding process way more efficient.
In some cases, you're talking about reducing the breeding time from seven, eight, nine years to
two or three. And then there's the tough cookies. Cannabis is not an easy genome. It's not very big,
but it's very complex. And they're all heterozygous. I'll touch that later.
The analytics of the cannabis genomes are, for example, way more difficult than a maize genome.
So there's plenty of work for us to handle the more complicated crops, and we like it that way.
Nice. Excellent. So I guess let's take a couple steps back and talk some basic stuff like what
is DNA and RNA? I think that'd be valuable for everybody. And as far as what is a gene
and how do you guys do that? Okay. So I made a couple of slides that
have this. It's not something I could talk about without graphic...
Right. Why is it not? Okay. Do you guys see my screen? Yes. Excellent. Yeah. A couple of words
I should probably say about our company that we are based out of Israel. We have a large team now,
also in North America, mostly Canada and well, some in the US, some in Canada. But we're not
a cannabis company. We don't breed for ourselves. We work for others. We do the analytics for
others. So we're kind of a hired gun. And we get asked about this a lot. So I have the slide
kind of ready. Like, do you use my DNA? Do you take my DNA? So no, we take clients' data and DNA.
We analyze it, we deliver it, and then it's deleted off our servers. We don't use it.
Very important for me to emphasize that point. Okay. So I made a couple of slides about
the basic architecture of plants. I know not everybody in the audience is a plant breeder
or a plant, you know, botanist or formal education in that. Some people could probably
teach me a lot about cannabis that I don't know. But I'm not going to go into that.
I don't know. But the basic structure of most plants, especially the plants that we eat or
consume, revolves around tissue types. So there's a huge difference in the macro and the micro
level that the tissue looks. And these are kind of illustrations of if you cut the plant in many
places, you'll see different structures of the tissue. And this is important for what we're
going to do later. And obviously, the flower has a totally different structure than the root or the
stem or the leaves. There are common features, but the basic unit of all living plants is the cell.
So I won't go into the terminology around cannabis flowers. I just want to go directly into cells.
You asked about DNA and genes. So the basic unit of all tissues or cells within the cell is the
nucleus. Lots of other organelles, but we're not touching that today. Inside the nucleus is
the chromosome, which really compacts and stores all the genetic information to make
another one of these cells or tissue or another plant. And some specialized cells have the
information or half the information to merge with another type and create a new combination and
progeny, the germline. And the chromosomes contain the genetic information. So cannabis would have
10 chromosomes or nine chromosomes and one sex chromosomes, double of each. It's a diploid
plant. So the chromosome is a really super dense, super compacted string of DNA. The genetic
material is really DNA. And that is super compacted on three levels of twirling and curling around
histones, kind of twisted and twirling. I think there's in each cell about a few yards of DNA,
if you pull them at once as one string. But basically the genome, the entire genome is
one string of this molecule. It's one straight line of molecules consisting of four basic units.
These are the bases or base pairs. And this is the genetic code. So each three code for something.
And then there are other features of the arrangement of the genome that may not code,
but actually regulate. So the basic concept is that there's genetic string, one giant string
of information, only a small portion of it actually codes. Most of it is either
used for regulatory purposes or spacing, but mostly regulatory elements.
And then once you have the DNA sequence, some of it, very small part of it, not necessarily
one straight line, sometimes it's truncated, gives another way to regulate it. And some of
the codes, some of the sequence there is what's called a coding sequence. And some of the coding
sequence is what's called the gene. So a gene is your basic coding unit that can move around
from generation to generation and usually has a function, either to build some sort of backbone
in the plant or in the living organism, or actually to regulate. So once you have DNA and within the
DNA coding sequences or genes, there is an activity, complex activity called transcription,
meaning you take the genes and you need messengers to actually carry them out. So those are RNA and
they are regulatory features. They do a lot of other things, but mostly what they do is transfer
the signal from the code, from the blueprint to the actual construction site with the, I don't
know, construction site analogy. So once the RNA is created and there are many ways to code, to regulate,
to stop, to enhance and to change the performance of this process, this is why one set of coding
sequence with not that many genes can create an entire creature. And plants have a magnificent
feature of actually generating an entire plant from any type of cell. You can move for almost
any type of cell. You can grow plants in tissue culture and it can actually do cloning. If you take
a human finger that happened to be severed away, you can't put it in a medium and it will grow the
entire human again. This is because the process goes through a lot of steps of regulation and
once you pass certain gates or certain gatekeepers, you can't go back. Plants have the
stem cell or totipotency it's called, the ability to go back to kind of a primary state and then
become whatever is needed. So you could take a cutting and the entire industry of cannabis or
recreational cannabis, medicinal cannabis is based on the fact that you could take a cutting,
put it in some medium and then the bottom part with the right signals would grow root and the
top part would grow leaves. This is unique to plants. So going back to messenger, this is an
RNA and then there's a process called translation. Some of the RNA actually have a purpose,
they code for proteins and translation is the process of taking the information on the RNA and
building amino acids and protein on top of that to create proteins and that's called the workforce.
These make up the actual cell and enzymes that make processes. In some cases the process are
essential for maintenance of the cell, in some cases these proteins are enzymes that make
interesting compounds. I guess a lot of the people in the crowd are interested in how enzymes make
terpenes and cannabinoids. So that's one particular focus group of proteins that are
called enzymes and have a specific task or multiple tasks. This is the overview of what is
DNA and I have another slide that has terminology that we need to bring everybody to the same page
on terminology. Inbred lines and homozygous or heterozygous lines. So this is an example for
maize. Inbred lines would have two copies of each chromosomes, the one I showed here. So each
crop copy in an inbred line would have the exact identical copy, identical two copies of the same
chromosomes. So this is called homozygous or inbred, completely inbred. If you take two lines
like this, parental lines, you cross those. They're depicted here in green and grey. If you
cross them you create an F1 hybrid, a true F1 hybrid, fully heterozygous. This is what the seed
industry lives. This is the bread and butter of food industry. These F1 seeds will make an F1 plant.
They're all identical. They're all, you know, they're uniform. They're always the same
and they contain the same genetics from half from the female and half from the male parent.
And it uses a phenomenon called heterosis or hybrid figure in which the progeny performs
better on many parameters than the two parents. In this case, this is a classic picture from maize.
It grows on the same time. It grows much faster, much bigger, both on the plant and on the,
well, analogous of the inflorescence of the actual product that we're interested in.
Cannabis is tricky. Cannabis does not let us do that. Cannabis does not like to be inbred.
Cannabis has a tendency because of its diatious nature. It has male and female flowers,
so it prefers not to be inbred. In many cases,
if you inbreed cannabis for multiple generations, either by selfing or by
mechanical chemical synthetic tricks, you will have very weak flowers or very weak plants. They
grow slowly. They are sometimes, they lack figure. Sometimes the pollen is sterile. Sometimes the
seed don't germinate or you have very little seeds. So creating an F1 hybrid, it's a very
F1 hybrid, a true F1 hybrid like they do in the maize industry. That's the holy grail of the
industry, but it's not easy to do with this plant. So cannabis came up with two solutions.
Just real quick, I got a question for you. So with F1 hybrids, I was always told that
when you make an F1 hybrid, you have 50% in the middle that represents both of the parents. You
have 25% leaning towards one parent and then 25% leaning towards the other parent. Is that the same
with all crops? I thought that was mandarin. Okay, no. So a true F1 hybrid like in maize is 100%
half mom, half dad. They're all identical. You buy the seeds like this, you plant them in the field,
they're all like uniform in the field. That's a true F1 seed. You cannot buy this in cannabis yet.
What the cannabis industry has done is two things.
Close, you take a cutting and we kind of touched that before. The genetic makeup is heterozygous,
each chromosome or each, there's chromosome nine or four or five, but the content of each chromosome
may be different. Maybe not, but maybe different. We don't care. We just take a cut and we root it
and we clone it and we have more of the same. The nice thing about it, if you like this plant and
its performance, then you have more of it and they're identical. The caveat of this is once you
get disease or something happens to the mother stock, you're in trouble. They're all as susceptible
to the disease. If you lose your mother stocks, you cannot reconstruct from seed the exact same
flower. That's kind of the caveat of working from clones and the logistics. The logistics
are complicated, cuttings, rooting, making sure there's no contamination. There's something called
clonal drift as well. Viruses, if you have a virus in here, they tag along with the clones.
Lots of things around logistics and around, and vigor. If you start from seed, the plants may grow
much bigger and stronger and faster than if you start from clones and root them and do things in
kind of an artificial way. People have gotten used to this method and know how to operate this.
This is what the industry lives on. If you're not good at this, you're in the wrong business.
This is a solution that the industry came up with because it cannot make true F1 seeds.
Hemp, on the other hand, did something slightly different. This kind of goes to what you just
mentioned. Hemp is doing something called semi-stable or semi-segregating seeds,
meaning you have two parents that are, some of them are identical or somewhat stable.
This here's the example. It's the blue boxes. This region in the genome of one parent is identical,
so it's fixed or stable. That trait will be passed on to the progeny, all progeny. Imagine if this is
a dominant trait and you only need one blue box, all the progeny will have for sure that blue box.
If that blue box contains several genes, then these genes do something and it's important to
you. For example, Tavern-Mildew resistance or synthesis of THC, then all the alliance will have
the trait of interest. The plants may not be fully identical. If you look at hemp fields,
they're not exactly identical in most cases, unless grown from clones, but they're stable
for what's important. The flowering time, the height, the, I don't know, THC content,
whatever has been stabilized or reached homozygosity is going to stay stable and uniform.
You can work that way with seeds. It makes sense financially to work with seeds, although
some hemp growers do work with clones and plant them. Then there's also the male and
female issue, which also is kind of complicated in this crop. I won't touch that at this point.
I think I'll stop sharing this presentation now, unless I need to revert back to it.
Yes. How do you guys identify genes?
Sorry?
How do you guys identify genes as far as tool?
Oh, so I'm going to need the presentation again. You should have told me.
I'm going to need that again. We have, well, we don't identify genes directly because that's
not easy to do. We, yeah.
Sorry. For some reason it won't let me. Okay, it does. Right. I'm back on that. I'll go to
presentation mode. I have a slide that actually shows how we do it. First of all, we need to
select good founders based on genetic distances. This is one thing we do. That's kind of the
basics. First of all, we take inventory and we look at what the client has. We analyze it. We
look at genetic distances. If you have two nice clones that you work with and there's not much to
analyze, this step is not necessary because you only have two, three, 10 clones. But if you have
two, three, 10 clones, but if you have hundreds of them and most people do have a collection,
then you need to analyze genetic distances and select founders one, two, and three based on
genetic distances and also traits of interest. Once you did that process and you selected
extremes, for example, short flowering time with long flowering time, you can make a cross,
create a population. We like to analyze 200 plants. You grow them once, 200 individuals,
they need to segregate because they're a four-way hybrid. Each parent is actually one of those
like this, heterozygous. The genetic content of each plant or each parent is different.
So we will cross, for example, one and two and create a population. Actually, the client does
that. We're not touching the actual plants. We get data and DNA as inputs. And we analyze the
segregation pattern in the population. This is called a mapping population. And we do what's
called a QTL mapping. So imagine you crossed a short duration plant with a long duration plant,
blue and green. They segregate. The 200 individuals are at 192. They segregate.
And in each area of the genome, there's a combination of the potential
genetic makeup of the parents. They're called haplotypes actually.
And we can map each one of these blocks and associate them with the phenotypes,
meaning in this case flowering time. So what we need as input is DNA from the two parents,
DNA from the population, and then data on the actual performance of one cycle of those 200
individuals. And we will do this mapping. And we will associate a region in chromosomes,
in a certain chromosome with the trait. So once we did that, for example, in order to have whatever
phenotype this long duration flowering, you need to have the dark green version.
So we now have a region that we defined that has a dark green version. Now you asked how do we find
a gene? So now we can zoom into because we analyze the genome, we can zoom into that region.
First thing we could do is generate genetic markers. If you want to transfer or to make
sure that you have a dark green version, look at this sequence. This is all you need to do.
You don't need to, you don't care what it does. You don't care.
All you need to do is to distinguish who has this sequence. What it does, that's a separate question.
Now once you define a region, you could zoom in at high resolution and then find your candidate
genes. This region might contain more than one region, contain 10, it could contain 5, it could
contain 100. So you need to zoom in and then employ other tools. This is a more complicated task.
It could be done. There are other more complicated ways and more expensive ways to look at multiple.
Once you have a region of interest, you could compare multiple genomes or multiple types of
cannabis and on the same region, see what they have. It kind of may give you a clue on to what
are the candidate genes. So once you have candidate genes, you need to do several things. You could
clone them and express them in other organisms. You could do a test cross and make sure that if
the gene passed and the phenotype also passed, things like that to verify that your candidate
gene is actually what you've been looking for. We could do that for anything that segregates.
If the trait is measurable and it segregates in the population, any trait of interest
is something we could look at. For example, people ask for powdery mildew resistance.
If you have two lines, one is resistant, one is susceptible, we analyze the parents,
we analyze the client makes the cross, we analyze the segregated population, we find regions of
interest that may have the genes and we definitely make the markers regardless of knowledge of the
genes to track the disease resistance region. So that's one way to look at it.
Those are called QTLs, quantitative trait loci, meaning it's a region in the genome responsible
for the traits, either quantitatively or single gene, but you don't know that yet.
You only need to do successful breeding. You only need to be able to track that region and that is
done by the genetic markers. So I don't have information yet on which genes actually do this.
I just have a practical way to follow them around and move them from plant to plant.
So any trait that segregates like blood structure, like agricultural performance traits, flowering
time, branching, if it's measurable and segregates, we can map it. We can identify a region that's
associated and make sure you have the good version or the positive allele.
Then there's, I'll finish this, people are always after yield increase. So yield is
not exactly one trait. Yield is a mixture of multiple traits. So you need to break it down to
blood structure times, I don't know, leaf density, things like that. Each trait is mapped on it
separately and the combination leads to yield increase. Same goes for cannabinoid profile and
unique terpene profile. So. So I actually have a question about that because you guys work
typically with genotypes, right? As far as we can talk a little bit about genotypes, phenotypes,
and chemotypes, you know, because genotypes are one thing that's a constant, phenotype and chemotype
are impacted by environment and nutrition. So how does that work with you guys? Okay.
We need to see, this is a good example that I have here. It's awesome. We, yeah, this is
something called blood phenotype or blood drive. It's pretty rare. It comes from Hawaii.
This is a segregating F1 population, like the population I showed here or here. This is the
actual pictures of the blood phenotype. So the sap on the flowers is blood red. Now this is
interesting because, I mean, it's cool. It gets pretty high sale. People like to use it in Halloween,
pretty close. But the main interesting feature about this is that people who actually consume
the flower of the ones that are red, report numbing of the face and the arms and legs,
peripheral nerves. So super important for medicinal cannabis and research on to
traits, having something that affects the facial nerves only, or not only, but mostly is something
really sought after by the pharma industry. So we have a project with an academic research and
a client who owns this, and he took these pictures and let me show them.
So we're doing this type of trait mapping project on this population. And the phenotype has to show,
the phenotype is the actual trait that you're measuring. If you can't measure it and there's
no phenotype or it's dependent on something, then I can't do the mapping. In this case,
this trait shows up when the temperature starts to rise. I mean, if I chopped up a bunch of branches,
I don't know, like two months into the grow, I wouldn't see anything. They all look like this.
The red color starts developing only when the temperatures rise. This is like a greenhouse grow.
And so this is the classic interaction between genotype and environment.
The genes existing in these, the red ones, they all contain the machinery to make the red sap.
They didn't show it until it got warm. So this is an interaction in... So I don't care what
triggers the gene or what triggers it, but I need to be able, or the client needs to be able to
measure it. So if this was a terpene, and if the temperature is cold and your variety that's
supposed to smell like bananas, doesn't smell like bananas, and you want to map the genes or the
regions that are responsible for the banana smell, and it doesn't happen, then I can't map it.
Or if it happens not uniformly in the greenhouse, where you have a colder place and the plants there
don't express the banana smell, or if you can't measure it because it's kind of a sensory feeling,
right? There's no... You don't have an HPLC to measure the banana. So you need to be able to
measure the phenotype. Sometimes it's super easy. Flowering time, you send somebody to the greenhouse,
you record the flowering times. Easy. Sometimes you need expensive chemical testing, and this
goes to chemotype. Chemotype, if I had to define it, is the difference between the chemical profile
of the tissue you're exploring, mostly flowers, and sometimes you can smell it or taste it or
measure it in PLC or something fairly simple. Sometimes you need expensive analytics to
actually detect it. I have some examples of that. If we have time for that, I might show them later, but
I need good measurements that could be trusted and reproducible. Somebody tells me this smells
a bit like strawberry, but I can't really put a quantification on the strawberry smell. I don't
know what I'm looking for. I can't map the trait. Yeah, this is the next step, right? So
in this case, what we did with the red stuff, we did dot plots and we quantified the red dots by
computerized vision. We took pictures of the red dot, put RGB scale, red, blue, and green, and
measured how much red, how much blue, how much green, and gave a numerical score to this because it's not
easy to measure. So once you have an Excel file with data, these are actually the parents, then you
could start asking questions on mapping, and then once you collect the SAP, you need an expert. This
is why we work with a professor in Israel. Oh, there's some feedback noise. So once we have
enough SAP, we could send it for analytics, and maybe this is a flavonoid and we can
employ HPLC methods and actually detect the compound, and then we could look at the region
that we found and zoom in and try to find what makes it. So it's kind of a process. There's a
very hardcore academic-like or high input research, but there's also practical stuff.
If we make genetic markers, those are easy to do. Anybody could send to a genotyping lab and get an
answer back, like keep plants 13, 54, and 16, and you don't need much. You don't need the fancy analytics
if you're not doing that kind of research. So and how big is the progeny you guys would work
with on a project like your typical projects? Okay, so this type of analysis, we analyze 200
individuals. So one of the key features of the way we work is that you don't need much space. The
first cycle is the only one where you fully grow the plants, so you do need to grow fully grow 200
individuals, and if you need to make copies of them, then you also need to clone them and keep
duplicates, but we only need the DNA of 200 individuals and the phenotype data for that
population, and once we come up with the genetic markers, we do the analysis and come up with the
genetic markers, then you can screen thousands of plants. You don't fully grow them. You use very
little space. You grow them in trays, screen the little seedlings, and whatever doesn't have the
right kind of genotype that you're after, you discard it and you keep only the plants you need
and almost zero space. I mean, it's a bit, you know, there's still labor involved. You need to
send samples. You need to take leaves and send them to be genotyped, but it's much easier and
much cheaper to do. Okay, that's it. Let me just get a glass of water.
So we got the tons of questions, but I've been holding them, so everybody who's watching,
just kind of keep them on standby because at some point we will get to your questions, but I love
let's go deep and dork out. I want to, James, I'm sure you got an expert in front of you,
pepper him with the questions you want to ask. Oh yeah. Well, yeah. So, Ori, how do viruses affect
genomics sequence data? Oh, wow. That's an excellent question. So, viruses are, well,
plant viruses. I won't relate to COVID. I hate it. Ruined my life. So viruses in the plant world
have, there's several kinds. There's viruses and something called viroids, which are virus-like.
They don't all behave in the same manner. There's some viruses that actually integrate into the
genome and some viruses that are just present in the cell. And then there's some viruses that
are RNA viruses and replicate, and that's what they do. And then there's some viruses that are
DNA. And in some cases they can integrate and affect the genome, not necessarily in a bad way.
Not easy to detect. You first have to isolate a virus and know its sequence. And then somebody
has to develop an essay to detect the virus. Once you've isolated it and have the genetic sequence,
it's easy to develop an essay and the essay would be very cheap. And you could screen,
it would be something like this, a genetic sequence that is unique to the virus,
very sensitive. You screen the leaves of your samples. And if it's present,
you know you have a contamination and you should probably do something about it.
If you're working with clones and you found the contamination in your mother stock,
you're in trouble. In some cases you could go through tissue cultures and there are actually
several good labs that provide this kind of indexing service. And they run the plant through
tissue culture and have it reconstructed afterwards. Usually the virus, I mean,
you make sure that the plants you reconstructed haven't got the virus. One of the risks of this
is that you'll lose the clone, that the reconstructed plant after tissue culture
comes out not identical to the original clone. With like somal funnel variation?
Somal clonal or other types of things. We kind of briefly touched that when we talked,
I think last week. Sometimes the somal clonal variation is not there. You do the full genome
sequence on the clone and on the original plant, they're identical. Yet they don't have the same
phenotype. They don't perform the same. Why? Because the tissue culture stage shut down
entire pathways. Tissue culture tends to do that. This relates to epigenetics and gene regulation.
Sometimes, for example, with flavonoids, a good example because I have it right in front of me,
you tobacco, you take the tobacco plant, you grow it and you, it makes flavonoids,
characteristics of tobacco. Then you pass it through tissue culture. You may end up with
a clone that does not produce flavonoids or produce only half the pathway of flavonoids.
It shut the whole pathway down. Why? We're not exactly sure. Nobody's really exactly sure,
but it's just so. Genetically, nothing changed, but the gene expression pathway pattern changes.
You will not be able to produce in that plant that same amount of flavonoids. Maybe in some cases,
you won't be able to produce flavonoids at all. The plant would, in theory, be genetically
identical. Something in the regulatory mechanisms beyond DNA changes and
shuts down pathways. This is why you work in replicates, in multiple duplicates when you
send something to be cleaned in tissue culture. Cannabis is not the only industry that uses tissue
culture. It's a good way to cryoprotect and preserve your clone, by the way. If you go
through cleaning and then you reconstruct and have multiple plants that are clones that have
been cleaned up, and then one of them performs just as good as the original, then you're successful
and you cleaned it up. You cryopreserve it and you also keep cloning as you used to.
It's a bit of a risk, but usually it's successful. If you have the virus, like the Hobbes-Layton
virus that's been plaguing the country for the last time, or at least the Western coast,
there are some other viruses. I forget the name of it that was identified
by Israeli researchers, so I read about it. Not very common in the US, but I think in Canada,
they actually are starting to suffer from that. They grow indoor a lot. They're very susceptible
to transfer of viruses because they work with clones and it's indoor. If there's something,
an insect or a vector that carries the virus somehow manages to go into the grow rooms
or propagation rooms, it could be like wildfire. It's a bit of a risk, but it's a good way to
know that it's there and it causes damage. Sometimes the virus is there, it's latent,
it doesn't do much. If the plant is well, it's in the genome, it hops in. This is how evolution
happens. One of the mechanisms that evolution happens, viruses hop and integrate into regions
in the genome. Sometimes they shut down genes or create overexpression of certain genes. You have
an interesting phenotype. There's some cases in other crops where virus lands into the genome
before a gene and it has a regulatory element that's very strong and it creates huge expression
of that gene. If that gene meant something to you because you're a human being and you consume the
plant, then you have a mutant, you have a new variety that is actually superior. It's not
necessarily a bad thing. Hop's latent virus is terrible. With HPLV, if we found a variety that
was resistant to it or it carried it but it didn't express, that's something that you could help
identify and we could breed resistant cultivars. We would have to devise, and this is part of what
we do. I sit with the clients. I understand what they have in terms of germplasm. I understand what
the need is. I understand what the capability and budget and patience because some people want
results fast within six months and they're not aware of the length that this takes. Sometimes
they got all the above but they won't go into a project that lasts nine months or so. I need to
understand where people have a need that they have all the parameters to go into a project like this.
But technically, if there's the right conditions and we figure out, we can devise some sort of a
program involving multiple tools, not necessarily in-house. You could outsource stuff.
Plan a project to map resistance genes or QTLs or actually find, identify a virus,
things like that. Some things are not our expertise. Transcript data, things like that,
we could use. We integrate that into the genome but this is not exactly what we are the experts.
There are other people who do transcriptomics and protein annotation and things like that.
They're greater experts than we are but genomics and comparative genomics,
you've come to the right place. Yeah.
Awesome. We got a question from one of my friends here.
Genetically different is hemp from what we consider hemp from THC cannabis,
like industrial hemp versus cannabis sativa. In the US, hemp is anything below 0.3% THC.
So it's basically cannabis, cannabis is sativa L. Looking at industrial hemp?
Yes. We have done over 70 something, the novel assembly of cannabis genomes. I think over
closer to 100 actually now. Some of them are hemp, some of them are hybrid type, some of them are
drug type of one way or the other. Some of them are fiber type and this is too heavy for
for most of the crowd. But you look at some versions of the same enzyme, like I look at an
enzyme that I know what it does and I compare 20 genomes and one of them happens to be fiber type.
And it brings with it the fiber type parent brings the unique version of this gene.
So the overall genome may be somewhat different, but there could be particular genes or
the presence or lack of these genes that makes a difference. In that particular example that I
looked at, only the fiber type has now I don't even know what it do. We're not doing biochemistry.
We do the genomics. I could just tell that this variety or cultivar has a unique allele or unique
version of the gene that comes from fiber hemp because I know the parent and I have the lineage
information on that particular cultivar. So it's very different. Otherwise, as you can see, this
is a work done in 2016. Several people have repeated this in many other ways. You look at
multiple regions in the genome and you start to do something called a phylogenetic tree
comparison of the genetic diversity. There's actual parameters to compare that. And you could
you could define the species, divide the species of cannabis into subgroups.
The hemp and cannabis differentiation is completely arbitrary by man-made legal system.
Both plants are crossable. They're identical by what they look like. So if you analyze hundreds
or tens of lines, they will clade up into groups and you would be able to find
types of plants that are phenotypically hemp, meaning they will not make THC,
taller plants, all the features of hemp. And also hemp is quite different if you're looking at
classic hemp that was used for rope and fiber, hemp that was used for oil and seed, and hemp that
is used for CBD. Now, the CBD type may look closer to other types of cannabis, but the differentiation
between hemp and cannabis is completely man-made. As you can see, there's a type of hemp that is
here within the narrow leaf drug type. So it's more similar to narrow leaf drug type than to other
hemp types. So this is probably not, this is probably a hemp type that is mostly used for
resin, for CBD extraction, and it would be hot. It would probably also produce THC.
There is some correlation between the genetic makeup to what people see, the sativa, indica
kind of features, narrow leaf, broad leaf, and so on. But over the last few decades, people have
mixed and crossed everything with everything. So, yeah, so that distinction between sativa and
indica and ruderalis and narrow leaf, broad, narrow leaf and broad leaf is just a trait now.
In some cases, it has correlation with what the chemotype would be like. In other cases,
you could have narrow leaf that kind of is behaving like hemp, and then the other way around,
they're not necessarily correlated. Yeah, I think there's a big confusion,
especially in the recreational markets in the United States. Just in general, people think
sativa, indica, ruderalis, even the growers think ruderalis, and then hybrids. But it's like pretty
much everything is a hybrid, and there's lots of narrow leaf and wide leaf drug varietals that
have the effect of the other. You look at the genetics on that, and you'll see a lot of
similarities. But not all wide leaf has sedative effects, and not all narrow leaf has euphoric,
like a strong caffeine-like effect. Yeah, absolutely. There are specific genes and
enzymes that are responsible for the compounds made in the trichome, and they make the chemotype
of the plant. So it could look like a hemp plant on the morphology, but if the genes that
the plant has and that are expressed in the trichomes,
if you have a certain terpene synthase, and it's expressed in the trichome,
you would have a terpene not characteristic of hemp. And if that terpene has a sedative effect,
I think it's myrcene that has the sedative effect, and you consume the extract of that flower,
anyway you do that, it will kind of make you sleepy and drowsy and kind of relax. So
it may look from the outside like something like one kind, and then chemically the chemotype would
be completely different. And in some cases, you could genetically determine that before.
In most cases, it's just too complex to have an essay beforehand and say and predict,
oh, this plant would be this sedative, or we're not there yet in cannabis because the amount of
terpenes and the enzymes that make them is very, very large and very, very diverse.
So we can't just look at the genetics of the plant now and predict, oh, this one would be
sedative, or would make a lot of beta-cariophylline, or make osemine. We cannot do that yet.
And also the terpenes are environmentally affected. So that makes it even more difficult to
predict. Yeah, and part of the challenge, I think, is also the human body, the interaction is so
unique to the individual that one person may get a different effect from it. So we're still in the
process of figuring all this stuff out. There are quite a few researchers on the academic side and
companies that offer some sort of testing to kind of evaluate the genetics of the individual,
the human. And they say, okay, if you have this kind of metabolism, that kind of metabolism, then
you will respond to this type of cannabis and that type of cannabis in certain ways.
It's a beginning. Once they collect a lot of data, it will mean something. Currently,
most of them are at the stage of actually collecting that data. We're talking big data
as big data could get a lot of information with a lot of subjective, unmeasurable stuff.
It makes you dizzy, it makes you drowsy. How drowsy? How dizzy? Can you measure that? You
can't. So the data is fuzzy. So it's not an easy task, but the more data we're
collecting, and this is super important, the more chance we have of actually predicting stuff and
trying to say, okay, if you have sleep disorders, you need varieties with a lot of myrcene.
So we don't exactly know how much myrcene and we don't exactly know what other things would be
there, but we can say that this would have a lot of myrcene, it would help you sleep better.
So we're getting there. Not specifically energy, I mean, science in general, research.
Yeah. So what are some of the new things you guys discovered that you can share with us as far as
myrcene? Okay. So as I mentioned, we are a hired gun. We work for others on the research side,
so we can't share the information that we find for others. I did show a couple of, I'll
show you something interesting. We have compared about 50 genomes of cannabis and hemp,
and don't be intimidated by the, this is hardcore science here. To those of you who are in this
world, okay, and those of you who are not, this is kind of mind blowing. I'll explain and I'll
kind of try to explain the meaning of things. So we've mentioned protein earlier, and the proteins
are the actual machinery that makes the chemicals that make the aroma, smell, taste of,
and psychological effects or psychoactive effects of this plant. So I'm talking about terpenes in
this demonstration. You could look at the TPSs, terpene synthases. There are hundreds of them in
cannabis. Some of them make one product. Some of them make multiple products. Some of them
are dependent on certain factors to make one product or the other. Some information we know,
some information is still in basic research. So this group of terpene synthases have been
crystallized, and this is one of the ways to study protein. So this is like a 3D model of the protein
chains that make the enzymes very complex. A lot of people have worked on this type of research,
but they figured out that the protein sequence has codes for certain regions that fold in certain
ways. And the ABCDs here are certain niches or patches in the protein structure that let in
certain molecules from one side, and in some cases they fold them, they bend them, they detach or
attach stuff to them and let them the other side different. So this is the basic structure of
terpene synthase, and some of the regions here were identified. The one here in the, I think this
is called magenta, right? Purplish kind of color, is the active site of this enzyme or one of the
active sites. And the type of sequence that you have here is kind of fairly characterized. So
there's been some studies that actually, well, they did a lot of work, so I should give the credit to
the people who did this, but they know that if they have certain amino acids here, they'll have
one product, but if they make other amino acids, they'll have a completely different product, or
the ratio of the products would change. So we've compared something like this, multiple enzymes that
look like terpene synthase 9, or terpene synthase in general, and you could look at a certain region. So
we found an enzyme, for example, circled here, which has a mutation. The amino acid M, methionine,
that's been mutated into something else, valine. It's a very different amino acid. It would create
a different structure here. And if you have methionine, the enzyme prefers to make beta
cariophilin that smells like black pepper, or at least that's what people associate it with.
By the way, it is somewhat psychoactive, about two orders of magnitude less than THC, but you
could get high on this terpene. I think it binds to CD1 receptor. So if you have valine there,
and we've actually found an enzyme that has this, it's more likely to make alpha-humulin.
Alpha-humulin smells hopsy, or kind of the, I don't know how to define the smell, but
hopsy is as good as it gets. So we can actually tell by looking at the enzymes,
if we have a version that prefers this or that path, and if you have the two copies, you
may end up making both black pepper smell and hop smell. So this is the kind of things we could look
at if there's prior information. So we do stand on the shoulders of giants. This image is actually
from Keith Allen and the guys from, they're now Front Range Biosciences. They published this. So
they did that part of the work, not related to us. We just looked at the, we just knew where to look.
So if there's prior information and people publish stuff, we could look at interesting regions and
find interesting features. If we need to discover things from scratch, then it's a
more difficult case. So powdery mildew plant. Earlier this year, I believe somebody made an
announcement at the big thing in San Diego that they'd identified markers for powdery mildew.
Have you guys identified, or if you can talk about it, identified? I cannot comment on that.
I could comment on the publication that was released at PEG. They found a set of genes
and a region that's associated in one type of genomes. They also looked at other genomes,
and that there's variation. And then the pathogen that they looked at, powdery mildew,
is not one pathogen. Powdery mildew is at least three types of fungi,
either together or separately. Some argue it's two, some argue it's three, but at least two
are there. And each one of these fungi are not exactly identical. So once you have resistance
to powdery mildew, it's not necessarily what's called a broad range resistance. It's the fact
that you have powdery mildew resistance. And that work actually is very nice work. And I'm not
belittling that work at all. I mean, I'm just saying it has its limitation. It means that you
could actually have a region to look at, for example, right now. But also, powdery mildew
resistance needs to be tested on site. If you have a type of pathogen that bugs you in your facility,
and you have one variety that's resistant, you should find the resistance at your local site.
The fact that somebody for now discovered a type of resistance doesn't mean that you
could use that resistance on your pathogens. Maybe yes, but not necessarily. You'd have to test this.
And then also, in many cases, powdery mildew resistance is not one gene. It's probably a
combination of several genes or make a region that contains several genes. So first of all,
you need to genetically transfer that by crossing into your germplasm and track the
backcrossing in the genetics to the creation, the crossing process. You need good genetic
markers associated with the actual trait. And again, you need to be able to make sure that it
works well in your facility and with your pathogens. So if you start, imagine if you have
the published assay and you generate a marker, or they may release a marker,
and you start, you need the germplasm, you need the donor of the trait, and you need to
be able to cross that. And it's going to be a few months of testing before you can even start to
understand whether it's relevant for your germplasm. So it's kind of a big effort to do.
There's a big risk involved, and the actual marker may not be indicative of resistance
relevant to your germplasm. We do things a bit differently. We map the resistance
coming from the client site on site. I don't have a germplasm. I don't have resistance plants.
The client has to come up with one plant that's resistant, one plant that's susceptible,
and we do the mapping. And then you know that whatever attacks your prop
is what we're mapping resistance to that. And I don't have a claim. It's not going to be my
marker. It's going to be the client's marker. They can do with it whatever they want,
breed with it in-house, license it, sell it, or so on. But I know for a fact that if the
project goes through, in the end, the client will have a resistant crop.
And in many cases, genetic markers or even genes, known genes,
are not useful. You could see that in the tomato industries, tomato mosaic virus.
There's at least six markers for genes that confer resistance to the virus. In many cases,
you move from country to country or even regions in the country, and tomato virus five marker
doesn't mean anything. Your entire crop will be susceptible, right? So there's great value in
actually finding and mapping resistance to your path of ours. In some cases, there are lucky
mechanisms or people who find certain resistance mechanisms that have a broad sense, you know,
especially if it's a mechanical resistance. Like if the plant has a mechanical trait that,
for example, very dense hairs on the leaf and the pathogen for some reason can't adhere to
the actual leaf, it cannot penetrate, then the plant becomes resistant not by some
molecular mechanism but some mechanical mechanism. And these things happen. And usually,
if you have that, that's kind of a broad resistance mechanism. We work with one of our clients that
they claim to have super broad resistance in the hemp type plant to botrytis, powdery mildew,
and I think also fusarium, which is an unrelated disease altogether, but they
claim that this variety doesn't catch anything, just grows out. But they grow in a certain type
of climate, very dry. What happens when you move that plant to, I don't know, Kentucky or
Louisiana or places where the climate is hot and humid? I don't know if it will be resistant.
So we take a different approach.
Awesome. Well, let's talk about sylphing. I'm sure a lot of our listeners have touched plants
or used female pollen, that's feminized pollen, with plants. As far as breeding to get to,
from point A to point Z, does sylphing make a lot of sense from your perspective if we are,
if we can identify markers and then, I think using two plants with the same gene pairs,
that'll get rid of 50% of the alleles that you would get with breeding. But does that come,
is there a problem or problems that are associated with that?
So first of all, the way we map trait, we don't need that. We don't need inbreeding. We analyze,
that's kind of the shortcut we made. We just analyze a four-way hybrid.
So people tell me sometimes like, wait, I need to wait a few months till I get another cycle going.
I'll inbreed my plant, then we'll make it. I don't need to wait for the inbreeding.
It's a question of how many,
when you're doing inbreeding, you're fixing some traits. Now, if it's a single gene or
single locus or two areas in the genome that you need to fix by several cycles of sylphing,
you may end up with the traits fixed in with parental lines that are good for
stabilization. And in some cases you have a larger phenotype or larger effect of the phenotype when
you have two copies of the same allele. If the trait is multi loci or three and up, very difficult
to do by sylphing. And the risks of sylphing is, people have been doing sylphing for generations
before they knew about genetics. They call it true breeding and true breed, but they did sylphing.
They fixed traits or at least some of the traits and they knew that it bred true. It had the same
traits as the parents or one of the parents. And in practical use, in some cases it works.
For more complex traits, it's just not easy to do. And cannabis has really strong inbreeding
depression. I've seen cases where plants that are CELF3, S3, they barely make seeds and they grow
super slow. Same, you know, you see a clone of the original plant and then S3 of the same plant,
multiple S3s and they are just like maybe three times slower to grow. So if you're a commercial
breeder, you can't have that. It's not like you move from 60 to 62 days, you move from 60 to 120.
If you have three or two crops indoors or whatever, you completely change the way the plant
behaves now. So some cases you got lucky, you self once, you self twice and you fix the trait
and you get what you want. Yeah, and there's ways, you know, traditional breeders that aren't using
genomic tools use like parallel lines and back crossing for heterosis. You know, I think those
are easy fixes. I think you guys have more of a long term solution that's actually proven data.
And I think one of the other problems with CELFing is if you have undesirable recessive
traits, it's real easy to have problems with those down the line. Recessive traits in cannabis
are a problem anyway. I'm not saying you can't find the markers, but once you found a recessive
trait and you need to fix, you're trying to make parents, not for clones, you need to fix
both. You need to fix at least three copies of or have an efficient way to screen or maybe screen
the seeds themselves or the seedlings when you're already germinating them to actually have
recessive traits. So autoflowers, your classic example, people are doing this. People are having
maybe 50% autoflowers. In some cases they have fully autoflower seeds. So they have done
something like this. Autoflowers actually, it's an interesting case because it's not exactly,
most autoflowers that I know of are, there are several alleles out there that people use.
They probably all come from Northern varieties. There's a myth that they all come from Northern
skies, from Guterrales cross. I don't buy it, but let's go with that. So autoflowers are usually
compound heterozygote, sorry, compound homozygous plant, meaning you have two copies that make the
trait you want, but they're not identical. That would be recessive. You'd still have to make,
to have two copies of that trait in your parents. So that's, there are ways to work around this.
Manipulation of sex conversion to one of the parents, things like that.
And you are able to produce seeds that would have autoflower trait, 100% autoflower trait.
In some cases, well, I'll just say that in general, recessive traits are more difficult
to handle in all crops. But there are ways to do this, even in cannabis. The fact that you have
male and female flowers makes it more complicated, but also make the fact that you can do sex
conversions kind of give you a tool that doesn't exist in other crops.
So cannabis has been bred clandestinely by people who are expert breeders with practical tools,
or expert breeders with practical tools, but, and they got pretty far ahead. They got to where
we are now, and this is fantastic, but at some point you kind of reach a limitation.
And you need genetic markers. It makes things easier. You could do your back crosses,
you could screen progeny, and then you could start stabilizing certain parents and certain
traits, even if they are recessive. The more complex it is, the more you need genetic markers.
I think in cannabis, there's quite a few low hanging fruits that still need to be done. Some
of them can be done by conventional breeding. Some of them should be done by molecular tools,
just because it's faster and more efficient. But I would say first, let's go for the low
hanging fruits. Once those are done, start climbing and pyramiding and stacking multiple traits.
I could name a few examples of these, but
you know, some things that are also, you know, people get creative on polyploidy and on other
tools that are, I wouldn't say simple, but don't require molecular tools.
You could generate seedless hemp with tetraploids and diploids and you make stable triploids,
and there's companies that have already achieved this. And this is not using molecular tools,
this is using chemistry and, you know, some, they may use some molecular tools to actually isolate
the right types of tetraploids and triploids. But I mean, it is such a valuable challenge to make.
I mean, once you have a seedless hemp variety that is pollination indifferent,
then you don't really need to use molecular markers. But at some point, when you start
addressing more complicated traits, I don't know, tendency to form hermaphrodites, things like that,
whether that's a recessive or dominant or environmentally affected trait, probably is both.
You have to use molecular tools, otherwise you'll never be able to, unless you're extremely super
lucky, that happens too.
Yeah, I think that was actually going to be my next question was on intersexual traits,
hermaphrodism, and how that can be bred out using tools. Is that something you guys have worked on
at all or again?
So I can't comment on what our clients are actually doing on that. There had been a
few months ago, there was a nice publication by Pooja from Canada on the genetics of hermaphrodism.
It's not one type of hermaphrodism. Every breeder who kind of played with crossing plants knows that
there's hermaphrodism, there's the bananas, and then there's hermaphrodites that grow on the
bottom types of the bottom flowers that are completely different and they're formed in
different conditions. So some of it is stress related, nitrogen, heat, both. And some of it
is just a genetic tendency. So you see the entire plot doing very well and all of a sudden you have
this plant that makes hermaphrodites. So if the, there's a variety called chupacabra, somebody
told me about that. Nobody grows it anymore. People told me it's a very nice variety, but
nobody grows it because it tends to make hermaphrodites and it will pollinate your entire
crop if you're growing other things with that. So nobody grows the chupacabra because
it's a troublemaker. So if you take a chupacabra that always has a lot of
genetic tendency to do that and you cross it with something that never makes hermaphrodites and you
could actually make a segregating population, then it's just another trait like I showed earlier.
I'll do trait mapping, I'll analyze the population, I'll zoom in on the region and we may find
a genetic marker or at least some clue onto the mechanism of the hermaphrodites.
A genetic marker or at least some clue onto the mechanism of hermaphrodites of this type.
Yeah, girlfriend cookies is something that I think a lot of the viewers are familiar with that has
a lot of intersexual traits that express from stress and just the plant has it in the lines
because everything that's bred with it has a susceptibility. It makes it also easy to
hurt if you're making cookies. Girl Scout cookies are a very common variety that's been bred into
a lot of stuff that has intersexual traits, stress-related and stuff that definitely gets
passed on within the progeny. And then a good example of something that doesn't have intersexual
traits that is super stable would be like blue dream. A lot of the stuff that's pre-2000
doesn't have a lot of intersexual trait issues but things like sour diesel do.
So, for the listeners. I mean, this is not a low-hanging fruit. This would be much higher
up the tree of challenges. Powdery mildew is, you know, and then you have to also think about
what are the alternative solutions to breeding? We've had a request at some point for a variety
that, you know, to breed a non-sticky hemp type that doesn't make terpenes as much or
hardly any. The grower was interested in CBD only. He doesn't care much for terpenes.
And he said the terpenes are sticky. They jam my combine. And I was like, get an engineer,
make a better combine. Not everything has to go through breeding. I mean, it has to make sense
financially and time-wise. And sometimes there's mechanical solution or, you know, technical
solutions that can solve your problem without breeding. So, I wouldn't jump into,
you know, a very complex breeding project. Even if there is, you know, I'm confident there are
germplasm out there actually known for fact that hardly make terpenes. Do you want to go
about getting that germplasm and then starting making it something usable that also makes CBD
but doesn't make terpenes? It's a big mess. Yeah, I think there's definitely a market for,
you know, CBD that doesn't have it. You know, I mean, I think that that makes sense on some level.
But, you know, how much money you want to invest, that's a whole other thing.
So, I got another question for you. How long does it take to breed a true inbred line?
That depends on what your starting point is. Jamaican Lion that was published
by Medicinal Genomics, I think they did a five or a six. And it isn't fully homozygous,
but it's large. I mean, it's close enough. So, that's like five or six generations of inbreeding.
And there are reports and actually you work with somebody who can make double haploids.
So, that takes one go. Once you get the culture going, you duplicate the genome, you get a double
haploid. So, it's in one go about six, seven months, you have an inbred. Whether that inbred
is a good plant, probably not. Most inbreds are not, especially in cannabis. And we talk very
loosely about tissue culture and regeneration as if it's easy to do. It really isn't. I mean,
you could have... I see the comments by people. So, it's kind of distracting me. Sorry.
So, thank you, whoever it was. I appreciate the compliment. Anyway, tissue culture is an art on
its own or science on its own. You have to have expertise. It's not easy to have your backyard
tissue culture workshop. But even if you are successful, you calibrate this for one plant
and you try to reproduce the same protocol for other, cannabis is not an easy crop to work with.
So, you could go to tissue culture and we're kind of touching on something else that I might want to
mention, gene editing and genetic modification of cannabis. So, having tissue culture and success
and a good protocol on one hand, whether you're going for double haploids or just regular tissue
culture for say virus cleaning, not necessarily means that it will work for other. You got to
maybe recalibrate your protocols for other varieties. So, it's not trivial. And if you have
a good lab that provides this service for you and they're good, stick to them. It's a precious
skill. And I want to mention gene editing because I hear that gene editing is catching on
mostly in Colorado, I guess. And I don't want to talk about labeling. Yes, no, do I support or not
support. I'm actually a supporter of technology, but some people are extremely passionate about
not interfering with this kind of technology, but this is not the point.
I was going to speak about the technical aspect of tissue culture and gene editing. So,
we are providing information tools to actually facilitate gene editing. And we can pinpoint
targets, off targets, tell you if the edit was successful or not. The fact that you're
able to do gene editing, and I mentioned Colorado is because people want to have hemp that is
behaving like cannabis, but doesn't make THC. And in theory, you would have to manipulate and knock
out or change the enzyme that makes THC and keep only the one that makes CBD or modify that enzyme
that makes both into a preference for CBD. And you'd have outdoor growing cannabis that makes
high quality CBD without going hemp ever. That is one of the holy grails of the industry.
And you can do that in theory, pretty nicely with gene editing. But imagine if you actually
have a gene editing system, and if you work at it hard enough, you will probably be able to do so.
And then if you have the genetic information, you'll also be able to do the, to find the target
and do the edit. And you still need to go through a stage of propagation and taking the edit,
doing some sort of tissue culture and regenerate a plant from it. And that's not trivial,
not easy to do. So I think all this talk about robust gene editing, and as soon as you find the
gene, you can knock it out or edit it. We're quite far from that. I mean, pretty sure people are
doing it and maybe with some success, but it's not quick to become a robust tool
that people would be able to Oh, I found the gene, let's enhance it, change it, knock it out.
We're, we're getting there. But it's gonna take a while to become routine practice in cannabis.
That's my opinion. Yeah, I agree. I think that I believe in science. And I think molecular
breeding, which is very different than the genome. I mean, genomics is a part of molecular breeding,
but it's definitely not you guys don't do molecular breeding. But I definitely believe
that it's something that we need to work with and you know, see the outcomes that
they're doing it if they've done it for a lot of things over the last 30 years and been successful
with it. I think there's a lot of people in the industry that are very scared of it. And I don't
think it's something to be afraid of. Although it's something that we need to be cautious of
using. I think they've had problems with it in the past with certain things. And that's that's
just one of the things that you have to be concerned about. So how do you think energy
will impact traditional cannabis breeding in the future? You know, in economics in general?
So we already have. I mean, we work with a lot of the big companies in Canada and also the US.
We do the genomic analysis for them, they do the actual breeding. So as soon as they get these
companies get to new varieties and cultivars, whether it's hemp or cannabis, you know, we have
our thumbprint on how they got there. Although, you know, as I said, we don't, it's their data,
it's their technology, it's their IP, we just help them get there. And we got paid for it,
obviously. But I think we, the more companies see this and come to us and realize and in some cases,
we build packages that are more affordable. I mean, we realized that not all growers are
canopy growth. It does require commitment, it does require, you know, to have a breeding project,
breeding program of some scope in which you could use the genetic tools, because there's no point
in me providing you a state of the art genome and genetic markers if you're not going to use
a marker assisted selection afterwards with the markers. So you do need to have some cutoff of,
but we did come up with some tools to help even smaller breeders. We made something called
CanScan to pretty much genotype and make an inventory, just so people know what they have,
and they can manage their collection, their germplasm and their production
in a cost effective way, not super expensive. As a first step, we made this so that people would,
you know, do this, see the value, we're not, it's not very profitable business. But we want
that to be a gateway towards breeding. And the more people do breeding, the more business for us
and, you know, we see the impact. We are not a cannabis company, we work with other crops,
so we don't have, you know, an actual plan to develop our own stuff, right. And so that's kind
of, you know, so having a real impact on an industry with coming up with the killer cultivar,
that's not happening from us directly, will maybe come from one of our clients.
But technology wise, I think we've raised the bar. And I think a lot of the people who are doing
large scale breeding today, especially with hemp, are going to have to use some sort of
genetic tools, if they don't want to be left behind. You know, I really respect conventional
breeding, selecting, phenotyping, a good eye, and a good, you know, you go in the field, and you
see within 100 or 1000s of plants, that plant that is a mutant, and it's interesting,
and you go and pick it up, that kind of breeders are precious. And I'm not, we don't intend to
replace that, that's going to stay. But once you found something, and you want to use it as,
you know, a donor of a trait, or make it as a backbone and introduce stuff, it's just genetics
are here to, genomic tools are here to stay and make things more efficient and faster. So I see a
lot more people moving into our, you know, using our services or other companies or other tools in
this field, and doing the same type of breeding. Excellent. Well, I think there's probably a ton
of questions, Peter. Some of the questions. Good God. Just get some more water for a second.
Yeah, so let me, so now ask your questions. People have been asking questions the whole time,
and I've been like, please remember your questions. Okay, here's one from Trent.
So how do other crops stabilize polyploidism and can it be done for cannabis?
Good question. I kind of addressed that. This anthraculture, which you have,
that's mostly done actually not for polyploidism, that's done mostly for
reaching homozygosity first, but you could also use that for polyploidy. People use colt,
colcetine, not sure I'm pronouncing it right in English. It's a chemical that interferes with the
cell cycle. At least once the plant doesn't become, you know, toxic or anything, but the one cycle
that you do it on, it causes an apparent cycle of duplication. So sometimes the cells get,
some of the cells get stuck in a phase of, and you may have genome duplication.
There are other ways to do this as well. I don't have time to go into the really cool methods
of doing this, but that's kind of one way to achieve genome duplication.
Stability is another issue. That's mostly done by trial and error. I mean, if you make a
polyploid, tetraploid, and you cross with diploid and get triploid, some of them will not be stable.
So if you have a stable triploid, first of all, you can maintain it as a clone.
And other crops do it like that. They have triploids that are stable, sorry, diploids that
are regular stable and tetraploids that are stable, and they cross and then like seedless
watermelon are made that way. And the progeny are triploid, they cannot make seeds or viable seeds.
They're seedless by definition. And that's routine production. And they've achieved that
mostly by trial and error. I'm sure that in the early days of doing this, some of the lines would
segregate and become revert back to being diploids and create seeds. They take in pollen and create
seeds. Interesting line that people are taking that's done most in Canada, I guess,
it's called polyembryony. You have sometimes in some varieties, in some cases of the seeds,
there's a zygote, a sexual embryo. And then around it, there are embryos that are actually clones of
the female of the mother. So you pretty much have that as an interesting tool to work with.
And if you could manipulate that and employ chemical duplication on that as well, you could
also reach stable, different levels of ploidy. I have seen work by a scientist who had collected
or taken cannabis plants to Chernobyl. I kid you not, he's collected cannabis plants that grew in
Chernobyl. He looks at mutations that are... So there's bizarre and exotic ways to achieve
chromosomal operations. Once the mutation is stable,
you can work with it and it's safe and it's perfectly good.
What else we got, Peter?
I had one. We got a lot. So hold on.
Okay. So here's... Can you talk about cannabis being adaptogenic?
I'm not sure I'm familiar with that term. You don't have the person...
I'm not sure I know what adaptogenic is. Sorry.
Okay. No worries. Let's move on. We had... Give me one second.
I'm getting...
I'll just talk for a second. My good friend, Sean, works at Genefinder. He did a project with the
polyploidy getting triploids. And he said that the outcome was abandoned because
the plant material did not have a good terpene profile. It was undesirable.
So I'd be really interested in people that are creating stuff. If it... I'm sure it can be done.
It's going to take time. And this was done 10 years ago.
So if anyone would like to come on the show to talk about it, that'd be great.
I think, yeah. I follow Shen from Oregon CBD. He keeps posting on LinkedIn. I mean, super public.
He shows pretty cool pictures of triploids and they're really nice plants performing
way better than the diploids. So I think they're achieving great progress there.
Yeah, we got to get him on here.
Okay. So can you read this one?
Can you influence traits with enzymes through the food or does it have to be the natural enzymes in
the plant? Traits of the plants, I would assume, through the food. I'm not sure I understand
what the asker is asking.
We'll have him clarify in the chat, but we'll go on to the next one.
Yeah. I'm not sure I'm on the question here.
I mean, nutrition can influence terpenes and cannabinoids. If he's talking about terpenes,
then yes. But as far as traits, that could be a whole different conversation because there's
traits that can be, I think we're talking about phenotypes that can be manipulated by
a nutrition environment and environment. So you can-
If they're talking about the plant and the food relates to the plant and not the people
and they mean the nourishment of the plant or the fertigation, then yeah, sure. I mean,
any plant, not just cannabis, responds to, I mean, for example, you irrigate with high salinity water,
you may get more sugar in the tomato. So you get more, you provide more nitrogen, you get more,
I don't know, terpenes, cannabinoids. So the plants responds well.
Chromosomal crossover.
Again, I'm not sure what this refers to. If it's recombination and frequency of recombination in
cannabis, if that's the meaning of the question, then it's not symmetrical. There are regions
same as other plants, but there are regions that have very, very short recombination blocks,
like two megabase pairs. So there's regions where you have genetic markers would be
not very effective if they're not in high resolution because chromosome crossovers and
recombination. And then there are regions where they're called recombination deserts,
where you hardly have recombination events and it happens less frequent.
In many cases, interesting regions like cassettes of terpene synthase or cassettes of,
we call them cassettes, but clusters of R genes or cannabinoid synthesis
chunks of the genome tend to have a high recombination rate as far as we've seen so far.
We didn't look at that many, not yet at least. I mean, we have some information on this and we
didn't look at some recombination events. We're actually analyzing several populations with
recombination rate right now. I don't have a lot of data to kind of give a rule about it yet, but
definitely there are regions that tend to cross over more than others.
Okay. Someone asked just for clarification, what you meant by molecular tools?
When did I say that?
Christopher, do you have the audio?
Oh, okay. These...
You use maybe.
So we are a data company. We are generating molecular data.
So we are a data company. We are generating molecular markers, meaning sequences of DNA
that you can track by PCR-like assays or outside of the plant. We're not putting anything into the
plant. We're providing information to track certain traits. And that's molecular tools
in my book as well. Molecular tools is the ability to track markers, genetic markers.
You're correct that molecular tools may refer to other things, also gene editing and CRISPR-Cas
or recombinant DNA technology. People may use that. We are harvesting data. So we don't really...
We're harvesting or generating and providing clients with insights and data to use.
How they use it depends on the company. Some people would like to do gene editing.
So they use our data to get high resolution genome information. Some people want to do
classic breeding. They need genetic markers to cross and then select each progeny that
has the right type of combination of genes that they want.
We don't interfere with how the clients do their breeding. If they're using super advanced
technology or using classical breeding, using marker-assisted breeding, whatever.
So I think this may have been the clarification from the earlier question.
Oh, okay. That's a good question as well. Now that I understand it.
In general, there's several ways to affect the terpene profile of a plant. Because it's not
generated by one enzyme, it's generated by dozens of enzymes. And they're all not necessarily
specific. Some of them are what's called promiscuous. They tend to make several products
at several conditions. For example, if you have high light or high temperature, they'll make
beta-cariophylline. In other cases, it's cold. They'll make... They prefer to make... Same enzyme
would prefer to make something else. So you can manipulate the terpene profile just by
agricultural practices and fertilization, for example. And then to answer the second half of
the question, can you make terpenes that are not... The enzyme is not in the DNA. That's the answer
would probably be not. If there's an enzyme that makes some sort of a terpene that makes the smell
of cherries or blueberries, not that I know which one it is, but assuming there is one,
I think there's actually one for blueberry. If you don't have the right enzyme in the germplasm
that you're breeding with, you just don't have the machinery. So that would be kind of a...
Actually an easier task to breed. A yes-no question, right? You could have introduced
the enzyme that makes the smell of blueberries. How much of it is a different question? Like
whether it makes a lot of that blueberry smell or little, that would be a more difficult question
to address, but yes-no, fairly easy to do by breeding. Okay, I'll read a question. So
you touched on TRP9 synthase producing terpenes, but not on cannabinoid synthesis.
Do conditions and metabolites create a competitive nature in terpene in cannabinoid synthesis?
Wow. I would say yes. I have a slide. I don't want to go back into slides, but I have a slide
that shows the overlap or tangent between... There are precursors that lead to the same pathway
in the organ at which it's, you know, the trichomes and the different types of cells
that produce... The trichomes are the sweatshop of the plant. They're making huge amounts per volume
of specific compounds. So there may be limited and regulated on how much is in there.
And by the flux of the carbon backbone going into pathway one or two, terpenes or cannabinoids,
they share a common backbone kind of way before. So there may be...
Yeah, it gets more complex in the biochemistry there, but there could be a case where there's
a limiting factor in the carbon flux heading to the plant and
their enzyme that makes the terpenes or kind of directs the carbon towards the terpenes is a more
successful or more productive enzyme. More would go towards terpenes, less would go towards
cannabinoids. That could happen in theory. I guess each variety may have... Each cultivar may have its
own, you know, but the answer is yes.
We got any more questions, Peter?
Okay. Jack is asking, when growing from seed, how many varieties of males can one expect?
So if you don't have true males in a population, one can expect zero males.
In cannabis, you could actually have something called X males or converted males or pollen donor
or whatever you want to call them, only females in the system. And you force your female to make
pollen and you cross with it, feminized seed, and you would not have males in the system, zero.
If you did have male pollen, the Y chromosome there came from a male and maybe you'd have
distribution ranging from 50% to lower frequencies of males. They would be... I'll have to think
about this for a second. You may have several types of males. You may have a few types of males.
You may have several types of males. I don't know if you would actually be able to tell the
difference, but genetically you could. If there had been recombination in the male pollen,
then each one would be unique, right? They're not inbred, they're heterozygous. And if you haven't
if you haven't used an inbred male, then you'd have new combinations of male pollen
interacting with female cells and creating new embryos. So you'd have,
I can't tell you in what frequency, but you have multiple types, if any.
So a while ago, Flora Nugs asked, can you identify hermit traits at the RNA slash DNA level?
Yeah, I addressed that a while ago that, first of all, there'd been a publication about that
that pretty recently. I don't know how wide of a conclusion you could draw from that,
as there are several types of hermaphrodism. But that publication shed a lot of light on
the mechanisms of sex determination in cannabis. So in theory, if you mapped it, and it's a
it's a mappable trait, and it's genetic and not entirely environmental,
or at least the predisposition is genetic, you can map it and within a certain germplasm,
you would be able to generate a marker of which plants would actually tend to hermaphrodite. But
we don't have a ready-made marker for you, no. We will need to map it and identify it.
Well, in conventional breeding, like what I do typically, I've got from 1%, I think 10%
20 years ago, if you had 10% females, that was considered good, or 10% males in your feminized
seed, that was considered good. And then slowly got breeding, got better and better, especially
over in Europe, and it got to that 1%. And now we're looking at some of the varieties that I'm
breeding, and I'm working with, with some of my friends, we're looking at that 0.02, which is like
one in 5000. And that's just using, you know, the conventional traditional methods of breeding. So
I think that you're still going to have it no matter what that that 0.02, one in 5000 is still
considered an acceptable number. But maybe someday we'll have zero. I mean, it's anything's possible.
We have generated a genotyping set that for a particular genotype or germplasm that you work
with, you could screen through, call out the males and would have zero, absolute zero, just you would
get rid of all the plants that have a Y chromosome. You have genetic markers that could identify a Y
and an X, get rid of all the Ys, zero. It's work. I mean, you have to screen a lot of plants,
but once you've got rid of the Y, it's not in the population. It's just not there. I'm not
exactly sure also that's a recommended practice on breeding sites. There's some advantages to
using males, but this is an entirely different conversation. Wow.
Oh, minor cannabinoids to become the major cannabinoids.
Oh, okay. Short answer. Yes, not easy.
And sorry, James, for cutting your face off.
Okay. Yeah. So I think that's all the time we have for today. I really appreciate you coming
on the show, Ori. Sure. Enjoyed it. Yeah. Usually I go to more, a lot of the conferences I talk at
are very scientific. A lot of people were not actually touching the plant, they're in the lab.
So it's always kind of nice to speak to people who are actually field or growing the plant
or using the plant. Always fun. So I enjoyed it. Thank you so much for inviting me over.
Yeah. I think people loved it. I posted a comment a long time ago, someone saying,
I'll probably need to watch this three or four times to soak it all up. So everyone appreciates
your time. Thank you. And they can reach out to EnerGene, send us on our website, there's
webinars and explanations of what we do, how we do, reach out, send questions.
What's the website? EnerGene.com.
Yep. Like that? Excellent. All right. You got it.
And the main MC in the conversation is this guy.
Yeah. Thank you guys. Thanks everyone for watching. Next week, we have Rick from Mosca
Seeds and we may have Eric from Dungeon Vault come on the show to discuss
regular breeding and seeds in the United States. So I hope you guys tune in. Thanks again, Ori.
And James, what was the audience feedback if they knew anyone who was an expert in what topic?
Oh man, I've already forgot.
Yeah, I did too.
I think Oregon CBD would be a great, great group to have on the show. I want to do a hemp one
coming up in the future. So if anyone wants to recommend some hemp companies, they'd like this
to be featured on the show, that'd be great. I think hemp is kind of a big topic now.
I think people, it's changed and evolved so much. So yeah, I really look forward to it.
Yeah. And everybody wants the loud hats.
Yeah. We're going to make new loud hats. We got some new ones coming down the pipe.
All right. So everybody holds tight.
I'm in for one. I earned it.
Yeah. Definitely.
Well, good luck to you next week, Ori.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks Ori. Thanks James. And everybody, we'll be back tomorrow at 3 PM Pacific time with Olfactory
Genetics talking about their seed line. So.
Thanks everybody.
With that, I will kill the live stream. Thanks everyone.
