All right, it says we're live and here we are with the coastal testers group
number two. We're here talking to Kagyu again. We're gonna tell him about what
we've been seeing with these plants so far and I guess we'll just let him start
with what it is that he wants to know and then we'll we'll just start talking
and just go around the circle here. So welcome Kagyu, good to see you again man.
Yeah, welcome. I can't remember what I gave Peter. Did I
share the Swazi Burmese Columbian? Does anybody here have that in their garden?
Let me check. What I tried to do for this round was generally give everybody the
same. You had sent like five packs of the... Yeah, so that's what I tried to get
out to most people and then I think Chenzo has something different. You got
to unmute yourself. Yeah, we got the Kauai electric tie over here. And then if you
can turn your camera sideways like a TV. What? Like... Yeah, yes, there you go. Look at
that. Wow. I'll highlight you since you're showing plants. Yep, so here's the Kauai
electric. Nice. It's got a lot of red veins. That looks happy. It uses a lot of water, I noticed.
Do you use much fert? I don't use too much fertilizer, you know, minimal on some like
non-organics, you know, for elemental stuff and then basically kelp and fish meal, you know,
fish extract. Yeah, yeah, I noticed most of these I've been working with the last four or five
years for land-raised crosses and they don't particularly like fertilizer at all. I don't
really use anything. I haven't used anything this year. I just been doing... Buddy of mine
is up at a seminar up in Northern California. I think it's
Carverville or something. He does KNF. He's been spraying my plants with... I don't know what all
the fermentation is, but it's to help give the plants immunity and help them build up their
resistance to the Botrytis because I get it bad on the dense flowers here because I'm so close to
the coast. He had a problem up there up north and then he started using this and he got about a 90%
results on that with no Botrytis. So, it's the first year I've tried that on all my plants.
I'm kind of interested to find out how everything goes.
Well, I'm in a very arid... I'm in the San Fernando Valley. It's very dry and hot. So,
we don't get bud rot here. Yeah, that's good. Yeah.
I do, so I'm interested in how that's going to go for sure.
Yeah, I can get... When he gets back from his seminar, I can get all that information
and then we can talk about it on there because I don't know what they all... Some of them take a
couple months to ferment and then he mixes in all kinds of different things to put into the foliar
spray. I like the hoop, man. That's nice.
Thank you, Bill.
Yeah, very cool.
I'm right up the hill from you in Conejo Valley. So, I'm up in the Tio West Lake area.
That's cool.
Same thing, Suatanejo, Tai. And really interesting from a pheno standpoint,
it's not too dense in veg state, I noticed, and you're looking similar.
Yeah. Although this is a Kawaii Electric cross with Tai.
Okay. Yeah, I haven't run Tai. I've always been more of like... Last season was Mendo Bubba,
Mendo Bubba 398, and it's definitely a bit denser, but I haven't run much Tai
historically. So, I'm kind of getting used to this structure. It's a little...
Well, the last Tai I grew was actually just 100% Tai and it was like 40 years ago,
so I can't really remember too much, except for that it took all the way till January to freaking
be ready.
Oh my gosh. Well, I guess that's one thing maybe to ask all of you guys, when did you pop your
beans? Because I always feel like I'm late in the year being a NorCal guy at heart. I've been down
in SoCal for a handful of years now, but I felt I started late coming in mid-late March. Is that
about the same time or were you a little bit earlier?
Yeah, I started in... But I've kind of... I guess these were some of the earliest ones I planted
in March. Yeah.
Okay. You're about the same height too. Interesting how that Tai really shines through
on both iterations.
They're about 45 inches tall. I've topped them because I only have eight feet, you know what
I mean? So, I've got to keep things small and bushy in here, but it seems to be doing well.
I was afraid that I had a male and I do have a male, I guess. I just don't want to believe it.
I separated it.
So, I ended up with one as well and I took some video yesterday before I felt bad. I always feel
bad. I'm like you, I'm natural. Very little nudes. I try to go as natural as possible, outdoor
at heart. I had a male between two females and I wanted to do something, but I'm just like I can't.
It can't be anywhere near these two females. So, I pulled it out of the equation as well,
but I felt bad.
I took it out of the hoop house.
There it is. Okay. I got you.
Better keep an eye on the onshore offshore winds for you over there in SFB, man.
It could blow the wrong way if those pods pop.
Well, you know, the funny thing is we had some rain this morning.
Oh, you got it. We did. They're talking about it. We never saw it.
Yeah. It was like I woke up and I heard like water splashing on the roof. I thought the
neighbor was like cleaning off her solar panels and now it was raining.
Crazy.
So, I've got some other stuff here.
Is that cocoa in the mix there too?
Yeah, I put the cocoa on the top just so it does, you know, keep the moisture in the soil.
Yeah.
On some of these, you know, I've got other things growing in here. We got a little,
this is arugula, but this thing is an 88G13. Peter had me help him with the seed project. I put one
of those seeds in the ground. It's kind of stunky and little. It's only my seven gallon pot, but
I'm interested to see what it's going to be like.
Yeah, for sure.
And then I have a question. Maybe you guys can help out.
Look at this plant. This is a potty mouth from Humboldt Seed Company.
And it's got little bits of yellow on the tips. And I thought, okay, is that, what is it,
manganese, zinc, or boron, freaking iron deficiency? What is it? Anybody know?
Get in there closer. It could be variegation.
Can you see?
Yeah.
This is always a rabbit hole whenever this starts. So, I'm not even gonna add to it.
Sorry about that.
Yeah.
But I fed it some of that mineral minimums, and it seems to be doing okay. But it's the
only one that did that, but whatever.
What pH are you running?
I always go down somewhere between five, seven, and six, three.
Yeah.
Interesting. Yeah, you might want to drop that in there.
Really well.
Maybe ask Nat and the guys if it just, I mean, they, you know, it might be something that
they're familiar with, because they've been running that for a while. So, the guys might
actually be able to, you know, to let you know over at HSC.
That's a great idea.
You know, because it's always unique. I mean, that's the thing, right? Especially if you're
pulling straight seeds. Historically, traditionally, someone has some insight on strengths and
weaknesses, you know, no matter, you know, the format, if you're indoor, outdoor, light,
etc. But, you know, they might have some insight on that, because it's kind of unique. You
know, you guys are right. It could be anything, you know, when you start seeing discoloration.
Which one are you running, Ed?
So, Peter reached out to me in March and offered me a chance to be a tester. I'd like to say
thank you. And then once he told me what the company was, I immediately went on to Future
Cannabis Project and looked up Kaju. And I seen the interview, I think, with Kaju.
Mean Gene was there. I forget the other gentlemen's. Oh, it was Toad. And so, I did a
little bit of research. And I was just like, the more I dove in, the more I was excited about
what's happening. I feel very fortunate. And so, I spoke to my uncle. I said, hey, I'm gonna be a
tester for this company, Z Watanayho by Tai. And he said, oh, man, Z Watanayho in the 70s. He said
he'd get off of a sailboat, go to Z Watanayho and party his ass off. And he said, you know, it's
just like, I forget what city's next to it, you know. But he said, it's just a real nice place to
go. He's like, we need to go. And it's great there. And then from there, I received the seeds,
probably March 28th. By the 6th of the following month, I had them in pots. And
started out with six. And then a dog took one. I got these new puppies. They're pit bull pups,
you know. And they're little. And I'm like, I'm not thinking. They weren't messing with
nothing else. They took one. And I said, shit, just cuts the chances. What if that was just
the one female? You know, through the whole scenario. So, then I had five. And had them
going for like, you know, two weeks. And then a snail took one and chewed the top off of it.
I thought I was gonna lose it. So, nature tested that. And that aspect, it bounced back. It made
it into, you know, kind of topped it. And then all of a sudden, there's four tops. And it's
bushing out like a real crazy, you know. But I did lose another one in the nursery garden.
You know, moved it from the browse to the nursery garden. Dogs broke in there again.
I ended up with four. And they have been in the ground for about, coming up on five weeks,
this Saturday. I'm gonna have to agree with Lance. I don't know. I had a late start myself.
Usually, I like to start March 3rd. This year, I started on the 26th, like a full moon or
somewhere around there. I did a full moon pop. But I always start March 3rd. But I had just had
one, some jinx proof genetics, which was mother tongue at the time. So, I held back and it was
being shipped to me. And then I have some burgers and beer that was gifted to me by the ranch that
I got going on. So, a lot of things all fired off at the same time this year. And the plants
are looking really good. I haven't had, I've got one confirmed as a female out of the four,
you know. But I put them in the ground in haste because they weren't showing.
Four strains I started out with, two of them confirmed within like six weeks of what they
were. And the other one was lingering another two weeks. Next thing you know, it's, you know,
May. I forget how I wrote it down right here. You know. Yeah, it was just in May when I planted them.
And they bounced back. They're doing well. Like, they're being tested because I'm a caveman,
first of all. Anything I work with, it's getting tested. So, I'm excited to show them, you know,
I'm in the room right now. And once we get to do the rounds, then I'll go outside, you know.
Yeah, I got a late start this year. Somewhat purposely, I didn't start anything till
the end of April. And then some in May. I just didn't, I only have them in,
I have them in 15-gallon SmartPots. Small this year. I'm over having these 15-footers.
It's classic.
And you got to get the both, enjoy both the best of both worlds, you know.
Yeah.
You know, you can't be one over the other because there's like comparing indoor to outdoor apples
and oranges. It's just, you know, they all have their place.
Yeah, that's true.
They definitely do.
Absolutely.
I just had a question for Lance. I was just trying to write it down so I
get familiar with everyone as well. Where do you live, Lance?
So, I'm actually, I'm just up from, since I'm up in the Thousand Oaks, Conejo Valley. So,
essentially the next valley north of Conejo Valley in Southern California.
So, like the West Lake Thousand Oaks area. Kind of similar to where I live.
Yeah.
But I'm actually, I'm actually from the Conejo Valley. So, I'm actually from the Conejo Valley.
So, I'm actually from the Thousand Oaks area.
Kind of sandwiched if you're on your way to Ventura County from LA.
That's where I'm at.
And with me saying that, I probably didn't introduce myself. I live in San Diego. My name's Ed.
And I think I got me fairly nice weather here. I can grow year round.
I am near the coast. So, that's my biggest enemy is powdery mildew.
So, when I hear Kaju talk about his elements and what he deals with, I identify with it too.
You know, we have different, totally different like day, everything. But we share a lot of
stuff together.
Our priorities, yeah.
Yeah.
Mine's a little unique. I'm about a thousand foot elevation. It's weird because, you know,
it's a grade on either side. So, you know, like again, like San Fernando Valley versus up here.
And it's weird because we get onshore, offshore. You know, we get those Santa Anas. Everyone talks
about. But we also get, you know, this little coastal breeze that comes in from Point Magoo
and Camarillo, makes its way up the hill.
The thing that I keep dealing with, and I think it's just my specific location beyond a, you know,
microclimate or this Appalachia is freaking budworms. I don't know about you guys, but
no matter what I'm popping, man, every, because I'm all about outdoor.
And again, same thing. Everything has its place. Nothing gets indoor or light depth.
I just love really seeing what the true pheno is going to come out from genetics. I'm going to put
them outside, but I'm going to do something about it. I try to avoid, try to keep all natural,
but I'm getting away from neem and trying something different this year.
With growing up here.
We got budworms here too. That's why I put up the screen over the hoop house.
And I've, you know, this year it seems to be a little bit,
I haven't seen too many inside the hoop house at all.
And, you know, I even sprayed with BT last year, you know, in the early veg state,
just to make sure that, you know, this, this screen really helps.
Yeah. That's, that's, I'm hoping for too. I did a kind of a makeshift screen. Definitely
didn't do hoop cause I'll do hoops on the side, but this one I have like right outside my window,
love kind of getting to see them and smell them every morning when I'm
going in and grabbing a tea, you know, but I tried the whole screen as long as I could,
but that same thing, I mean, I hate to spray, but you know, you gotta do something
cause you hate to lose it. I mean, you crop out all because of these things and you can
try to eradicate them, but oftentimes it's just too late. You know, they, they come,
they kind of come into the eyesight, you know, later on during the flower stage,
but I think it's kind of interesting, Ed, I'm on the same time as you, man. I don't
just coincidence, I guess. So I actually document too. I put my side, I do old school. So I, you
know, do them in the Ziploc, then Ziploc to solo cups, solo cups to, you know, again, just,
just how I was taught growing up, but I dropped them on 326. So it's actually the same as March
26th. And then I swapped out to soil, went outside on May 7th. So same thing. So I started
getting late. I went to, I went from sprouting them to a one gallon, drop it in the one gallon.
And then I gave them a one gallon and I let them just sit there, you know, and
they, they, they'll show sex within like six, eight weeks. But the other strain that didn't
show was, is called Royal Bloodline by Cali Caveman. And that's vanilla berry, vanilla
berry pie times dragon's blood, hash plant times cherry bomb. Anyways, I was like, man,
it's not showing it. I'm looking at them and the other two, I was able to pick out the, you know,
one of each strain that was going. And I, and it was just, you just get pressure. Like,
I just got to drop them. Like it's, I'll put them all together and I'll get rid of the males
and go with it. You know, I'm trying, I'm really like controlling, but I have to be flexible and
all right, we'll do it this way. Yeah. And I don't mind. And it was great to see everything
kind of flourish, you know, budworms though. Yeah. Okay. So I wasn't thinking about them
because I try not to fuck stress out, excuse me, excuse my language. But yeah, if I start
those guys, man, they make, they've made me want to quit so many times. I'm like, dude,
why don't I want to do this? I don't know what I'm doing. Why? The most stressful thing ever.
Yeah. Many of those moths this year, last year and the year before there were shit loads of them
and I've tried the traps and BT and all that, but I don't know. I don't know what else to do. I
don't, I'm not, I just don't use heavy chemicals. I don't use any of that stuff.
That's all I'm trying. You know, I'm in a straight, I'm actually getting ready to head
out on the road, but Dipel Pro DF, the biological. So I'm giving that a try while it's still in
veg. I obviously don't want the same thing. Don't want to touch, touch it with anything.
Once it goes to flower. But from what I've heard from the guys that are growing, same thing,
they have a little bit more of a coastal restraint. Like you guys are talking about up in carp in
Santa Barbara County, but they deal with the same thing with budworms and that's, they said,
works for them. Highly diluted, of course, but you know, they say it's not harmful, you know,
during a, obviously during veg and again, you know, a little bit more on the natural side versus
some other solutions. So I've never tried it before, but you know, willing to give it a go.
So I don't have to get frustrated and think about quitting as well. Cause you nailed it. And I'm
like out of everything, they're just disgusting. It's just annoying. I mean, I'll deal with
everything else, but you start getting into it and you're like, man, you're so far along
oftentimes before you start really seeing the true damage. So I, I, I'm not in the business of
a taking my stuff to a dispensary. I don't need a, you know, guidelines and hey, I think there's
strength in numbers. Keep your numbers high, get some more weight going, understand that nature's
going to probably want to take its, you know, share. And, um, yeah, but you know, it's, it's
a work in progress, you know, especially with only, you know, really fifth year in a row,
growing outdoors for me in a row consecutively, but I've got other ones spread through as well
as indoor. And I'm just humble, like, Hey man, I'm, I'm, you know, 46, I'm still young. And I'm,
this is like a 20 year plan and just chill. You know, I don't try to overload with what I'm doing.
Like I said, I'm a caveman. I'll add a little, like last year was the first time I ever used CalMag
and anything. And it did kind of help with like seeing, you know, yellowing or some dips, you know,
little shit going on. So it's not like I was like, Oh, I'm going to lean on this CalMag. It was like,
all right, you just use a little, use a little less than what they say and see it. And I grow
in ground. So it's a little different. So same. Yeah. I just stay humble along the way, but yeah,
those worms, man. So what do you guys, I guess one thing I'd ask is cause I'm a big advocate of,
of companion planting as well. So as far as if any of you guys are running anything or have had
success with anything you know, just in general, I know it's not specific to these genetics, but
cause I've done, I flanked this year's with marigolds and then I'm running sage and mint
in between, which I've always had luck with the aromatic herbals, you know,
yeah. The marigold, is that what you said? Yeah. Marigolds. Yeah. Marigold on the edge,
evidently the rabbits. We did some of that here in the yard, you know, and it's just like,
I've got so many different plants though. I've got grape tree out there. I've got in a compacted
area. I've got like some different things and shoot, man, it's a battle all the way. It was
like, you'd look at that little flower and I don't know how much it's doing. I don't know how
much I just got myself last year at the end of the season, a dino trap. I haven't opened the box
and set it up yet, but I'm going to, I'm going to try it and see what we get out of that. I mean,
and last year, the first year I used plant therapy. Usually I use Dr. Zimes, but then it doesn't
really, I don't think it takes care of budworms, but I enjoyed using the plant therapy last year.
I did see like a difference. Nice. Yeah. I had all you guys being, sorry. That's all right.
There's all y'all being in Southern Cali. I'd be using a rosemary so I wouldn't have to plant
stuff all the time. Just get rosemary plants going. I got rosemary. That would be my approach
if I was where you guys were. Yeah. Does it work for you? Awesome. Awesome. I'm trying to select
one that I can keep over winter here, but I'm not, I haven't successed yet, but I'm going to keep
trying. Yeah. What are you growing Lance? Sorry, we're talking over each other here. Yeah. You had,
you had a thought, sorry. So for the budworms and different things that there's so many
varieties in so many ways they show up, but like the mobs and little, you know, them butterflies,
but they're not butterflies. They're just flailing around. I guess when they, they hit,
they're just running around planting eggs. Right. That's, that's what I've heard. And I watch them
in my yard. So when I was using the plant therapy, it was a trip to watch them kind of fly around.
And then they're like, okay, they didn't really like land. They kept going, but I don't use it
through the full season. So then when it was like, okay, you haven't used plant therapy in four weeks,
then they would be landing and dropping eggs. Some nice hedges, right? Of rosemary.
Yeah, that's I'm with you Elka. I think that's a good idea. I'll try, cause I haven't tried
rosemary. Like you said, I'm definitely about the herbals because it's always good to use in the
kitchen anyway, you know, to keep them under control because you let mink go and it just
runs wild, which I'm fine with that too. But yeah, that's, that's what I've been using. Like I said,
the rabbits took out the marigolds. I was kind of stoked on running some marigolds and just having
them again, kind of flank the area I'm using for these guys. I'd say it's like a, about three foot
by 10 foot area. So not a large bed to work with, but there is enough obviously below canopy to be
able to run some of these, especially partial sun, you know, type plants. But I said with the road,
with the, with the rosemary recommendation, I'll probably switch out where I've got the marigolds
on the far end and now I have to have to take out the male. It was just coincident with the females
were flanking the male. So with the gap in the middle of pulling the male out, I definitely got
some room to work with as well. So looking forward to it. I'm going to, I'm going to block my cam.
And then, you know, I guess we're good into it. I'll go outside so we could see some of these
outdoors, Z Watanaho, Thai crosses by Kaju. I just looked up Z Watanaho, it's in the state of
Guerrera. Oh wow. We used to get amazing Guerrera weed. Great weed. See, I never, I knew about like
Acapulco gold and I remember getting Northern even from south of the border, but I'd never,
I wasn't familiar with this cultivar before getting these seeds, I have to say. So it's kind
of new to me. And same thing, like I said, being only so experienced with Thai cultivars as well,
you know. Z Watanaho is really hard to get the pure line of that, I'll tell you.
Yeah. That's difficult. They're pretty much diluted in Mexico, except for a few areas. And
then if you know people, I had a buddy, well, I just met him actually. He came up from Mexico City.
He lives down there. He went down to finish his degree years ago and then ended up staying there.
And he and his wife came up and it was real nice. We went to lunch yesterday down at the Wharf.
And he was telling me about his plants that he's doing down there and stuff and
pretty interesting. He lives in Mexico City and I was there in 74 and man, it was polluted bad.
He said it's better now. Yeah, he's met a lot of locals and acquired a lot of
different seeds. So I'll be trying some of those probably next season.
Probably John will be doing some too. Nice. Yeah, to your point, I guess I've always been a huge fan
of landrace and, you know, thankfully being in this industry for some time, I've been able to
meet those kind of people around the world. And I had a friend that was coming out for a few events
for MJ Biz and Emerald Cup a few years ago. And he said, hey, can I bring anything from South Africa?
Because, you know, I dated a young lady from out there four or five years. And I'm like, if you
can bring any Durban poison that hasn't been corrupted, hasn't been crossbred or, you know,
maybe backbred, but not crossbred. And he brought me some and my gosh, I gave him one of my guys in
NorCal. They were 15 foot avocado trees is what they looked like. He was sending me the pictures.
You get those true purebreds. They definitely go wild, you know, like you were talking about
earlier. I mean, they just they just let loose. So but they're hard to find. Like all these are
so hard to find. I'm still looking for a true northern lights that hasn't been messed with,
you know, I know it exists. It's just a matter of getting my hands on it.
Well, which one are you looking for?
I'm trying to get as, you know, all the way back to the original iteration as possible,
you know, because I'm not the only thing I'm finding is stuff that's been crossed more recently,
not not any of the desert, you know, what I call the trendy triangle strains, none of that stuff.
But even the stuff I'm finding now is like a northern cross was skunk or something funky.
You know, I'm not finding anything that's that's even close to legitimate original land race.
Well, I have a bunch of Afghan seeds. My friend brought me from Kabul two years ago. If anybody
wants any of those, what they're good for is to breed hardiness into the plant. They're weak
by themselves. And most of them have like that the donkey dick bud structure. But I crossed
them with OG and got some really amazing cheesy buds. Nice. And but they they bring hardiness. I
noticed all of my Afghan crosses do much better in my heat than most of my other plants. Yeah.
So if you want any northern lights, I have the number one. If you want any,
go with. I've got like four, four or five different female seeds, or feminizer,
different females. I got a buddy, classic sage who's passed away a couple years ago, but
and I did a seed increase and sent him back. But he got those years and years ago. And
you're welcome to some of those if you want them.
Oh, my gosh, that'd be awesome. Yeah.
What are they?
Northern Lights number one.
Is that the same line that Bob used? Are those the ones that you gave Graham also?
Yeah.
Awesome. Cool. Good to know. Thank you. I learned something useful today.
So did Ed say he he flat top those?
Ed, I know you're on mute. I don't know if you can hear.
No, no, no. The one on the one over here in the corner. So there's four of them here.
These are the final four, so to speak. But when I was mentioning a snail had
got to one when it was like, you know, day 14 into sitting in the one gallon.
Snail, you know, took off the top and it bounced back and
and it made like four tops. But they all this one is is
no, no topping. This one self topped itself. I think I don't know why some happened there.
But those ones are.
Man, they're untouched, but they've been in the they've been here.
This will be week five out of a one gallon that's like similar to just,
you know, one of these that kind of look like like that.
Nice. This one is this one's a female. This one's a female.
I believe the one that is a female. Yeah, I'm starting to see it.
And then I showed it the nodes a lot sooner. That's crazy.
I had a dog's been tearing up the dirt.
So everybody else is seeing that with these plants, too, is these things have sexed earlier
than anything else that I've ever grown. I've never had anything that sexes at the height
of the summer with the sun being at its longest. This is so it's cool that you guys are seeing the
same thing. Yeah, I wonder if I took I might have taken pictures, but it's a great it's
incredible how big the sacks were. This is a girl. Congratulations. It's a girl.
The earliest that I've ever had something start to show sex is usually like early July. Like
that's the norm for me. So this is this is interesting that it's happening a few weeks
earlier. Yeah, I agree. I wonder if it's this heat. It might not be the plants. It could be
just this abnormal heat this spring. Yeah, it could very well be. That's very true.
Some quartz rock for some energy frequency. I have a rock at the base of one of mine,
and it was purely to straighten the stock. The thing just did for some reason is wanting to
grow out sideways. I have no idea why. And I'm like, well, let nature straighten things out.
So I've got a rock still sitting at the base of one of mine about the same size.
I was really worried that I wasn't going to get getting going, you know, and it's just great to
see it bounce, bounce back and it's she's going to get big. But this is how my you know, this year's
gonna be a small year. Yeah, man. That's burgers and beer by the ranch. Not to get off topic.
What is that? I mean, what what origin? So that's a GMO cross to Larry Ogee. And then it's
so that makes Donnie burger. So it's actually Donnie burger cross to man. I haven't written
down. Oh, root beer. It's crossed the root beer. Wow. So it's a skunk master flex by a mean gene
from Mendocino. Yeah. And I like to do the cage. You know, this this is like the typical way I do
it. That's I do, too. I do. I got to pick up something over there. I'm going to create something
because I need room. I haven't had dogs in a long time. This is the mother tongue by Jinx Proof.
It was the first female and I just went with it. Probably. Actually, I gave one of my friends one.
I want to see how his is doing, but it's just really slow for me, but I'm happy with it.
And then these are some F2s. Actually, it's documented on Guerrero Grosso.
I had like males and one male and like four females here. Of a cross that I've done.
So. But I was wondering, does this look familiar? I mean, is everyone getting the same thing?
Yeah, it's a lot. That's for sure. And I think, Kaju, that's what the purpose of crossing into
the Zihuatanejo kind of works with the tie, right? Yeah, that's my original Zihuatanejo.
The leaves were a little wider than that. That's leaning a little narrower. So it's
definitely got some tie influence there. It's got that. When you're getting in there close,
the inner nodes are not too far apart, which is good. Some of them are, but it didn't look too bad.
Yeah. And after this show, I'm going to do what I need to do and clean it up. You know,
we don't need to drape it in and laying on the floor and force the energy up. But I wanted to
make sure she was going to get good. They were going to get going good. Yeah. I just love looking
at them and they follow the sun. Yeah, your structure is a little bit different than mine.
I'm sure we'll probably pop up my video in a few, but mine are definitely stretching a bit taller.
And then they, same thing, kind of exactly. You know, my leaves are a bit, I was really
impressed. They're some of the fattest leaves that I've seen just because I've been running
so many heavy hybrids over the last few seasons. I was really impressed with the leaf structure too.
Your leaves are looking a little bit narrower than mine, although they're kind of peeling up a
little bit. They're loving the sun right now, but that's so interesting how the, again, you know,
I know it comes down to Fino, but so interesting how someone, you know, you're just a few hundred
miles, okay, whatever, 300 miles South, but still. It makes a big difference. Yeah, it totally does.
Yeah. When did you get yours into the ground or into your final destination, Lance?
So, first week of May, I went, I popped them March 26th and then had them sitting in solos
in the window as long as I could and then dropped them in the ground. They were still pretty, you
know, they were young, but I dropped them in the ground just because I felt confident with the soil
mix I had. I do a natural 420 mix and so dropped them in and then they just took off. I mean,
yeah, you know, I was totally taken aback. I'm used to, you know, seeing an inch or two of growth,
you know, every week. These are just like, I don't know how much more xenon. I'm thinking
maybe another foot, foot and a half, just the way it's structured out. But I also, like I said,
I don't flat top. I don't manipulate. It's the first time I'm running genetics. I always try
to stay as natural as possible just to see, you know, the true expression of the genetics.
That's right. So, but again, it's different.
I like that question because I got mine in on the 21st. So, you know, I was just waiting,
you know. I usually let them just sit in the one gallon and that's good. I mean, the extra
two weeks or whatever being ahead, you're right on track. Yeah, I don't like to top either,
but I do like to super crop my top. Yeah. So, I'm waiting for this to get a little bit bigger.
I mean, I'll do my thing there.
Wouldn't you just got mom sitting in the background there?
Can you see that? Oh, wow. It just keeps going. That's what I'm talking about, man.
Yeah. There's a yard volunteer from earlier this year. Some of my crosses went to Reveg.
Crazy. Yeah. I was going to say something. I totally blanked out. How does that happen?
How does that happen, guys? This is the nerds. Also a tester for this. Thank you, Peter.
Hopefully, we'll get to do a, you know, a meeting soon as well. Mystery cross,
so we don't know what it is. This is the Royal Bloodline by Kelly Caveman.
Yeah. God, they're rich. That's looking good. What do you think?
Nothing. Man. I promise you, man. Yeah. I probably gave them like one feeding of, what is it?
Worm casting tea. Oh, okay. That's what I was going to ask, if at least you're running tea.
They're loving it. Yeah, but I did that like as soon as I planted them, probably like five weeks
ago. In a real light dose, you know? Yeah. These ones were looking horrible, and I was like, no,
they're going to pull through. Again, there's four of them here. I don't like to do it,
but whatever. It's a way to learn different scenarios, man.
What is that genetics there? Royal Bloodline? What is that?
Royal Bloodline. This is a vanilla berry pie crossed to a dragon's blood hash plant
and crossed to cherry bomb. Nice. Yeah. What's interesting, I'm not going to lie. This guy,
I got him at the Emerald Cup 2018. Oh, wow. 2017 in VIP, and he was just handing out seeds,
and he's a real low-key dude, but he's in the industry, and he's got it going on, too.
I want to say that was the last good ... Well, I shouldn't say it that way, but that was the last
year of Emerald Cup as we knew it. Yeah. Yeah, so it's 2017. Oh, my God, you guys, when they were
just packs on packs, it was just so ... Man. 2019 was my last year. I went for, I think,
five years in a row, 2016 all the way to 2019. Oh, so you saw the evolution from ...
Oh, yeah. I don't know how I ended up in that magical experience, even though it's down,
but I've witnessed it. Yeah. Because the vendors became sponsors. Yeah. Yeah.
So all of a sudden, you go to get some weed, and it looks like you're going to buy makeup for your
wife at the MAC Sephora. Fucking bright lights. Why do I need all these bright lights in my face,
and why do you guys have cash registers? What's going on?
I got to wait in line for my Humboldt seed, company seed, and no one told me to fill out
a ticket before. That was a real crack. It was crazy. It's got a bit bougie.
Yeah. I went VIP every year, and it was great. I'm in the VIP, they're like,
what are you doing? I'm like, I'm a drywaller. That's it. They don't believe me. They don't
believe me. Yeah. Right. But it's fun because you meet a lot of people, and I love the Emerald Cup,
and I'm looking forward to going and being humble about whatever experience I have.
Yeah. For sure. For sure.
Yeah. This is going to be great, man. I'm very happy, and I feel very fortunate.
I wish I had more questions for you, Kaju.
Well, everything looks really good. I'm really fortunate that you guys are involved in this,
because I told Peter I haven't had very good luck with people testing. They,
for whatever reason, I won't get into any of the weird shit.
I've heard you talk about it. I've heard you talk about that aspect, and pretty much everyone says
they don't get feedback. But I mean, that's part of the deal, and I love the idea of
having my genetics grown in different areas, and I can find out what I need to do if they're doing
good, if they're not doing good, what the drawbacks are, all the different environmental issues. And
it's really important. I think Bodie sends his out more. He's got some people, too, but
that's how I found out about Peter, actually, was from Bodie.
Oh, dude, anytime Bodie's on the show, I'm listening to every word, every fucking word.
We don't have to be too far apart. He's a good friend.
Yeah, he's actually like the best interview that I've seen, well, that I could connect with.
He's got it down. If you want to have a
smoke test or anything, this guy can, he's, you know, it's got the sage, the blah, blah,
mint, and a little bit of this, and he's really good at it. I never was,
I never had the expertise on that. That guy can do it. Boy, he's good at it.
Jeez. Yeah. I like the experience.
Cool. Yeah, as far as feedback, too, Kaju, you mentioned one thing, and I will give you a feedback
on that. Like I said, I'll do a little bit of nudes just to kind of help it through the early
stages, you know, as it's going through its teen phase. And I have to agree that this, at least
these genetics in specific, weren't really keyed up to the extra juice, so to speak.
So obviously I flushed it out, you know, as quick as I could. But that was one thing that kind of
surprised me because, you know, some of these genetics just almost, it's almost like they
fiend, you know, having that, you know, little artificial help, if you will, along the way. So
it seemed like same thing, gave them a little bit, they bounced right back afterwards, took a week or
two, but really reminded me that to keep it as net, which sounds like everyone's on the same
page, you know, keep it as natural as possible. And it's nice to see a genetic that actually
appreciates that, that says, no, I can get what I need out of what you're providing naturally
within the soil, you know? So it was a very cool experience. Anybody use molasses in gray-white?
No.
Gray-white is like a mycorrhiza, mycorrhizae.
Yeah.
Yeah. I do use when I transplant mycos or mycos, whatever, you know?
And I do notice a difference, but sometimes you run out of it and sometimes your dogs tear it
open, whatever.
These dogs might be more harm than help here, man.
They're just giant pups and, you know, great day in Pitbull.
So wow.
I just have to worry about Mango here. Mango, you're all dirty under there. What are you doing
under there?
She keeps a good guard on the hoop house, I must say.
That's cool.
Caught a mouse the other day.
Oh, wow.
You guys own your own soil or you buy back soil or what?
I have used a combination of like Fox Farms, Ocean Forest with, you know, big chunks of the
perlite and worm castings and some of the frog, happy frog too.
But I bounce back and forth, but as of recently, when they get from being in the
when they get from being sprouted, they go into the one gallon with Fox Farm.
I did a few comparisons with a few and it was just like, why are these ones getting
stunted?
Look at the labels.
Oh, shit.
It's what we use, you know?
Yeah.
I bought this other organic stuff from Sego Nursery.
It's a Japanese nursery and I'm not sure if it was the greatest thing to use because I
think that was the one that I put over here and it's got the weird yellowing on the leaves.
I'm not sure.
I did have mushrooms coming up in one of the plants that I used the mycorrhizae with.
That was wild.
I had a giant mushroom in the yard right by these plants and just yesterday I was cleaning it out.
Yeah.
Yeah, that a few seasons ago I used a recipe for 20 organic.
Same thing, a little bit of worm castings on a transplant, but try not to get too hot in the
soil and try to keep as natural as possible.
Same thing, like around six on the pH and purified water just to be OCD about it.
You know, I love being able to plug one of those inline purifiers.
I literally have a faucet right by this specific bed, which makes it that much easier.
Even then, I'll still, I mean, this just may be me, but I'll still put it in my
watering jug and let it sit for at least 24 hours.
Just kind of let off any of the, I mean, I'm sure it's my new parts per billion,
but chlorine or any other additives that for some reason the filter might not get through.
But I found that out.
Same thing to Ed's point a few years ago, I had mushrooms popping and I know it was a little bit
of the soil, but a little bit of the water that I was running to and just didn't want to have to
worry about it.
That's one thing that scares me is what's happening below the soil line.
Like we can obviously interpret a lot of what's happening above grade, but
that always freaks me out.
I don't want to dig into it because I don't want to disrupt the structure, but I will.
I'll kind of, at least within like a foot, I'll kind of go down at least two or three inches,
kind of see what's going on just to make sure everything's all right.
Especially to make sure I have proper drain because having them in the ground versus above
ground, you never really know what the runoff is, no matter how far down you dig.
So yeah, I bought one of those big boys.
There's two containers.
It's for chlorine and chloramine and the chlorine will vent off if you let it sit,
but the chloramine kind of still stays in there.
And I went ahead years ago and bought this here at a local shop here that sells those.
And it made a big difference.
You don't kill off your good bacteria in there.
Just tell my son about that.
There's good and bad bacteria.
You got to take care of the good stuff.
Don't get out the good with the bad.
Did you say you were getting rid of the chloramine?
It filters the chloramine out and the chlorine.
Yeah.
What does?
These two canisters are, I think they're called big boy.
I got them from a company here that manufactures them.
But I've got real strong.
I live in the city, so there's a lot of chlorine in the water.
Yeah, me too.
When they flush out the lines, it really smells.
Oh, yeah.
I bubble the water to get rid of the chlorine, but I don't have a plan for my chloramine.
Well, I just figured I'd knock them both out and see how it does.
They're doing a lot better and I've got good bacteria.
And I get mushrooms periodically now too.
So, yeah.
I've simplified my mix this year.
I used Pro-Mix, like a 4-4-4,
Wild Earth worm castings and Wild Earth compost.
I changed the compost.
I usually use Malibu.
And it doesn't seem like it's seasoned enough now anymore.
It's just not the way it was a few years back.
I tried this other brand, Wild Earth.
So, this first year I've tried the Wild Earth compost.
Curious.
Yeah, let us know how that is because I've seen that before and haven't tried it either.
So far, it's doing good.
I haven't done any nitrogen in there at all.
I usually give a little taste, but they don't seem to need it.
So, I'm not going to bother with them.
And you said you're there in the city.
I figured you'd be out in like Scott's Valley or something down there.
Or up there, I guess, from here.
Sorry.
No, I've lived here for many years in town.
It's kind of like a little banana bell here.
It's perfect.
I just have to...
I've got two new neighbors there.
They seem cool.
I don't really worry about it anymore.
I did a few years back.
And same with me.
I've got one side.
I mean, they're...
He's about 90 or so.
On the other side, it's a family.
It's funny because the mom came over.
This was years ago.
We moved in.
And she's like, hey, I just want to give you a heads up.
Hopefully, you guys are okay with this.
But my son and his friend, they went and bought some of the weed.
And you might smell it a little bit.
And I'm like, do you know what industry I'm in?
She's like, no.
I'm like, trust me.
I'm not going to be offended by any smell coming from this side of the fence.
And then sure enough, her husband, he does...
Oh my gosh.
He does drones.
I think government for a lot of contracts overseas and stuff.
So I'm sure he has some sort of security clearance stuff.
So just to be safe.
I'm like, oh yeah, I've got some hemp growing on the other side.
But again, his son, I found out his son actually works.
He trams actually down by you in San Fernando Valley.
He's down there with one of the operations.
And so their son's in the industry too.
So it's all good.
I think he's in Vietnam.
I think he's cool.
Same thing.
I don't really care.
I mean, he looks over the fence like Wilson every once in a while to see what's going on.
Because I've got the animal kingdom.
I let the rabbits and squirrels.
I mean, I've got every creature living in my backyard because I'm just a fan of nature.
I think he's peeking every once in a while, wondering where these holes are coming from
on his side of the fence.
But he seems easy going too.
It's the city life versus living out in some land.
I've got skunks and coons here.
That's why I planted mint one year.
I repelled the skunks and it seemed to work.
My last dog we had, we have another one now.
But she's a little Chihuahua terrier.
Man, she's just a toughy.
She'd go out there, man, and think they're cats and come back.
She got squirted in the face a couple of times.
Never stop.
I mean, whenever she'd see them.
I wouldn't let her out there at night.
I'd take her out the front.
Then I ran up and I started planting this mint and it seemed to work pretty good.
Nice.
It does well.
It does well on its own.
That's the nice thing about it.
I use containers with a tray down below because I had them in the front yard once before and
Jesus, it took over.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sure.
Very cool.
Okay.
Did Peter share that video with you?
I just did a short clip.
Yes, I can get to the videos now.
I was like, come in late and answer the soil question.
What were you about to say?
What did you say, Kagyu?
Didn't he show a little bit of that earlier or what?
Or not?
Maybe not.
Maybe another one for you.
That may be another one.
Go ahead and show it if you want.
Yeah, that was to test it and make sure that it works.
Yeah, let's get this out of the way.
And then we'll show the other one too for the man that's not here.
... bags by day, but definitely a home grower at heart by after hours.
Again, it always takes a second.
And wanted to show you what is going on in this corner of the garden.
So I've got the genetics.
Thanks again, guys, for the hookup.
Out of six seeds that I started off with, three obviously came into full fruition in term as far as in the vegetative state right now.
So yeah, we've got three sitting up here against the wall.
Decided to go with a few companion plants next to these guys.
So did marigolds on the outside and then actually have a bit of sage and mint as companions between them.
So...
Yes, you can.
Okay.
Skipped out there, but you guys can see...
Anyone else?
Yeah, a little bit different.
I mean, you're kind of full of almost more.
Here's mine just jumped up there a little bit.
Kind of interesting, but I think Senzo, right?
I think ours are a little bit more similar, but as far as, you know, microclimate, we're probably a bit more similar too,
compared to adding kaiju up in Santa Cruz.
Yeah, dry.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Which plants were those?
Those are the same thing it ends running.
The Zewatadale, right?
Wow, yours are way, way narrower.
Look quite a bit narrower leaf, huh?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's interesting.
The male had badly...
I mean, it looked...
I know we don't reference it so much anymore, but definitely looked indica dominant on the male,
whereas the female structure was a little bit thinner, is a little bit more in line with the heads.
And the male was a fuller plant too.
I should have gotten more pictures before I popped them out, but that's what kind of surprised me too,
is how the expression was slightly different between the male and female.
But they are.
They're a bit thinner and they're a bit taller.
I mean, they're already...
I'm at the same...
I mean, I still can't believe Ed and I essentially popped them and planted them about the same exact time,
which is awesome.
But yeah, I think mine are probably sitting about two and a half foot taller than his.
A key thing is the way the sun travels though too.
So, east to west, right?
And the sun's like pretty much behind me.
So, it's like from the morning, it gets good sun.
Yeah.
I could probably just explain what side of the house,
but I'm on the south side of the back of my house.
Same here.
Yeah, pretty much south side.
So, yeah.
Left to right.
Yep.
Yeah, exactly.
So, you guys want me to try this video one more time to play correctly?
Sure.
All right, let's give it another shot.
What is happening, everybody?
Lance Lambert here, CMO of Grove Bags by Day,
but definitely a home grower at heart by after hours and weekends.
And wanted to show you what is going on in this corner of the garden.
So, I've got the genetics.
Thanks again, guys, for the hookup.
Out of six seeds that I started off with,
three obviously came into full fruition in term as far as in the vegetative state right now.
So, yeah, we've got three sitting up here against the wall.
Decided to go with a few companion plants next to these guys.
Did marigolds on the outside and then actually have a bit of sage and mint as companions between them.
So, if you come over and take a look, one thing that I discovered a bit ago,
but I'm kind of hesitant on pulling down,
but it's not about recreating the genetics or turning these into seed.
So, I do need to pull this down.
But wanted to do this video first.
We actually ended up with a female, a male, and a female.
And I didn't do too much pruning.
I'm not a big fan of flat topping, not a big fan of thinning out.
Try to keep it as natural as possible,
especially when I'm dealing with first round genetics like this.
So, kept them as they are.
It's kind of interesting because the male did end up a little bit more full.
Well, you see at the height, it's pretty similar across the board.
And I think this is about where they're going to max out, maybe another foot or so.
But it's definitely a bit fuller.
But unfortunately, if you come in, you can see what's going on.
I actually got a little bit of sacks, which we all know are full of pollen.
So, need to pull this out, unfortunately, before things get any further.
Or else I'm going to end up again with a bunch of seeded bud.
Getting into down under.
Again, marigolds didn't do too well.
Unfortunately, we have rabbits.
And again, I'm all about natural.
So, not about doing anything to harm the rabbits,
let alone the squirrels or the doves or anything else we have in our backyard.
But we do have the mint right here in the middle, as mentioned.
And we also have the sage, trying to keep those companion plants from flowering as well.
So, trying to cut them off as much as we can and use them.
Obviously, at home here in the kitchen and sharing with family and friends.
Went with a nice 420 soil mix.
Little bit of nutrients early on, but again, I'm not really big on the newts.
Try to do all natural, especially touching genetics for the first time.
Always want to see how they express from a phenotype standpoint.
So, very optimistic.
I do love, again, how they're expressing.
Especially, my gosh, the fan leaves are just beautiful on this genetic.
So, looking forward to seeing what happens over the next several weeks.
And imagine, takedown will probably end up right around September, October.
Again, being that we're doing full-term outdoor.
Anyway, this is the garden.
This is what's going on.
Looking forward to talking to it a little bit more with my fellow growers.
Thanks again.
That's a great video.
Yeah.
Sometimes you gotta kill males.
That male looked really, it looked like a nice one.
Yeah.
I wasn't able to see it.
I don't know why, but everybody else was able to see?
Yeah.
Yeah, it was much denser than the female on the left.
And then we lost Lance.
You want to show the other video?
All right.
Oh, peace, peace.
This is Visual Goodies, aka Vitavius Garden.
These are the two Zuantenejo Thai plants that I started back in April 4th.
Not doing too bad.
I'm here in Denver, Colorado.
My house is about 5,600 feet up.
So, you know, we get pretty dry here, but I'm not doing too bad.
You know, it's the morning right now.
So, I'm about 73, 45.
But with that humidity, just a smidgen, but it ain't too bad.
Yeah, here we are.
So, Visual Goodies, aka Vitavius Garden.
I'm going to go ahead and transplant these young ladies in a few days so they can get
some more space and, you know, get a little bit bigger.
And then we'll see how the flower turns out.
All right, peace.
That one was just like frozen the entire time.
The first one was choppy for me, but I just let it go.
And I'm glad that you all were able to see it, especially you, Kagyu, because you're
really the only one that counts.
These videos were made for you.
Let's try this video one more time.
That one worked for me.
Did everyone else see it normally?
Yeah, I've seen it.
Yeah, I think we're good on that one.
Everyone saw it from start to finish.
No, not yet.
How about the YouTube chat?
Did you guys all see and hear that?
No.
No, not you.
YouTube chat.
Okay, yeah, everyone watching saw it.
I'm not getting any chats on my end here.
Do I need to change something or what?
Private comments?
If you look at comments, yeah, private, and then there's one called comments.
Oh, there we go.
I had it on private.
Okay, thank you.
All right, we got Lance back.
Sorry about that.
And we lost Shinzo.
They said that it was a good video.
I didn't get to really see it, but everybody else did.
They were nice looking plants, what I saw.
They're very happy and healthy, that's for sure.
Yeah, sorry, my internet's been hacked up.
Those leaves are big.
Man, it's a beautiful thing, man.
It's a beautiful thing.
So, is anybody else here growing two different varieties of his,
or is most everybody just running that Ziawataneho cross?
I just have the Kauai Electric Thai Cross.
Oh, yeah, I forget.
Okay, so yours is different.
Mine is, I have the Kauai Electric Afghan One Columbian is my other one besides the Ziawataneho.
And I got mostly males out of those, so I'm only going to get to look at a few of those.
A few is better than none.
That's true.
This plant here is an Afghan Lario G cross, but they're both the same cross.
But this one is expressed much thinner leaves.
They're planted at the same time.
This one's shorter.
Hold on, stay on it a second.
Let me highlight you so we can get a look at it.
There you go.
I got you.
Show us that plant so we can look at it a little better.
Okay, so here's the, this got thin leaves, nice thin, very, you know, sativa-like leaf structure.
Same genetics right over here, a little fatter, right?
That is trip.
Okay.
Yeah, it's a Lario G cross with the Afghan, those are two of the originals.
And then I crossed that cross with pineapple down cake from GST.
And I got three of these growing here.
And they're all very healthy.
I was just hoping for females.
Got one seed from my Formaggio Azzurro plant last year.
And this is what's come of that seed.
Looks really nice.
But the biggest plant is the Thai Kawaii Electric, maybe because I planted it earlier, but
it's really nice.
It wilts if you don't give it enough water.
We have a jet coming by.
Nice red veining.
I'm crossing my fingers for a female here, I think.
Most of both varieties that I'm growing from Kagyu are stretchy like that, most of them.
There's a few that are a little tighter structured, but the majority of them are stretchy like
what you're showing there and what Lance's plants were.
I like seeing that.
That's the type of weed that usually resonates with me when it acts that way, but we'll see.
Yeah, it's nice, right?
Because then you don't have to go in and trim back too much and you don't need a lollipop
or anything.
I mean, I'm keeping it off the ground, but besides that, I'm kind of just letting it
do its own thing.
Because I mean, look at that.
Yeah, that's exactly how mine look.
It's just really nice.
And I'm just letting it do its own thing.
I'm not going to do anything to it.
I'm just letting it do its own thing.
Look at that.
Yeah, that's exactly how mine look.
It's just really nice, even structure, nothing really overlapping too much.
Just clean.
Yeah, it looks good.
Yeah, I can't wait to report back when there's some buds to report back about.
Yeah, sure.
That's cool.
Yeah, great job, man.
Thank you, man.
Take another tour around Ed's garden.
Before we wrap this thing up.
It's that California sun.
Those plants really love it.
It's built for out there, isn't it?
Yeah, definitely is.
You know, my plants didn't like that 101 degree yesterday, I'll tell you.
You guys got that hot up there already?
Oh my God, man.
We had a couple of days there.
Yesterday was brutal.
I mean, I water every other evening.
The ones that are in one gallons, they haven't sexed yet, some of them.
I got to keep those watered.
I went out there and everything was really droopy.
I watered in the evening and then this morning I went out there and there were still a couple
that were droopy.
So, yeah, I didn't miss that heat.
I worked in that heat for years.
I can't stand it anymore.
Yeah, that's just crazy.
We used to go down to the boardwalk to get away from the heat up around the bay.
Well, it's just weird global warming we got now.
Yeah, we're in the time of change, transition.
Normally, there's one in the middle here, by the way.
It's what I usually do, like six plants.
This is a stock from what was in there last year.
Walking stick, geez, man.
You know there was more, right?
You know there's more.
It's on my Instagram.
I got a couple of videos.
Maybe we'll find a way to submit what the yard looked like last year at this time.
It was, you know, can't use it as a wizard staff.
Dude, have you heard of strain cane?
Strain cane is pretty much what the definition is.
The different strains that are canes that these guys make.
And it's interesting to see, you know, the differences between some of the strains,
even the ones that really get dark and purple.
And then, you know, he does his thing with them and makes them a walking stick.
Yeah.
You could tap it on the ground when you have pests in the yard and tell them they shall not pass.
Easy.
Hit them with a club.
Yeah, there you go.
It's around here.
Here's past one.
Here's the past one.
A couple years.
Oh, little trophies.
But they definitely chewed through.
Had to clean this side of the house.
Look at this, guys.
This is the behind the scenes.
And then this was a pepper garden.
I built this last year, right?
And when I got these puppies, they.
This was like a wrestling ring.
I got video of it and then I had it kind of going and then they broke in.
So here's a yard volunteer.
I got a bunch of them.
So it was nice to be able to have this chance.
I had to mention this again through the Guerrero Grow Show, Future Cannabis Project 2.
Shout out to Chris and the whole gang over there.
That's how I got this chance to do this.
So thank you.
Thank you, Toad, for getting, you know, smoking with the homies going.
And it's great to see that you're back up there and hanging out.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's been a pleasure, you guys.
So next time we'll start to hopefully get some some smell reports, right?
Absolutely.
It's always weird when you're dealing with a new strain and you don't know what
scent you're actually looking for that, you know, they might have a couple of different ones.
You're like, well, what?
I don't know what their what direction it is, you know?
Rubbing the main stock doesn't really give the full effect of what it's going to be like
when it matures, but it gives you an idea of how strong the terpenes are.
Oh, for sure.
It leads you down a good path.
And it works.
That's the best way that I've heard it described, Senzo.
I like that.
That's right on.
Yeah, I dig that because it's true.
That's it.
I'm going to be on a talk later on tonight talking about plants changing on that subject.
We were just talking about how you bred the stem and it doesn't smell exactly like what
your flowers are going to smell like, but it kind of gives you a strength of the power
of the scent.
Yeah.
Those are some of the things that I've been looking for.
Yeah.
And what we're talking about tonight is how plants change from seedling and then that
same plant, basically, when you take a cutting and run that cutting, how that cutting is
going to be slightly different in certain ways than that seed plant was.
Yeah.
It's funny how that changes from plant to plant and it's different things each time.
So, I'm hoping to learn a lot tonight.
I'm just going to sit back and listen to these guys talk about what they know and what
they found through testing and stuff.
So, I'm excited about that.
It's a big day for me, this conversation and then doing that later on.
So, it's a fun talking to you guys.
Senzo, were you mentioning in that last podcast we did talking to Eddie?
Eddie.
Oh, Eddie Padilla.
Yeah, yeah.
I haven't talked to him, but...
Yeah, I mentioned to him, you know, an old-timer.
I wanted to ask him some questions.
I don't know if he wants to do it or not.
He could email me or whatever.
I was just kind of curious about all the early 60s, when it was coming in and going over
to Hawaii and when they were crossing the Maui Waui, the Kona Gold, all the different
ones over there.
Yeah.
If he wanted to.
He may not want to even talk about it.
I don't know.
Well, I did an interview with Robert Ackerley, his partner from the Brotherhood of Eternal
Love.
It was only audio, but it's one of my earlier podcasts.
He talks about what went on in Hawaii and everything and the crosses and this and that.
So, that was an interesting episode.
I would like to talk to Ed, too.
Ed didn't come down that time.
Is it available to listen to?
Yeah.
Go to Cali High on like audio podcast, on your Apple podcast, or we even have it on
my YouTube.
It's just an audio.
But yeah, so just look for Brotherhood of Eternal Love with Robert Ackerley.
It's probably in the early first 20 episodes.
And that's YouTube?
It's both YouTube and audio podcast.
Okay, cool.
So, if you go to my Instagram, which is Cali High LA, you can follow links from there,
which will take you to where you need to go.
Sometimes when you type in Cali High, there's a thousand Cali Highs of different varieties.
That's hard to find.
Yeah.
But yeah, check it out.
It was an interesting interview.
We made the mistake of like smoking a hash joint with him before the interview, but we
managed to hold it together pretty well.
I was so excited because I had my own Afghani hash that I made from the Afghan plants here.
And even though it wasn't as strong as the old Primo, it definitely had the same taste
and look, but it was pretty good.
What the hell?
Anyway, check it out.
All right.
And good luck with the show tonight.
Oh, this is somebody else's show, man.
I'm just, they invited me to like hang out and listen and ask questions if I wanted to.
So, I'm honored to do that.
So, it's not on here or anything.
It's a, so yeah.
Good luck to everybody else in what you're doing until we meet again, you know.
Good luck with the business, Lance.
And hopefully we've got more information for you.
Like everything's starting to flower out and show some structure next time.
So, we got a little bit more info for the breeder on the next episode.
I don't know when.
Appreciate everything you guys are doing.
Glad to have you.
All right.
Pleasure.
Yeah.
Happy to be a part of it.
All right.
Have a great day.
Yep.
So, I'm going to end this thing and it was good talking to everyone.
Yep.
Yeah.
Take care.
All right.
