So I was talking about breeding cannabis for therapeutic benefits.
That's been kind of my go-to speech.
I've been speaking with CannaGrow, I guess kind of before there was a CannaGrow.
They did the science of cannabis in Mesa, Arizona four years ago, I think it was.
And so I've spoken at pretty much every one of their events ever since.
I like that it's kind of a non-advertisement-based speaking engagement.
I do some other speaking stuff.
Also called pay-to-play.
Right.
And so, you know, I went to Spanavis this year and spoke, and the people that were speaking
with me, it was like a sales pitch, right?
And I was just there to educate.
So I like coming to these kind of conferences where it's kind of expressly forbidden to
advertise and do that.
I mean, that's why every time I do these things, I'm like, please don't pitch your
products.
Like people just tune right out.
They'd rather hear that you're smart on a topic and be like, I'm more curious about
this person.
Well, then they'll come up and ask you about it, right?
Can I get a card?
And yeah.
But what were you speaking on, Chris?
I did the Cannabis Cultivation 101.
And the subtitle was Foundations of a Successful Grow Operation.
So just went over the basics.
Can we scale up to the 202 and 303 advanced level courses and talk about the more advanced
level stuff?
Yeah, sure.
Of course.
So, and you're a team, like you grow together.
So you're both exploring, like we talked about before, kind of more minor cannabinoids and
things that aren't being bred for now to see what therapeutic benefit they may have.
We started with CBD was the big one.
And this was kind of pre-GUPTA, pre all of that.
So we started with our CBD work quite some time ago.
It was called hemp.
Right.
And when the, what are the brothers in Colorado?
Stanley Brothers.
Yeah.
What do we think of the Stanley Brothers?
Since they get all the, they're like the poster child for...
I've heard enough.
Like it's one of those things, like when we're talking about lights, like I don't want to
defame anybody or put anybody down, but...
You're answering the question without actually answering the question.
I didn't say anything.
You know, there's just stories that you hear within the community about how certain people
treat other people and like where things are sourced from, where genetics come from and
things like that.
And you just kind of, I don't know them personally.
So and I've never seen their operation or worked with them personally.
So when you were exploring CBD, like, because not many people were like in tune with, there's
this thing CBD, like growers, right?
No.
People were wondering why we were doing it because you can't make money off of it because
nobody's getting high.
Right.
You guys were like, we're going to stay the course.
And so where are we like, like, okay, we know this thing CBD, we want to breed for it.
Where are you sourcing the genetics from to start?
All over the world.
Yeah, everywhere we can find something to work with.
Back then you were looking at it.
There was no pool that you were like.
There really wasn't.
Okay.
You know, at that time is kind of when Canna Tonic was hitting the scene.
So I would say that was the other like real major thing.
Then you had two who's TSK out of Colorado and he was doing his like MIGS County railroad
hemp crosses with some OG Kush kind of stuff.
And that's your, your woo and your are for kind of that's where that came from.
So there's like these little, little lights started lighting up and there was probably,
I mean at that time there was probably four people in the world outside of Israel that
were really working on anything CBD centric.
So it wasn't, it's not like you could just go and buy CBD genetics, right?
You had to look for it in different places.
And the issue with that is the only way you're going to know beyond a shadow of a doubt whether
a CBD in it or not or lab tests.
And so labs, analytical testing labs in Oregon weren't really like popping up, weren't
really a thing.
You know, they had very limited, what was it?
Only like sunrise for the longest time.
What are we talking like 10 years ago, seven years ago, five, five.
Yeah.
I mean five years ago when we started getting really good data back on our plants, that's
when like the labs really got their shit figured out, right?
Up until that point it was just kind of going based off effect.
There's a lot of cannabis in the world and not very much of it gets tested.
Right.
So you find CBD in places you don't expect to.
And that's where a lot of it's come from.
And so what, like what are you exploring now?
Like CBD was the first and obviously now it's like this two star cannabinoids is John
and Paul.
Right.
Yep.
So who's George and Ringo of the cannabinoid world?
They're all important and they all have, and there's unknowns, undiscovered.
One of the things I got to talk about in my speech is the first time my companies allowed
me to share data, like raw data.
And we're finding everything from, you know, CBC is something we've been working really
heavily on.
We're showing great expression in CBC.
CBC is a neuro protectorant and also has been shown to reverse some damage caused by neurodegenerative
diseases.
So that one's been really primary for us looking into based on some family histories and grandparents
with Alzheimer's and stuff.
It's an important one.
So I mean, as far as that one goes, I feel like we've got that pretty, if not nailed down
right there.
THCV for people with diabetes, dietary supplements, things like that is something we're looking
into.
But what's interesting is we're doing these HPLC studies and looking at the things we're
coming up with a lot of spikes.
There's commercially available standards, right?
And this is kind of the notebook of what they say, here's the cannabinoids that are
in cannabis.
And if they haven't been able to say that this cannabinoid is this and they haven't
done molecular analysis on it and like gotten a reading on it and have been able to reverse
engineer it and turning it into a standard, then it just kind of gets swept under the
rug.
And so far we've found nine unidentified spikes.
So cannabinoids that don't have a standard for them, so nobody really knows what they
are.
Bottom limit to the testing.
So if there's an infinitesimally small amount of some cannabinoid in there, just typical
testing equipment can't even find it.
So why would they make a standard for it?
Nobody's going to buy it.
It has to be commercially viable.
But when we start talking about therapeutic doses of things, a lot of times those things,
especially in conjunction with each other, do create a therapeutic dose in what you're
using.
So us and with the company that we're working with, we have a partnership agreement with
the Texas Arlington Shimatsu Laboratory there.
And we're looking at compounds down to the quadrillionth in the plant so we can look
at it really deep.
And so we're...
So you're sending stuff to them to use kind of equipment that's next generation to do
stuff.
Right.
It's one of seven...
To help you see.
Right.
It's one of seven labs in the world that's able to do that.
And so we're going to quantify what these are, where they work, do some studies, see
how they affect the human body, and try to figure out what they do and why they're important
in the cannabis plant.
So it's hard to say, you know, I want to breed for this specific cannabinoid when this cannabinoid
doesn't have a name, you know, or...
So the ones that we do know what they do, CBDVA, THCVA, and CBC, and CBCL, and CBCT,
we're doing very well on breeding higher concentrations of those into plants.
We're also doing a very good job of breeding unknown cannabinoids into plants.
So we know it's something.
Yeah.
And we're seeing considerable spikes, like a pretty good surface area in the plant that
is this cannabinoid.
And, you know, the way you can really tell whether it's just a booger on the machine
or a cannabinoid is through decarboxylation experiments.
So we can decarboxylate them, we'll watch the acid fall off, it'll move positions, and
it's telling us, you know, this is a cannabinoid, it's acting like a cannabinoid.
So we need to have them reverse engineered.
So we're learning.
We're learning a lot, but we're kind of pushing the envelope on what there is.
And then it's not just...
So basically part of this is there is an equipment innovation or access to equipment that you
didn't have even a year ago.
Right.
Yeah.
In the past few months, five months, we've accomplished more with breeding than we have
probably in our entire careers.
Just because of the amount of information and data we have.
We can go through 100, 200 plants a day and get data on that many plants.
And I can just run just huge seed pops and run through everything and only pick out the
interesting stuff and only work with that.
Whereas before, maybe we had 20, 100 seeds of something, we pop it all out and you just
roll the dice and hope the one that you pick was the one you were looking for.
Right.
So the jump in technology is huge.
And it really just streamlines our ability to just tear through plants and find exactly
what we're looking for.
So iteratively produce, test, call, tweak.
Right.
I can get pretty good readings on plants as soon as leaves get to maturity.
So about seven sets of leaves, we can get a really good idea of where the synthases
are dumping into the cannabinoids.
And so I can call by then so I can just cycle plants through.
Well, so what about someone like a Hope?
How would you work with people like that?
Why she's so awesome to me is because she can park genetics.
Right. She can put a genetic in a state where it can sit.
And so that particular phenotype of that genotype I can put into a genetic storage.
And just because I don't need it right now doesn't mean that I don't want to hold on
to it. But the issue is, is space.
We can't have 50,000 plants just sitting there that we're not growing.
But if I can put it in a small little container and have it sit inside of a case, right,
then I can start to justify that.
We have tons of data stored, so we might as well have the genetics stored as well.
If there's something that doesn't look important now.
But how many times has it happened to either one of us that we don't have a genetic
around anymore? And for some reason down the road, you find there's something unique or
desirable about it.
And it's gone. It's gone.
Yeah. And also, it's really important to, you know, cannabinoids or cannabinoids, THC,
THC and CBD, CBD.
But the effects and the medical value you're really getting from a lot of the plants may
not even lie in cannabinoids.
I mean, we're learning so much new about the flavonoids that exist in cannabis plants and
the anthocyanins.
And I was talking to someone like flavonoids get like no love compared to the terpenes and
cannabinoids.
There's 10,000 naturally, 10,000 plus naturally existing flavonoids in the plant world.
Cannabis has quite a few of them.
Cannabis is also unique in that it has three flavonoids, cannaflavin A, cannaflavin B and
probably soon to be named cannaflavin C, that are unique to the cannabis plant.
And ask somebody, what are the medical benefits of cannaflavin A?
Well, I was talking, I was eating lunch with Frenchy and he was talking about like half
of the trichome is, is a, it's some word that like we haven't really even explored.
I'm totally blanking on what the word was, but I don't want to say ether.
Like an ethyl alcohol?
Ethylene?
Would that make sense that that's.
I mean, we do, we have done some terpene tests or we have, what's it French show something
ethylene show up in it?
Yeah.
In plant ethylene's a hormone.
That might be what he's talking about.
Frenchy just got back to me.
Phenol, which makes up half the trichome head is what he's talking about.
And then terpenes the same way, right?
Terpenes have been a lot more researched.
So you can go to PubMed and look up a terpene and see what its medical benefits are.
But finding unique terpene and flavonoid combinations and plants for specific conditions
and things like that.
I think that in the cannabinoids that people aren't looking at are really what defines
what a strain is and what it can do.
And I don't think until people truly understand that part of it, you're just still going to
be on this.
Well, I want the stuff that tests 30% THC, you know, or I want the highest testing CBD
plant there is when that's just a therapeutic dose of that's going to be a therapeutic dose.
It doesn't matter how much percentage is in the plant.
It matters what's with it, you know, and it's really important for us to find those molecules,
figure out what they do, tracks them through the human body.
How do they react with us?
What are the effects?
And then that can help us with selective breeding processes to know that, OK, we want to build,
we want to breed a plant that's high in this.
So with Hope, with the ability to store plants, maybe there's something I'm missing in a bunch
of these plants and I don't want to throw them away because who knows when I want to go back
to it. And it's a lot easier to save it when you have it than try to re-find it because
a lot of times it's like a needle in 10 haystacks.
So you guys are breeding, but you're also flowering out, like you have a brand?
We work for Zet Therapeutics.
So we're a research and development company.
And so we do genetic breeding and then looking at all the genetics.
And then Chris does a lot of the heavy lifting as far as like growing them out for
phenotypical expression and finding what kind of lighting and conditions are appropriate for
growing them out for phenotypical expression and finding what kind of lighting and
conditions and how they grow best.
And so Chris and I have been working together.
Can you talk about some of that stuff, like certain cultivars or I've noticed that
they're better in this climate or with these lights or?
I have, you know, most of my experience has been with THC.
I've grown thousands and thousands of different THC cultivars.
So I've definitely learned how they act in different lighting and heating and
environments and stuff.
And now we're using some of those THC cultivars to cross in with CBD to create hemp
strains. What we're going to be looking at is using different light spectrums to
compare the test results to see what cannabinoid production we get using different
spectrums. What are some of the current hypotheses?
Well, we know that UV is responsible for the creation of cannabinoids in the plant.
So like specifically UVB when put onto a plant in a higher concentration that is normal
will increase your THCA production in the plant because THCA protects the plant from
UVB. So that would be one example.
Yes, so applications of UV at different frequencies or different intensities at
different times would be one thing.
And then we'll experiment with one experiment with more full spectrum light that's
outside the PAR range.
Blue light, green light.
Yeah, actually, the Israeli guy who is two booths down from you guys, I was talking to
him. I was like, what's kind of some more modern research, the new research, which is
green? Because people always say green doesn't do anything, right?
So it's kind of like, actually, it does.
And then what do you think green does?
Oh, I don't know, but I want to find out.
All right. Yeah. And I know that a lot of the LEDs have been missing the green spectrum
in the past and they've come a long ways now.
But no, we need some analytical data.
And so it'll be exciting to find out.
It's something we've been wanting to do for a long time.
Right. And not just lighting, you know, feeding, like what concentrations of different
nutrients are you giving the plants?
What's your grow media?
Do you have a standardized or is your outdoor, indoor, greenhouse all?
Are you soil, outdoor, hydroponic, indoor?
We've always preferred soil.
We think soil, as far as growing a smokable plant, grows the highest quality plant.
You can't beat the interactions that are happening with the plant in the soil.
Same way you can't beat the light that comes from the sun because it's the plant has
evolved to live in Earth's environment.
So the closer we come to mimicking that.
So your preference is to grow outdoors in soil.
That would be your...
Well, with sunlight in soil.
Yeah. But nobody wants to grow outdoors.
No. I mean, I'm sure some people probably do.
Yeah. Right.
But you've got to think of things.
There's going to be interactions that are going to be missed.
So flavonoids play a role in communicating between microorganisms in the root biome of
the plant. So you can have a flavonoid that talks to to these microorganisms and tells
them we need more nitrogen and it'll increase nitrogen uptake.
Well, how do you do that in a hydroponic system that doesn't have the microbes creating
that that web?
So I just feel like you miss out on a lot.
I think you can grow some real good hydro smoke, but I think you're missing out on a
lot of the things that people aren't paying attention to that really give the plant its
like well-rounded, amazing effects and beyond that therapeutic and medical effects and
benefits.
So one of the things I asked the light scientist guy, like I was working at a nursery
for a while in Carpinteria and we wanted to test supplemental.
So it was greenhouse, but we wanted to test supplemental lighting on the mom stock and
then kind of experiment with like, would different parts of the color spectrum.
Be conducive to like.
You know, let's say you get 25 clippings a week from a mom, right, could you could you
increase it to 30, 30?
But like, how much could you increase the number you could clip each week based on
something with light?
Have you done any kind of research on that?
We haven't yet.
Also, when you're talking about things like flavonoids and anthocyanins, they they're
responsible for the nodular growth of plants.
Right. So if you're doing something that is setting off that that chain reaction of
flavonoids in the plant that's creating nodular growth and you can do that using light
manipulation. Yeah, absolutely.
You could find the light spectrum that works with that.
But like that's all.
It's all a possibility, right, until we really get into it and start looking at these
different molecules, what reactions are causing them to appear and what functions they're
serving in the plant.
It's going to be hard to say, but it's all of these things we're talking about don't exist
in the plant for human beings.
Right. THC, CBD, all the way down to the small things.
They're all a function of the plant.
And so it's doing something to help the plant grow or help the plant repel pests or help
the plant bring animals in to eat them, to spread the seed.
You know, it's all part of the plant's processes to live.
And it just turns out that they have great the side effect is they have great benefit to
humans. So now it's putting the two pieces together of synergistically.
Well, if we can do this to the plant, we can manipulate it with this kind of nutrients or
these kind of lights to make an extra expression of this or that in the plant.
We can really kind of dial in grows to specifically highlight and pull out higher levels
of of those terpenes and flavonoids and even cannabinoids that we're looking at.
And we're also going to do some experiments with introducing different microbes to the
root zone instead of targeting specific microbes like we want to explore more.
Well, yes, but there's a there's a there's a lot of them.
I mean, yeah, there's just a lot of pseudomonas and.
Hmm. Is it beef up the nematodes?
Yeah, there's people on the market saying right now that certain microbes are
they're strepto.
I forget which one.
They're saying that they yeah, streptomyces, that's the one increases CBD production and
decreases THC production.
So that's something we definitely want to play with and and see it in our own hands
because they're claiming pretty outrageous things.
They are outrageous claims, but it's very possible, you know, and there's probably a
basis to the claim.
Right. And so basically that would throttle one and almost put the gas on the other.
Right. Well, THC, like I said, has to like this is a problem that we're having with hemp
legislation, right, is that THC has to exist in the plant.
THC is a UVB protector and three percent of all light from the sun is UVB without that
protector and the sun will cook the plant and it will die.
So the idea of, well, I've got a plant that tests non detectable THC, do you?
You know, it's in there.
Trust me, because it has to be, you know, as like a human being.
You couldn't just be like, I don't like my white blood cells.
I want to get rid of them. Like, good luck with that.
Right. So trying to talk to them about, well, yeah, if your concentrations of all
cannabinoids are very low, yes, maybe it'll come up non detectable.
But as you know, maybe you need 10 times more plant material to make the same amount of
oil as this very high testing plant and CBD with a little bit more THC.
But your oil is all going to come out around the same concentration of THC or THC
Delta 9. You know, it's just the way that it is.
It can't exist without it.
Yes, so everybody tell the USDA not to make testing, hemp testing.
Right now they're talking about making hemp testing after decarboxylation.
So you'd be looking at all of the THC that's not being considered THC by the
government right now will be converted into Delta 9 and then tested.
And that's going to make the point three threshold unattainable for a lot.
I mean, a lot of genetic and maybe all genetics.
So it's either going to come down to techniques like streptomyces, if that's what
works, or nitrogen deficiency, if that's what works, or everybody calling and
emailing the USDA and telling them not to make this decision.
Or what they really should do is test decarboxylated, but raise the threshold
from point three to one percent or point seven or something that makes sense
genetically.
I think one percent is a real solid number.
I think that's an achievable number by anybody.
I think so labs in Oregon that are ISO certified, like the highest level of
certification to get for a lab.
What do you think they're to continue that certification?
What do you think that their error ranges like percentage wise?
How much of an error can they have and still be considered an accurate test?
I would assume under 10 percent.
Plus minus 10 percent.
Correct.
Yeah.
Right.
So five percent.
So only five.
Yeah.
Ten percent window.
We're talking about point three percent.
So you're telling me that the labs out there that have a 10 percent window of
inaccuracy are going to be able to tell you that, oh, this is point three percent
on the nose.
Like, like, it's just.
It's a ridiculous law to begin with.
The idea of segregating a plant out cannabis, it's cannabis and you're
segregating it out and calling it hemp with a completely random number that
somebody came up with that said, well, this.
That's different in Europe and different in other countries.
Right.
And it's the European threshold.
Point two is the European unions.
And that's.
Well, I haven't actually read the law, but what we're being told is that's total THC.
They don't think they discriminate between the THC molecules.
So they have an even lower threshold.
But up until not that long ago, it was one percent and they just changed it.
So they went in the wrong direction.
Yes.
Honestly, I think it I think it should be like where they're going.
I think it should be done by ratio.
If a plant, let's say is 20 to one, 20 parts CBD to one part THC and above hemp.
Right.
Because why are you going to fault somebody for growing a plant better?
Has a certain amount of alcohol in it, right?
You're not like.
Why?
But it's punishing people who grow plants better.
Well, you know, if I grow my plant better and I get higher test results, that's
going to take me outside of the range of legality, but somebody else can grow the
same plant fucking crappy and get low test scores and that's fine.
It's it's it's a messed up system.
What's something that you guys have figured about recently?
Fox Farm.
And what what's what's the topic specific to Adam loves Fox Farm soil.
So for parking plants and getting them green and lush again.
So there's like cheater things, right.
That you can do.
And it is the path of least resistance to getting a plant back to health is just
throw it in some more ocean forest and give it four weeks and it looks beautiful
again.
Which is a testament to Fox Farm.
I'm not banging Fox Farm.
And I know that it's like there's other ways to do it, but I'm very busy and I
don't have time to mix all the soil.
So if we want to bicker about it, as soon as he gets down to mixing up all the soil
and making it right, then I won't have to use Fox Farm.
Chris and I don't really bicker about much about anything.
No.
You're very symbiotic.
We are non confrontational.
We're no drama people.
Well, we've been together for a long time as partners, you know, and when we first
got together, I think we kind of set.
But passionate intellectual discussions are healthy and good.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
But we're just always kind of on the same page about it.
I know it sounds weird and I'm not trying to be like things are perfect in our
world, but like generally we try to go too many directions at the same time.
So it's hard to like really focus on something.
But it's rare that Chris and I even do much working together in the same space
because we have so many projects going on, you know, so it's like, Adam, you
handle this and I'm going to handle this.
And it's, you know, his responsibility to do that part.
It's my responsibility to do this part.
And as long as neither of us fucking drops the ball, like, and we haven't,
there's really nothing to bitch at each other about.
And, you know, we're great friends and, you know, we've been friends for a long
time now and yeah, it's, it's really, our relationship is as good as it sounds.
Like it's just, I could not have a better partner or person to work with.
He grounds me in so many ways and keeps my feet on the ground and keeps me calm
when I'm freaking out.
I'm a super anxious person and, uh, you know, totally kind of the yin to my yang
or whatever, you know, like it's, it's a really, it's also a symbiotic
relationship, right?
And I'm sure Adam goes and does all the social stuff, like talking on video and
pressing palms and getting our names out there.
And, uh, but now, and then I get to grow and not have to do too much of that stuff.
But I've drug him into it now.
Yeah.
I make him go to the speaking engagements and stuff.
Eating your spinach.
Uh, who, who, who gives some love to, like, I guess some breeders that you respect?
For me, um, as far as like THC breeders, uh, sunny Chiba, Odie diesel.
Um, so that's sunny Chiba's, uh, Shane Yoakum did like purple dojo, black cherry
soda, things like that.
Uh, Odie diesels, Raymond Bowser, homegrown natural wonders.
So like Mickey Cush, Dr.
Who things of those varieties, those two guys really kind of like brought me into
the fold of like, like contemporaries breeders.
Um, just amazing dudes to super nice.
As far as like plug a seed into the soil and grow hot fire.
Colin Gordon from ethos has been killing it lately.
Like his shit's super poly hybrid, whatever stuff.
But I've never grown an easier plant from seed.
It's just feminized comes up and it's fucking chronic.
Like, so like as newer kind of breeders go, like he's a rad guy and, uh, Kyle
Cushman or Adam Ornstein from high times Cushman's cough really kind of like
before I knew a bunch of people in the industry, like really reached out and was
like, he's now a close personal friend of mine.
And well, what's interesting is cause he, he's all indoor hydro, right?
He uses Vegimatrix, right.
Which is vegan plant food.
Um, but yes, I believe that he grows in a, in a neutral medium.
Yeah.
So he's taking the seed and growing.
So the first time I met the guy, right, we were in San Diego for a can of grow and
we were on the beach and it's the first time I've met the guy and like, so he
comes up and his Kyle Cushman way.
And he's like, you grow with Vegimatrix.
And I'm like, nah.
And he's like, well, why not?
And I was like, there's no bone meal in it.
And he's like, well, yeah, it's vegan.
And I'm like, yeah, I like bone meal.
And so I kind of like shit talking, right.
And I think he liked that.
Like, you know, but like, I just wasn't like, oh, Kyle Cushman.
And then like, you know, like did things like invited me to his 50th birthday
party in SoCal and went and hung with all the high times guys.
And just, he's a really nice guy.
And I think he gets a little bit of hate in the industry, but like as a person,
he's just an absolutely wonderful person.
And then the, uh, the Spanibus crew for like kind of inviting me to Spanibus to
speak and like just going to Spanibus was like a bucket list item to me.
But when I was invited to speak at Spanibus, yeah.
Just like melted me.
Like, I was just like, oh my God, that's so good.
But yeah, those are the, be the people that like, really that I
respect and have much love for.
Yeah.
And shout out to Two.
Yeah.
Two.
Two's going to hate me now.
Yeah.
Two or TSK.
Um, he is one of the.
The seed company.
Oh, gee, CBD breeders in the country.
And you should record him sometime and ask him about the
Charlotte's web story and stuff.
Because there's a lot of, a lot of information there to dissect and look
through and, but he is, he is an amazing individual who really helped us with our
path with CBD and our kind of collaborations together back at the beginning was CBD
really pushed the envelope.
How about Oregon growers?
Mike Colley.
Mike Colley, Araya Love, Andrew Campbell.
So those are the guys at Geek Farms.
Um, Geek Farms were really impressed with their, they're not necessarily breeders,
but they're breeding their own strains and they're coming out with some great hot
fire.
Um, and they've got, they're finding really good genetics to make crosses with.
That's stuff that hasn't really been around that much lately, I guess you'd say.
Like what are they exploring right now?
Uh, that Crooked River Blues and the Oregon Indigo.
Lots of stuff from the blueberry space is kind of what they started with.
And then they kind of went into work with like, they really like, like the lemon D,
the sour lemon D, electric lemon G, those kinds of strains.
And what they really do good is the grape, uh, Hi-Chew.
No, it's the Alpha.
Oh, I'm sorry.
They do the Alpha cut of the Doctor Who better than anybody in the world.
Um, and their weed is clean.
Their weed is organic.
It smokes down to a white ash.
It's nice and calyxed out at the top with like the crack.
It's, it's like perfect.
And I'm a super snob and I've smoked weed from everywhere.
It's the best fucking weed in the world.
What, uh, what's publicly popular that frustrates you?
Like, why does everybody love that and keep buying it?
Like as a strain or a product or, I mean, 27% hydro garbage.
The dude that walks into the store, see, we've owned, uh, clubs and dispensaries
and recreational stores, and we've done everything.
The dude that walks into the store and goes, what's your highest testing OG?
Like that guy, that guy irritates me because it's like, why?
Well, that's, what's going to give me most high.
Well, let me educate you.
I don't want it.
What's your highest testing OG?
Well, I got 30%, whatever OG I'll take that.
Okay.
Have a nice day.
You know, like that's close mindedness.
Yeah.
Not willing to listen to scientific data and to be educated and understand that
THC percentage really means nothing in the grand scheme of how a plant's going to
affect you.
Yeah.
It's like a status symbol thing, right?
You know, it's like, it's this one goes to 11.
Right.
If you can see, yeah, the numbers all go to 11, look right across the board.
11, 11, 11.
Amps go up to 10.
Exactly.
As far as genetics, nothing.
I think all genetics have a place, you know, some plants get hate, you know,
like everybody's like, fuck blue dream forever or whatnot.
But it's like, I just feel like every genetic has their, there's certain
genetics I don't choose for me that I don't like, but I think every genetics
important and I think it all tells a story and I think it all has its own
value.
Um, yeah, so there's not much hate.
You know what I don't like?
I don't like distillate pen tops.
It's hot dog water and I don't like it.
Do live resin pen tops.
They're good.
So like vape cartridges that are trash.
There's a lot of trash vape cartridges out there and a lot of people just, they're
cheap.
So they buy them and they just don't know what they're missing out on.
A live resin I think is the best, you know, so a live resin extraction, fresh
frozen extraction.
I just think it's just brings terp down, you know, you don't distill it with
terpenes re-added, you know, it's like putting a Bavita in your weed bag.
It's the terp taker, right?
It's just taking away the flavor and wonderfulness of the weed.
I don't like anything that, that takes it much far away from its original intended
botanical value.
Right?
And so the more you mess with stuff and futz with it and clarify it and do
everything, there's so many volatile compounds in the cannabis plant that you're
just destroying, but it's all for the almighty THC or the almighty CBD.
Right?
But it's like, that's in everything.
Like who cares?
Like I want to see the, you know, I want to see your terps up at 20%.
You know what I'm saying?
It definitely makes better medicine.
