And we are live on YouTube. Thank you for joining us everyone. Today's Breeder Roundtable is emceed by James Loud.
That's me, Peter Saveri, and I'm going to hand it off to James. So James, take it away.
So I guess I wanted to start off by talking about viroids and viruses and pathogens. I feel like Joseph, that's kind of his expertise.
A lot of people have been kind of wondering about hoplate, especially. I feel like that's one of the more common ones that people are having problems with.
And it had recently identified. I know we had sour diesel back in the day and around 2003, the sour diesel cuts that were going around had problems.
It was like almost like something we really couldn't identify, but it was like a dudding disease.
And now we're finding out that a lot of those sour diesel cuts have hoplatin.
And Joseph, I guess you can kind of fill everybody in on your experience, not only with hoplatin, but with genetics that are being made.
And as far as through seed, what pathogens, viruses and bureauids can be transferred?
OK. Yeah. So hoplatin, like you said, has been around for a really long time.
When it started really becoming, I think, a more widespread problem, I think in California in like the mid-2010s.
I started working in cannabis tissue culture in 2016 and basically around 16, 17, this was when Dark Heart and other companies were doing like early research, like Humboldt Seeds.
And they were basically had to do RNA sequencing, which is basically just like a sequencing technology where you go looking for specific sequences of diseases.
And then they found hoplatin bureoid, this really common disease in hops on the West Coast of the United States that presumably jumped over into cannabis.
They're all cannabaceae, they're related plants.
And in 18 or 19, I believe, two papers were published by Phylos and Dark Heart at the same time, positively identifying hoplatin bureoid and linking it to dudding disease.
Basically, studded unfinished flower that doesn't have normal cannabinoid content, studded grown, increased rooting in a vegetative propagation, and like really weird modeling, variegation of the leaves.
These symptoms show up very differently in different cannabis varieties.
And what's the real kicker about hoplatin bureoid is a lot of people have it as asymptomatic infection.
So basically, this thing spreads around through unsanitized tools, and then some stress happens, and then flower starts to dud.
So the biggest thing that I preach nowadays to everyone that I talk to is tool sanitation, and this concept of if you're sharing the same scissors on plants, it's just like sharing needles.
And you transfer a lot of things throughout a grove on your unsanitized tools.
Interesting.
So we have some mutual friends that have had issues with hoplatin that have pretty much destroyed their library or did a majority of their library.
And then you were saying sometimes it basically expresses itself and sometimes it doesn't.
So sometimes you can test and you could have it, but it's not expressing itself, right?
So I've been doing PCR testing for hoplatin bureoid and other viruses for the last year and a half out of my lab, Floydy Inc., based in Berkeley.
And hoplatin bureoid is the most common thing that we find.
Like, I can't talk about people's results, but I talk because hoplatin bureoid is so common and it's throughout in multiple states, and it's all over the country.
So it's an industry-wide issue.
And like you had asked about, it's seed transmittable.
We don't know exactly the rate of how many, what the percentage rate of if an infected plant provides seed, how much percentage of that seed is infected.
In hops itself, that percentage is something around 8%.
So the thing that people always want to ask is, okay, if I have it or if I'm scared of catching it, what do I do?
The most important thing, like I said, is tool sanitation.
You want to prevent spreading of diseases in your grove.
The second most important thing is if you have symptomatic plants and you can afford it, get rid of them because they're only going to cause you problems down the line.
As for, like you said, James, people that have it, hell, I had a grow that had it.
I had to tear down all the genetics and start from scratch.
Working with companies that are actively testing for it, doing your own independent third-party testing of your own plants is the best way to basically source new genetics.
Preferably from a tissue culture background or source, and then start clean and keep it clean.
So now, how about tissue culture? Can tissue culture, in your opinion, remove the hoplite and virus from the plant?
You can totally remediate it through meristem tissue culture.
Different companies have different techniques.
They do different pretreatments, but everyone fundamentally goes through this meristem tissue culture process where you dissect a microscopic stem cell niche out of the apex of a growing plant, and you regrow a couple hundred cells into a new plant.
You test those new plantlets and tissue culture.
I've done this for years. Several companies have been doing this for years successfully.
It's a pain in the ass. It takes a long time.
Sometimes you have to successfully do it because the first path didn't eradicate it.
Yeah, it's totally a fixable problem.
I always talk to people about if you want to invest in tissue culture remediation, you've got to make sure that you don't put it back in a bad situation.
I think a lot of people, I think a lot of growers, basically, I've seen all sorts of tool sanitation protocols from great to poor.
I think everyone can always be constantly working on improving sanitation and preventing spread of disease in their growth.
Yeah, I think that's just a given for sure.
Nobody's perfect, and it has to be an ongoing, constant thing.
Yeah, and quarantining, a concept of quarantine, isolated blocks.
I think a lot of people are going to move away from, what about your vegetative population, at least, if you're keeping lawns on site?
You want to keep things compartmentalized, so if you have a problem in room A, you can keep it out of B, C, and D.
Right.
I think Tim is on the line.
Do you guys have any experience with Hoplite and their having to deal with viruses and bureoids?
I know you guys are like a real farm up there in Washington, and you guys are as farmed as it gets, and you guys have clean plants and clean medicine.
Yeah, we actually just did a round of tests with Joe not that long ago, and we actually had it pop up.
Luckily, we do already segregate everything.
We use separate scissors and everything, so it was a pretty easy fix for us.
The thing that caught us off guard, we sent in a couple cultivars that we thought had it, and then we sent in a couple that we thought for sure weren't displaying anything.
At the end of the day, it kind of fooled us.
One of the ones we thought had it for sure ended up testing clean.
Not to say it doesn't have it, but it wasn't found on the first test.
Then one of our ones that we haven't had any issues with wouldn't think we had it, and it actually popped up.
We keep things in a pretty stress-free environment, so a lot of them stay asymptomatic.
Luckily, no, we haven't had too much.
I think this is just something newer that came in on us.
We brought it in, and I hope we've dealt with it.
We'll find out here.
We're going to do some more tests to make sure.
Yeah, it's a huge thing.
I think it's something that should be on everyone's radar, and I think there's a lot of people that are just ignoring it.
As long as you're clean, you guys are fairly clean with your practices.
You guys have dirt on the ground, but you guys are farming and maintaining clean.
You guys are real farmers, which is one thing I love about your farm, too.
Yeah, so as far as I guess we can kind of move on to talking about some of the other stuff with coiled silver, reversing plants.
Oh, it looks like Shard's in.
Hi, guys.
Good.
Trying to get off this farm we're looking at.
The way is off the highway.
Nice.
Excellent.
Fully organic, reused soil.
It's pretty nice.
Yeah, so Shard's been working with Femini seeds for, what, 20 years?
More than 20 years.
25 years, right?
Yeah, but not really actively.
I mean, I was working with the Flying Dutchman when Dutch fashion started to make Femini seeds and everybody laughed.
Yes.
It was a joke at that time.
Kind of like agriculture a little bit in the beginning.
But it's gotten a lot more consistent.
But I think once you get over that learning process of figuring out, like with breeding, you've got to know which polydermis do well with which selection.
Right.
Same with that, right?
Yeah, I think definitely it's come a long ways.
The selection process, understanding the plants, all that's come a long ways.
And I think even, like with what Tim's doing with colloidal silver that we've kind of been working on, we plan to release some stuff here in the not so distant future.
But Tim can kind of touch base on the nanotechnology, one milliliter to one gallon of silver, as opposed to the colloidal silver that we made in concentration back in the day.
Or silver nitrate with SDS silver thiosulfate, which I think was commonly used mostly in Europe, along with colloidal silver.
Yeah, I can touch on that a little bit.
So it's probably been about a decade that I've been working to try to kind of get away from SDS and some of these other things.
So I kind of started with reworking colloidal silver.
Most of what's on the market advertises colloidal silver, actually isn't colloidal at all.
It's an ionic silver, which tends to have problems when it's kind of going through the plant.
It'll bond to other molecules and kind of fall out of suspension.
And so silver's always kind of got a bad name.
So a while back, I started to take a deep look at that and really learn what a true colloidal is and then how to produce it in a really consistent basis and getting nanoparticles.
And so I'm actually coming up in James's book here at some point.
There's a chapter in there that goes over, gives specific instructions on how to actually make a really effective colloidal silver that works as good, if not better than SDS.
But now we've kind of taken it to the next step.
In that research, I found out some other things.
And now we have a true nanoparticle silver that I'm producing and that we're going to be launching here soon.
And this one's actually really exciting for me.
It's about just as safe as colloidal silver.
No silver is totally safe, about as safe as colloidal silver.
But we've gone into a concentration point where you're mixing one mil to one gallon and it's just crushing the game.
It's exciting for us.
Just something new, something safer, something simple, one part, no mixing.
It's stable.
Well water. You can mix it with well water.
You can mix it with well water.
You can use the spray day after day.
You don't have to start over fresh.
No keeping stuff in refrigerators.
You don't want it too much in the light, overdoing it with sort of UV light or anything of that nature.
But as long as you can pretty much keep it generally out of the light, the stuff's stable and it will just keep on rocking.
Yeah, I've honestly never seen anything like it.
It's just so simple.
I mean, with STS there's several steps involved with making it.
With the traditional colloidal silver, unless you're making it yourself, it's really hit or miss and it's probably not the smartest thing to do.
I mean, I think it's just the simple solution moving forward.
And colloidal silver is just so much safer than silver thiosulfate for people to be handling as far as plants.
If you process your plants post-harvest after you've harvested your seeds, if you do any sort of, you know, you don't want silver thiosulfate in there.
Whereas colloidal silver, those concentrations are not dangerous.
No, not at all.
I mean, the worst comes to worst, you're killing some of the micro life on your skin.
And obviously you want to keep that around.
So, you know, I still recommend proper protective wear and everything.
I've been drinking it, so I don't know. I feel pretty good.
There you go.
Have you become feminized?
Yeah, exactly. Watch out, Jay. I was going to mention.
No, I avoided COVID though completely with the CS.
The only way to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah, so we're excited about this product.
Really can't wait to get it out on the market and get it in some more people's hands.
It's a real game changer.
Yeah, it's pretty amazing stuff.
It sounds really interesting.
We've got some small breeding pods set up.
We also have a little R&D area for the race.
So, we're really interested to run some trials.
Yeah, definitely. We'll definitely get some in your hands there.
Get your opinion on it.
Yeah, I've been making seeds in a spot up north where we use Tim's spray.
And I learned a valuable lesson on doing large-scale production.
I decided I was going to spray my donors in the field.
And you can totally do that.
There's, you know, it requires a lot more labor.
But Tim, when he was up helping out, he suggested that, and it's just a game changer,
that you take all your males and you put them in one place, spray them, bring them out in the field.
That way you're not taking up your space in your rows with your donors.
You can have them pollinate your receivers and then pull them out.
Especially with something like we're using Techline where you can actually take emitters,
put the emitters onto the Techline, into the pods, right off your Techline that's providing water for your other plants.
You know, little game changers.
When you experience scaling, man, it's like a whole new world.
Yeah, that's an understatement.
Yeah.
It's a more controlled climate for that period of time as well, right?
Yeah, I think you're able to spray them more evenly.
You know, you're not walking steps, so it takes a lot less labor to do it that way.
And you can control the donors a little bit more.
Yeah, over spray can be an issue big time.
If you don't contain your spray, suddenly you're flipping everything.
Yeah.
Making all kinds of weird seeds.
So yeah.
With doing some of the stuff I'm doing up there, it's like, yeah, it's been a real learning experience.
I can't wait till next year, actually.
I'm only halfway through this year and I'm like, I can't wait till next year.
But yeah, that's farming.
So that's kind of how it goes.
So I guess I didn't really do introductions for everybody, but now that Odie's here, we can kind of go around and talk about ourselves for a second.
But yeah, my name is James Loud.
You guys may or may not know me, but I have a book called Cannabis Breeding, Beginner to Advanced Techniques, and that should be out relatively soon.
I think it's available for pre-order on Amazon still.
Ed Rosenthal's publishing company is publishing it.
And Tim is in the book.
We have some stuff from Short in the book.
Joseph is in the book as well.
And Odie has been helping me with some seed projects.
So some of his stuff and photos are going to be in the book as well.
So yeah.
Tim, you want to talk about a little bit what you do?
I'll talk about Tim for a second here, actually, because I feel like he's the Einstein of cannabis.
He always comes up with crazy original ideas and concepts.
For instance, like spraying.
Your sprayer is amazing.
He has a pollen sprayer.
He gave me the idea of by using it.
A little airbrush works good.
But then you can do, if you want to go field, you can actually get a sandblaster and convert the sandblaster.
Pretty amazing stuff.
Yeah.
On that note, if you're just doing small rooms, one thing that we started doing a while back was using exactly what James has there.
The little airbrush.
Yeah.
Handheld airbrush.
You can put your pollen in the top.
As long as it's top loading, you can put your pollen in there.
I blend my pollen with rice flour.
So it works extra good.
As long as it's dry, it works great.
As long as everything's dry and it's not humid, it works great for site pollination.
Is that something you can pick up on Amazon or eBay?
eBay.
eBay.
I think it was less than $50.
It works great.
This is battery operated.
It doesn't have a cord.
It's real simple.
You want to clean it out good between pollen.
Water neutralizes pollen as well.
What's it called?
I think this is a makeup airbrush gun.
Yeah, exactly.
They got them for spreading mineral makeup or applying mineral makeup where it is a powder, actually.
It's pretty much the same application, just different powder.
Yeah.
This is the traditional.
You guys can see here.
This is more of the traditional powder sprayer.
This is for dusting roses, a plant duster.
It requires a lot of pollen for this thing to work effectively.
It does work.
Hemp farmers use this stuff out in the field.
But this is way more advanced, simple.
It definitely targets it better.
Yeah, I will say if you want to go bigger and you're going to have to use an air compressor or something,
you got to be really careful that you're not getting anything with moisture in it.
We'll actually use compressed gas, either compressed CO2 or compressed nitrogen because both of those are pretty dry.
But if you say you just hook it up to a normal air compressor, you get yourself in trouble because that's going to start spitting out some moisture.
So one thing to really think about depending on what scale you're taking it to.
Yeah, and basically moisture reverses the magnetism on the pollen and it becomes, you know, it doesn't work.
So I've experienced that for sure.
You were telling me you met with some guys that were actually applying it with water.
Did that turn out to be true?
I haven't followed up more on that.
But yeah, that's what dudes were saying that they're applying it with water.
And it's like, okay, well, you know, maybe someone has something new.
I'd be scared.
Especially with the volume because you guys are like the hemp stuff that you guys are doing down south is like you screw up a couple acres, man.
That's a lot of money, especially with the hemp prices these days.
Yeah, no joke.
So yeah, so Tim, you want to talk about your hemp or canna organics a little bit?
Sure, I could just touch on both.
So, yeah, we have canna organics up here in Washington.
It's just a 30,000 square foot canopy grow.
We're having a lot of fun with it, you know, winning a lot of awards, just kind of staying at the top of our game up here.
We got, you know, five, six dope cups, a couple high times cups, voted best greenhouse production a couple of years in a row up here.
So that's a lot of fun.
And then down south, we have another company, me and a few other friends, you know, helped out, found it.
And that is pretty much a contractor for HGH.
So we're producing feminized hemp seeds on a really large scale down there.
Probably larger than I've seen done before.
And that's going pretty well.
We're definitely, there's some humps and bumps in the road.
There's a learning process there once you scale up to, you know, acres wise.
But, yeah, that's going great, too.
Definitely a learning process, but we're picking it up pretty quick.
I bet your neighbors love you.
You know, that's the beauty of it.
We are literally out in the middle of nowhere, you know.
We did that intentionally, getting out really hilly areas, somewhere that can never be farmed with tractors and stuff like that.
So we've kind of gotten ourselves in an area where, you know, large scale hemp is just not going to happen around us.
That's awesome.
Pretty ideal for what we're doing.
Awesome.
So, yeah, and then Short.
I've known Short for quite a while.
And I've known of Short for quite a while.
We've been friends for the last couple years.
We've been on a bunch of panels.
I think Tim and I and Short have been on panels together.
Joseph as well.
And Short has the Dutch Consulting Company.
And he's got one of the biggest libraries of genetics out of anybody that I know.
And he runs some of the biggest greenhouse facilities in the world.
Anything else you want to touch on there, Short?
Yeah, like any greenhouse project has a beginning, a middle, and an end.
We had a question come up from one of the viewers about putting a male, a donor, with the receivers.
And I think we want to touch on that as far as it can kind of be a group question.
Odie, you can kind of get in on this.
Tim and Short as well.
As far as ratios, if you're doing reg seeds, I feel like Odie could probably answer that.
Or even back it up and just start with males in general.
Like your process of selecting males and then into this part of the question,
which would be kind of like bringing them into putting them out to stud.
Yeah, so I'll just go in the beginning.
Redundancy that I'm sure you've heard from a lot of other people.
It starts with the stem row with the males always.
You're also looking for structure and other things, but it's got to have a good nose on it.
And the old school way, I mean, we can test stuff now.
We can reverse males into females.
There's all kinds of interesting things you can do as far as testing wise.
But the old school way is always rubbing that stem and getting a good smell out of it.
And also just breeding with it and seeing what comes out.
And then if it doesn't come out good, you find another male.
But I think a lot of good breeders use the same males over and over.
A lot of good breeders save their males.
I have a tendency to lose my males, but I've saved some over the years.
I've saved some for seasons.
I've saved some for a couple years.
But it's tough.
Keeping males alive also requires a decent sized nursery.
Now, as far as you only need a small amount of males compared to females.
Now, that just depends on the room size.
So, room size.
Odie, what is your ratio that you would use for male to female donor to receivers?
So, one to eight is what you're saying, Odie?
Yeah, one to eight.
One male to eight females is usually where I like to be.
We do about three days worth of pollinating.
I don't like to do a large window of pollen flying.
That way everything is kind of done pretty much at the same time.
Right about that.
Also, depending upon the size of females.
Right. Totally.
So, yeah.
Just a little touching on Odie here.
He's an old school breeder.
He started with TGA, with Sub, and Shane, and Jinx, and all those guys over there.
He's an outdoor breeder.
So, his experience with breeding is definitely outdoor, regular seed.
Yeah, he created the Doctor Who.
He's done a lot of amazing work over the years.
So, yeah.
Big seeds.
He makes big ass seeds.
I mean, his seeds are significantly bigger than the seeds that I make indoors.
You know, just looking right out.
And you'll notice that from outdoor breeders to indoor breeders.
The guys that are using the HPS, their seeds are typically a lot smaller.
I've had batches of seed where I did the same cross indoors and outdoors,
and then ended up with bigger seed outdoors from the same exact cross.
So, Tim, what about you as far as for hemp?
Generally, it's like a one to six.
One to six.
So, yours is even more concentrated.
Do you feel like you get more seeds by using one to six as opposed to something like one to nine?
You guys have tested that?
No, not necessarily.
This is just more overdoing it.
Let's just overdo it and make sure we got enough.
Right.
And then, Sjoerd, what's your experience with donor to receiver ratios?
Usually about one to ten.
It really depends on each donor.
They behave very differently.
Well, like with regular breeding indoors, you can make hundreds of thousands of seeds with one male.
In my experience, accidentally seeding rooms.
Yeah, it's interesting.
My typical ratio for, I do one to twelve with regular breeding,
and I do one to nine with feminized if I'm not experienced with it.
So, yeah, it's really interesting on the donors as far as like if you have tested donors, it's so much easier, too.
You know what the donor is going to do.
I think a lot of breeders out there just breed with whatever and don't have a lot of experience testing this stuff.
And that has, you know, it reflects in the industry by the stability a lot of the genetics getting pumped up.
So, and I see the future as companies, you know, advance that we're going to have a lot more stable genetics.
I mean, I think it used to be one percent male was okay.
Now, if you're talking about any sort of company that does bulk seed sales, you want to have like that one in a thousand or one in two thousand or one in five thousand.
And that can be achieved over time by doing selective breeding.
So, and I think the Dutch stuff back in the day, some of it was like it called feminized seed, but it was like five percent male sometimes or five percent male.
And then some of the stuff herms.
And even even today, some of that stuff is like that.
Odie, as far as breeding outdoors, do you have a preferred climate or you prefer Oregon or California?
You're mostly West Coast now.
So, since I moved to Oregon, I kind of started doing more breeding indoors just because of humidity factors.
Colorado outdoors is good and easy because it's super dry.
Super dry.
Super dry. Don't have no problem.
California is kind of in the middle. There's Washington. It's super wet where Tim's at.
There's California, which I feel is perfect.
And then Colorado is great for breeding in the sense that it's dry, but it's also the pollen fucking travels all over the place.
So, you can have pollen traveling miles from some hemp field pollinating your stuff if you're doing any sort of outdoor.
Yeah, that's very, very true.
So, yeah, you know, just depends on where we're doing the breeding at is, you know, preferred method, obviously.
What do we feel is going to do better?
But, you know, yeah, a dry, warm climate is preferred for sure.
Totally.
So, Tim, do you guys do any redundancy for your stuff as far as for your pollen?
Do you apply pollen in the field that you've gathered or do you just go direct with your receiver donors?
A little bit of both, you know, because we'll always take the donors after they've released the majority of their pollen or, you know, however much we want to release.
And we'll actually take those, dry them out, collect the pollen, just tumble them in a, you know, pretty much a tumbler they use for like collecting keef.
And then batch that and then we'll use that on the next round, you know, it's just kind of nice to always have a backup supply, you know, as much as we, as much as I want to say everything goes perfect every time, you know, you get those flips or it just doesn't work as good as you wanted it to.
So it's nice to be able to pull pollen out of the cupboard and get the job done.
Yeah.
Short, your experience, do you guys collect pollen as well and then apply it along with as a redundancy or do you prefer just a...
We used to, I mean, pollen is useful and the timing of the male donors and the female donors and the receivers is always a little tricky, especially when you're getting to know each variety.
So to streamline that timing of course, having pollen on board is massive.
Also if you're working on pollinators that produce flower, it's pretty good to be able to control your pollen in a short amount of time.
As far as you guys preserving pollen, what are your thoughts on preserving pollen and long-term?
You know, I personally, I blend it with rice flour. I feel like rice flour is typically finer than your traditional, although you can get fine wheat flour.
I blend it and I do a 50-50, although I hear some people do more and I hear some people do less.
Freezing pollen works, but I feel like keeping the pollen dry is the single most important thing.
What are your thoughts on that, Short?
For us, we just open pollinate everything, so we never use any...
Tim, do you preserve pollen long-term and how do you preserve it?
You've got a serious library of pollen.
Yeah, I definitely do.
The hemp side is one thing, but in the THC realm, in that realm I pretty much specifically just collect pollen and then apply it.
I don't do too much open pollination in that realm.
I like storing pollen, keeping it around for those future endeavors.
Primarily with that, I'm storing it in a jar, put it in a silica packet to be able to absorb any moisture.
Typically, what we're doing is we're back flushing with some nitrogen, getting all the oxygen out of there, the general atmosphere out of there.
Then, get it in the freezer and I just store it long-term in there.
The real danger that you have storing it in the freezer is a lot of people will pull it out of the freezer and pop it open and it's cold.
There's humidity in the air and that moisture in the air condenses on the cold pollen.
The biggest tip I can give is if you're freezing it like that, you want to get it out, let it get to room temperature before you even open it up and start messing with it at all.
Yeah, store it in plastic and not glass. I feel like that's another one.
Plastic.
Yeah, the static can be an issue with plastic at times.
I've had some trying to get pollen out of plastic where I just have a little bit left and it's just stuck to the side of it.
Scrape it off and it sticks to the other side and I'm pulling my hair out, stuffing buds into a plastic vial just to pollinate it.
Do males express differently in the presence of females?
Are we still talking about plants here or what?
Yeah, I mean, what's your take on that?
I can't say I've noticed it, you know, but I've never been looking, I guess.
Yeah. Odie?
I've never noticed a difference. Although when you do have a male around, females seem to get, seem to produce more resin. I don't know if that's just for trying to catch more pollen or what.
But I've never really noticed that a male looking different.
Because, you know, it's good to run your males full term before you introduce them to anything.
So you can make sure that it's got the structures that you're wanting to pass along. But I've never noticed them really to look different than being in a room with a room full of females.
Yeah, and I mean, I've seen females definitely grow more vigorously around males.
And males, you know, I feel like they, I don't know that they express themselves differently, especially if you're talking about terpene or structure or anything like that.
Interesting question.
Yeah, I have to start paying attention.
Yeah, something we need to check out.
So there was also a question about separating males and females collecting pollen and then applying rather than introducing the male and female or donor receiver.
And you can do both. I feel like having the plant side by side is more effective.
The pollen is magnetic and it will go from the male to female. Direct pollination where you're applying pollen.
I think there's some breeders that are super successful like Canerado, Kevin's crush.
And I think he does a lot of collecting pollen and applying it.
I prefer having redundancy. So I like both where you actually have your male and female and then if you need the pollen, you have it.
There's just so many different ways to do it. And there's no right or wrong way in that sense if you're getting seeds.
I will say, you know, it does seem that when you have a male in the room with it and you're letting it fly, direct it off the male, that you get a better set.
Applying pollen, you know, until the airbrush thing came along, you know, applying pollen really...
Oh, dude, paintbrush.
Yeah, pollen clings to itself, you know. Suddenly, next thing you know, you're like, you know, you put enough pollen for the whole room on one bud, trying to reapply it.
If you can just let it fly natural, you're going to have a better set.
Yeah, I remember people back in the day taking like mason jars of pollen and a fan and dusting behind the fan where it was blowing the whole room full of pollen.
Not the most effective way. It's definitely interesting.
We used to take our fingers, me and my partner Luke, we'd take our fingers and dip it in the little pollen jar, brush it on, and then if we had multiple types of pollen, we'd lick our fingers between the pollen and dry them off.
Old school, hippie style. And that works, but it's not as effective for sure.
Yeah, the good old-fashioned paintbrush flick, you know, it's still fairly effective. You know, you'll see guys actually painting it on with the paintbrush, not realizing they're getting resin glands all over the paintbrush.
You got to flick it, you know, kind of flick the paintbrush and that method still works. Yeah, kind of.
So I guess another great question, how many seeds do you get per plant?
And then I think that's just, it varies so much on the size of the female plant. You know, calyxes.
Timing is huge on that one just due to the fact of if you do it too early, you don't get that many seeds. And if you do it too late, they're all deformed.
Yeah, it's hitting that pollination. The window is important, getting it in, you know, and everybody has a different take on that too.
Like you pollinate on week three and a half, week four, week four and a half, anywhere in there works. You can pollinate later, but the thing is, is your plants, the later you go, the later you have to go to finish all the seeds.
So, but yeah, I mean, it's a tough thing averaging, you know, indoors I've averaged 2,000 to 3,000 seeds per plant on a good pollination and on a bad one I've gotten, you know, mix and match 500 per plant.
And auto flowers 2,000 per plant. That's a great number. If you're hitting 2,000 seeds per plant on auto flower, you're doing great. Auto flowers typically are smaller, but, you know, those kind of numbers are good, especially if you have 500 plants.
Yeah, I think it's a lot easier to quantify it on like a per square foot basis of canopy.
Yeah.
Because again, how do you know the size, you know, plants can be, take up three square feet, they could take up 60 square feet.
Yeah, you got nine Skittles plants per square foot. And Skittles is definitely one of my favorite plants and it's not for the structure, it's for the terpene profile, which I think we can kind of touch on that too.
What are your thoughts on Skittles, Tim? And I know you grow a lot of Skittles and you grow some amazing Skittles.
Man, it's a bitch. It's literally one of the hardest plants to really get to do what you want it to do. Just finicky, you know, doesn't want too much water, doesn't want too much food.
It took us probably five or six rounds before we really kind of got it down to a point where we could run it, you know, in a production environment and have it be worth our time.
Yeah, I feel like it's just the evolution of OG Kush. It was like OG Kush for a long time. It was like Girl Scout Cookies was the same finicky bullshit and now we have Skittles.
And it's like the Skittles work isn't done though. I feel like Skittles will evolve into something that has, I mean, it already has evolved into many, many cool things like the Creme Rosé Skittles that you made, which is phenomenal and like Rosewater Candy with hopefully better structure. I think that needs to be phenohunted a little more.
Yeah, unfortunately with those ones, the ones that had the best turf profiles again just started the structure just degraded. It got worse and worse, but the turps got better and better. And next thing you know, it's back at a Skittles structure. But I stayed there because the turps were better.
It's a rough thing. I mean, if you love turps, you got to prioritize turps. And I feel like that's kind of what happened in Europe years ago. Why OG Kush got messed up was because they were going for more of the structure on the OG Kush and they ended up with something that was like a White Widow OG Kush that didn't have any gas.
That's not OG.
No, an OG is all about that gassy turf profile. You know, you get the pine, the lemon and the gas. It's got to have that chem-y gas. You know, what evolved from like, we saw it in 91 with like Chemdogs starting in the earlier 90s, that pungency. And I think the Europeans have kind of got back on track for the most part. Not all of them, but a lot of them.
Especially with the gas. You're seeing gas over in Barcelona. When I was over there earlier this year, there was a lot of gas.
And then Ray, Ray works with a lot of fruit forward. Yeah, he was doing dessert strains before they're even called dessert strains. He has one of my favorite Dr. Who Finos. It's called the Grape Hi-Chew.
You want to talk about that at all, Ray?
Sure.
Just really fruity. We get a lot of grape that comes through on that strain.
Fruits are my thing. I just like fruits. I think every breeder has more of their own thing and palate that they like to use, you know.
For us, it was more fruits. My kids like dirt. So, you know, we have the sweet Irish crosses.
But yeah, with the fruits, they're nice. They're complex. It's easy to get straighter from, but we've been working on them for a while.
The Grape Hi-Chew is just a specific cut that we found really in the first seed pop we did of the strain when we made the cross so many years ago.
Well, there's so many different Finos of the Dr. Who, and I know you made a lot of seeds when you guys made them.
You want to talk about the lineage from that and, you know, kind of how you guys piece that one together?
So Dr. Who is Mad Scientist, which Mad Scientist is Medicine Woman by Sweet Tooth.
Medicine Woman was created by a gentleman in Oregon, Dave.
It's a...
Let me think here.
So, yeah, I'm drawing a blank right now. It's been kind of a long day and I just smoked, so I apologize.
Dynamite by D13 Hash Plant. Dynamite is a grapefruit Fino.
And, yeah, so that to Sweet Tooth came out with our Mad Scientist, which is kind of a fruity, funky that we did well with.
We won two cups in Oregon at the OMCA's with that.
And then we hit that with our Time Rec Mel that when we were testers for TGA in the very, very beginning of it all.
Time Rec was one of the new strains that Dioxide had created and we were fortunate enough to be one of the testers and we found a Mel that we really liked.
Got it to be okay to go ahead and breed with him and we started breeding with him.
And, you know, the name wise just kind of worked, a Mad Scientist and a Time Rec, right?
But the Finos turned out fantastic. We did like 30 something, 40 something females the first run and every one of them was like super fruity to rotten fruit.
Rotten fruit, yeah. Those rotten fruit ones were awesome.
You know, Geek Farms, they found one that really goes back to the hash plant lineage.
So that's beautiful. It's more of a funkier taste to it than fruity, but it's really, really stony. So it's nice.
But yeah, you know, it was just as all crosses more and more novelties than anything else, right?
Some of them do good, some of them don't. But that one does really good and it's done really good for several years.
Yeah, yeah. It's been around a while. It's been crushing the NorCal scene for quite a while.
Yeah, yeah. It does well wherever it goes.
We've reached a point now to where we've had an unfortunate, had a bad winter and lost all of our males.
So Dr. Who and Quantum Kush and all those will no longer be made.
Sure, you make them feminized.
You know, we'll see how it goes.
You got my attention. I'm enjoying up there working on all this. I'm learning a lot. I'm waiting to see how it goes.
You know, I mean, it's interesting and I can completely see the future of this on commercial large scale level is going to be feminized auto femme seeds.
Yeah, auto femme, regular femme, full term, doing these hybrids, the semi autos, I think that has a huge potential.
I mean, there's all these different things and man, it's like, I can't wait for the next five years to see what people are crushing out.
You know, it's like another thing with feminized seeds. So when you're breeding feminized, when you're doing selections, you're selfing.
You don't always self, but you can self. Selfing is the most ideal way. And you're getting rid of 50% of the alleles.
So you're working with half the genetics. So as you're making something that's more stable, meaning less phenotypical variation, you can achieve that a lot faster.
Now, the only thing we need to do is actually learn how to tissue culture autos. That's a comment for someone who's watching, hopefully from DSG Labs.
One of my and Joseph's good friends. We need to work on that ASAP so we can get the tissue culture autos going.
I feel like that's going to be a game changer for production for making stable lines. Because right now with autos, you can't keep an auto around for more than one term. It finishes and that's it.
The future is to be able to breed with one phenotype. So you're basically selfing it on itself. And the only way to achieve that would be through tissue culture.
And if there's any tissue culture people watching, there's a lot of big money that would be paid for being able to tissue culture an auto flower plant.
And Jay from Finest, he died around this time last year. Him and I were in talks of trying to figure it out. He thought he had a solution for it and then ended up dying like four days later.
So if you guys want to...
Did he tell you what it was?
Yeah, he actually did. He told me that it actually needed to go into flower. He said the carbohydrate, you had to have the BRX levels, the carbohydrate in the plant at a certain point before you started to do the tissue culture process.
And Joseph might be able to touch on that a little bit. But that's what he thought as a starting point because it's so similar. Like that's how they do tomatoes apparently.
And at least that was his thought on where to go from there. You got any comments on that, Joe?
Yeah. So I've talked about this. I mean, you talked about this idea of like re-vegging and tissue culture.
I find it super interesting. A Canadian group came out and actually did exactly this in photo period flowers, in photo period plants, where they took plants weeks into flower and basically re-induced those floral tissues back to get vegetative growth and tissue culture.
So the groundwork's been laid to like re-veg a flowering plant and tissue culture. People just need to try it in autumn.
Yeah. I mean, with all the accelerated breeding we're doing, you know, I mean, it's amazing. Some of these companies like Energene and guys like Eric Mather, who are doing these advanced breeding that are finding markers and then using those markers to breed where you're able to breed with a small plant rather than having to grow the plant big.
You know, that's definitely part of the future. You know, not only patenting genetics, but just breeding faster. Because at the end of the day, what we really want to be doing, I mean, we're so hyped up on these F1s.
The future is creating stable lines and then making your own F1s from your own stable lines. That's what all the big companies are going to be doing.
You're going to be creating IP and that IP is created from making your own stable lines with your own genetics and taking those to whatever it is, whether it's an F7 or an F9.
And then adding heterosis. And then heterosis is hybrid vigor. So you take two stable lines that don't have heterosis because they've been inbred and inbreeding actually makes the plant weaker and more susceptible to problems.
You take those stable lines, you breed them together to create your own F1s. That's the way of the future, in my opinion. And that's kind of what I'm working on on a small scale compared to some of these big companies.
But that's what I'm working on with a couple companies. And, you know, Marlon Asher and I are working on some stuff in St. Vincent and Trinidad.
We're trying to get rolling. We're about to launch a seed company in Spain before the whole COVID thing hit. And then Tim and I are working on some seed stuff, hopefully, that he's knocking out. And we got some big news coming up.
That is true. You can't break it now?
Oh, no, we're not going to break it now on the show. It has to happen before we break the big news. And then we'll break it on your show.
Okay.
But it's going to be big. We got some game-changing stuff. My book's coming out. All these guys are pretty much in my book. And we got some really cool stuff, not only about feminized seeds, but just about breeding in general.
And Tim's Mr. Wizard. We got some of his cool ideas in there.
Well, I want to hear, you had mentioned kind of Odie being kind of about fruit forward. I want someone else first to talk about you. Like, Tim, what do you think James is about? Or Odie? Or Sjoerd? What do you think? Like, tell me in your mind, like, what's James all about?
You know, we're hunting phenos right now of James' stuff. And I think pretty much every single cultivar had the word gas in it. In the name, actually.
Yeah, I'm old school. The gas is what got me in. It was cat piss first, and then cat piss disappeared. But I've been smoking since 91. And we had cat piss, and then we had chem dog. Chem dog and sour diesel were like game-changing strains for me, because you could smoke them down to the roach and they still tasted amazing.
And so to this day, it's totally stuck with me. The gas. I love gas. But now we're at a point where it can't just be gas, because there's a fucking million OGs. So now it's got to be something else. You got to have gas with fruit.
You know, I'm all about complexity. So if you know me, you know I'm a chef as well. And I've owned restaurants and been in the culinary industry. I'm all about layers of complexity. And I think those things are important. And gas is almost an essential layer for me.
I think so.
So give me on the food side, with your food analogy, a food that you like to cook that has lots of layers. And what are those layers?
Food that I like to cook with lots of layers. Well, I mean, you can do that with anything, because food, you actually layer the dish. Like if you're making a plate, you have seven components. You want to layer texture. You want to layer flavor. You want to have complementary flavors. But you want each one of the flavors to stand out.
I worked at Chez Panisse years ago. And it's very rustic style. And they use a minimum amount of ingredients, but the best ingredients you can get in the whole world. I've never seen ingredients as close. Now, maybe some of the places around the area, in the Bay Area, have better plating, but you will not find fresher ingredients.
And what they do is they layer the flavors. So if they're using a couple different herbs, you taste all those herbs. It's not just in there to enhance the flavor. There's not 50 ingredients. I like my layers to be subtle sometimes. And I like sometimes stuff to be bold. But I'm more leaning towards the subtleties, whether it's in alcohol, whether it's in, I don't smoke tobacco anymore, but even tobacco, I like the subtleties with tobacco.
I think all these guys are tobacco, except for Joseph. I don't think Joseph smokes. But, oh yeah, you were talking about one type of food. You can do that with pasta. You can do that with pizza. I love sushi. Sushi is one of my favorite things in the world to eat and also to make.
Yeah, pho, noodle soup, huge into Vietnamese and even burritos. It's like you want to layer those burritos.
Yeah, the broth for like a good pho broth has a ton of complexity.
Yeah, totally. That's what you want is that complexity. And ramen is an example of something that has a creaminess where they're not adding dairy to it. I love those kind of things. And it has a thickness in a mouthfeel. Those things are important.
And also with cannabis, I think that the new wave is going to be creaminess. So a lot of people have talked about fruit forward. That was a big thing with like the sherberts and then even going blueberry muffin. That's another great one. And all these hitters. And then moving forward, I feel like the new thing is like cream, the creaminess, the smoke.
All right. So who wants to analyze Short?
Just watching him analyze plants and people. He's a macro guy, but also he's able to spot out the micro issues. And I think my guess would be he likes all cannabis plants that produce.
So he can be dispassionate when it comes to like flavor and smell and taste because he's focused on other things.
I wouldn't say that he's like a gas or a fruit forward or a Dutch strain guy. He likes turps. He knows turps. He can identify plant problems before they're problems, which is an amazing art. And teach other people to do it.
I think he's, as far as also picking out breeders and what's going to be a good breeder. I feel like he has a knack for it. He's done it a long time. And the scale that he's worked at and been able to work at has given him the opportunity to pick up other things that a lot of people don't have.
So Short, what do you look for in a breeder or someone you want to work with?
Well, I mean, most of the breeders that we're kind of working with now have a wide range. Like Ray loves, you know, kind of fruit, a rotten fruit. I've grown a lot of raised seeds out. You can grow them in a field and be really happy with the results.
But within each population, there's enough differences, slight differences to really be able to choose something really good. Carma genetics is all about the sour diesels and the gas. So it's really encompassing the widest range possible.
And to answer the question about what I like, I like grease. So, you know, we used to make a lot of hash. So I know the resin glands have to have a certain consistency to make good hash. But I really like that grease that just drips. You know, when the day gets hot, those trichomes are leaking.
And that's kind of reminiscent from the old Afghani strains. And that kind of kerosene, caramel, chocolate, that's really what I look for.
All right. And how about Tim? Tell me about Tim.
I want someone else to tell us about you.
So I'll tell you a little about Tim. He's a farmer. He's old school. He's worked in California and he's worked down in South America. As far as what he likes, he likes stuff that gets you ripped. He likes turpy, turpy, turpy stuff. And he's a sun grown sort of guy. He likes that greenhouse turf profile over that indoor.
But like he's on the hot modern strains, but also using the old school stuff alongside it. I feel like he likes gas too a little bit. He likes fruit. He likes that pungent skunky smell. He's a big proponent of wedding cake. I know that they do some wedding cake crosses that are amazing up there. And gelatos. We're both of us are huge gelato fans too.
So yeah, gelato, Pluto.
Pluto. That's a good one.
Pluto's a good one. Yeah, the real Pluto.
The only one I know.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think you pretty much nailed it.
Excellent.
So we got a question about breeders.
Remember how Oakland Indica was similar to OG Chem if I remember.
So we had Oakland. I remember the Indica from Oakland that was gassy and it probably did have some sort of, it wasn't.
Oh man. So Oakland had this back in the day, and this is in the 90s that I remember. Probably like 94, 95, which is forever ago. That's almost 30 years ago, which is crazy. But we had this Indica and it had a pungency to it, but I wouldn't say that it was Chem or OG.
I would say that the one I'm thinking of is definitely more of like on the skunky, Afghan, like acrid, pungent stuff.
There was a lot of that stuff going around. We used to go down to Santa Cruz and get this skunk number one. I found out it was skunk number one years later, but it was actually, we called it the strawberry because it was a strawberry sized nuggets.
They called it strawberry, $60 an eighth, straight up. You want to buy an ounce, it's $60 an eighth. We're going back to those prices too. It's just crazy.
Any other questions for us, Peter? I think we got to wrap it up pretty shortly here.
Yeah, well, just from me, I know you guys have big libraries and access to stuff, but what's a cut you've recently gotten from someone else that you're having fun playing with right now?
I've got Creme Rose Skittles from Tim. I got something from Short as well. And then I just got some stuff from Odie. I can't remember what I got from Odie, but I'm actually not allowed to talk about what I got from Odie. It's really amazing.
But with the other stuff, what are you psyched to explore with them?
Okay, so with Tim's Creme Rose Skittles, what I get excited about is when I find something novel. And that seems to be pretty rare. I think a lot of people, there's a million gelatos out there. There's literally a whole bunch of gelatos that are the same fucking gelato.
We see these different Rutz cuts and gelato cuts, and there's all these similarities. What I like is finding something that's absolutely novel that I've never tried before. It usually blows my mind.
And that Creme Rose Skittles from Tim. Creme Rose is a strain from a Fissionata from Leo that's amazing. And put with the Skittles, you get this candy flavor from the Skittles, and then it's complementary with the rose. And it's actually rose water.
And I hadn't tasted rose water, like actual rose water in cannabis ever before in my life until I tasted that strain. I tasted rose, like rose petal, but not that intense like rose oil, like you smoke the joint down and you're at the end of the joint, you're like, fuck, it still tastes like rose. That's what I like.
Good one, Tim. Now we need to get the structure better.
Yeah, we'll get there. I got a bunch of those beans. We got to just sort through them and find a winner.
Yeah, I got some of those we popped, so we'll see.
Right on.
And just quickly, going down the line, Tim, what's something you've got your hands on recently that you're having fun with? And what do you want to do with it?
Yeah, that's a good question. To be honest with you, we're hunting a bunch of James's phenos right now. We're just getting into them. Besides those, we a while back closed our doors to new genetics because it's just sketchy out there with all the viruses going around with everything that's able to come in on these.
We have a huge library. We're just kind of working through our own at the moment. We are doing a pretty significant hunt right now, a lot of James's stuff, and I know we're going to find some real winners in there.
Yeah, I can't say I have anything, though. We got some Pluto kind of bag seeds that we're going to see what comes of those.
Yeah, I'm just excited to see what pops out of this stuff. I can probably answer you better in about two months exactly what I'm excited about.
Yeah. And Ray?
Yeah, you know, I'm kind of in the same boat. Really haven't brought in much very new stuff. I'm kind of digging through some old stuff that hasn't been played with that much. I find it more interesting than a lot of the newer stuff.
So what's something from the archives that you're going back to?
So at one point in time, Hiro the Farmer and I did some collabs. I think I'm going to dive back into a few of those. We have a blood wreck back cross that we did that I'm going to dive into. Right at the moment, we're doing a lot of back crossing work.
As I said, we lost our males. So we're kind of in the middle of looking for what we're going to work with next and figured back crossing our main mothers back out would be a good start. That way they're a little bit more true as we go forward and work with them more so.
But you know, we did some smaller batch seeds here recently that some really nice stuff came out of. We did a lemon G by Dr. Who. Those turned out fantastic. You know, so just some of that kind of stuff.
Got it. And Joe?
I can't talk about any of it actually right now.
Got it. All right, Joe, that was short and sweet.
I have a couple of strains in a polyploid program. But I can't talk about them.
Got it. And Shord? Because you have a big library, right?
Yeah, we've consolidated. I mean, when we do pheno hunts, we usually run them three times from clone. And usually end up on about 0.3%. But really looking for primary flavors. Now everything washes out so quickly. So getting back to real primary flavors to work with.
We're running a bunch of sour diesel BX3s right now for breeding. And seeing from chymogenetics and seeing how they cross with other plants. And so far, you get a really nice range from sour, like the guava gelato with the sour diesel. There's a really nice range of perplexity throughout.
So the sour stuff is really nice. But the base thing is to really, how do you get back to basic flavor profiles without ending up with 1985 schwag? That's kind of the challenge at the moment.
Got it. Well, I think that's a really good question.
James, you got to wrap, right? Because everybody has to go.
Yep.
Okay. So thank you, James, and to everybody else on the call and the 150 people still tuned in.
We appreciate it. And we'll see you actually. So basically, tomorrow we're doing something on IPM. Tomorrow night, we may do something with Josh Rutherford, Nick Rysden, and Kevin Jodry. And then Sunday with Clackamas.
But anyway, thank you guys. James, you got a lot of beans in front of you.
Yeah, beans. If you need beans.
All right. I want you to send me some so I can film like popping them and growing them.
Yeah, I'm going to send you some beans.
All right. Well, I'm going to kill the live stream.
You guys, see you later. Thank you very much.
See you, fellas. Thanks, everyone.
All right. Thanks, guys.
All right.
