Okay, so let's stick to the humble scene.
All right, we are live on YouTube. Thanks for joining us, everyone. That's me, Peter.
We got people fashionably late, but Larry is raised cannabis. And then what's Melody's farm?
Humboldt Sunrise Farm, here in Boxford, the Humboldt County.
Got it. And then Dan, when you're in town, what's the name of the farm?
It's Rebel Grown, also in Southern Humboldt.
Excellent. And we're waiting for a few other people to trickle in.
Joel is currently trying to install Zoom. So, Larry, maybe you can set the table because you're,
with the assumption that Joel actually makes it in, you're growing some of his genetics. So,
can you talk about what you're growing and kind of what you're seeing?
Yeah. John met Joel at the Regen Conference and brought back some seeds that he gifted us.
Like several packs of Long Valley Kush, Long Valley Whirl Kush, and the Northern Lights 5.
And they're outperforming everything in the garden, second to like a land-raised
genetics that we also were gifted at the Regen Conference. It's a testament to how beautiful
that conference is. It's like I went there one year and it changed my life.
Talked to Kevin for a little bit and like, yeah, I don't know where I was going, but
the genetics we got from Mitol are crazy good. And I'm curious to see, we do have some unique
situations with the Northern Lights. Like there's a little bit more stem rot.
And I'm wondering if you could point us in the direction of like what could be the issue there,
if it's not just the genetics or if it's something that the genetics prefer, like maybe a little bit
more drier conditions or, you know. So, but I'm real curious about like, this is our first year
going from SmartPots to Hugel beds. And we've been working with the University of Utah,
working with Catherine at Simsoil. And she's been helping us develop this program with our
biology and compost teas. But I'm curious if he has any insight as to like growing in the ground
and how to like monitor the moisture by eye. And, you know, we've got an entomometer and we're
checking the moisture levels and stuff. But this being our first year of growing in Hugel beds,
if there's anything that he could, you know, help us out with any tips, you know.
And speaking of the Regen conference, I think Josh just popped in.
Hey guys. How's it going?
Just on the road, getting back home. So I thought I'd pop in and say, what's up, Dan?
How you doing, man?
What's up, man? How you doing?
Good, dude. It's been a minute. I'm here to catch up with you.
For sure.
So, Josh, actually, while we're waiting for Joel to install Zoom,
can you talk about kind of his genetics from your perspective?
Yeah. So it's, I mean, everyone kind of has their own
and just like view on life and perspective and whatever. And so everyone's genetics comes out
slightly different based upon, you know, who they are and what they're after. And for Joel,
it's all bigger all day. His plants are super strong. They're strong at the gate. They're
taller than everything else. And that's kind of what he talks about and focuses on it is
towards bigger. So that's, and I probably run, you know, maybe three or four of his lines.
Right now I'm running the Long Valley Royal Kish cross platinum pie.
Super stoked on those. Got a strong stem rub. They're super consistent, really consistent for
F1s in the structure. Yeah. Last year I ran the Polecat, Polecat crossed Jamaican ice headband,
which I was super in love with. And actually Kenny Mount Baker Highway pulled a cool Fino. He's a
neighbor of mine up here in Washington and he's running it, you know, kind of cut status. And
the one that I was going to mention, the one that I most jacked about, I just pulled two males from
is the Crumbly Lake crossed Jamaican ice headband. And I ran that last year. I ran probably 800 seeds
and pulled a really sharp nose male, just burnt rubber. And then I found a female that came in,
you know, I think third week of August, it was finishing like early for me. And I was jumping
up and down and I couldn't, I didn't pull off the re-veg. I wasn't able to save it. So it was a big,
exciting deal to a lag down. And so Joel ended up sending me some more seeds and I'm doing another
run of them again and I found what I was looking for. So I'm pretty excited about that.
Got it. And Larry, that's kind of what you were talking about before we started, just
they're huge plants, right? Oh my, they're massive. I mean, they're huge. Yeah, it's crazy and healthy,
like with no issues, you know. And with the hugel beds, I mean, how,
given that this is the first season you guys have ever grown in them, I mean,
what percentage of the farm is in hugel beds versus pots versus raised beds?
I'd say 90 to 95% is in hugel or in some type of bed, whether it's hugel,
maybe 5% smart pots still, just because we had extra plants and we sometimes will fill in some
corner spaces to maximize that square footage. If something doesn't fill out, we'll throw in a
couple smart pots, you know, if we have extra plants still, but
it's all beds in the native soil, I'd say 98%. We'll do some test runs with gifted plants and
smart pots sometimes with gifted genetics. Like, we're testing out the magic melon.
What else is it? The, some Marchand Lens, what is it? Beast Mode OG, some vanilla frosting,
you know, like sometimes things just show up and we throw them in a smart pot, you know.
But mainly for, you know, our bread and butters in the beds, for sure. And we were trying to,
what is it? We're doing 300 full sun plants in the hugel beds and this is our first year,
and so we're gathering all the materials that graze the area and keep the brush chip down.
We made soil mix out of that in our previous years of soil and some thermophilic composting
stuff that we've been doing on the side. But, you know, I don't know where I'm going with this,
but it's just that trying to do it all off of our own research and with the help of,
with Catherine has been huge, but it's just, there's so many unknown variables
with the materials we've been gathering from the forest. They're great, but, you know, it's just,
it's a, we're learning, it's like trial by fire, you know. So it's going really well. There's just
some spots here and there. We're seeing a little bit of variation throughout, but it's kind of
like, it's a beautiful learning process for sure. I was going to say, man, you know, a lot of the
Instagram pictures don't, they show people building beds and shit, but they don't, it's a process is
what I'm trying to say. You know, depend, there's a lot of variables in there. Like you said, you
can throw a six inch log in there or six inch stick log in there, you know, or down to a pinky
size sticks and the way they hold moisture, the way they break down, it's just, there's a lot of
variable in there and, you know, it can be a bit of a struggle. And especially if you started them
in the spring, you know, then they're really going to not going to be awesome until next spring,
you know, because the wet winter months do a number on it, you know.
Larry, is this the Hugel beds or what are we looking at here?
Yeah, those are the Hugel beds. When was that?
I mean, that was like March.
This is May 20. Oh, wow. That's a while ago. Okay. I didn't realize. Yeah. That's May.
Yeah.
Damn dude, that's beautiful.
Yeah. And I mean, thank you. Yeah. You know, those are all the seed plants. We've got about
17 different strains and, you know, that's our phenol hunt side and the other side are running
clones from past phenol hunts. And, you know, the Hugel beds are so advantageous compared to
the smart pots. Like I can already see that like the inputs required are so much less.
And we're definitely needing just as much water this year as last year, because last year was so
cool. And this year is crazy. Like the plants are raging right now. But yeah, you know,
it's going good with the Hugel beds for sure. With the goat manure that we have, it's a perfect
system for that, you know, for that application. It works really well, I think, you know,
and just going into beds without the Hugel stuff, going into that native soil and they get all those
rocks and minerals and the fungus, mycorrhizae can interact better. It's just, it's great, you know.
But there's challenges and, you know, like learning how that dries out and different rates.
Definitely with those Hugel beds is tricky because like we've got pine in there. We've got some
madrone mixed in there, oak mixed in there, you know. They all have their own little different
qualities. But I think next year...
Well, that last part cut out, Larry.
I think next year is going to be way better.
Well, so did you make the beds this year? So you plant, like you didn't let them sit for a year
or two years. You just went straight in?
No, as soon as it stopped raining, we just started building those beds this year and just throwing
seeds out and, you know, watering them with the teas, inoculating them.
Kevin, you look more grizzled than when I last saw you.
Grizzlier every day. Hey, I have a question. I have a question for you guys that run the Hugels.
You ever run into any termite problems?
No, but I run into a ton of rat problems. A ton of rat problems.
Because they can nest them. Because I had bad termite problems a couple years ago when we
cleared out some old forest that was... the sudden oak had got into it. And so we dropped a bunch of
that wood and all of a sudden I had this huge influx of termites into my cannabis field.
And right, you know, maybe Septemberish, all of a sudden I started dropping herb and I couldn't
understand what was going on. And when I popped it open, the inside pit had been completely removed
and it was just filled with termites. And I was just like, holy shit. So it was something to kind
of worry, even though I know that Hugels works so beautifully and I see people having such good
success with it. I've always wondered, like, you know, what are the issues you face that you
wouldn't normally face by having that much, you know, undecomposed organic matter in the dirt?
What's up, Dan?
I was just gonna say, I think that's the real key there is it's a cool concept, but it's a
timed concept that you're really gonna get the benefit. Like, I'm on year four with mine
and pretty much the first three years I chopped 90% of my crop and put it right back down,
you know, so I'm just pulling nutrients and putting them right back down and shifting them around.
And this year, they're fucking flying and I'm really happy.
Totally. You just re-layer it and then this way what you're doing is you're creating all your
deposition layers and evening out that distribution.
Seemed to work. I mean, I was adding stuff to crab mail and
kelp and, you know, poop and stuff every year, but it's, they're rocking this year.
Nice.
Yeah.
What Catherine recommended to us when she advised us, you know, from Simsoil,
she was like, as long as there's ample food that they would prefer to eat,
the termites shouldn't be a problem. And if they are a problem,
what we did and what she advised us to do is just go hard with the Bavaria bastiana.
Like we use incredible amounts of Bavaria bastiana, trichoderma,
and then the complete package of like a broad spectrum inoculant and a lot of EM,
a lot of bacillus subtilis, pushing those, those strains like every time we can, you know.
That BV is expensive.
I was gonna say that BV is expensive. Elaine Ingham was telling me that I could brew it
and increase the, the, the amount of it in a solution,
but I just didn't seem to get the effectiveness when I tried to increase it through that method.
You got to have Catherine do it, the microscope, and they've got this beautiful brewer and those,
like, they'll say, Hey, look, there's the Bavaria spores. There they are. You know,
It was Catherine.
It's quantifiable and it works, man.
Who's cool because of that.
Catherine from Simsoil. I forget her last name, but I think it's Hinson.
Yeah. She comes to our farm like, yeah.
Kev, we smoke weed.
She comes to our farm and she took the Elaine course and she's very educated.
She's been at that conference the last three years and we smoke weed with her a bunch on the
porch up there and at the, the restaurant when we come down there. What's that restaurant? Bimbo.
Oh, totally. Totally.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's, she's got dark glasses. She's really sharp on the microscope, man. I,
I give her lots of glasses.
For sure.
Her and her team are an invaluable resource. No doubt, man.
Yeah. No, because if you can brew that, if you can brew the concentration up, because when we,
when, you know, when you're using BV it, it, it, it, in quantity, man, that adds up fast.
And you feed it the frass.
Gotcha. You're using the frass as the food source for it to multiply it.
Grass flower.
I don't know where mom is.
So, so with the ret, so Josh, you're, are you partially in Hugel beds, all in Hugel beds? And
then Dan, what are you, are you in the ground and big pots, Kevin?
Yeah. At our place we kind of have a, Hey, first of all, what's up, Kevin? It's been a while since
I've seen you, man. Nice to see you, man. Yeah. So our pots, you know, we're, we're always trying
to transition into more responsible and efficient cultivation. And so the property that, that,
that I have, you know, when I first bought it, it was the year that Humboldt was passing its
cultivation ordinance. And it was the first time ever that you couldn't just do whatever you wanted
on a property without permission. And so it was, it was this year where what I wanted to do is,
was build my ideal setup the way that I'd always dreamed, you know, from running other people's
scenes. But instead, you know, the first month that I closed on the property, I sent a letter
of intent to Humboldt County saying that I was a commercial cultivator and intended on applying
for permit and state licensing. So I was really careful to not mess around and change too much on
the property. And the property had a bunch of smaller pots. And so every year we kind of chip
away at trying to grow more in raised beds and grow in the ground and then still maintain different
testing areas. So we've got a bunch of raised beds. We grow in a bunch of big pots, small pots
some, some holes in the ground, a little bit of everything.
Yeah, buddy.
Yeah, no, I'm kind of mixed modality too, where I have a bunch of beds that we had worked with
a soil company years ago, helping them develop their formulation for it was special, was
specifically for like OG depth cycles. So we worked with this, this group for a couple of years,
one of my buddies, I had the partner farm with it, and they were developing what was going to
work well for flower and OG because at that time, you know, OG was just destroying the market.
And so I use that as the media that I went into the raised beds, and then it's right on,
it's on a grid of wire to, you know, try to slow down some intrusion, but the, the, the, the beds
I like best, you know, because you're able to, you know, get a big sink. And then the rest of
the benches was all bags because it was going to be a rollout where I was going to raise bed,
all the benches. And the reality of how much money we were making was that we were
the reality of how much money we make from the farm kind of slowed that process down. And so
this winter, what I'll do is I'll go take like the West benches and I'll, I'll raise bed them and get
them built. And then I'll try it over the next couple of years to get the whole farm into a
raised bed setup so that I have an aisle way to come through with the, the Rhino for work-related
purposes. And then that way the beds can sit on the native soil and all, and I'll allow slowly,
let, you know, deep drilling root crops get into that, that native media and start to, you know,
tilt it up. But it's just, it's a process. And the, the cost of, you know, redoing all your work
is so pricey and the amount of money that you really make after you're said and done, you know,
after the years of permitting costs, because all the work that goes on, I mean, I started my job
seven years ago and I still have, I have, I just got to pave the 50 foot of driveway and I have a
few rolling dips on the road and I'm done with everything. Seek all done. But yeah, it just
slows that process down. And I would like to go in the earth completely, but my situation up the
mountain doesn't, doesn't lend itself as easily as it would just to, just to build good raised beds
and then let them slowly build in over a couple of year period to where I get a deeper sink into
the earth. You know, I think that, uh, I'm sorry, you know, it was a lot of fun this, uh, this spring
we milled up that, uh, that pine from the pine beetle kill. We found some stuff that was dead.
We milled it up for the material for our beds and man, it adds this aesthetic that I feel like
you'd really appreciate. Like, I don't know if you ever need some pines, holler at me.
Right on. I was saying that I think the compliance issues really, you know, prevent a lot of farms
from doing what, what they want to do. Like, like Kev was just saying, like our intention is to always
work towards more efficiency for, you know, quality, what we're going to cultivate, how to
utilize the space and then for environmental reasons. And so the roadblock is, you know,
like Kev was saying, we want to get rid of all our pots. We want to grow in the ground, um, working
with amended native soils. We know what that's going to do is for one thing, we're going to use
40 to 60% less water, and we're going to be able to run shorter cycles and more efficiency per
square footage without running pots that were there when we bought the property. We know that
we're going to decrease our labor, um, maybe even our plant counts. And so there's so many things
about that that would make our farm actually better for the environment, um, and more sustainable,
but you still have to jump through a bunch of hoops before you can take an area and bring in
any heavy machinery, um, or do a lot of the stuff that we want to. So that that's kind of a bummer.
Um, then with Hoogles, from what I've seen, you know, I think there's a lot of really positive
things. The one thing that I'm very curious about that maybe you guys can, can give some insight on
is, you know, for me, sometimes when we're growing outdoors and we have unpredictable weather, and we
don't know what's going to happen in the fall, you know, we obviously want to grow genetics are going
to do good with mold resistance. But a lot of times as an outdoor farmer, you do want your crop
to finish earlier. And by growing in restricted root spaces, like like pots, you know, we can get
things, you know, you know, air pruned and root bound. And that sometimes helps finish stuff. For
instance, we have a cut, that's one of our best cuts, we've learned a lot of it. And we know that
growing it in our smaller pots, it's going to be done the last day of September, first couple days
of October, if we grow that same thing in a raised bed that was just built into the ground, and it has
more width for the root space, it's going to take 10 to 15 days longer. So I'm just wondering if,
if you folks are finding that growing in wide open spaces where there's no
restricted sides for the roots and the roots can just keep going, you know, I would expect
that the plants are going to finish about, you know, 10 days, two weeks later.
I wouldn't argue with that concept.
At all. Like I can't say I have any real data or experience to say, Oh, yeah, that's what happened.
But the comment I was gonna make is on my farm here, I cleared out an acre. And I started with
a flat, a flat pad, and I put all my efforts into building a greenhouse. And I built on native soil,
but I did raise beds with essentially a soilless media, a peat based, third compost, third peat,
third aeration deal on top of the native soil. And that was like, where I put my money and my
efforts and intended to crush it and have done really well. And then when I looked at the outside,
because I'm literally in a swamp, I figured I have to go up and I've stopped walking, I have a lot of
clay. And so I started building these hugels. And I have 1234 hugels that are about eight feet wide
by 100 feet long. And it was a tremendous amount of work. And, and then finally, last year, I
had some extra plants, I just threw them in the ground, like like a normal fucking person would.
And it wasn't a good year. You know, I didn't have a great year on it by any means. But this year,
I did the same thing. And I threw compost on top of the plants when I put them in. And they're all
do they're all doing really good, man. They're like six feet tall. And compared to my hugels
that are four years old next to it, I'm a lot more impressed with what I'm getting out for what I put
in. In the hugels because they're raised up in the summer when it's hot, I have to really get that
moisture in there. Or they slow down a shit ton where the ones that are directing the ground,
they're able to get that moisture a lot easier. For whatever reason, they're tapped in a reason.
Yeah, so honestly, if I had to go back and do it. Financially, my plan would be straight compost,
municipal compost, like six inches on the whole fucking lot, and then plan to brew and dump
compost tea all summer, you know, and run a program like that instead of shoveling all summer and
breaking my back moving dirt. You know what I did for two summers. I've kind of changed my tune on it,
you know? Do you trust the municipal compost? No, I don't trust it whatsoever. But what I do trust
is my ability to make it better. Because compost is just broken down organic material.
And I've got enough skills and enough people to help me make that really good quality. And I do
that by putting good compost tea on it. And I just use it as an organic base. Totally.
I was talking to Zelig, and from what Spring Creek Farms, I think, right? And we were smoking some
of our beehive. He was telling me that he hadn't watered in probably the last like, you know, 30
plus days of the cycle. But his climate is different than yours. You're in a moist coastal.
I think I've never been to Zelig's farm, but I know that he's got like a more northern exposure.
But I know that he's drier. And so for him, having that moisture sink allows him to be able to, you
know, not have water issues, you know, later in the season. But for you, that's not a problem.
You've got plenty of water. And so for you, just go straight into the ground with a compost top to
get some nutrient balance and a little more aeration for those top feeder roots.
It's not about getting the water, it's about getting the nutrients. And that's the same in
my greenhouse. This last, last summer in the summer before I really stopped backing off on
the water. And I think I even turned my blue mass system entirely off last summer. And plants were
jamming and I was watching them. They're praying the whole time looking good. And then they started
to turn, turn yellow. They're just, you know, a little bit, right. They weren't getting enough
nitrogen. And so I stuck my hand in there and the whole top 12 inches of this soil that I made is
bone dry. They're not fucking touching that shit. And they're just going straight down into the
native clay and getting inside water in that top stuff. And sure enough, they get their nutrients
again and they're off. And so I just kind of learned that that's, I'm managing the nutrients
in the top 12 inches in my greenhouse in this, in this manner. So you're using the bottom as a,
as a, as a moisture sink and you're using that top 12 inch horizon as your nutrient layer.
Yeah. And I'm just kind of figuring it out, you know, learning as I'm going. Oh yeah, no doubt,
man. We all are. Before I, before I was indoors, dude, it just, it was just a close 12 inch deep,
you know, bed. And now I'm tapping into the earth and it's, it's way, it's better, dude. It's
it's easier. It's better herb, everything about it's better. Yeah, no, my outside beds are the
ones that are touching the native earth, the richer plants. They fit, but like Dan said,
though, they finish later than the ones in the bags because what we're not putting that exudate
straight. I think some of it too, is as the plants release and exudates that, that sugar,
the stress coming out from the inability to flush it out completely tells the plant that it's a
stress factor because I've run the same plants in bed and in pot. And I've seen, just like he said,
that you get a quicker finish on the, on the, on the, on the plant. And I think that that's just
going to end up coming out to like where we do, you know, better, better breeding projects to
start trying to refine some more characteristics that work for us. I think we're on some fish
October. Yep. I was saying, I think that in general, you'll have happier and probably healthier
plants, you know, in a really well-balanced soil that's in the ground native mixed, you know, I'm,
I'm guessing it's going to take three plus years to really get the right mineral balance, you know,
uh, to the point where it's really self-sufficient on its own. And I love the idea of, of being a
minimalist and bringing in local materials. It's just, uh, I think it's just a balance for me of,
you know, knowing what works and not fixing what's not broken, but also at the same time,
slowly working to make improvements, um, to become more, more efficient and more sustainable.
And that makes sense with what you guys are dealing with. You know, you guys are,
you guys are permitting already set up farms, you know, I was, uh, you know, starting to scrap
a flat surface, you know, I, I, I took out the old operation. Remember I had the square footage,
but what we did is I converted that whole side of the mountain, the Southern face and the West side
and that back so that I'd be able to have the ability to utilize that whole parcel better.
And also it gives me some really different microclimates where my full South face does not
get the airflow that I get on that, which would be really like the Northern end of the garden. It's
still full South, but because the wind is coming from the Northwest, it blows across that, that
flat heavy. So if I put the right plants there that are grease monsters, they just turn out like
they got dipped in wax. But if I put something that is like that on the South bench, I'll get
the sun intensity, but I won't get the same wax content. And so, you know, it's so having the
different locations, I figured that over the course of time, I'd be able to find the right
cultivars that shined in each one of those locations. And that would be basically what I
produced from the farm so that I'd be able to have some differentiation on parcel, but under the same
hands. So this way, it's because it adds a little variety to what you do. You know, I mean, if you
don't enjoy this shit, it's impossible, especially right now it's 110. You know what I mean?
Today I have off, thank God, but I'll be up there tomorrow at five o'clock and I'm laughing. I'm like,
you gotta love this shit or you just can't do it. I was gonna, I was just thinking as you were
saying that it'd be, it's a cool marketing concept, you know, that you kind of did run the same
strains in the same places every year. And then you come out with the Southeast corner, the Northwest,
whatever it is, you know, that's just, this is Georgia's weed. And this is the area where I grow
it and fucking no, you're going to get that wine deal, that wine deal, you know, where it's like,
2007, 2008, you know, what was different, you know?
No, you're going to need it because for us in California, we have,
let me see, 24, 20, 27 and a half months before Unlimited Canopy comes in.
And so once Unlimited Canopy comes in, that changes who's coming in. And once those guys
come in, they're going to have a little different play on how do you advertise? How do you promote?
And I don't care what you're limited to do, they will bend that parameter to the point,
it looks like a fucking pretzel. And so for us, any little differentiation is crucial right now
to be able to start to develop some micro share of the market. Because that's really all we are,
is micro guys in the big picture. What's the supply like in California? Like Washington,
Oregon, we have way more than what we need. Are you guys at that level yet?
No, no, the markets are red hot right now, man. And I don't know. I'm not quite sure why
sometimes because there's lack of retailers. And there must be some of the distros that are doing
delivery must be pushing an incredible amount. But the prices are higher than they've been for
the what we call the metric market, which is what we're under, the prices are up. And
hopefully they stay that way for a little while. It'd be nice.
Yeah, we just got rid of a bunch of our depths. And it's all about the timing of it. It's like
there's a huge block up for processing because of the COVID. It's hard for people to get their
weed trimmed up. And so every year we shoot to harvest the first round of depths last week of
June, first week of July, so we can beat the rush because every grower says, I'm gonna harvest by
July 4th, by July 1st, and then things happen. It's usual to run a few weeks behind, but this
year, we were able to get a bunch actually cut, you know, that last couple days in June, early
July. And then we see a lot of people just struggling to get their weed process. But what's
about to happen, my guess is that over the next month, everybody's going to get their weed trimmed
up. And all of a sudden, the price and depth is going to start going down each week. And then
there's a lot of big farms throughout the state that are coming online. And a lot of people are
getting better at growing weed. So I think we're going to have the most weed that we've seen in
the last, you know, since 2017. I think there's lax enforcement and regulation in some areas,
people are going for it. So I think it's going to be interesting. I think the prices are going to
hold better than they did three years ago. But I do think that it's going to, you know, go down
each month, there might be a window of if you can get product early October. And so yeah, like I
said, we've been always trying to get product on the shelves of my branded stuff, but we just
wholesaled our depths because it's so much easier. And the price.
Yeah, no, I white labeled all my stuff last year. And then I'll do a semi white label this year,
we'll they'll do a co brand. But it's not you know, me completely. It's allowing someone else
to utilize me to assist them. And then I get to use their supply chain and their flow. Because
you can eat you need to turn the money over. Yep. There's no joke.
I'm laughing because I think I've been in business forever. But you know, farming herb right now is a
tough one, man. It I try Sam's glad I love what I do because I'm never unhappy upon the hill. I
never feel resentful that I'm growing dope. Do you guys notice stuff going in the flower
early this year? I did it screwed me. Our stuff is going in early. Yeah, I see it across the board
on a lot of farm. Yep, I see that a lot of people to why is that? What is this the moon?
I know they're talking about solar minimums. And it was an odd season to though you got to
remember to me like flower cycle is cumulative stress, not just a single trigger. So if you if
you took a look at the season that we had, it was so bizarre. You know, you had cold and hot and then
we had just up here in humble we had this unbelievable hot and windy come and the winds
were like great miles an hour the plants are just stressed. What'd you say Larry? Yeah.
I guess I could see a little bit of stress but I don't know I'm seeing across the board and
in a lot of different climates. Just people's stuff is budding fully, you know? Yeah, no,
I guess that does make sense though. The heat, the heat stress and but still I don't really know
it seems kind of peculiar to me. I've never seen this before. Oh, yeah.
Like on long finishing strains too, you know? Yeah, no, I've seen it all in the course of being
out for a long period of growing. I've had years where I was like, and the problem is,
is that just like this year, I kind of fucked up. Just like I did 15 years ago, when I planted at
the window that I thought would be best for my purposes. And I didn't get the veg time that I
expected. And I watched him go into the transition. I said, Oh, you got to be fucking kidding me.
And what date what date did you plant this season?
Let's see these plants were already built them. They were decent size when they went out,
but they for me to work the hill that I do, I put them out like around June 21. It was right in
that window at a good at a good moon cycle. And it allowed me to put that outdoor in and not get
the plants too big for the for the space so that I could handle them. And it's a good window for me
if I just time it right. But this year on some of the 111 strain in specific, it triggered early.
And so I'm laughing because I got these little bushes. But it's it's, it's what it is, it's
farming. And so, you know, that's the the situation is that sometimes, you know, it's it's so many
factors of what causes a season to be a season. You know, what is the what is the stress factors
that the plant feels that says, hey, it's time to reproduce. And for me, these varieties were
all sourced from indoor operations. And so there's no real R&D on the outside. So it makes it tough,
because you don't know whether you should put them in two weeks earlier or two weeks later
to balance out the size to fit the grids. And my theory is people, people, the plants know that
people are going to need a lot of weed this November. They need a lot of it earlier.
I agree with with Kev, man, is that every step of the process has equal importance,
you know, and so it's really, you know, our job is we're trying to do everything perfect,
and there's no such thing as perfect. But the nursery, you know, the nursery game is probably
one of the most crucial parts of the success you're going to have in the season. So the work
that you put into the spring and prepping your your cultivation areas, planning, timing, and I
think that a lot of the issues that I see on, you know, mistakes that I've made that we've made,
and that I see that's common is the nursery having any inefficiencies, because what you want
is a plant that is always grown at perfect health and never gets root bound and also has adequate
spacing in between other plants so that it can develop the right shape. And just one, one little
spout of overwatering stuff or having plants crammed into together or stretching out or,
you know, getting getting clones from a source that comes with some some root aphids or or
problems on that part. And that then you're starting your whole season with a problem that
you need to overcome. So then you're playing catch up with your plants health until you get
them healthy. And, you know, we've had years like that, where we had to whole sections that,
you know, I was expecting massive vegetative growth, but we had to spend, you know, the early
parts of the season maintaining and fixing the plant health and losing out on a lot.
So like, like Kev was saying,
that across, I think across the board, it stuff going in earlier this year, for whatever reason,
on a lot of farms is going to make for higher quality cannabis, you know, across the board
this year, because I don't know, it's just gonna, we're gonna be able to take the longer finishing
strains all the way more likely, be less harvesting early. And, you know, it's like, there's,
I'm aware of all those, those, it's like the small things that add up, you know, over watering
stress factors, root bound, you know, or causing stuff drying out or over watering, causing stuff
to go in the flower. But overall, across the farms, I think that the quality of cannabis from 2020 is
going to be unique and exceptional because of the summer and stuff going in early, you know?
Yeah, we'll find out come, you know, end of September, how much rain we pull. I mean,
this is like the first year where I would love to see no rain come in,
but we're having such a ferocious drought, man. It's crazy. Humboldt's dry.
Yeah. And old lady said that we're gonna have a real nasty winter.
Well, it's supposed to be a La Nina, which is more mild, you know? And so like,
depending on what source you're looking at, I mean, I would love to see a nasty winter because
we need about, you know, 70 inches of rain to bring up these underground aquifers.
Well, holy shit. That's to me, you know, like all this vegetative shit's good. It gets your size.
But man, the business isn't over till you chop it. And I think that's really what's gonna,
we're gonna find out if we have, you know, a good season come that September time,
that September time, if we get a good spell of dryness in that end of the finish, early October,
it could be incredible. But if it rains heavy then, ooh, scary.
Yeah, I think like there's always a little rain in September, late September,
it's like a little bit, you know, you gotta prepare for that little bit of rain, you know?
Planning for the fall is definitely...
As long as it doesn't start dumping first week of October.
Big water, you know, branch breaker.
I think we'll be finished before then.
So just quickly, Joel, can you hear me?
Yeah, I'm here, yeah.
All right. You found an internet connection. So where'd you have to go to get reception?
It's the next farm up the road.
Okay. You were like, I need some reception. Can I just hang out here for a couple hours?
Might play for this too, but yeah, we spread out a little over here. So
some things connect and some things don't.
Bro, we were talking about you earlier. You got big game. We said you grow the biggest plants in
the fucking West Coast, so.
Maybe.
So you can put your nuts on the table right now.
Yo, they're there.
How tall is the tallest plant you've ever grown?
Oh, tall. I don't know. I don't know. I honestly tried not to keep them so tall,
but last year's the biggest plant I ever grew, 23 pounds.
Dang, son.
What's up, Joel?
What up, Dan? Long time, brother.
So just quickly, what I was going to ask before is, Larry, you obviously with Joel's seeds,
you grew some stuff from seed. So what percentage of the farm is from seed versus
clones? And then kind of going down the line, Dan, you breed, so are you growing
mostly your own genetics or are you growing market demand or?
So we always grow our own genetics and try to create a market demand for it.
This year is a little bit different. Pretty much every year, I always push growing a huge
amount of plants from seed. And so it's always really, really challenging for my crew.
I'll have years where I'll start in the beginning of the year and I'll say,
listen, I'll let you guys help make this decision. We can be really efficient and grow
almost entirely from clone or we can just grow a shitload of seed plants and have all types of
amazing weed and years that we do seed plants when you're growing.
And these aren't feminized, right? These are just regular.
No, they're not feminized. So I love growing seed plants in years where we grow
three, four, five, 600 seed plants. We always find the most amazing herb, but for the fall harvest,
keeping it all properly labeled is really challenging, especially with metric. And when
we're thinking about putting batches together, we have some stuff that's relatively consistent,
but we have a lot of stuff that's variation, that has variation and needs to be not re-selected,
but it just needs work, needs time to go into it. So this year, and what we're doing now is
predominantly from clone, from our best selections. And then we have certain areas to test out
seed plants, but rather than grow them as big as we can, those are kind of smaller tester batches.
Then we work with other farms to test our shit. And then even clones that we cut off of seed plants
that we still haven't flowered out. So this is less seed plants than we've ever grown.
And then the clones are there, because you had mentioned nurseries before,
are you, do you have moms on site? Are you working with a nursery?
Yeah. We're off grid and we have solar and we have some capacities for small space.
So we're trying to get to the point where, we always have everything of ours contained and
healthy at our farm. But at the same time in the past, when we shut down in the winter,
we always find different people to hold genetics, to get back what we need in the spring. But now
we're able to run year round. We don't need giant mom rooms. We just need to be able to
keep things alive and healthy and not have to trust other people to take care of stuff.
There's a lot of variables to juggle. We have a crew of about five guys and we run our moms
in the same room that we finish sometimes. And we use this as our nursery. We cut all of our own
clones. We do our 300 full sun plants and try and start as early as possible. 150 of them are seeds,
150 of them are clones. And we run about 20,000 square feet of depth, densely planted. And we're
planting a lot of clones. A clone per square foot is our target, but sometimes we come up short.
And it kind of works well with biologicals.
You mean pest control?
I mean everything. Pest control, as we can make the pest control the food program,
that's ideal.
Totally, totally. You're not sugaring the plant up too hard.
No, I try to do the same thing. I try to keep it at a balanced level and track the pathogens to the
same degree. It just makes it easier.
Oh yeah. I'm finding that especially in the native soil, we're requiring a lot less food.
As the biology increases, it gets hotter and hotter. We use the worm activities. It's just
jumps. And you start to get that grease that passes up the indoor, the look that passes up
the indoor, that quality that differentiates like you're talking about with that living soil.
The longer it goes, the better it gets, it seems like.
I want to ask Joel what your experience is with Hugo versus direct in the ground.
Have you had any good comparisons where you've been able to look at?
I mean it's all kind of relative to your native soil. First of all,
if you're building, if your native soil is good enough, there's no reason to build Hugo's.
In our good and decent locations in Mendo, the native soil is so mineral rich, it's
you can't really touch it. But we also have shale rock in enough place you can't really
build like that. So you start from the ground upwards and that would be a Hugo application.
In my opinion, I personally would much rather be in the ground direct and work with native
and some of the clay and a little mix up of this and that. But yeah, no, neither which one is
probably better than the next. I mean obviously Hugo is going to take a couple years to get
productive for you. They're not really so great right off the jump unless you're willing to
bring a little additives along with it. Needs food on the first year.
Totally because of the decomposition.
Yeah, you know a lot of things and when you're going through that heavy decomposition,
you're pretty likely to go through some lockout issues and other things as it gets kind of
balanced out. So yeah, Hugo's can be a pretty big challenge first year, even second year.
You got to kind of do a be willing to import a little bit of microbial and different things to
just set the balance off and get something productive out of it if you need to on the first
year. Absolutely. My main concern with going in the ground and the reason I think we had to build
up was because we had that heavy clay and I was worried about being able to dry out in the fall
because there's thousands of gallons of water down. But how do you account for drying out?
When do you stop water and just get a little bit of water at a time?
Are you doing big soaks in later? No, I mean I do huge soaks during veg and the heat of the
summer. I just went and do it. We're talking 60 to 80 gallons of plant and we're finishing
transition right now. The stretch is almost complete. So my water consumption will get
cut in half right now and I'll spread it out as much as I can.
It's something to be mindful of as you're stacking and putting buds on. You're not
building roots no more. So you just need to give them water to survive.
Totally. That's real. I mean you got to be real careful about over watering. I don't think there's
no such thing as over watering when you're just vegging a huge plant and that thing's digesting at
a rapid rate. There's no such thing as over watering. They'll suck that up all day every
day. But once you start to set flower and that's complete, you need to be really mindful how much
water you're giving out. I was going to say one lesson I learned a couple of years back. In the
middle of winter, I did a building project on my greenhouse. I rented a Mini-X and dug around the
entire base four feet down and installed insulation and hay bales and then covered it back
up. It's really rainy here. It was kind of crazy. I had to wait for a weather window.
What happened was it froze and the ground was solid enough that I could drive this X in and
start digging. As I got down there three, four feet in the middle of winter, I realized it was
bone fucking dry in spots. I was like, oh, so it's not just fucking wet all the way through.
Like my brain, I think it's just a pot. That's when my mind really got expanded on how much
water you could really put down in a place outdoors. That was just a little thought of mine.
Just quickly, Kevin, before I forget, the last we spoke you had a bull problem.
Can you tell the bull story? I can tell you the bull story. A lesson about having neighbors.
Yeah, yeah. If anybody can trump this story of a neighbor story for this season, go for it.
My neighbor is a cattleman, right? He's old, dude. He's like in his 80s.
He's got huge acreage and they got a cattle ranch. Last year, the cattle get into my farm
and wreak some havoc. I went over to his house and said, hey, man, your cows are just destroying
my shit. He was like, oh, man, every man for himself, sonny. I'm by myself these days. I
started dying. I was like, that's not the answer that I need. What I need is how the fuck do you
keep these things out of my shit? He set me up and showed me how to set up a cattle ranch.
And so he set me up and showed me how to set up an electric fence. I went and electric fenced
the property. Everything was great. Well, this year, a couple calves came up, little baby calves,
and they snuck under the fence and they started wreaking havoc in the patch. The parents,
the mothers got nervous and ran up there. Then these two full grown bulls. They run right through
the electric fence. I mean, shredded it. They didn't give a shit. And they're trampling my
plants. And I'm like, you've got to be fucking kidding me. So I take a rock and I throw a rock
and I hit one of the bulls right in the ass, like, get out of here. And it runs into the other bull
and the other bull gets pissed off that it ran into it. So they face each other and have a full
blown bullfight in the middle of one of my thousand square foot beds. And I'm sitting there and my
buddy goes, did you film that? I'm like, who the fuck films the destruction of their bed, man? I
said, I was having a nervous breakdown trying to drive these things out. And he's big. So
it was fucking miserable, you know? So I went over to the neighbor's house and I said, bro,
I said, I love you and we cool. I said, but you're going to bankrupt me. And that won't go well. And
he was like, holy shit. And so he got his son. He got his son to come from out of town and they
put a team together and they barbed wired in probably like a mile and a half of their ranch.
So they barbed wired it all in completely. So they'd seal the cows from coming into my spot.
And then they were going to give me something called an elephant fence. And I was like,
I don't know if I want a fucking elephant fence. An elephant fence is an electric fence that'll
knock an elephant down. And all I could see was my ass backing into it or touching this thing. And
I'm on the ground having a fucking seizure and nobody will find me. And I said, maybe you guys
barbed wire and your stuff would be better. But man, you know, it was just one of those things
and it's farming. So, you know, I got a bunch of plants that got folded up and, but it's okay. It's
what it is. And so it ended up actually working out well where, I mean, the neighbors have a good
working relationship now. So we were friendly, but now we are, we work together to make sure we
don't screw each other's world up. But that question you asked prior was distribution of
clones to seeds. And I have 10 seeds outside, 10, and everything else is pure clone. And it's
clone in varieties that the company wants sold. And it's that where like, I would love to be able
to just put out diversity because that adds to your enjoyment as the cultivator. I mean, like so
much of this stuff is, like I always say, you got to enjoy yourself and the ability to be able to be
amazed at what comes out is part of it, you know? And the problem-
But you can't really do small batch in the California regulated market.
No, no, because you're paying for a test.
It's going to be a 50 pound lot or you're paying more for it every time. And if you have different
groups within a line and the COA on them is different and they batch it out and you pull
out the pieces that have lower numbers, it brings down your whole value. And so
it makes it tough for people who want to work that route. And if you have a market for your stuff,
that's great. But if not, it's dangerous. And so, like I said, to me, what I want is I want
the farm operation to be able to be financially stable to where I produce a thing, they buy a
thing, I know what I'm going to get paid and I know when I'll get paid. And that way, what I have
is a business plan. Otherwise, it's a nightmare. So I have some seed out just so I can kind of
play and enjoy what I'm doing. And then I have a couple of like my home scene where I'm allowed
to have my home operation. I have a couple of different things out here that I haven't grown
and I'm digging them. I got one of the original bubble gums from like 90. So I got a bubble gum
that's been held for like the last 30 years by somebody and I got a copy of it. And so I'm
looking forward to seeing the bubble gum go off outside and you can smell the pre-flower on it
and it reeks like bazooka Joe. So it'll be fun, something different. And that's just for me.
But it's the same deal, man. Like you become a farmer and part of it is to sell the product.
And in the new market, there's restrictions that you have to deal with. Otherwise, it makes it
really hard. And I think time will work it out. We will get the ability to be more diverse again
once things stabilize and you start to see some more normality come into the regulatory scheme
because they're doing it right now. They're doing such a bad job. They're having to go after the
unregulated market as a punishment. So instead of dealing with the fact that they've overly taxed
each stage of the sale and they've made it so financially impossible for smaller operators to
operate, it's just not an effective system and they're not receiving the tax revenue they want.
They're probably pulling in like 400 million. They wanted a billion. And so instead of just
admitting they made a mistake in reversing some of this, they can't because they're so
indebted to the taxation from cannabis that that's the last thing they're going to back up.
And so what we have to do is allow this to work itself out. And then when larger companies get in,
they'll cater to their needs different than they cater to ours. And hopefully we get some
trickle down in some of the relaxation on the regulatory process. But in the time being,
we don't have a voice. Not really. All the organizations. I remember one of the
major organizations. I don't want to drop the name. But they asked me, why wasn't I a member?
And I was talking to their attorney. And she got into a case with a farm she was involved in
and the feds grabbed some gear and they escaped with their lives. And I was talking to her at dinner
and I said to her, I said, you're the attorney for this national organization. She said, yes.
And I said, when the feds grabbed your shit, did you run right down there and press a suit?
She goes, oh, fuck. No. I said, oh, you didn't run right to the county and demand that you go to
trial over this issue. She goes, no. I said, then why the fuck would I join you? If you have to run
and hide when you're getting screwed, how are you going to help me? And so the thing is that lets
you know that there's no lobbying vote for us. All we really have is a community vote where we
have people that can see and understand. But that doesn't sway regulatory, doesn't sway political.
You have to have a unified voice. And everyone who tries to put forward a unified voice,
their agenda is to be the unified voice, not necessarily provide a platform for people to
have a voice. So, you know, it's a tough one. And we're all really having to struggle through
this bullshit and we all see it, but there's nothing you can do. You can't go back and there's
no way I'm going to stop doing what I'm doing. And they're also they're also beholden to their
biggest members. So I've dealt with one of the trade organizations that I also won't name. And
I had an event where one of their their biggest donor member was skewered on stage.
And then I got lectured about making that guy look bad.
Yeah. You know, I agree with everything Kev said about the regulations. It's tough because
if it wasn't cannabis, if we were fucking growing corn, everybody would get together and say this is
not acceptable. It's not fair. And there'd be a lot of things to point out about the corruptions
and the policies and who's making the policies. But because it is cannabis, everybody's so,
you know, they keep you living in fear. It's like we're licensed. So if you take that license away,
we lose everything. We jump through all the hoops. They have us acting like, you know,
it's a sad story. You know, it's a trade off. And I agree. You know, I recently joined a couple of
those trade organizations. You know, I signed up because I'm a humble farmer. So I joined a few of
them. But I was reluctant to do it because it's, you know, to me, you know, I don't like opportunists.
You know, I think everything is about intentions. And whenever someone is going to put their time
into running one of these trade organizations and doing all this work, what is their agenda?
Are they really that much for the people that they're they really just care about the well-being
of their community and some I'm hesitant. But in terms of the seed versus clone, you know,
here's where I see it going. It's really great to grow from seed for a lot of reasons. But because
of the potential variation, it's just it's not feasible for a lot of farmers. What I do see
happening is people being I see people getting better at breeding and putting together more
scientific based and comprehensive breeding programs. And I think it's it's as simple as,
you know, I used to not like feminized genetics, because because I'm old school and traditional.
But if you do proper research and trial and error, and you're able to show data that, you know, I
took this clone or the seed selection from my favorite plant, this is marketable from this
clone, but it's expensive to produce a lot of clones. And there's a lot of risks inherent with
keeping the moms healthy and propagating a ton of cuts or, you know, having tissue culture and all
that shit. So I'm going to take this clone, I'm going to reverse it, I'm going to test out the
progeny from those feminized seeds. And I think a couple generations of people actually doing the
good feminized breeding work, I think we're going to see very stable and dominant traits and
feminized seeds in the next two to three years, where someone goes, well, this is the phenotype
of this strain. And this is what I want. And I think it's going to get to the point where you're
going to be able to grow feminized seed that is spot on is close to the clone. And I think that's
where it's headed in the future. Because as much as we you know, we cut all our own clones, there's
just less cost, there's less risk. And there's going to be less work in growing from feminized
seed, once they get to the point that they're actually stabilized, like actually stable. And I
think a range of variants that's acceptable. The variation is too spread right now, you need to
pull it in. And it's morphological variations and chemotype variations. And once they tighten
that up to where you have a gender, it's on. Yeah, see, I support I support the local trade
organization. Because the and it's funny, because I don't ask for a lot of support in my dealings,
the Humboldt County growers Alliance. Yeah, I do. I support them. I'm a member through the
dispensary. And I respect her in that. And then a lot of it is I've known Tara for a long time.
But I remember all the hearings I went to for my own stuff, Natalyn DeLapp showed up as support for
just to support. And I respected that because she she and I aren't in any kind of business together.
And we don't have, you know, an intimate friendship, we're just friendly. And so when you
have the one of the people running an organization that shows up to support if there needs to be a
positive word said at a hearing, you know, for permitting, I said, Hey, you know, that's,
that shows a level of effort that I can get behind. And I've known Tara for a long time. And
she's always been, you know, pro Humboldt County. Yeah, I agree on that. I joined that organization,
it's good just to have an ear to it and support the community for sure. And it's Humboldt County
stuff, we all got it, we need some cluster, so that you you can have Eastern Humboldt, Northern
Humboldt, Southern Humboldt all connected as Humboldt County. And then what it does, it lets
us have a larger voice. Because if you take a look at, you know, the abatements, right, so in Humboldt,
we have the satellites flying, there was like 900 abatements total 750 of them were in the second
district where I am. And so you know, Southern Humboldt just got shelled to pieces, but there
was shelling in all the all the five districts. And you need these people to be able to start to
get together on both sides, those that were, I would say, unfairly prosecuted, driven out of
existence. And those of us that were fortunate enough to be able to still find a way through
this maze to come out the other side. Both of those groups are still the same community. And
what you're seeing is these these divisions that the regulators are trying to create political
groups, they're trying to say, listen, it's complaint driven shit, rat out on your neighbor.
And, you know, I look at these guys, and I'm like, what in the fuck is going through your mind?
Like you, you're creating a community that is divisive, that you can't have in a
mountain community, Trinity, Mando, Humboldt, Siskiyou, Lass, and all these places that are up, you know, that
are that are a little more isolated. The people form the support structure. And you have to, you
have to create some form of connection, not not a divisiveness, where we encourage you to rat out,
because your neighbor who's growing 50 pounds is your competitor. You know, it's a bunch of
bullshit. It's a bunch of hate. For real. That's what happened up here in Washington. I mean, this
was years ago, it's almost not even worth mentioning, but we had we had the medical and then the
rec came in and they did the same thing. They weren't making the money. And so the rec folks who
were predominantly not historical producers, you know, started hitting the legislators and the
legislators shut down the medical scene. And then, you know, and I was just lucky, smart, you know,
whatever the combination, you know, was able to get a rec license, you know, at the tail end of it,
you know, literally, I had six months off of growing, you know, but yeah, because I came up to
Washington to do some lecture when that was going on. And they had taken the medical out, but they
knew who you were. So they were going to all the medical locations to raid them to see if they were
still you know, are you operating still? Well, we had 1000s of stores, you know, from 1000s of
stores of really good herb, and they'd worked it out, and they were serving their patients down to
200. It's been a wild ride here. You know, you guys, I'm watching you guys in here and you guys
talk about it because you're such a bigger economy, you're going through the same thing, but it's,
it's bigger, it's bigger. And it's a little bit different. You're going through the squeeze that
we went through when they killed our medical, you know, they're squeezing you down now. And now
our market is they squeezed all the producers out. So we have like probably under 600 producers in
the state, really. And so now the prices are really good. That service 500 stores. So that's
it's kind of a good deal, you know, and I'm actually going to enter the rec market. There's a
guy that started up just in my neighbor, and I've been talking to him. He's cool. And I'm like,
Alright, I'm just gonna sell to you, bro. Let's do this, you know, real small. And I don't know,
it's changing in that way. And then I don't know how it's going to go when they you know, when you
talked about opening the canopy up, that's all next level. And then obviously, the next thing
is going to be to open up the nation, you know, and national and that'll that'll be really
interesting, you know, well, that'll save the small cultivator. Yeah, that'll save us.
Small cultivator will shine once they let it's gonna be, it'll still be another one of these
ruptures where it's like, oh, yeah, they'll just be a flop of so much weed. And you'll be like,
I don't give a fuck how good it is, dude. I'm bad. We're paying me to buy this weed. You know,
Oregon, buy a bag and they give you two bags.
Right. He comes down to visit me and he had a trash bag of grassy boy. He goes,
cat, this is like 200 bucks. And I said, Get out. He goes, No, he goes, each store I go to
has got a special. And then he goes, so this this was this and then this ounce was for 20 bucks.
And it was it wasn't bad grass. That was the crazy part. This wasn't hey, it was passable,
smokable weed. So if you were burning a couple of you aren't tripping. And I mean, it wasn't
exquisite epicurean stuff that you just you know, you look at at night when you're sitting there by
yourself in amazement. But I mean, how do you beat these prices? And so we're going to go
through that purge, too. That's why so much of this. Oh, this is fire. You're muted.
This is gelato 33. I'm not going to show the brand. I bought this. It's small nugs.
And it was 100 bucks for half ounce. That's not bad at all.
At retail. So that means that the producer got got 35 bucks for this 40 bucks for a half
for a half ounce. And it's small buds, but it's fire, dude. You know, it is. It's not it's not
bowed out fire, but it's definitely burning, burning fire happy to smoke from the homie
type weed, you know? Yeah, no, no. A lot of 33 is still big money. If you if you're in California,
if it's being moved through connected, you know, you're talking in an upper price point.
That's amazing that just by shifting where it's all hold that up again, Joel. Hold that up. Yeah.
OK.
Who does that? Me, too. What is it, Joe? That is a Viper by Russian. Oh, gee.
I don't know if my camera is good enough to show my weed, but.
It's not worse than Joel's camera, so
the pixelated out of focus backlit weed shots. Right. We are dead. And then let me let me go.
Joel, you got to hold that up again. Hold on. There we go. Yeah. So so what's interesting is
so so what's interesting is I was talking to Rob Hunt, who lives down in San Diego,
I don't know, a week ago or so, and he was talking about kind of burner distro licenses
and like the idea that somebody will will scoop up a distro license with the intent to come to
all your farms, buy in bulk and then basically move it out of state and then just let that
distro license go and pick up a new one. And basically like the states like where that
inventory go and like where that license holder go. But it talks to the fact that
if someone's willing to pay California regulated market pricing to then go sell
in the traditional market out of state, that there is a huge demand for California weed
in the rest of the world. Oh, definitely. I know I know some varieties that are hot right now
in the library that they're in. I mean, don't laugh, but they're doing six thousand in the East
Coast. So there's still six thousand dollar pounds being moved in places if it's got the right name
connected to it. It's the right piece. Dan, now I know why you're in Vermont. No, actually, what's
funny is when I when I when I moved to California, you know, I was an indoor grower. I used to grow
a little gorilla patch every year, but nothing, nothing big. And I was always like next year,
I'm going to grow a shitload of weed outdoors. Never happened. I was an indoor grower,
really attached to like my plants. I spent a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot of time under the lights.
And, you know, winters were long, too. But I moved to California at the end of 2009 and,
you know, prices were fifty eight hundred for. Well, you know, my weed was was that. But, you
know, other stuff, traditional indoor was like, you know, four grand to forty five hundred back
then. And I had had some cool cuts. And it's interesting just seeing all the fluctuations.
And as I get older and more regulated, I'm just out of the loop with some stuff in the
traditional side of things. But, yeah, I think that the price is going to take, you know, a
slight dip in California each week. And I think it'll come back up towards the end of September.
Through October and then boom, you know, right around Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving, it's going to
be all fucking done for folks because everybody's going to have their weed out. So I think it's just
about establishing your your supply chain and your path to market. If you're regulated, you know,
who are you working with? You know, why are you working with them? Are you getting any
representation for your genetics, your product, your brand? So there's a lot of strategy to get
the most value out of it because there's, you know, there's there's the value of getting the
best bang for your buck and getting the highest ticket on your product. And then there's also
other types of value, like getting showcased and presented well by by folks that know how to operate
well. Yeah, the branding, because people don't understand it. I talk to everybody. They're always
like, this is my brand that I'm like, bro, nobody knows who the fuck you are outside of the living
room. That's not a brand. You have to be recognized so that people can know to get you. And I try to
explain how expensive that is. I'm like all the years we were at Wonderland, we paid for all the
advertising for everybody we put into those flyers that we put into the newspapers. We never charged
anybody because we were making enough money to be able to afford it. And what we wanted to do is we
wanted to really showcase all the people that allowed us to work with them. So, you know, you
have this duality of responsibility where you got to be responsible for your own stuff, but you're
also kind of responsible for the people that help you be you. And so we funded and paid and shot the
photos and had the ads created and the press done. And it allowed all these individuals that really
never had any any publicity to get marketing push. And it was just a really nice experience. But it
also let me understand that you have to want to do that. And so when I see other people kind of
they use you to further their own means, but you don't come up from it, you just getting fucked.
And that's a tough one because it's there's not enough cash in the pocket to really create
branding, true branding. And like Dan, you've been you've been as aggressive on branding in a positive
way as anyone I know where like you went at it in a multi-pronged approach. You brought in really
good pros, your partner to help you with the art, the work, like everything was thought out.
And you worked on it for years. And so, you know, the Rebel logo, the Rebel name, I know that's out
there. Yeah, that was a lot of work. The truth is, Kev, you know, none of that probably would
have happened if it weren't for you. You were the one who first gave me my opportunity. You know,
I moved to California and I was working in the hills. I never left the farm. I never went anywhere.
So I'd never been to a dispensary before. And then I heard there's this dispensary you can come in
and they'll just let you walk right in and check out the plants. So I walk in there. Oh, yeah,
just go upstairs. You know, Kev's up there. But, you know, you know the story. You gave an
opportunity for me to share my genetics with people. But that really made me see where it was
going. And with the branding, you know what it is, man? I go, OK, weed is going to become legal.
It's going to get taken over by politics, by regulations, by big money and people from outside
industries. And my best chance at survival might not be every single day grinding it out in the
hills. Maybe it's just going to be telling a story. But the thing is, you look at the brands,
in my opinion, nine out of ten of them, nine out of ten. Sorry, my Internet's fucked up. But nine
out of ten of the brands are trying too hard. They're trying too hard to be something. And I
think it's good to just be subtle. And it's OK to like tell your story like Joel. You know,
Joel's got a great story. Joel is a worthy motherfucker to be growing weed. But it's just
if you go to the dispensaries, a lot of it, there's great legacy operators, people 20,
30 years experience. But a lot of it is just trying too hard. And personally, it's corny.
My taste in cannabis and the culture of it is just, you know, hopefully to fucking do good work
and tell stories. I don't know, man, you got me all excited about shit. But no, but it's real,
though. Like I was watching. I agree with it. I tell people, I said, you know, you're trying to
push content or you're trying to push something, but there has to be a value.
That's what I like with Pete. That's why I love working with you, Pete, is because you're somebody
who's prolific in your production, but it's it's it's varied all the time and you bring in an
unbelievably varied group of people and it's it's diverse and it's thorough. And so you're someone
who's doing like a fucking killer job on content. And that's where people they don't catch where
just because you keep putting the same shit out over and over again. Nobody wants to fucking hear
it. And I watched a commercial and I was laughed, but it was they were up in the hills and there was
this beautiful table and everyone's sitting around in the middle of table. There was a silver platter
filled with fucking weed while they were eating. And I'm watching that and I'm like, the wind would
blow that shit away. When's the last time you went to a fucking party and someone just dumped the
pounds out on the table and like you're all going to smoke fucking 40 grams yourself right there?
Wait, I'm more I'm more interested that there is a commercial. Where were you watching this?
Like on YouTube or like it wasn't a TV commercial? No, no, no. But it's it's it's gosh,
on some of this stuff, you don't want to throw anybody under the fucking bus.
You know, but it's just that the point is that when you lay content out and you're trying to
promote what you're doing, that shit has to be believable to people who fucking go to work at
a shitty job and only have 100 bucks to spend for the fucking two weeks on weed. And when they start
seeing all this ethereal shit walking through the weed fields with your hands and people with big,
big fucking sacks on the table, they're disconnected. I think that, you know, so much of
what we do is as smaller operators is that we get to be smaller operators and you get to have this
really nice relationship with what you do and you're you're your owner operator or you're working
with partners, but they're your real partners. You hang out, you actually have a friendship.
And I think that so many people that burn herb that are looking for some escapism from their
shitty life, part of it is, you know, how do you attract them to small farmers is you attract them
by small farmers are cool that you you friendly. If you see someone in person, you're cool. You
meet any of these major brands because I meet all these fucking guys. Right. And you say hi to half
of these cats and they act like like, well, like you need to get in line to speak to me and you're
cracking up and you're like, what the fuck? Not even normal. To me, that's the problem. You know,
I think, you know, it requires a high degree of bravery to come out and do and say the things
that you said, you know, and I'm an operator on a on a legacy farm for Melody, and she's been
doing this since the 70s. She's back to the lander, you know, and she she's terrified, you know,
and it's like, how do you create a platform where you don't have to be brave? You know, you don't
and you know, it's like, so until that happens, I don't know, like how things are going to change.
They're still going to be, you know, eighth of commercial meds that are going to get sold for
more for for high price because they're in a Mylar bag or whatever, you know, they got a pretty color
sticker. Just quickly, that's that's Melody's farm, Humboldt Sunrise. And like, go ahead, Larry.
And she's been tending, you know, several hundred, probably cumulatively,
tens of thousands head of goats and cycling their manure into the soil for the decades.
And she's like, she's the the prime example, the essence of terroir and humble in this in this
region, in this appellation. But to get here and to, you know, that access for one, there's,
you know, it's a dirt road. You take, you know, an hour down dirt road, no address. And so getting
distros out here has been a nightmare, first of all, and she don't like don't go to the Emerald
Cup. We don't take days off from the farm. We're like a five man team running, you know, this thing
that it has to be corporate branded. And it needs to be has this this appeal to, you know,
on the shelf, which is their their contract, their dualities, like you're saying,
they're contradicting elements. And I think if if we're my ideal, we go to direct to direct
to market farm to market, you know, but farmers are like vegetables. If only, yeah, we'd be okay.
We'd be okay pushing our own shit, because that's what we did.
That's what we know how to do. What's gonna happen? What's the worst that could happen?
People get stoned.
People would enjoy the relationship to the farmers more, you know, Larry, like you were
saying about the woman, you know, who, you know, whose farm you're on. It's like that whole
generation is frustrating to me, because I came out to humble and I started meeting people like
that who'd been there a lot, lot longer than me and second generation farmers. And a lot of them,
you know, we're really able to adapt to the regulations and the legal stuff. But a lot of
them, a lot of them don't, you know, I've got neighbors that don't own a cell phone and don't
use email. You know, there's still people like that out there. So what I'm hopeful to see is like,
the legit brands, the ones that are actually they're not fronting something, they're just
who they've always been. I'm hoping that those ones are the ones that can that can carry on for
people like that, like, like Redwood Roots, we work with them. And, you know, I sought them out,
and they kind of sought me out, because I recognize this is a person who truly loves that community,
you know, and then, you know, I'm hoping to build the same platform for my neighbors. You know,
it's like, I do all this work promoting my shit. But what I really want to get to the point is
where I can start, you know, taking the other people in my community that might not have that
path to market. And instead of letting them get poached by wherever the current market price is,
hopefully offer people something that's competitive and see them still farming in five
years or see their families farming into the next generation. So it's it's it's too bad that we get
to do already. What's that Larry? We need to at least have the story be told and the legacy not
just vanish into thin air because I mean, it's, it's not getting told correctly on the mass media,
it seems like, you know, no. And by the way, that's why I'm doing what I'm doing.
Yeah, they don't want that story told. Otherwise, we're fine.
Go ahead, Kevin. Oh, shit. No, just saying that that's our story is one of being bold.
And it's it's really and it's been it's there was people that came before us.
They'll hopefully be people that come after us that also, you know, are counterculturalist in
a sense where they got together as a community and they tried to make a better life. And so
nobody wants to advocate that from a political point of view. It's terrifying. That's where that
that the free zones in Seattle, my buddy's a sociology professor, Dr. Dominic Corva in Seattle,
and he was talking about this free zones where individuals are taken over. And he said, you know,
he goes, I'm down there doing like a little field research. And he said, it's amazing. He said,
politicians should be terrified because the people are actually doing a pretty good job
taking care of themselves. And so they have to snuff that out, they have to snuff out
our operations and how we behaved and who we were. Because now that they've, you know,
undemonized cannabis, we we what are we, they can't make us iconic figures, that'd be dangerous.
And I wasn't looking to be an iconic figure, I just wanted to be able to continue growing herb
for my whole life. But the fact is that, you know, culturally, we have this weird niche where
it's rare in life that you were persecuted so hard, and then all of a sudden now revered
for the product, but not revered for what you had to go through to create it.
And so you know, you don't get any celebration of it. So the story's got to get told, but it's got
to get told by us. And it has to be told in a friendly way. And it's the story's best told if
people are hanging out with you in the truck on that road to your farm. Yeah, you know, that's
that's the way you get to really see people when people come to check me out. I'm not allowed to
have tourists on the farm, because I didn't want to spend 100 grand to put in the whole ADA
facility. And so in order to have legal tourism, you have to have a full ADA. So my my nursery
storefront facilities got a dual ADA bathrooms that are accessible. So we can use that for tours
legally. But I can't do that at the farm. And, you know, it's a bummer because it's not that I want
to have people pouring up there. But it'd be nice not to have to sneak someone up in your rig. It'd
be nice to be able to like legally bring them to the farm, so that they could just spend the
afternoon walking around with you while you're working. And this way, what they do is they just
get to experience what it feels like to be outside in the wilderness. What's what's it like,
you know, to see wildlife while you're working? What's it like to have, you know, water coming
out of a spring in your face? It's stuff that most people don't get. And I think I'd be honest,
I think COVID is going to actually drive a lot of that. If you look at real estate right now,
Boston, Portland, Seattle, San Francisco, New York, all of those, all of those are fucking
dropping radically, like 11% points in rent value. And so people can't unload real estate
in San Francisco right now, like that's never happened. And so you're seeing this change in
what people want. And as they start to go into the suburbs escaping the city, it brings them
one step closer mentally to coming to an agrarian rural situation versus suburbia. So from from
urban to suburbia into agrarian. And I think that that'll start to allow an appreciation and a
connection to outdoor farming, outdoor recreation, the tourism even with COVID has been pumping up
here, Humboldt County dropped the fucking ball. And these guys couldn't play ball. They tried.
But you know, I'm being honest. They, they, they were like, so unaware that people were going to
escape the city and come here. And I had a discussion with them. And I said, Listen,
I said, you realize they're going to come here no matter what, because people are burnt out from
hiding in the apartments, make a plan so that they can come to Humboldt because we're so big,
geographically speaking, that you can social distance people all over the county and not have
anybody touch, allow the county to benefit, let people come up here, let people experience the
people, let them enjoy the beautiful spot, let them smoke some good grass, and bring that shit home.
And that way, what we do is we start to get this to happen in Mendocino and Trinity and,
and not, and not in the areas they want to send people, but into the populace of who we really are,
the community. And then that way, what you do is you start to really have an ability
to get an interest and a buy-in in what we're doing. And that, and that's the buy-in, that's
the emotional connection. It's the emotional connection that increases the value of products.
It's the idea that there's something a little better. And if regular people will pay a little
more, every, everybody will. We all do if it emotionally connects to you enough or the value's
high enough. And if our value's where it should be and we're catching you with we're decent,
you'll be like, hey, for the extra seven to ten dollars I pay, it's worth it because I like the
dude and the herb is killer. And that's what we need. We need these opportunities. But the problem
is people don't seem to know how to cultivate this type of success. So when you're a, when you're an
individual relying on political anything for any kind of support, any kind of direction, any kind of
push, you're, you're just amazed. And you realize that none of these people ever had a fucking job
in their whole lives that they had actually fund themselves. They've got into politics and then
they got on the, they got on the wallet and politics and they just reaching into it constantly.
They don't really understand what's going on with the constituency. And you know, a lot of
politicians, I'm sure their parents were rich as hell too, but hey guys, I actually got to jump.
I got to bounce. I got some stuff I got to get to, but Peter, thank you so much for.
All right. So just everybody to the 470 people watching right now, don't, don't cry, dry your
eye. Dan will be back tomorrow. I think I said, does one o'clock work for you?
Yeah, I'm down, but either way, man, I really appreciate you reaching out and inviting me to
participate. I just, you know, I love talking about cannabis, especially with people like this.
It's really good to see, see all you guys, man, you know, some good friends here that I haven't
seen in a while. So thanks for the opportunity to join you guys and participate and hope you
guys enjoy the rest of your conversation. And Dan will be back tomorrow at one o'clock with
Jesse and Jackson. So. Right on guys. Have a good night.
So, so just quickly, Kevin, you were just talking a lot of shit about Dominic Corva.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dominic Corva. Oh shit.
Hey, what's up Dom? Peter just threw me like an email saying Kevin was talking about me. So I
thought I should hop on. Yeah, no, I was, I was talking about, I was, cause I was really,
cause you know, we've had. I'm going to bounce out too. I'm sorry to cut you off real quick,
but I'm going to bounce out too. I got my kid here, but what up Dom? And Peter,
thanks for having me on. And I'm not bouncing out cause you're here. I just got, my son just
woke up and so I got to go hang out with him, but I'll catch you guys later. Thanks for the
conversation guys. Right on dog. You're Joshua. And so we were talking Dom about like, I've,
I've known you forever and you're my only really like sociology professor partner, you know,
and it's always been so fascinating because you've always helped me understand concepts because you,
you, you show me pieces that I don't understand. And you would, you were, you would, and I would
talk in about the free zones that were going on in Seattle and how politicians should be really
careful because some people seem to be happy and relatively kind to each other in those areas.
And it was this, it was just a change. Yeah, it was something else. I mean, they also set up a,
a, a tent for essentially, you know, a protest against the I-502 legal cannabis retail, I
suppose. But there was a, you know, unlicensed market tent set up in the chop as well. But that
was a brief period too. That was like, it was a couple of weeks and then it got hot, right?
It was a beautiful moment that kind of showed us something that I don't think we imagine usually
is possible. And I think that's the value of things like that. And a lot of the things we
talk about as well, when it comes to cannabis, by the way, you know, I mean, there's, you know,
I think we need an imagination, you know, to be able to say to, you know,
policy makers or whoever, you know, the County government, you know,
it can be different. It doesn't have to be this way. And that's, that's how change starts, you know.
So I appreciate how much you've taught me over the years, Kev, you know, like I appreciate the
credit, but also, you know, it's just been a mutual, mutual aid knowledge network for us.
You've helped me understand so much too, obviously.
Thank you. It's been great friendship, man. You look good.
Thanks, man. I like your bigger, bigger beard and you got the small harpies you're done.
Yeah. Yeah. Nope. Nope. And, and it's, it's summertime, man. You need it on the face.
So you burn all the skin. If I shave it off, it'll all be exposed. I'll get blistered.
It's a good solid. Oh, it just backed up. It's like 98 right now, but it was 105, 106 in the
shade today, man. That's coming to Seattle tomorrow. We're supposed to get a 98 degree day.
Gotcha. It's going to push up. Yeah. Yeah. It was like 86 today.
But that's cool compared to LA. Yeah. You guys.
What's that? What are you at? 113. What's what's LA what's the temperature?
I don't know. It's fine. Well, I don't know where it reads from because like
the Valley is probably one something today. And, uh, when I checked the weather thing,
like it's like 98, but I don't know where that's coming from.
So just quickly, uh, Joel, let's talk breeding for a second. And, uh,
Josh was talking about how your plants have vigor and that's kind of something you,
you put a lot of effort into, but like, in terms of what you like to smoke,
like, I assume that's reflected in your breeding. So kind of like describe yourself as a smoker.
Describe yourself as a smoker.
Morning tonight.
I'm having a fucking tragedy right now. I got a fat spliff and no lighter.
That's why you see me scrambling around.
But yeah, no, you know, we just, uh, we really kind of realigned and focus really hard this year.
Uh, I have two separate nursery license and I use one for clone production and, and, uh,
I have another 5,000 square foot nursery permit that we use for a, a phenol hunt this year.
We're about halfway wrapped up with that. Uh, yeah, I got 300 different phenols of probably
25 different varieties all backed up. Uh, we're smoking through them right now to kind of
lock in some final choices. And I got another 5,000 square foot rip about two, three weeks
in right now of another 15 varieties, all bred in how not all bred in house. I do have a little
bit of South fork and, uh, Oni seeds, a sunburn I'm hunting through that. Uh, that's what I'm
smoking on right now. I love it. I didn't really find the phenol that I want out of that growth
structure wise, but yeah, getting back to the question as far as vigor, I mean, I don't
personally really like breed lines very long. Uh, I have a few things that I've worked out myself,
six, seven generations that work good for my farm. And, you know, I maybe have an opposite
outlook of some people on the whole seed thing. Uh, I could go ahead and release that. And it
might be stable for 70% of people that get it and it might go haywire for somebody else. But
you know, when you start talking about getting past third and fourth generation,
that's a private thing that's for my farm. Uh, that don't necessarily translate to whoever's
going to scoop it up off me. So yeah, I, I, I make F1 same way I always did same way my pops always
did. And we take the burliest male, not the latest, not the earliest, uh, and let it fling
on almost everything. And some stuff works out, some stuff don't, you know, as time goes by,
you get a little better at recognizing what kind of stuff lines up with each other a little better
and has a better outcome. But, uh, you know, with some of our good heirloom genetics, uh,
you can take that and chuck it on an elite clone and you're getting something.
You're going to have something 70, 80, 90% of that's going to come out marketable. Um,
yeah, I mean, the pheno hunt thing is almost like with my genetics in particular, like I,
I'm not even really trying, but this stuff that I breed with, that's been in our County for
30 plus years. Uh, it's, it's good to go. Uh, you can sit and say, you want to work it and do this
and that. And the next thing with it, where as far as I see it, you're just fucking talking.
You ain't doing shit to make it better. Just go find a good gold. That's already out there. There
ain't nothing new under the sun right now. It's it's been bred. Um, it's time to just like
solidify and find out and, and get past the, you know, and teach the market something, I guess,
like I'm growing the cakes and the creams and the marketable commercial stuff as well. You know,
I'm probably 50% seed 50% clone, but yeah, as like a legacy operator, I guess I don't really see no
future in me just jumping on the, the three hot depth strains and, and, you know, growing a couple
thousand pounds of that. Like I can do that with my fucking eyes closed right now that ain't even
fun no more. And I see you working with the ice cream cake. I see you working with the cake,
the ice cream cake. Did you hunt that or is it a cut? That's a purple city genetics selection,
I believe. And yeah, I mean, realistically, like it's a commercial killer. You could give it to a
operator and they could slay it. It's gonna be the next blue dream. It's beyond past that, bro.
It ain't equal to blue dream. I'll say that. There's no medical value to it. There's nothing
to it. That's fucking cardboard weed. Blue dream. I mean, do you think that the, uh,
the market's going to be flooded with it? Like it was with blue dream. No, it already is the
bridge. And I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm shelling through my, and it's pure ice cream cake on
the market right now. I got a nurse. We sold probably in the range of a couple hundred
thousand ice cream cake cuts this year. And I'm a relatively small nursery.
So that's good. It's market saturation of ice cream cake for one. Yeah, it's going to be,
it's the one this year for sure. It was pretty big hitter last year,
but you know, I'm finding enough success. Like I say, still, like I, I, you know, last year I was,
I was almost like probably 95% seed and I'm finding success in that still because we're
still experiencing a drought every year. So even my undesirable phenols of F1,
they find good market value come June and July. Totally. Why don't you sit on it and hold it and
wait for that opportunity? Yeah. Yeah. Generally my B grades fetch more money than my triple A's.
Totally. Cause they move later. Yeah. The irony of it. It's just a balance, you know, as an
operator and just somebody that just trying to keep up, keep up, you know, I guess it's just,
that's what it is. That's just the market, you know, you've put a percentage away and
yeah, I guess it's, it's a blessing still that we're dealing with a drought, you know, because
it's allowing us to be a little more experimental still. Otherwise,
you know, the batch thing and all this thing can become a roadblock, but yeah, I haven't had any
trouble really. Like, I mean, first round of depths is down and gone and paid for a, this is
a pretty Epic market year, to be honest with you. Like, yeah, you can't hold nothing right now.
And so with your cultivation, are you growing for wholesale white label or do you have your
own brand? You know, like it's same, I don't really push the brand thing too much. It's just
not really something I have a ton of energy for. Relatively like happy just being at a scale and
continuing to scale up. Like, yeah, I mean, I pretty much am hell bent to prove that a single
man can grow craft cannabis at one to five acres. I can't stand that whole talk. I love small farmers.
I represent small farmers born and raised in Mendo, but I do have to have, I do have a very
different opinion about, you know, the levels we're at. All of us small farmers cannot,
we can't feed this market. There's never going to be a, I said this a hundred times, like when is,
when is that, that person that works nine to five only has a hundred bucks a week to smoke?
When are we going to be able to serve them enough weed to medicate themselves on some real shit?
Like, you know, we're up here smoking three grams, spliffs all day. And these people got to work
nine to five in the heat to fucking pop a, you know, a couple of pong hits a day or whatever,
just to relieve themselves. But so that's my goal in life. Really? Like I, I, I need to keep
my head straight and keep my quality up, but I will not stop upscaling until I lose control of
my quality. Totally. What's the name of your nursery that you sell the products from?
Redtail Farms Nursery. Gotcha. You're Redtail. I was wondering,
I have to come check you out sometime just to say hi.
Yeah, please do. We got a big expansion going on. Yeah. Working on, you know, doing some different
stuff. The pheno hunt is pretty pivotal this year to getting out from under the, the normal
eight, 10 cuts that are going around, try to be a little more exclusive. And
I work with Emerald Sun a little bit, which is a distro out of Ukiah.
Is that, is that Redtail? Yep. That's it. That's, that's actually the owner's farm page right there.
It's Redtail Farms Nursery. Okay. Yeah, no, I went over to Emerald Sun and checked them out. They,
they, I knew a bunch of the crew there. They got a beautiful facility. And what I liked was they
really had a streamlined processing and they had a phenomenal cold storage. So you didn't get any
degradation. Some of these other larger distros, they don't have the ability to hold your product
in stasis. And so as soon as it leaves your hand, that shit's going downhill quickly.
But Emerald Sun had a nice setup, man. They had a beautiful facility and good crew.
Yeah. And it's nice kind of working with them as you know, we can kind of fully integrate a few
farms, you know, we're working on kind of fully integrating like 25 to 50 farms in a way that
I'm providing them clones. We're building big batches, all the processing's being done at Emerald
Sun and they're handling large batches. So, you know, even with the struggle with the, like you
said, the storage struggle is, and even, and even final processing, you know, they're doing us a
massive favor by taking unbucked product off our hands. And, you know, it's, it's in and out of my,
it's out of my possession once it's off the vine within 15 days.
Yeah, totally. Once it's hang and dry, same thing for me. I, I don't, I don't have a processing
license at my facility, but I can take it, buck it, break it down and then, and then tag it, you
know, with the corresponding metric tag and then move it over to the, to the supply chain. It just
makes it easier. So Emerald Sun's a nice facility, man. That'd be a good, that'd be a good group to
talk to on an interview because they have a really nice integrated platform.
Yeah, I mean, it's been my dream since day one.
Yeah, yeah, I will. I'll remind you. And I, I, Joel can kick you the numbers too. I got the, I,
I, I know a bunch of the crew that works there, but have Joel kick you their contact number,
but it'd be a good interview because they built a phenomenal facility. It used to be the old Red
Tail. If you can ever get a tour of the place, it's mind bending. It used to be the old Red Tail
brewery and they had built these massive brew, you know, tanks to do all this work. And they're
going to be able to use that to do all their own fermentations and breed and to produce all these
fermented products. So they have this ability to hold, I mean, in their cold storage room,
the cold storage room had to been like 50 feet tall, 10,000 square foot minimum in that one bay
refrigerated down to like 42. Yeah. They got about 40,000 square feet of cold storage.
Yeah. And they're putting up another facility in, in Hoplin now too, that,
that going to be excessive amount of storage, another 160,000 square foot storage for vineyards
because they're kind of dealing with some of the old vineyard storage. There's still wine
is being stored in that cold storage. Yeah. They do. Yeah. They're in the process of clearing that
out. So it's a hundred percent cannabis at the Ukiah spot. And then there'll be a little
different thing going on over in Hoplin. All them wine contracts will move over there and also some
cannabis. And that will be the end game on the nursery. We're actually going to be doing a
build out for the new nursery in Hoplin. Nice. Nice. You know, you gotta, you gotta get reputable
people to work with you. You fucked. Yeah. So Joel, you, you live, how many, you lived in
Ethiopia, right? Yup. Which is, it's confusing because I think a lot of people think of like
desert and drought, but it's actually equatorial, right? I mean, Ethiopia is the Northern tip of
the great rift Valley. You're talking about the greenest place on earth. How'd you get,
how'd you go to Ethiopia? What, what, that's, that's an interesting story. Yeah. 2003 up on the
rock. Things got hot in the winter and I got busted. Kind of calm my situation down and shut
indoor down and went pretty heavy on full term that year and kind of got in a labor scramble and,
and ended up hiring some people. And who's a man who's now my brother-in-law,
an Ethiopian guy. And we just cranked it up really heavy one year, kind of recovery mode and,
you know, got spooked, I guess to say, and was busted, fucking felt the cuffs and
made a bunch of money. 2003, I pulled about 680 pounds and I said, fuck this, this is enough to
peel out for a little while I need to cool off. So yeah, I just packed up my shit, rented out my
spot on Spirock and my plan was just to get out for, for a season, you know, slow down for a
season. And I ended up staying over there for like seven years. Wow. That must've been a crab. Yeah.
The rift Valley supernatural, man. That's like, you know, birthplace of life. Yeah. That's it. I
mean, realistically, like what, I mean, I, I went and got 13 acres of property. I have nine different
varieties of banana, three different varieties of mango for sugar. I mean, the amount of variation of
tropical fruits and things that I grow on my property over there is it's unfathomable when
you just grow in California and, and raise the bunch of weed and potatoes and carrots and shit.
So yeah, it was, it was a pretty fun. Yeah. I honestly would have probably never even came
back if I didn't get married and have kids over there and, you know, just need to show my wife
that this is how the world functions over here. Fascinating. So while you were there, I mean,
that's basically your introduction into kind of African genetics cultivars. So like what came
across your radar that was local and then what, what's the scene? Cause like, I see stuff where
they're like growing blue dream in Lebanon and you know, what, what, what, what's kind of like,
like, like, cause, cause you, you said you still have a property in Ethiopia, right?
Oh yeah. I have a couple of properties there. Yeah. So, so, so you're still,
you're still totally plugged in. So kind of like, I mean, the reality of everything
where I was at in Ethiopia, I was in Sheshamani. If you know about certain Rastafari history,
like Sheshamani is a place where the King of Ethiopia, Haile Selassie, make a land grant
for people to come and make a purchase or, or get a piece of land in order to, to come back from
repatriate back into Africa. So this is a place that's very multicultural. You have Europeans and,
and middle Eastern people, Jamaican people, all other countries of Africa, people move to this
place. So the diversity in cannabis genetics is probably only comparable here to Northern
California. You just got people bringing things from all over the place. What is really like
native to Ethiopia is not Ethiopia is I wouldn't say really like a herb culture place. So yeah,
you have some equatorial land race varieties, but where I was, we were getting into quite a,
you know, I brought my own seed stock over there. I grew and made some hybrids with whatever else.
Mostly what I seen though, is what I felt was like more like a Pakistani
heirloom or land race is mostly what I seen prevalent in Sheshamani because you have a lot
of Islam people that travel through there. They use herb as well. And that kind of is who controls
the, the herb business a little more per se. So the more higher grade quality would have been in
what I see and, and what I actually brought back from Ethiopia, what I was in love with growing
over there was what I believe is like a Pakistani heirloom or land race type of thing.
What's your elevation in that area?
Well, yeah, Ethiopia is the highest natural elevation in the world. When you land in
Addis Ababa, you're at like fucking 10,000 feet.
Wow.
Fucking, you're sucking for air when you get off the plane there.
And I think when you leave Addis and drive down to Sheshamani, you're pretty much on a steady
decline in elevation, but you're still probably at like five to 6,000 feet in Sheshamani. It's
pretty like dry, but tropical at the same time.
Totally, totally. The moisture is there, but the altitude gives it dry. That's beautiful, man.
Yeah.
That's gorgeous. I can see why you spent seven years there.
Oh man. I had no desire to leave, to be honest with you.
You've been over in Africa, Dan?
No, not me. I want to clarify. So people were growing the broadleaf in that climate?
Yeah.
What did you say?
Really, you don't see a ton of... So in Ethiopia, the people, they don't really use herb per se so
much like a recreational kind of thing. And like I say, with the multi-cultures of people that are
bringing herb there, they have two different views on this product, what foreign people are bringing.
So if they seen you and me over there smoking a spliff, they would be like,
dang, these guys are using hashish. They look at you like you're using drugs.
But if you know the language and how to reason with them, and you call it atifaris. Atifaris is
how they say herb in Amharic.
Sacramental usage.
So when you start talking, not even so much sacramental, like more medicinal.
Like the children, more than anything, the wild kids, they're sucking on tea all day long.
But if they see you and me smoking a spliff or a pipe, they see it as like a drug use.
So there's not that really open herb culture so much that you can run around and ask the locals,
yo, where's the real Ethiopia landrace? How to find that? I don't even really truly know.
And I spent a lot of time over there. Mostly what I seen was hybridized Jamaican weed and
Pakistani weed.
Incredible.
And I have a bunch. I actually have some going right now. Part of my second round of the pheno
hunt. I think Josh might be growing some of it as well. I gave him some flower that I grew of it
last year. Had a couple seeds in it. He might have tried to grow some of that out.
But yeah, it's just like a really kind of special looking type of trichome on this
particular Ethiopian herb. Once it grows here in the Kali sun, it adapted to this
climate here like perfectly. And yeah, probably some of the higher grades I grew last year came
from some of them seed I brought from Ethiopia. And I got some clones kept back this time around.
But definitely I had some R&D testing done and hit some terpenes that I've never seen on any
other flowers before. One of them tested out 26 THC, 8% CBD and 4.5% no 3% CBG.
Wow.
And close to 6% terpenes on that Ethiopian flower. So yeah, it's got something going on in it.
It's pretty special and I don't even know how else to explain. But it's like
a fucking when a baby shits their pants and you clean it up, but not good enough.
Yeah.
Like that sweet baby shit smell.
Yeah.
You know the one that's good.
Kind of like a mix of sour and skunk almost.
There are at least three people in this conversation know exactly what you're talking about.
Not me, man.
Oh man. Yeah. No, I got old super silver that has that. It smells just like it.
It smells like my son's diaper.
Before they go on to solid food when they're still on the boob.
Yeah. When it does not smell terrible.
No, no.
Not when they're on that poop.
Because once they hit the solid food.
Oh, it changes.
My five-year-old daughter still loves making me wipe her butt and I'm trying to wean her off that.
And I conceptually I get it because it's like if I could make someone wipe my ass,
I'd be like you wipe my ass right now.
But it fucking stinks.
So I have to go smell her shit and like when I'm dumping,
she'll like come into the bathroom and chat me up and have conversations.
And I'm like, this smell doesn't turn you off.
Mm hmm.
She's on.
Yeah, man.
But but Joel.
Go ahead.
Some of the gruesome lamb's bread. Yeah.
From Jamaica. It's not have like a throw up bile.
Yeah, I've been pressing the rosin and it comes out like like I threw up in my mouth almost,
you know, like so close that it's hard to tolerate, you know.
But the high is really nice. You know, it's like very complexly calming and
it's good shit. But it wouldn't like we can't sell it on the legal market because it's so fluffy.
You know, I mean, there's some denser phenols. There's some pretty ones, you know,
but they all have no no one's going to move volume of stuff that smells like bile.
It's like I mean, I have some favorite shit, though.
Yeah, because it doesn't taste like that. The flavonoid, the flavonoids different than the terp.
But man, some of the smells on some of that stuff, because when you when it smells that bad,
you know, it's going to be a cool high. It's just it's just always interesting.
It just takes you in this nice direction. That's it's a new ride in there.
So, Joel, can you talk about in the chat, Cascadian grown said that elevation leads to
intense UV exposure leads to increased secondary metabolites. Can you talk about
kind of how things express themselves at 10,000 feet?
Well, I probably wasn't growing anything at 10,000 feet, probably closer to like six to seven. But
yeah, you got a really intense sun over there. So, you know, I never really also was like
necessarily growing in full sun. We were kind of over there doing the same type of stuff we grew
up doing here, like tucking a handful of plants in the backyard, tucking some more out in the
papaya patch and a couple here and there and everywhere. So nothing was really getting
blasted with that full sun. But yeah, I mean, that's something I'm toying with here, even in
inland. You know, I got some depths out in Comptee and then we doing some depths inland from here as
well. And it's quite a bit hotter. And we're toying around with a bunch of the shading and
that kind of stuff this year and finding great success in depth with, you know, not really
letting the plants see over 5% or 5, I don't know if it's a percentage thing, the UVs.
Like we tarp out when the UVs get high and in the heat of the day, if it's ever going to scoop
100 degrees, you know, we're closing them up and just keeping stuff at a more moderate.
And yeah, we're getting some more, I guess, bag appeal through that. Maybe even some better yields
and more than anything, just keeping your timeline correct. And you know,
when you're talking about nine week varieties and I'm seeing this a lot with full term as well,
our harvest is starting to become naturally like in November where we used to be first week of
October, our best shit was coming down. Now, all that good shit that came down first of October
needs to go all the way to November. But we're having a lot of hundred plus degree days.
So I started to look back and say, okay, this plant should have been done by the 15th of October.
Why is it going till November 5th, November 7th? You kind of look back and count the amount of
hundred plus degree days and you can almost add that to October 15th and that's when you're going
to cut your big full terms. And I start to do some stuff now too where I'm hanging a little
sprinkler over some of my big plants and when it gets hot as hell out in 100 plus degrees,
I flip that thing on for 30 seconds and cool the leaf surface. And I'm back to pulling
crops on the mid October. Totally. I'm not losing that growing time.
You see that in greenhouses too with leaf temp. I just took a seminar at the University of Ohio
with this guy named Dr. Peter Weal. And Weal is like a Dutch greenhouse genius that's like the
father of modern greenhouse technology. And his whole thing was really that the focus on leaf temp
where once the leaf reaches a certain temp compared to air temp, you start to have a shutdown in
metabolic process and it's a delay and it increases floral time. And now Weal, he threw in some
cannabis because cannabis is a crop now that can be spoken about normally, but his whole direction
was all primarily produce and cut flower. But it was the same thing that once the temperatures rise,
it seems to extend the duration and it screws up your whole cycle because you're no longer
in a predictable cycle for repeatability in the in the in the Venlo's. I was just looking
at Peter. How do you spell Weal? W-E-E-L. And where is he? He's in Ohio? No, he's Dutch. The
University of Ohio had him come in and do a course. I got it. And so I attended the course.
There was a book that he put out. I'm trying to think of the name of the book. I got it in the
house. I'll send it to you. But it's just brilliant. It's just really the it's the
science, the Dutch science of 2020. How do you run a greenhouse correctly to actually get
the results you want from the top guys in the greenhouse game? And I just realized that just
like Joel was saying, see, that was brilliant where he noticed on his own that the number
100 degree days added to the old finish date is the new date. And what I know is that whenever
we have these excessive temperatures, there's a lag that the it to me, it almost imparts too much
energy into the plant. So the plant shuts down metabolically, but it must retain some of that
energy internally. It has to have a cellular change. The plant's epigenetic system has to be
being changed from the environment that we're developing because our whole region is different.
You know, we don't we don't have the weather we used to have when I got here in 90.
Humboldt County is not the same place. I mean, it's interesting because it's, you know,
it seems like for the plants, in addition to kind of just like the hours of sunlight triggering it,
it's also the heat extends it. And I think that you're having we're having solar minimums,
we're having all this other activity that's on these cycles. So there's what we do, and then
there's what the plant does. And then there's the planetary cycle. And I don't think that we really
understand the relationship between all of it, what how we select what the plant does desire,
and what's the planet's impact, and then the universe impact on the planet, because these
things are moving, they're liquid. And so I just I noticed the same thing, things that finished
earlier don't finish at the same time any longer. It's just bizarre, but that was bright, man.
I like the way you took a look at those hundred degree days and added them.
Yeah, we I I'm guessing his phone died because he dropped off.
But hey, guys, I got to hop off to I got to go see grandma cat, Kev.
Oh, nice. Give her a hug for me.
I will I totally well elbow bump or something.
Yeah, yeah. We're having COVID thing is nowadays. But I love it.
Yeah, it's great to see you. And thank you, Peter, for inviting me on here.
Nice. That logo, man. That's a nice shirt you wearing.
Yeah, I thought maybe you could see that there.
Speaking of which, Kevin, like two hours ago, someone complimented you on your shirts. So can
you show us the shirt, your the T-shirt you're currently repping?
See it on him? Yeah, yeah, yeah.
This this is there's a local is a local surf shop and they make these every year. They make us
spring planting summer depth and fall harvest. And so I always bought the shirts for myself and
the crew. And then I started wearing them when I was doing public speaking and it got back to the
owner. And so he makes sure that when the new shirts come out, he comps me one so that so that
I can, you know, rock it out. And it's just really I just like the fact that all the years that I was
in the game, I never wore anything that declared I was cannabis because I couldn't afford another
raid. And so now, you know, with the legality coming, you can wear cool weed shit. But I like
this one. It's the zigzag symbol, but it's it celebrates each harvest year and spring and fall.
And sometimes I look in the closet and look at the shirt and have fond memories that I look at
the shirt and say, oh, that was a shitty year. Is there good surfing in Humboldt?
Yeah, there's a good surfing in Humboldt. Humboldt's got good surfing over in Eureka
on the pier in Trinidad. You got good surfing out in Shelter Cove. But we got we got we got
active ocean here. You got you got real water here in Humboldt County. Big, deep, cold water.
Yeah, I was gonna say my impression is that it would be cold. I mean, coming from the East Coast
where the water cycles up from the Caribbean. Oh, we don't get that. And I'm in L.A. So I'm like,
it's going to be so warm and you jump in and it's just like bitterly cold. And then the waves all
break super close to the shore. So it's like a violent break. So it's hard to get right on the
shore versus the East Coast where you have like the nice long kind of breaks, sloping, sloping
terrace of water. But yeah, no, Humboldt County's got stunning, stunning coastline.
And I'm not a surfer. I've surfed a couple of times when I lived in Hawaii, but I wasn't good at it.
And so I took such a beating and lost all the skin on my nipples too many times.
And I said, you know, maybe I'm not meant to be a surfer.
And you value your nipples too much.
Oh, first time I did that, I was like, whoa, I didn't I didn't quite understand that a wax on
the nipple on a board all day is not good. Hey guys, I got to run. Thank you for having me.
I appreciate all the all the talks and stuff. I got to keep the goats out of the garden.
You guys have a safe one. Right on, brother. See you, Larry. All right. Later.
So why don't we let's wrap it up on that. We have. Good God, I think like 400 and.
Hold on. Yeah, we still have over 400 people watching. So so just quickly.
For everyone who's watching, we're trying and this is like hurting cats,
like try like Ethan Russo, like only does work week during the day. So and you're like on the
farm during the day. So we're going to try to talk to Ethan Russo, hopefully, potentially Monday.
And I talked to Josh about doing the Delano thing on YouTube tomorrow. So I'm going to
follow up with him on that. But. Oh, yeah, yeah. So for everyone who's watching, like
still like what blows me away about Delano conceptual and just his concept is using palm as
like the airy medium. And and water retention, like does it retain water well,
as well as kind of. Yeah, it's a nice base, man. He's he's he's doing some really interesting work
in general, but it's not just the palm. It's also that he had used peanut, went heavy into palm.
What he does is he's just really, I want to say, an opportunistic composter where he takes and uses
what's available. So he wants to come out to the farm sometime and start cooking down a bunch of
my material that's waste material. And it just makes so much sense because it's it's what you do
when you don't have resources. And he had impressed me with what he was doing. And then he asked me as
a favor, said, hey, you know, could you help me figure out how to market my product? And I said,
man, I'll give you I'll give it a try. You know, I'll see if we can get some attention. And I had
some killer seed stock. I had some of the original black limes still in the sealed jar. I had some
red hindus from Jean and I had been I put them away in my seed stash. And I figured, you know,
if I break them out and I auction them off, what we'll do is we'll give all the money to Delano
and start getting them into getting enough material so that he can start doing larger
production batches. And so I talked to his his his distributor and he hooked me up with the
distributor that he was working with. And she was a sweetheart. And she was really about helping him
too, which was interesting. I thought we were just going to have a talk about moving dirt.
But the woman really respected him as a composter and thought he was a lovely man. And she was
saying, hey, this is what we're trying to do is I'm trying to help him from this direction.
And I said, look, I'll try to help him gather some funding and I'll put up some of my own stuff.
So this way, it's not just, you know, asking other people for money. It's I'm not good at that,
really. It's funny. Like, I'm good at helping drive money to people, but I'm never really good
at asking for money. And so I figured if I put up products of my own that I paid for that have value,
then what it would do is it would allow us to drive some monies in and hopefully we'll be able
to get a couple other products for auction. And it all goes to him through the PayPal. And
it's just really to help fund Hammer Mill and help fund products to be delivered from Barbara.
Barbara can send him the product in bulk to his spot and then we can get a Hammer Mill for him
and it'll start really speeding up what he's doing and allow him to be able to get the product
into market a little better and begin his piece. And that's the truth with all small operators is
that, you know, you have to reach out to the people around you to assist. And a lot of times,
you know, it's assistance doesn't always mean money. Sometimes it just means connection,
support, platforming. You provide the platform and you allowed that group to get together and
talk about the distro, you know, my boy Armani with the yummy brand and Delano with Monarch
Soils. And it's huge because otherwise, how does anybody know who anybody is? There's no way to get
recognition. And for us that are trying to point at other people, we're not making money on it.
We're not trying to peel their cash either. So it's pretty honest. And I think that's what I
love about, you know, cannabis community is that, you know, down deep, you see it populated with
some really good people just trying to, you know, live their lives and do good things. And so
hopefully the auction goes well, and we move some product and Delano gets a little momentum on what
he's doing. And hopefully, you know, that that information from him can come out, we can platform
it different so that people can start to understand how to, how to utilize, you know, more indigenous
composting methodologies and what you're using. So you're not having to make the imports of coir,
and you're not having to make the degradation from ripping up the peat bogs.
Spag, yeah, spagnum, coir. No, I mean, I, to me, it's game changing, just to think,
I mean, I'm in LA, like,
You see the palm different now.
No, it's everywhere, right?
Yeah.
I mean, it's sustainable. It's just like, that's brilliant. And yeah, I mean, again, like kind of
the idea of being able to help him
build a business and get attention for his soil in front of the community. I mean,
everybody buys bagged soil, or not everybody, but like, there's a lot of bagged soil bought
every season.
Yeah, no question.
So anyway, but
it's environmentally sustainable and friendly. And that's that has to be what we do. You have
to close the loops. It's not a competition. Regenerative, healthy agriculture is not a
competition. You're not competing with each other. You're just trying to do the best you can.
And so much of that is to be a regenerative human, to where you're trying to help the people too.
And so this way, what you're doing is you're really building a better culture that's stronger
and more unified. And that I think that over time, it may not help us the way we wish it did now,
but over the course of time, it should because it'll attract different people into our culture.
And eventually, we'll be able to have a voice and you'll be able to have the ability to protect
small ag because if you look at any other agricultural model, they're done.
They've been wiped out by big ag. And this is a COVID is a really a huge opportunity for us,
I think, because the desire to go and do all your own farming to stabilize your food production
is unparalleled right now. Everybody's growing something. We got, I got so much vegetables
sitting in my kitchen and shit. I look like I'm at a grocery store. And I love it because we're
sharing with the neighbors and the neighbors are sharing with us and you bring in lettuce over to
your friend's house and they're, they're sending you home with green. And they're bringing their
bulls over to your house. The bulls. Well, the guy told me, you know, he told me too,
was he was like, I love that he made it. First of all, I love that in the beginning,
he made it your problem. He's like, let me teach you how to make an electric fence.
Not like all make an electric fence and keep them off your property. Like,
let me teach you how to keep my bulls off your property.
He was, you know, when the son came out, he was laughing because he said, listen,
he goes, you see them in the yard. He goes, you can shoot them. And then he goes, and you
could butcher them. And then he goes, hang on, I have my own butcher. We'll have our butcher,
butcher them for you. And I said, no, I'm not, I don't want to kill your cows. I said, but you got
to keep them out of the yard, you know? And so they were hella cool about it because we have a good,
we have a good relationship as neighbors, but it's the same thing is that, you know,
they were, they were old timber, old cattle, and all those markets are destroyed. The timber
markets are shot. He has a huge quarry. There's no construction going on. So there's no quarry.
The cattle situation is brutal. If you're not a large, you know, beef producer,
you're not making any money. So all these, you know, crafts that used to exist prior in small
scale, they're getting wiped out. And so because of it, there's a weird commonality now where
people who historically were not friendly with cannabis farmers now suddenly are because you're
all kind of in the same boat. And it's creating a unity in the community that I have ever seen
before where individuals that used to have beef over what we did, now it's all okay, because
they're getting screwed just as hard as we are, but in a different way. And it's starting to create
the ability to be able to have a better relationship with non cannabis growing neighbors.
And in my case, my neighbor has 5000 acres around me. So I'm like an island in the middle of his
property on top of this mountain. And I own this three mile road that carves through that mountain
up to the top. And so I own the road. And he has an easement to utilize it. But it's my roads,
which allows me to legally do business. So I have to drive through this mountain, I don't see
anybody I come off the county road. And at the three miles, I'm on this mountain road. It's
beautiful. The upgrade on the road that I had to do was incredible. Sometimes when I'm poor, I look
at my road and say, wow, that's where my money went. Look at the road. But it's I'm in the middle
of a 5000 acre chunk of land. And the ability to have good relationships in that form is crucial.
And so you know, I had to be cool about it. Because you know, you went I wanted to go over
there and scream at him saying your cars are fucking up my life. But you know, he's 80. And
it's not so simple. And I wasn't really you know, it's funny, I was raised in a really rough,
brutal background, but always first be respectful. And so you know, that's how I always approach
pretty much everything is that I try to be really pleasant at first. And then I'll be pleasant at
second. But after that, I don't fucking care. If we're going to be shitty, we can be shitty.
And it's just that you by being nice and bending, you do you build you build better
relationships with people. And as long as they don't bend you over you good.
Yeah, no, I always try to give people kind of a chance to be
good. Like I have a neighbor who has a dog walker and the dog walker. I have it on our security
camera. The dog shat right in front of our house, like right in front of our door. And then the guy
just kept walking. And I went to the neighbor. And I was like, yeah, but like, all I wanted from them
was just like, Oh my god, that's terrible. Like we'll tell him to make sure he cleans the dog shit
up. And instead she was just a dick. And but interestingly, the dog walker when he walked by
the next time was like, Oh my god, I'm so sorry. Like, I probably didn't have a bag. Like, of
course, I'll clean it up the next time. And I was like, that's all I wanted.
Yeah, no, you just look and you're looking for some recognition.
Right. Because actually what it was, what was my one year old at the time
stepped in the dog shit. And I was like, that's not very cool. Like,
Dad, what do I got in my hands? Right? No, she was on. She was on phase. But uh,
so anyway, all right. Well, with that, I will let you go. I appreciate it. So interestingly,
so Dan's gonna do a recurring show. And because he's from Boston, and because he actually is big
into hip hop. I reached out to to Robert Parrish as one of the first guests on the Dan show. So
for everybody who doesn't know Robert Parrish, the chief, the Boston Celtics in the 1980s,
who was a big weed smoker back in the day. So I want to hear his stories.
You got the chief coming on the show?
No, I not but but I reached out to him. But I wanted that. That's like,
I was like, it would be fun to have. I reached out to Glenn Davis, Glenn, big baby Davis,
who played for the Celtics with like, he won like in 2008 with Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett.
Because I met him a couple months ago at like, my daughter goes to preschool with Baron Davis,
who was in the NBA. And then Al Harrington has viola. So like he had a viola launch party and
Glenn Davis was there. And I was like, I'm from Boston. And he's like, I smoke a lot of weed.
Classic.
Like, let's, let's talk.
Yeah, that's all you need to know.
Right. So, but, alright, so anyway, I may see you tomorrow afternoon
on the Delano stuff, and I'd be psyched to help him raise some money for his soil. And then
we're gonna try to get Ethan hopefully Monday or Tuesday. So everybody watching.
We'll talk chemotypes, right terpene profiles.
With Dr. Idris.
He's doing some interesting work. He's doing some stuff with true terpenes where they're
making therapeutic blends based off of known effects through aromatherapy. And then Ethan's
working with Kevin McKernan and Dale Hunt on Breeders Best to do licensing protection,
IP protection of your variety.
Tomorrow morning, I may talk to Jordan from Freak Show, or who I don't know what his company is
called. But he's with Nat Pennington all weekend. And basically, we want him to talk about,
I mean, he's lived in Humboldt for like 35 years and just been like off grid breeding.
Oh, yeah.
And hit and his big thing like, like everybody I, I hear like, I cross this with this, I cross
this with this, I crot like I made a mutt, I made a mutt, I made a mutt. And his whole thing is like,
would everybody fucking stop making mutts? And just like, take what you have and like, make it
amazing. And so I'm trying to convince him to. He's like, I don't like the spotlight. I don't
want any attention. But I was kind of like, I think people would love to just.
It's like if he can impact one person, right? Like,
Oh, totally inspire him to go chase his values. He's cool too. I met him years ago when he first
released the plant. I went to an event. And it was the first time I saw that, you know, that that
freak. And I mean, I call it a sport. But it, uh, it was just incredible to see it. And then then
then you got like the Hawaiian ducks foot. And so that's also an anomaly. And it's just
interesting to see morphological shifts in our expectation and perception of what's possible
within cannabis genome. Cause really, you know, we haven't, we haven't scratched it in the way we
need to, and we're about to, and collectively as a group, you'll be able to dig a lot deeper than
you do on your own. Yeah. So kill them, man. Thanks for having me on the show.
Cascading grown in the chat said, uh, uh, a cannabis potency research is the name of, uh,
George Lewis, whether it's a, an incorporated company or not, but, uh, all right. Well,
for everybody watching, thank you very much for watching. And, uh, Kevin, I may or may not see
you tomorrow. Right now, man. Thank you so much. And, uh, thanks to the audience for taking the
time to listen to us. Chop it up. All right. Well, that'll kill the live stream.
