Yes, it's hot. I'm going in for a second sip.
It's the best.
All right, we are live.
We are live.
With
Brett and Jonathan.
So anyway, we're trying to get other people in the room who are having technical difficulties, but thank the two of you for joining me.
Absolutely. Yeah, thanks for having us.
So you're, you're obviously both in Colorado.
Let me find where you guys are I have like 50 windows open. There I am.
So, talk about kind of give me like how do you guys know each other's is the like the Colorado breeding community, a small one.
By the way, just quickly introduce yourselves.
I'm Brett, Harden Soil Project, owner, breeder.
Jonathan Covert, Covert Genetics, owner and breeder.
Okay.
And then so how do you guys know each other.
It didn't really start off with Kimberly. Yes, so I used to work for Greenpoint.
I used to do a lot of breeding for them. And at the time, you know, covert and I were kind of in touch on Facebook and stuff like that, from afar but you saw that I was working there was looking for the Kim.
Cut to make a cross with his, his limited relay.
At the time, right, yes, that's what that's what made the Kimberley.
So that's how you know that's how we connect I got in that cut.
And then, you know, we just kind of helped each other out with cuts here and there and, you know, we got a lot of same interest dogs and kids and family and all that stuff so we just kind of kept kept rolling it's been a good personal and business relationship for sure.
Absolutely.
All right, so you guys do have a business relationship with each other because I think what I want to start with is kind of like, you know, you both have kids.
We do. Yes. And reading is a source of income, if not the only source of income for both of you it's a source of income so like you're building a business and your businesses, I'm a breeder, and that's what I, you know, am in the world and known as and that's what I sell
And so can you talk about kind of like the, you know, scrap scrappy scratching it out fighting inclined to become a breeder who people know and trust, and kind of the journey to get there.
I mean, definitely uphill battle that's for sure. I think it's just doing what you say you're going to do over and over and over again. And don't screw people over. Yeah. And, and follow your heart in terms of your breeding practices and.
And I think that's all anybody can ask you, you know, try to make the best, you know, quality seeds best quality experience for that customer and, you know, and do it over and over and over again.
It's important to listen to the community as far as who's buying what from you as well as other people you can you can really.
It's hit or miss as far as the breedings if it's not popular at the moment, chances are it's not going to move as quick so I mean you can play off of other people's moves which is kind of what we and Brett have been doing as far as the sharing of the cuts.
And referring people to each other this and that it's, I mean, it's collaboration it's it's energy it's one plus one equals three it's like the only way you know I think to do business is, you know, helping others do business and I think you get, you get a lot of respect that way in, in the industry.
I think that's, that's key is just, you know, collaborating and just working and being and being open with your, with your customers.
And do you both have similar taste and kind of the terpene profiles that appeal to each of you or you totally different.
Um, just depends. Are you talking about what we're smoking or what we're growing.
Well, yes. So basically what the market wants and what you like those may not be the same thing right.
Absolutely. I, I'm all gas no brakes.
In terms of what you like to smoke or what you're making for the market.
Smokes nothing but, but things that that hurt your nostrils.
They come in and out.
And I don't mind those things but like I really do enjoy fruity strains tropical strains sativa blends.
I mean I like a little bit of everything as long as it's clean and grown, grown properly but uh, but yeah I think you know his breeding styles a little, a little different he's working those oh geez and I'm branching out and hitting as many, you know, different continents as I possibly can, you know, and trying to bring in as many of those genetics maybe that could be lost to us here soon if we don't do some preservation, and, you know, cross breeding and outbreeding, you know.
That's kind of it. So, so you're a preservationist of the heirloom.
I don't know if I call myself a preservationist I, I would love to think myself that way but like, let's be honest like the things I get my hands on may or may not be in their original form, you know, and I do try to do pay homage to those strains, you know, in like one or two crosses, especially, at least in the beginning of the line, you know, doing F2s or BXs or, you know, whatever, whatever that may be but then I also branch out and hit them with copious amounts of
you know, lemon brulee and things like that and try to expand them as well so I like my, you know, I like to preserve, you know, but I also like to expand on so I like to give people those options that's what I do full lines I like to try to do a male to a female of a certain region, and then hit that male to multiple clone only, a lot of them, you know, sourced through this guy and other good breeders in Colorado so that's kind of the fun of it for me is doing a little bit of both.
There's honestly a lot more untapped potential in his breedings than the conventional simply because he's sourcing genetics that are regional to certain areas versus obviously me and dozens of other breeders using what's around them.
As far as clone only or sourcing seeds from local or just other state breeders.
The, the potential in those land race strains is just, it's ridiculous and then you cross into something you know hypothetically OG Kush, and you've got, you've got the next cup winner that everybody's like what the hell is this.
Oh yeah so some Uzbekistan to you know whatever it was hot at the moment, and it was like, what was it was a land race resilience and bigger. Yeah, combined with the high THC and high resin production of these more modern strains, you know, you put those two together and you find the right, you know, you can have something special.
That's the fun. I like to move from region to region and
cross in some of his stuff in the can and some other other fun genetics, you know, back and you know all those other fun, you know, clone only. There's so many good breeders out there to work with it's, I mean,
so who's stuff, are you, was I got a bunch of questions. So first of all, in Colorado can, can you guys grow outdoors Can you like test stuff indoor and outdoor or what's kind of each of your setup.
So, I do all my stuff indoor.
Everything I do is indoor. You know I've grown stuff outdoor before, you know, but with, you know, the laws and the kids and under lock and key and all that good stuff I just like to keep that under lock and key inside, you know, keep that out of anybody's hands.
So, but yeah, as far as testing goes, yeah there's plenty of people here, we can have tests are stuff outdoors indoors.
Just personally with the kids and everything it's got to be kept locked.
Yeah, there's plenty of good greenhouses and outdoor growers and stuff like that Colorado and that are growing our stuff and, you know, but us, us personally at this time, all indoor.
Got it but but you can get it out to them to see how it expresses them.
Oh yeah so we got stuff out and outside right now this season. I do anyway.
I'm sure we do. We both do, especially in California, we have a lot of growers growing outside.
We even actually have one girl that's actually in Peru, growing some of our Peruvian land race, so it's pretty cool.
That's awesome.
So, do you. So, can you both kind of talk about the, the beginning for each of you kind of, you know, I assume you were both growing and then it was kind of like, I want to start breeding and then kind of when you get to the point where you feel like you have something that's not just like pollen chucking it's more like I have something special it's like, I want to start breeding.
Is that stable. It's something I would actually put in the market and take money from people to, you know, I think it starts with like knowledge of the plant right like how to plant express itself like in any other way growing from seed growing from clone.
We both spent a lot of time in the industry. I worked for kind of starting off for a couple years I went to a bunch of other places I was directly or cultivation in a few places, things like that, you know, give you knowledge of the plant itself and that was a breeder for somebody else.
For a little while, green seeds.
And that gave me a lot of knowledge as my first breeding experience and just seeing how how they did things and, you know, what the process was and how to get more seed and all that stuff quality seeds.
I think that plays quite a role in my experience anyway but just experience whether that's in your basement or, or whatever but it's like just growing multiple varieties of the plant over and over and over again, growing from clone growing from seed and you're like okay I like these expressions so whenever you find, you know, expressions in those males or females, and you move forward, you know, I think, read a lot for your own personal, you know, taste and bring some awesome stuff so that's, that's what it was for me is just, you know,
knowledge of the plant and then kind of going from there that took a trip to Peru and found some awesome genetics and brought them back and kind of that's where it all started it was just good timing.
And I found an awesome male and that's what the project started and we also do all kinds of other products that's when we started our company around that same time and it just kind of all connected for me.
Go into breeding.
But, but that but then talk about like your first seed pack sale, and kind of when you knew that the seeds were ready for prime time.
That's another reason why we're like in where we're such good friends is whenever I first released my genetics like I did a lot of testing first you know I sent out three packs and stuff like that and just had people grow to make sure they weren't just like bunk
because my first time around you like you want to make sure I've been every time you read one, do a little testing but I was really anxious to get those results back once you find out they were, you know, doing pretty well.
I released them, and people were buying started to buy the full line, and I found that the reason that they did that is because this guy referred them to me and said, you got to check out this guy's genetics you just released this full line.
So, that really did me a big favor at the time when I was down on my luck, kind of financially and you know things are just going nuts so I mean, you know, that's what it's so so yeah so things weren't going so well, and this guy came in and like referring me to some awesome owners and breeders and kind of got my name out there a little bit more so he was like your hype man, he was my hype man.
And he was on the low, like he didn't really do it like on the rooftop he just did it on the DM some people were asking for some cool stuff and it worked out you know it's another, you know, so I was able to sell a lot of seeds in a short amount of time.
And it was pretty awesome like it was like, Whoa, this is, you know, this is really cool.
So,
he's not just, oh I've got a land race and I'm hitting everything of the sort, it's very selective breeding, and then selective testing, he's not just.
Testing, he's not just.
You can't just get free stuff from him, like you've got to, you got to pay for the test pack like it matters where it's going because he doesn't want just people passing stuff off.
I got burned on the first round of doing that bunch of seeds for free, and no one got back to me so I kind of learned I'm like, well if you give something away for free they don't value it so I charged $10 a pack for the testers and.
The return, no, you're good in the feedback was just so much better than obviously the free stuff because you get something you toss in the back of your stash and it's just like, Oh yeah I got that for free.
Whereas if you pay even if it's just a little bit. You remember it's like oh I need to run this guy I paid for it.
And then, obviously the selection of the land races, I mean, I don't, I don't know very many people that are using any, any of those land races to work and hybrid eyes with what we've already got on the market today.
A lot of people are doing cross reading as far as the land race to land race, which is super neat in itself. But I like to see all those expressions that we've sort of crafted, say, with my Kimberly, you know the structure and everything like that.
He took the Peruvian, which was completely different in every way, shape, or form, and just created something phenomenal. And everything off that line and every line that he's made since then, it's just been, it's been amazing.
I have pretty sure I have every single fact that he's, he got every back. I made sure
I support him that way too. I have all this stuff.
Run it and we'll be reading with it.
Soon enough.
Sorry, I'm asking people on YouTube any specific questions.
Got people from Maine from South Africa.
Congo's Congo's coming up. I just got stereo
Actually used
The Durban that I use was from coffee based South Africa.
Okay.
So, so can you talk like the the Peruvian can you can you kind of describe it as as like a cultivar in terms of how it grows and
It's very vigorous very strong branching
It was struck me about it was, it wasn't like a lot of sativas, it kind of grew a little bit more squat.
And so I had that bigger, but it had more like lateral branching and just bigger, bigger, bigger leaves and just
Whenever I threw them both in the flower, the male flowered super early and super vigorously and they kind of both finished a lot earlier than most sativas, but they still had that like sativa kick.
But, you know, Peru is a very diverse region, you know, it's got everything from jungles to snow cap peaks and you know it just has one of those, you know, interesting
Interesting lineages for me because it's just it contain everything from kind of like a cushy type of strain. So like a super sativa that takes 120 days, you know, and then this one kind of the male and the female kind of
Hit on a little bit lower side, you know, and they just had like an interesting structure and when I flowered them out. They had like this sweet peppery kind of
Smell and one of them had like a mango.
Like almost melon type of
I call it cantaloupe
Honeydew. Yeah, so that was the sativa melon, you know, that I that I use in the Mozambique line. But anyways, it was just very unique
So I kind of wanted a little bit different and I found that and you know that's kind of where the
Brand, you know, the breeding brand started. And so I found those seeds and I was actually hiking
The Inca Trail. I got some stuff from a couple areas and one back in the day. And I was like, Oh, I want to do that. And so I started
Right.
Sorry, I'm like, can you tell me a little bit about the
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
The
So the things that I grow, I generally call them heirloom varieties.
It's as close to land-raised as we can get, and we're going to try to preserve what those farmers,
because those farmers are the ones that preserved it. They've touched it.
They're the ones in that region. Even if they've done it over years and years and years through natural selection,
not even selective breeding, it's still touched by man. So I would consider those heirloom seeds.
It's tough to call anything land-raised these days.
People are asking if
kind of genetics you have that would maybe be better for flowering and others that might be
better for hash. Anything you have that's kind of a hash, a good yielder in whatever terms
you define good yielding, whether it's quantity or flavor?
My oil content, you know, out of the current strains that I have, the Peruvian line, they're kind of selling off pretty quickly.
But we do still have the Lima lemons, which is his lemon brulee, which is super gassy and super oily.
It just coats your mouth and coats everything.
The lemons naturally have a high essential oil content. They're better for hydrocarbon versus
water hash. So you can expect really nice numbers off of that. I know the lemon brulee
and most of the brulee line itself easily six, seven, eight percent returns.
So Lima lemons for sure. And then we have one called Flantostico, which is the wedding cake
across the Peruvian. And that one's super great for hash as well. It's off the top of my head.
I mean, we also have some CBD strains that are super resinous as well. The Ayahuasca Queen
is one of the shortest flowering CBD strains I've ever encountered. It's like 50 days.
So we hit it with the Sativa, which will bring it up a little bit.
But it's a great hash producer as well.
And kind of what's the backstory on that word?
When I hear that, I think kind of Central South America.
Ayahuasca Queen, it's the Lucy, which is Luca Brasi and LA Confidential.
It's super squat. It was one of the first strains I grew when I got out of Colorado.
Now I had no clue what it was. And I ended up growing a kind of love and I was able to get that
strain into the testing and was able to get it actually tested. And they found out that it was
like a 17 percent CBD and a seven percent THC, which is pretty nice. And it finished in like 50,
55 days. So they brought that into their lineup over there. That's kind of when I found out that
it was like, OK, wow, this is something special. So I kept that around and I use that in my first
breeding project, which is kind of special. So the Ayahuasca Queen is just a name.
It's just a cool name because it has a lot of medical properties.
Gets your attention.
You know, and yeah, I mean, it's from the region, it's from the Peruvian, you know,
area as well known for Ayahuasca. And while I was there, I did not get to partake. But one day,
next time.
Are there certain kind of less prominent terpenes or kind of some of the minor cannabinoids that
each of you are kind of exploring or trying to tease out? Yeah, in some of your breeding.
I think I think like which cannabinoids are you really trying to express? I think, you know,
overall, I'm trying to express as much THC as possible. But get that full spectrum effect,
you know, get the terpenes, get THCV, you know, get some CBD in there.
THCV would be phenomenal.
I think THCV is like the hunt in the in the
That's why I use the dervish.
In the heirlooms. I think that's the hunt in the heirlooms is the THCV.
You know, obviously, you're trying to hit 30% THC all day. But there's only so much room.
Well, but but is that for the market or for yourself?
Well, I'm half joking, you know, it's just like,
No, I'm serious. The market's all about numbers.
Right now. Yeah, 100%.
And I just my stuff, you know, marinade may not ever hit like that. It would be like,
we've had some tests. 2124 25. Maybe we'll get get up there. But we're finding like there's more
in between, you know, there's like, CBG, CBN, CBC, you know, TSC, you know, CBD, obviously,
you know, there's, there's only so much room on the on the color wheel for a plant to have,
if it's being taken up by 32% THC, there's not a lot of room for those, those other candidates to
kind of get in there. So that's kind of what I'm trying to explore, but also tie in that high,
knock you on your ass punch that comes from a 20 30% or, you know,
we really rely on other facilities for those test results, though, right? Like we,
we really can't test for that here in Colorado. I don't know anywhere that private breeders can
with that being said, our data collection is limited to what has been passed on to us.
So at the moment, I'm only receiving THC, CBDs, and terpene tests outside of that. I'm not sure
if anybody is testing for any other cannabinoids. You have to pay extra for those. Right? Those are
those are our decisions. It's kind of what absolutely, absolutely want what the market needs,
you know, so unfortunately, one day, hopefully, we'll be able to test.
Yeah, I mean, I think I think what I'm hearing is that testing labs aren't really set up to
test for stuff besides THC and kind of the main dominant terpenes and cannabinoids. So if you
have something more obscure that starting to chart or register, like they're not going to
even notice it because they're not set up to test. We have to wait for somebody who's growing a lot
of our stuff to be in a large facility. So yes, I have some people out in Oklahoma that are starting
to do that. But it takes time. You know, those things take time to get into good places,
you know, that want to buy your whole lineup and grow it all out and give you all the test
results and let you know, okay, these are the ones to hit, you know, so but I agree with it'd be nice
to know. So I just posted in our little if you can see the chat window. Do you guys see what I
just posted there? I did not. Yeah, I'm not seeing anything. Yeah. Here's a chat right there.
How long does it take to focus and maximize on a specific gene? I have sour D bag seed,
which is wild. Been running here for over a year, but now I want to keep her going.
Find a male and then BX to mom. So I guess, yeah, you can always you can always submit,
you know, I'm, if like, you have the least amount of variance in my experience, in my opinion,
with them. So if you if you want to almost a carbon of this, of the pheno that you have,
try and film that. So clone it, spray one of them, get it to produce the pollen onto the other
of the same. And chances are you're going to get a lot of those moms in the seed form.
But if you if you find a male BX and all that stuff, males enter a lot of pheno variations
that that female didn't have herself. So you can really stick to what you like,
if you can get it to film. Yeah, I mean, if you got them spread, you want to go through the
process. Obviously, that's that's the best way to get the closest thing. But that's coming from an
all regular breeder. I don't touch them myself, but he's correct on those genetics. But yeah,
otherwise, you can just try to find them one that looks most like the pop up seeds. Find the one
that looks most like the mom and most like the dad. That's why it takes so long for us regular
Yeah, and then you got to go through those seeds really and find one that looks most like the mom,
most like the dad, you know, and smokes. You know, it's tough to find if that's what you're going
that's what you're going for is trying to find that exactly. So to answer the question,
the fem spray is the most, the shortest route is the shortest route to the line, but a lot of
it there. What kind of the art and science of breeding? Can each of you talk about some lessons
someone imparted on you that kind of once you got that it just like you felt like it
upped your game a lot in terms of just understanding breeding? Oh, you know, I think
it's hard to say but you know, the guy used to grow for a good from Greenpoint, he told me that,
you know, if a male holds a veg and holds in flower, it's usually stable, you know, it'll hold
it most most plants will show under 18 six, 18 six like, you know, show male or female, but sometimes
you just can't tell that plant is generally stable, because it didn't fluctuate under the 18
six light, it needs that 1212 flip. So you know, basically, that whether it be male or female,
a plant that shows sex that's not under 1212 light or close to it could be unstable, and could
could fluctuate based on, you know, the stresses it's put under and, you know, maybe turn her
macrodite on you or something like that. So when you're when you're trying to find a good male,
and you speak a good female to breed with, that's that was something that stuck out to me early on.
If that makes sense. And you Jonathan?
Just kind of as you know, it's like you start as novice breeders, and then kind of working your
way up to becoming kind of more expert kind of what were some of the big kind of epiphany lessons
you learned along the way? Don't overvalue other people's opinions on the work that you're doing.
So follow your gut.
It's I mean, you gotta you gotta do what you wanna do. And you're gonna fuck up along the way.
That's why you gotta, you gotta have a game plan going in. And if you just kind of go in with the
thought of, hey, this is a quick way to make money, you're gonna, for one, you're gonna get
called out right away, because everybody sees that shit. So you got to have a game plan. And
don't stray from that on based on other people's opinions of the work that you're doing. There's,
there's gold in there somewhere. And don't be afraid to work to find it.
So can we touch on feminized seeds? Because you said neither of you do that, right?
I mean, not yet. I am working on it.
Oh, you are? Okay. And so what's kind of the... But Brett, you don't, right?
I do some advising on it for other companies. But I just particularly, and I'm after like that new,
I'm not interested in like, keeping anything current around. It's like life is fleeting.
Strains, strains are fleeting. The hype strains are always changing. It's like,
you got to stay ahead of the curve if you want to like, you know, so. So for me,
feminizing is like, just like holding your ground kind of thing. It's like setting your post in the,
when you're rock climbing, you know, otherwise there's those free climbers and just kind of go
for it. And then sometimes they fall, but they're the great ones.
I'm just doing it to say I tried it. I know a lot of feminized, fem breeders. One in particular,
Rick Campanella of Brothers Grimm. Yeah.
He's probably one of the foremost in feminized breeding out there, at least in my opinion.
If you guys don't know about him, you should definitely check him out on Instagram.
Brothers Grimm seed co.
Yeah. I'm going to text him and see if he can jump on. So hold on. But
go through your thought, finish your thought on that.
He's someone that I look up to for one, just because he's a great guy. But as far as the
feminized breeding goes, and he, why not? If it doesn't work for me, I go back to what I'm used
to. If it does, then I keep doing what I was doing prior, but I've got something new that worked for
me and I can put it out on the market for those that look for fem. And people want fem. Don't get
me wrong. Absolutely. When your customers come to you and say, please, please, please make fems,
it's tough to not give the customer what they want. I haven't had people knock down my door
to ask for fems yet. So it's easy for me to say, but a lot of breeders, their customers want the
same strain. They want to be able to go back five years later and be like, hey, I bought this strain
from you. Now you have a feminized version. So they go out and find their best few now,
and they feminize it. Which is what sometimes you got to dictate to what the market wants.
Can you talk about picking males, selecting males?
Yeah. I mean, kind of like that was a small tell. The first thing I learned, like I said,
was making sure it's, or trying to make sure it's a stable male. That's number one. But also just
saying, then you would look for in a female. It's like vigorous growth, strong branching,
whatever you're kind of looking for in that strain that you're kind of looking for. Sometimes people
will say a stem row will give you some indication. When a male is funky, you can tell. And if it
doesn't have any funk, a lot of times, I mean, he's done the breeding to figure a lot of these
things out. It's a lot of times it's your gut feeling about a male. I think it's about selection,
first of all. And number one is doing more than just finding one male. You got to look at a bunch
of males, at least a couple, depending on your size. It's easier for me. He's working with
lamb races. He has no idea what, say, a good male is going to pass on or a shoddy looking male is
going to pass on. He's strictly going off of physical characteristics from the first go around.
I have the advantage of, I've put in either half of the work or both sides of the work on the male
that I'm selecting. I already know what traits he has to pass on, so I know what to look for at least
50% of the time in the progeny as far as for another male. So it's easier for me.
I don't know how he's doing it, but I'm hunting. It's like digging for
gold or digging for crystals or something. You go with the lines and you try to find the
spot to dig and sometimes you get in there and you hit a pocket and it's full of crystals and sometimes
you get in there and it's just nothing. You hit a brick wall or granite wall or something.
That's why he's got so much stuff going on. So you just got to keep pumping it out. You just got to
keep pumping it out really and try to make your best selections and find the best females and
go through the process properly and make the best seeds possible. I grow everything in no-till
living soil. People that don't do that, I don't think I necessarily have better seeds than them,
but it definitely costs me a lot less money and I have a lot less environmental impact.
It's just something I've been doing for the last 10 years, growing in the same soil, building it up.
I like hearing that. So talk to... and are you both doing the living soil? Are you both soil-based?
I flip-flop. When I first met him, he was doing full no-till living soil.
When I do my seeds, it's organic. When I'm doing my flour, like for smokable, it's
salts and for particular reasons. I get a lot more explosive growth. More flour, more weight.
Right. With my salts and then with my organics, obviously it's a marinated process.
My seeds are just so much... they're plumper. They look like they're going to explode. I'm
sure you can attest to that. They're super vibrant. What's that? Organic seeds. Yeah.
So I do teas and pretty much water only because I don't like making a mess of nasty teas.
And because my soil is super old and I've had worms in there for the last five years.
That's interesting though. So you have two distinct setups. One for flowering,
which is basically hydro. And then the other, which is for breeding.
No, no, no. As far as raw salts, I mix up raw salts and then I feed my plants that are in cocoa corn.
And then when I do my seeds, obviously I have my amended soils and I use organic inputs.
Things like that. But no hydro for me. Okay. But you feel like the living soil
helps create the best seeds and you feel like the cocoa with the salts helps produce the best bud?
Not necessarily the best. That's personal preference I feel for anyone. As far as the
buds itself, I feel it's a more natural process for the seed making. I mean, if they're not being
force fed with the salts, they have time to focus on their seeds.
They take what they need, I think, from the living soil when they need it. That's kind of
how I describe it. It's like you've got everything in the same place in BK. They're
doing a lot of nutrients, but they kind of reach out when they need it. And with the salts, you're kind of telling them, okay, now it's time to eat breakfast. Now it's time to eat lunch. Now it's time to eat dinner. Now it's time for dessert.
And they're already doing so much.
With living soil, sometimes it takes longer. I mean, sometimes it takes two weeks longer,
honestly, in living soil to finish flower out even. The seeds I let go for a long time.
I let die on the plant to make sure they're done. Go through the natural hardening process and
everything. But yeah, sometimes it takes a little bit longer to do with the no-till living soil.
Sometimes with flower, you don't get as much yield. The terpenes are insane. I think the
flower is amazing. But you definitely don't get as much yield that way. Luckily, I'm growing for seed
99.9% of the time. It produces great for seed. Nice, hard, high quantity of seeds.
Can you talk about, and this would probably either, I guess, people in Colorado who are
growing your seeds or just other people around the country who you've heard back from, but like
same genetics grown in the Pacific Northwest, indoors, outdoors, SoCal. Just kind of what
people have anecdotally told you about how this plant expresses itself different. Same genetics
expressing itself differently in kind of different environments and the feedback you've gotten.
So like pick a cultivar that you're known for and then kind of what people have told you.
The Lemon Brulee, indoor. It's pretty much synonymous across the board as far as
test results, growth rates, stuff like that, yields. I've seen a variance within like
two to four percent in gardens in different states. But outdoors, it definitely likes
West Coast better than East Coast. It's not, I don't know, like the humidity on the East Coast
is different than the West Coast, I guess. I thought humidity was the same. I'm not from
any coast. I'm from Nebraska and then I moved into Colorado. So I don't necessarily understand
how all that works. I just have to go off the feedback. And I mean East Coast, it doesn't
prefer that and it's, it bud rots. I don't know if that's because of size or what, but yeah,
people on the East Coast definitely let me know that.
Yeah and I think for me, I mean to be quite honest, most people who grow it inside,
in my experience, there's some people growing outdoor in Cali and stuff like that. I had
somebody growing it and outside it's just going to be a little bit more leafy, you know. Oh for
sure. Less snug, less control. It's going to take a little bit longer, especially with like
the heirloom genetics in my stuff. You know, sometimes it just, depending on which coast
you're on, you know. In California, they said, you know, it was just taking a little bit longer to
finish on like the full land-raised stuff. It usually finishes in like 13 weeks. It was taking
like 15, 16 weeks, you know. It just like kept going outside. But when you're inside, you know,
people have a lot more control. And just the phenotype variation. So his is more like dialed
in. I feel like, you know, mine are all F1s from land-raised males, or you know, heirloom males,
you know. So it's like a variation. My kiddo is running around in a Spider-Man costume.
Spider-Man!
You guys could also be in costume. There's nothing stopping you. Maybe next time.
We'll get my kiddo to run through. Get the underoos on.
Yes. Sorry, I lost my train of thought.
So yeah, I mean, the Peruvian Punch, for example, most people were just getting, you know,
getting about 10 weeks, you know, on it. Like I said, California was taking like 11 weeks.
You know, that's the main, that's really the only place that's going, growing outside that
really gives much feedback. I have some people in Oklahoma. We have people around the country.
Not everyone likes to advertise exactly what they're doing when they grab the seeds.
So that's kind of where we're at. You know, we just released the Peruvian line.
Most people are kind of getting around to it. We're almost sold out of it. So if you want any
of that one, grab it. Because we won't be making it again. And then we're going to be moving on
the Mosey and Beak line. And then, yeah. So to answer your question, it's kind of like
all across the board. In my opinion, though, if you're an outdoor grower, you are going to want
to take a look at his seeds. I mean, the vigor, the resilience that the land race brings into
the gene pool, it's just, I mean, the natural defenses are way higher in those plants than
they are in the plants that we're used to. That's part of the reason I've read about it.
The structure, the vigor, the resistance to PM, resistance to all kinds of other stuff. So
yeah, pick up the Peruvian. It won't be around for long. I'm sold out of at least half. There
was 24 strains at one time. Now there's like 10 or 12. There's only a few left and several of them.
And then we're testing the Mosey and Beak right now. And then once we get some more feedback on
that, we'll officially release that line. And we have a couple more coming up behind it. We're
going to do some Peruvian Pynchap 2s, some Afghani straight from land race, or not land race,
but heirloom. But they were picked wild in the field by actually some of our service members.
Made it back with a couple bags full of seed directly from Afghanistan.
Seeds of war.
Seeds of war, sure. Hopefully they were seeds of peace.
Drop seeds, not bomb, though.
Hopefully seeds of peace. But yes. So yeah, so we're going to continuously work on stuff. But
that's one of the things that I always do is I make stuff and then I move on to the next thing.
I may make F2s, some of the more popular strains. But after that, it's on to the next one.
So you like kind of just always, you don't want to be like the...
I'm never staying still.
I was going to say like the band that always has to play like their one hit song at every concert.
Rolling Stone gathers no moss is I guess what they say. You just got to keep moving.
And either people will like it or whatever. But I'm really doing it for me. It's like
exploring the genetics.
Because as a contrast, like Rick from Brothers Grimm, he's known for kind of Cinderella.
Like certain breeders are known for something specific.
There are a lot of breeders that are like that. They'll always make their stuff because it sells.
And I get that. And I'm widely diversified in the industry. And breeding is my passion.
And that's why I do it. But it's not to make money.
That's not my main source of income at this point.
It's becoming more and more. It's becoming more and more. It's taking up more and more of my time.
But I do it for me first. And people just seem to like it.
Let's just say we don't release everything we make for that reason.
I breed a lot of stuff for myself and myself only.
And if you see it out there and you're like, well, that wasn't on a list that I got.
It's simply because I felt that I wanted to share it with that person for whatever reason.
But half of my stuff that I breed stays with me.
So just quickly, Chris Martinez says, how can you confirm it is a Peruvian land race?
It's hard for me to believe that it is a land race unless you traveled personally to get them.
Bodhi at least travels and shows proof.
I was in Peru for two weeks, hiking the Inca Trail. I slept outside for five nights.
And I'm not saying it's land race. Not saying that. I'm saying
it came from Peru in the region of Cusco. So that's where I was when I grabbed that one.
I was in some other regions. But when I collected those seeds, they were in Cusco, Peru.
The audience is asking some hard hitting, challenging questions.
Absolutely.
So sticking with the business conversation, basically paying the bills with breeding.
So you went from charging $10 a pack. And now kind of what, like the market, like,
you know, you go to the Emerald Cup and Capulator has a line around the corner and
and I forget what he charges, but it's not 10 bucks.
Let me just clarify, we both have jobs. So the breeding isn't how we pay our bills.
Second, the $10 packs that that was that's for testers.
As soon as everything's verified and good to go. It's, you know, the basic going rate,
nothing more. You know, he has wicked deals going all the time.
I do 50 to $60 packs. You want to buy one pack, it's like 60 bucks. If you want to buy two packs,
because they're going for 50 bucks free shipping.
Reasonably priced.
I think so. And like, yeah. And if somebody comes to me, man,
usually they ask me, like, hey, man, I'm low on my luck, I'm low on funds.
I'm like, here, bro, pay $10 for a pack or pay just pay for shipping.
Yeah, but like, I don't I value my work. Don't get me wrong. But like,
I'm also just like, I was there trying to get free packs and stuff.
And some people straight up ask for free packs a lot.
And if you should have asked for free bags, chances are you won't get them.
If somebody is like, hey, man, I really respect your work.
Like, you know, one day I'd love to be able to afford your packs.
And it's like 50 or 60 bucks, but some people can't afford that.
So, you know, I always, I always try to cut deals.
Yeah, I'm not trying to charge $100 a pack to anybody.
Right. At this point.
I'm guilty of that. My packs, that's that's flat rate $100.
You've worked on your stuff.
My packs have 15 seeds in them.
Sometimes I like to toss more in there to surprise people.
But and then I also offer deals as well. I have bulk rates.
Stuff like that.
I think I mean, I don't know anybody else who offers a dollar a seed
at a certain point, but I do.
Right. Who who are I mean, in the sense.
So, I mean, Jonathan, it was Eric Brandstad who mentioned you.
And then I was like, we're talking about you right now.
And he jumped on. And then you mentioned Brett.
So who who are kind of some other breeders that have come across your radar,
either in Colorado or elsewhere that kind of you think people should know about and and check out?
You say breeders?
Yes.
Let's see. I mean, first one that comes to my mind is a good buddy of mine.
His name's Ryan Valhalla Genetics.
What is that?
Valhalla.
Oh, Valhalla.
Yeah.
Great guy. I know he could use the support. His mom just had a major, major surgery.
So their their family's kind of going through some things right now.
But he does have some stuff. And I think he would be blown away.
People reached out to him.
He's also an amazing painter. I don't know where his talent came from.
He's got some mad skills with the oil paints.
Yeah, I usually don't like to do this, but some of these seed guys, you know, that I get my seeds
from Congo seed projects where I got the last round of seeds from the Congo. I thought they
were pretty special. He doesn't have a whole lot of followers, you know. I'm sure he wants some
really cool heirloom, land race, whatever you want to call them, seeds direct from the Congo.
Congo seed project. Yeah, and like they took like a month to get here. It took forever.
But he was like so worried about it the whole time. Wanted to make sure I was happy.
He was like, I wasn't sure if he sent them at first, you know. And then they eventually got
here and he was like, OK, sweet. You know, he felt so much better. So that guy was cool.
And then that was the other one I was telling you about. Guardian of the Lost Terps. Yes,
we look at his actual Instagram handle. I think it is. These people deserve the shout out.
Of the Lost Terps. Yeah, I think they're out there finding those things that we can like,
we can play with. You know, these guys from Siberia, got Siberian land race. So like directly
from Siberian wild seeds. So there's just some interesting, interesting stuff. You know,
you can shout out all kinds of different breeders, you know, but directly, I don't mess with a lot
of people. I don't know about you, but like I get my seeds, try to get them directly from the source
of the region, get my cuts directly from a person I know. And then I move forward. The only seeds I
usually get are breeders, which I really support with, you know, Covert's one of them. You know,
a few guys that I think are doing really cool stuff. Greenpoint seeds, you know, I don't,
I don't grow from anymore, but they produce some awesome quality seeds at a great price.
Greenpointseeds.com. You know, great customer service. You know, you can't complain if you're
looking for looking for seeds, feminized, regular, whatever, they got great seeds.
Who else? I really respect Compound Genetics, what they're doing. You know, I think they put out
some fire. Rick, of course, I mean, Rick Kippenhut, he's been working hard the last
couple of years to really stabilize that Cindy 99 and really not just stabilize it, but improve on
it. He did a picture and it was like, you know, old school Cindy 99, new school Cindy 99. It's like
same flavor profile, just more, more vigor, more, more everything. And then feminized. So I think
those guys are doing some great work. We can shout out breeders all day. But you know, you just
want the people. I don't like to recommend too many people because I don't work directly with
them. You know, that's one of the things these days, it's like getting your hands dirty with
people, having the hard conversations with exactly what they're doing, exactly what cut they use to
make that cross, how many selections they went through and for them to be open and honest with
you and not be shady because that weeds out the people. And that's why I say less than I can't
really come up with a lot of names because you don't want to say anything bad about anybody.
Only good things. So that's where I'm at. Right. Keep the circle small. Are either of you exploring
kind of auto flower or not really? You know, this the Siberian land race is a super,
what's called the super auto flower. Most auto flowers, you know, they flower when they first
pop up on the soil and they grow pretty small. These are supposed to grow just the same size as
normal canvas plants, but they're going to be auto flower. So I'm going to do a project with
those later on down the line. This should produce some really interesting auto flower traits.
I just like to talk shit about auto flowers. Yeah, they're wild. They're crazy. That's the
fun part. You don't want to put them in your lines. Well, you got to know what you're buying.
All right. My thing is I see a lot of auto flowers that run the same damn time as my regulars. Like
I've been for 30 days, maybe a little longer depending on the growth rates. And then I flip.
So you're looking at, you know, saving a week or two. Yeah. It's like,
yeah, it's just, I haven't had much experience with auto flowers to be honest.
Always go. And then the slow period. Now, like I know, I mean, so James Loud was going to be on
with us and he ran into some technical challenges with his phone, but I know he came out with some
auto and like a lot of people are, you know, adding autos to their lineup. I think,
I think you can do it. If you can do it. No, for sure. All more power to you. I think it's,
it's great to be able to cater to more customers. If, if that's, you know, if, if that's your
business is seeds and only seeds, I've got so much going on. Photos is, is what I'm about.
I'm dipping my toes into the fem pond as far as feminizing seeds. And even that's like,
I feel like that's going to take up even more of my time than I already have to give at this point.
So autos for me is, is just not in the picture. It's a lot of work to do it right. And I think,
you know, when people, you know, are, you know, want to release something that's perfect, you know
a it's a little clinical, perfect or close to perfect. You can get that easier through
traditional breeding, but like, I feel autos, you know, they introduce some question marks and
you got to maybe run a few, run a few lines, you know, not release a lot of stuff and spend a lot
of time making seeds that you don't feel are fit for the market. So rather than go backwards,
trying to recreate the wheel, do what you do best. I think is what, what this guy has been doing. So
but feminized, you know, people call for it. So you got to do that too.
Right. And, and, and on the business side, are, are you only selling kind of,
cause you're both small. So you only selling directly to people? Are you working through
a bunch of seed banks or kind of what's the. All direct. We've done some like small
releases to some very small people that do auctions and stuff like that.
But you know, it's usually, you know, if just us selling the seeds directly to you.
If you're buying a pack, it, it most likely from us or came directly from us. There's no middlemen
emails are responded to directly by us. We care about our, our, our customers, you know,
I mean, we put a lot of love and time into this and it, it means more to me to send somebody
a replacement, replacement pack, no questions asked. And to sit there and BS with them like,
oh, well, why didn't this happen? Or why didn't this happen? Or, you know, you should have done
this. Who am I to say, I just send them another pack, make sure they're happy and they're going
to pass that on versus man, this guy hassled me when I genuinely had a problem. Yeah. You always
just want to, you know, I think it's, you know, get first getting the customer that purchased
something and having, have a good experience, you know, whether that's, if they have a good
experience with the seeds or not, you want them to have a good experience with you personally,
you know, and you got to handle things properly and not ignore problems and not deflect and,
you know, own up to things. And, you know, sometimes you send the wrong thing. Sometimes
you send the wrong pack or sometimes, oh crap, you know, I forgot to send that out or, or whatever.
And you know, I think both of us always try to make up for those things and keep, keep customers
earned, get to earn customers these days. Cause there's a lot of, a lot of breeders out there.
Some of them have amazing genetics and great customer service. And some of them don't have
both. We don't go soliciting people. So anything purchased from us, people were interested in it
because they seen the work that we put in and or word of mouth. Right.
Sorry. I'm trying to keep up with the the YouTube chat. And then Gemma has
Oh my gosh. I have another daughter. What's up, man. I miss my kids.
Here. Hold on one second.
Here. Oh my God. We have kids everywhere.
Yeah. He was banging down the door. He had to come say hi. You say hi.
Hi.
Nice.
Say I'm Spiderman.
I'm Spiderman.
Say peace bro.
Peace bro.
Bye.
I just want to get him some.
He's going to steal the show.
Yeah, he is.
I said bye-bye.
He's like what is dad doing down there? He's having more fun than me.
Yeah. No, I'm just sorry.
I'm getting back into the
We can tell you're reading.
So I think some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people,
some people.
Mm hmm.
People are going to
like and dislike
a lot of things.
Everyone has a different experience,
you know?
It is what it is. I'm not sure if they had a bad experience with seeds or the...
Any experience I've ever had with them, it was been on a positive note.
So I can only speak for myself.
But I think they go above and beyond to handle most customer issues that, you know, are reasonable.
I think some people, they are very, you know, this day and age, very demanding and, you know, things happen.
So I can't speak to that too much, but sorry.
You know, they made Copper Chem and that's... I sourced it from them.
It was part of my journey. They've been great to me.
I learned a lot about breeding, learned a lot about business.
I can't control what other people do or other people's perception. I can only control what I do.
I promise you, you will enjoy Kimberley more than you enjoyed your experience with them, if that's the case.
We just try to operate out of that mentality.
Like, hey, we know what it feels like to be on the other end of a maybe not so good seed deal.
You know, some people feel like they got shafted and I'm sorry if that happened to you, you know, but I try when my company, I know this guy tries to do everything they can to make sure every customer is happy.
You know, maybe they're not happy with the seeds, giving them a refund, giving them more seeds, you know, giving them time and like giving them a little bit of...
Give them a little bit of your time and answering questions and trying to figure out how to make...
Some people are just unhappy and they don't like the seeds so they take it out on you and it's easy.
Easy target sometimes for you to say, you know, these seeds didn't germinate or whatever.
And I get it, you know, maybe send another pack and you give them a little coaching on, hey, maybe they try it this way or whatever.
And you try to keep a level head.
And that's all we can do as customer service people or business owners or whatever is try to take each customer one at a time personally.
And if that didn't happen at another company, I'm sorry, but...
Yeah, we can only...
Here we are.
We're only responsible for us.
Here we are.
How about just to yourselves personally in terms of, you know, keeping customer...
Like someone gets in touch with you and says, you know, whatever their gripe is, stuff didn't pop, it hermit, it did whatever.
Kind of what's the response?
Like what's the keeping customer happy strategy?
Give me some examples of someone calls you with a complaint and they kind of react.
I think taking everyone individually I think is important in saying, okay, so it hermit.
What, you know, maybe first of all say, hey, man, really sorry that happened.
That's super bummer.
I'm embarrassed or, you know, I feel bad.
What can we do to fix this?
You know, can I send you another pack?
Something different?
Can I get, you know, maybe before you dive in and say, hey, what did you do wrong?
But eventually get there and say, hey, what can we do to maybe change your process a little bit?
You know, if the street scenes didn't germinate, maybe give them another method.
You know, a paper towel method, give them the shot glass water method or something like that.
Or, hey, you have a light leak.
Is it possible your timer's broken, you know, and you're getting some bad light and that's why it hermed?
Or you're feeding super heavy salts or something like that.
But at the end of the day, you want to say, hey, do you want a refund?
You want your seeds?
And then you send them out.
You do exactly what you say you're going to do and try to, you know, try to mend the situation.
Some situations can't be amended.
But you do everything in your power to do that and you don't get upset.
You don't deflect.
I think boiled down, you give them the benefit of the doubt.
Say, hey, something fucked up somewhere.
What can we do to resolve this?
If we can resolve this.
And from there, it's kind of up to them whether they want the refund or a secondary pack of something else.
Or maybe they just wanted to call or message you and say, hey, this happened.
Sometimes people don't want anything.
You're right.
And those are some people that I just send things to anyways.
Or it's like, you know, thank God they had a huge order or something like that.
But there's people out there that order one pack and make you feel like you just, like, you know, tried to pollinate their whole crop or something like that.
Not every 
Hypothetically, in the situation of, you know, say something hermed, you know, there's no freaking way first off everything's going to herm.
So with that being said, we're sorry for that particular herm incident.
And it is a natural thing.
You know, we do what we can as breeders, you know.
But even the best guys have herms.
But, you know, it's all in how you handle it.
It's not getting angry, not getting upset, saying it's not my fault, which I know some breeders have done in the past.
I think it's all about so sorry.
What can we do to fix it?
And not like bowing down to the customer, but to a point, you know, try to make them as happy as I can.
Like I said, some customers, they just want to be angry.
But you do what you can.
That's  with that being said, that's exactly why I have the one replacement pack for any of the strains that you get.
You know, say you get 10 packs.
You got an issue with every freaking pack for whatever reason.
I'm not going to ask.
It's not my place to question anymore.
Like I used to, but then I started realizing, you know, these people may turn around to the next person who turns around to the next person who says,
hey, all this guy does is hassle you when you have a genuine problem versus you know what he did?
He just replaced the shit right off the bat, didn't ask questions, used the same address.
Hell, I didn't even know he sent the shit.
He just sent it because I told him I had a problem with it.
It's more important to me or us in general to keep the customer happy than to play 21 questions at the end of the day.
Agreed. Yep.
And I'm doing a little customer service on the chat right now, so hold on.
What, uh, what are you kind of, I mean, you said you're releasing some stuff soon.
So kind of what are you, what are you like when you guys talk to each other?
Like, let's say you were hypothetically sitting together and smoking a joint like right now.
Like what are you guys dorking out on right now together?
What was the last like passionate in-depth discussion you had and what was the topic?
Well, Brett is sort of the keeper of my, my bench garden when it gets too full.
I want all the good cuts.
So he gives me all the good cuts and then I eventually give him cuts back.
Yes, that's the deal is like, so we recently did a transaction where he gave me a good amount of delicious flavors.
And I put them in my notes of living soil and now they have a new home there.
He's free to use them in any, you know, I select from there and the stuff I already have and stuff like that.
But yeah, that's, that's the most recent.
Well, I mean, every, every line that he's made, I'm happy to say that I've been able to help out in some sort of way.
Like he was looking for something.
Yeah. Right.
I mean, they will say, Hey, I can get that one for you.
I know somebody who can get that for you.
It's, it's, it's fun.
Breeder, connected breeders, it's breeders and growers in Colorado and just trusted people, you know, because some, you know, right.
And that's, that's the, the circle of trust is where we get our, get our cuts.
And that's where, that's where the conversation usually lies is.
So can you get this cut or what's up with that cut?
I've got too many.
Or can I get this cut back and I'm like, please, you've given me way too many cuts.
I need to get them out of here.
So just quickly, and you guys touched on this a little bit earlier, but Chris Martinez asks, what are they breeding for?
For example, some breed for hash, some breed for production.
What lane are they focusing on in your breeding?
What would you say your, I mean, you said you're all gas, no brakes.
If I'm to speak for me, I would say just, I mean, overall, you know, good quality flower, you know, pretty tasty, smooth, interesting, you know, interesting cannabinoids.
But the flower itself, I would hope would be the focus.
You know, and then, and then, you know, obviously great hash, but number one, interesting, interesting flower and interesting terpenes and effects.
For me right now, since, I mean, I hate to say it, but the market's got a pretty good lock on structure for flower formation and everything like that.
I mean, everything's looking phenomenal as far as I'm concerned.
There's straight straight straight nugs.
So I'm, I'm personally focusing on terpenes and oil production as far as essential oils, because let's just, not a lot of people are doing the, the rosin or water hash.
There's still a vast majority doing the hydrocarbons and things like that.
So you, they're really after the essential oils and terpenes that get pulled with the gases.
So that's, that's my focus outside of stability and structure.
What are you both kind of mostly in terms of your own smoking preferences?
Are you mostly flower? Do you also like a good hash or a good flower?
Like second fourth. It depends. I hate to say it, but if like, if I grew it, like, I'll smoke it.
But like, if I don't know the grower and stuff for me to like really enjoy it, buy it from a dispensary, even if it looks amazing, he has amazing.
So it's amazing.
I've worked in enough groves.
I know what happens, you know, and I don't know what happened.
I can't smell flower.
It's fucking nap time.
so I prefer if I can get some so what are you are you smoking hash or you smoke like
right now I'm smoking hash because I don't have any stuff that I was really that I grew
and is it is it pressed or is it uh old school temple right now I'm smoking rosin from laser cat
we both have the same like I got I got some fat some fat so I don't know if you can see that
but yeah that's a rosin rosin lava is what they call this one but uh yeah when I do smoke
concentrates I do try to do the rosin if possible all right and I okay because I know like um
the what was it the 710 cup or whatever back in uh god that was like 20 2013 or or a lot
it was my introduction into kind of the whole uh concentrate scene in call in Denver
and that was actually part of it was at uh what was it grassroots California and part of it was
at Adam Dunn's uh uh whatever his clothing brand was called or is called um but but like
do you guys do kind of uh like live do you like live resin are you mostly yeah
that's all I love diamonds yeah okay definitely yeah for sure in fact that's my preferred um
the diamonds that in the th the turps I think applesauce consistency is my favorite you know
something with a bunch of crust up crystals I'm not a big giant boulder guy I don't really get it
but you gotta mix it up because you get burnout on the same the same um I don't know consistency
I guess um just like smoking the same flower all the time you kind of get burnt out on it
you get burnt out on diamonds that's why I switch up the rosin a little bit
um and then I'll switch it back so so who you had mentioned some but can you talk about some of the
either hash or uh hydrocarbon brands that you respect um yeah and what's the scene like
in Colorado I mean are I feel like it's a big dab market yeah it is it is it's just so much more
convenient and available these days and like there's a lot of a lot of quality product prices
going down and down um it's tough to say no to say no and it's all it's it's all there you know
in the candy store uh but yeah a lot of a lot of people dab a lot of people don't smoke flower at
all um some people are like you know a lot of people are dab only I am I'm shying from a lot
of groups for smoking my flower I got kids I don't have time to sit down to a joint a bowl
things like that a dab gets me where I need to be I can go on about my day if a bowl if a bowl is
the right flower it can get you where you want to be but not much not much can do that these days
well that's the downside of dabbing too if you constantly dab your tolerance is up and you got
to smoke more of the flower to get where you need to be so it's great breaks are necessary
breaks are necessary absolutely right but what what would be kind of your general evaluation
of the Colorado scene and the market and you know like whether it's like just everything like for
example is there way too much flower production is it good quality flower is it bad is it uh
are there craft cultivators is it all a couple mega grows kind of flower production and it's all
bids 99 of it okay I mean unless they're growing our stuff well it I mean some of it's grown with
great care and don't get me wrong you know and some of it's amazing but a lot of it out there
it's just older or a lot of it you know that's actually sitting on the shelves it's not like
you know so I work for a company here in Colorado called Leafa or dry dryer called Leafa
L-E-I-F-F-A you can find them on Instagram as well their hash company Rosin company they also
have a medical flower on their shelves as well but they're very focused on quality
obviously because the only way that they put concentrates out is through
water hash and pressing so I mean you got to be very stickler on what you're you're processing
otherwise I mean your clientele is going to be like what the hell is this I mean there's
no there's there's great stuff out there don't don't get me wrong I'm
no for sure but there's so many people out here that are just rushing it I mean it's like
when I think that you can clean up a lot of mistakes in concentrate and I think that's why
the concentrate game is so huge too and people love pens the distillate the pens is just like
I think that's probably one of the bigger markets you know that obviously dabs you know for the
connoisseurs is huge you know a lot of dab connoisseurs in Denver but I think just you
know everyone's smoking on a pen whether they're you know a tourist or a local I think everyone's
going and grabbing those little distillate pens or even the green dot pens and stuff like that
are like those are nice oh they're you know in my opinion they're the best pens on the market
they say yeah some of those pens like some of those pens are getting you know live rosin in them
you know they're fire so yeah no I mean that that's I mean yeah here in California you're
starting to see like pens with stuff that you've never seen in them before and then like I mean I
don't I have never bought anything in a dispensary but I know kind of like the dominant brand is raw
garden here in California for live resin and I think mostly it's like they have a consistently
good quality for value so it's like reasonably and you know and like with taxes everything you
know it's like add 50% to what you pay at the at the cash register so like hard to find is good
quality for value I mean it's like for quality what the hell price can is is that I don't I don't
have that in my my budget or man I'm not smoking that I'd rather save my money so I will say
depending on the area and the store you buy the products of yes yeah we're finding that we bought
the same product and he paid like 10-15 dollars more than I did okay the same as that product
just because it's a different area
you you need help finding barbie all right let's
we quickly have you been watching barbie yes like this barbie oh yeah oh yeah all right there you go
this is how I this is how I I free myself up to do these I just stick the netflix in front of her
yeah no so Chris Martinez are you in California yeah I mean I I mean raw garden I'm just saying
they are the they sell more live resin than anyone else but sorry people are chatting about
different brands yeah no because I know like for example the live resin scene like that was
what kind bill and yeah and pretty sure he pioneered that yeah and then the guy who's now
in Oklahoma and then like like you know the hash stuff I mean Nikita was based out of Colorado for
a long time on the the water hash and the dry sift but there's not dry sift it was uh no you're
right yeah you did a lot of stuff a lot of solventless a lot of solventless stuff
and so are you guys uh I mean I'm looking in the background you just have
I don't see a torch anywhere so so are you uh yeah oh there we go yeah yeah all right so so
you're not like are you pulling out the peak every once in a while like what's your go-to
so you're just all torch yes sir all right the peak for one I don't have that I don't have money
for a peak I mean I don't dab I don't dab that often I really don't I get I get I get down and
what's my dab too much to be freaking charging a damn rig all the time so it's just you charge
your phone you know charging things going right right shit we're dead can't think of that
right so what what uh are are you I mean you're both on Instagram like what um
what kind of breeder shit talking squabbling have you guys seen and I say all that man
I try to stay let's do our TMZ segment who's talking shit about who and I'm not one to call
anybody out because I I mean who doesn't not like being called out so um but it's like any
press like good press I guess but it's like Instagram is the new soapbox and and everybody's
got their nose in everybody else's business it seems like and how the hell are you putting in
so much work if you're worried about the next guy so fucking much I mean I've got so much going on
on my plate like I barely have time to help Brett but maybe once a week once every other week
if we can get together right I mean getting over here tonight was like hey hey hey it's
somebody's phone tag somebody please watch the kids for a little while it was fucking phone tag
you get it you get it but uh yeah yeah we I I try to stay out of all that to be honest I mean in
terms of other people's stuff like I said I I try to just follow people there about about
positivity you know to be to be quite frank you know and I understand like the times that we're
in there's going to be a lot of a lot of conflict and a lot of opinions and we just try to you know
just rise above and do we do who we've been doing and be the people that we are and try to stay out
of the drama to be honest because there's a the scene game has been a lot of drama and it can it
still can be and I um I think that's all my choice for a lot of people you know the drama is
exciting you know it's like all these peaks you know I'll be honest my platform is not nearly big
enough for me to get my nose in anybody else's drama um it could honestly affect me I mean
there's some people out there where it does not affect them on what they say who they piss off
you know the the the fall off and customers it's like they don't it doesn't they don't see a dent
anywhere it doesn't affect them personally keep it business keep it you know family sometimes and
and you know and that's about it I mean yes so but I feel yeah it's a fun game out there you know
there's a lot a lot of beeps a lot of opinions I think that's uh that's what makes it fun but we
I do a lot of hiding in my basement you know working with the plants just like
zenning putting my hands in the soil I'm holding holding giant crystals and like I'll be honest
again I do love a good call-out post as far as you know so who doesn't love a good roast
every once in a while as long as it's legit but that vague shit like don't put up a post beating
around the bush because I'll call your ass out on that I brought popcorn I came to see a show just
like everybody else yeah no I so kind of like one of the things that popped on my radar today was
karma genetics posted something you know big warning this is a fake website full scale
basically someone pretending to be karma genetics and selling seeds and
I just seen one today about somebody selling booth packs of
archive oh that's who you posted that I saw you posted something yeah I cross posted I
it's I mean they called them out on it so it's it's definitely legit so selling yeah selling
other people's warning other people is different than uh fucking starting drama yeah so here
here's the post I was talking about if you guys can see that yeah so anyway that that's kind of
it's kind of like just what's what's been not what shit have you guys been talking but more kind of
what what have you seen that made you laugh or like James James Bean seeds seeds here now yeah
he's the one who uh filled me in not personally but uh through social media about the the fake
packs being sold by artisan seeds of archives uh Casper OG and something else they literally
looked like a permanent marker written on the fucking packs um and uh Fletcher uh
verified that they were not his stock so that's that's the most recent like legitimate um
call out I've seen right so just quickly because I have uh
I have my dinner imminently arriving
um what is there anything else you guys want to talk about before we uh wrap it up yes if you
guys are cocoa growers look up uh Gorilla Boost Cocoa Coir um phenomenal product um I know the
farm that it comes from in India uh 300 miles inland so the salinity level right off the bat is
extremely lower than what anybody else is working with to my knowledge at least um so you definitely
want to check them out Gorilla Boost Cocoa Coir um they can be found on Instagram um
yeah so so Justin Gar and I'm back on the top the the TMZ side of the conversation Justin Gardner
said not down with the drama but we need people to support good people and call out the bad ones
the industry is full of snakes and it's way past time to cut the grass uh absolutely yeah I hear
that and I and I think you know for me it's like there are so many people who are kind of
so deep in this where like like someone like someone will throw a meme out there and I'm like
that just went over my head I have no idea what they're talking about and it's kind of like but
other people totally get it and it's like yeah I mean what I try so for me you know the reason I'm
having you guys on is because I like I want to help support and shine a light on small people
like putting their head down working hard trying to do quality work and um you know it's out and
then someone always has an issue with someone like some yeah for some reason everyone hates someone
and we're gonna be doing a big we're gonna be doing a big sale on our CBD website heartandsoilproject.com
here soon uh me and my my web developer were just talking about it's like people are always
pissed off about so we're like talking about how should we how should we go about this sale um you
know this is our summer sale we've always we always have this sale and uh you know and we're
just trying to be respectful of everybody and but at the same time it's like you got to be true to
yourself you got to just like go forward you know um you can't you can't please everybody you know
you obviously try to you know do what you think is right at all times and uh like I said move forward
but like like to your point you always piss somebody off you know and you know you can't
piss somebody off you always and if you don't have you know I don't want people to hate me but
if you don't have any haters you're not doing anything right you know you have somebody that's
a you know man okay just quickly uh I want you guys to talk to each other for two minutes while
I quickly run and grab the food at the door okay
oh we got to talk can you trick the land race to go somewhere you know you she was saying you can
so yeah Elizabeth says uh you can trick the land race to go grow somewhat like an auto flower
just skip the veg run seeds on 24 7 flower lighting for 25 days then run on 12 12 for
another 25 days most of them turn interesting you ever heard of that no I haven't yeah let
me find it fun to check out all right was it red light riveting we just we were just reading
Elizabeth's uh uh insight on uh tricking the land race to grow somewhat like an auto flower by
messing with the veg the flower cycle and what and what are your thoughts on that yeah I I tried
to post some of the comments to you guys yeah it's hard to see from back here so you know I wasn't
even aware when you said pull up the chat I pulled it up I was like oh all right so yeah um
you know I've never tried it and I know there's a lot of people that you know reduce the amount
of light in the flower cycle to save on money uh have you ever heard of that going like is it a 12
12 you know do it a couple more hours of darkness you know um doing like a five one five like no you
continue having the 12 hours of off but only have instead of having 12 hours on have 11 or 10
oh so for me I personally run uh 14 10 right it's it's cheaper for me it's hot here it's hot as hell
yes there's a lot of ways to manipulate the cycle to make the plane either flip into flow faster
you know I'm speaking for my regular photo period canvas not land race or heirloom um for flower
I'll run 10 hours on 14 hours off um if it's super cool uh as far as like season wise I'll do
12 12 just to give them you know more light more lumens however you want to look at it it's just
easier for me to run the lights longer when it's cooler so that's why yeah so so talk talk to me
about kind of like for the home growers um I get a pack of seeds and you know obviously as quickly
as possible I want to know who's a male who's a female so what are kind of some tips and tricks
for figuring that out sooner rather than later finding males and females yeah my trick um I get
them into solo cups as quick as I can as far as seedlings if you want to germinate them in solo
um that's up to you but uh once once I have a plant in a solo cup I keep it in the solo cup
yeah so so this is uh I popped a bunch of seeds from Pacific Northwest roots
so um once I have a plant in a solo cup I leave it in there as long as I can if a plant gets
slightly root bound it tricks itself into thinking hey possibly not going anywhere
you know my my root zone hasn't expanded I need to start showing sex so it's going to force them
to show sex a little quicker without even having to do anything with the lights roots by root
boundary yes yes not extremely not like to where they're it's physically affecting them you see
clawing up you know nutrient issues um but uh just long enough to where it forces them to start
showing sex under the 18-6 or just under 12 no 18-6 okay so you keep them on normal light cycle
but by them feeling like they're bound up they're almost like I gotta do my thing now yeah I gotta
start I gotta start um maturing so to speak because if they have enough room to do their
their expansion underneath they're gonna they're gonna focus on that to try and occupy their root
zone obviously there's a lot of food space down there so um there it's it's just gonna slow down
that maturing process at least in my opinion excuse me in my opinion and experience I'm not
saying everybody has the same results as me but for me I get my plans to show sex quicker in a
solo cup under 18-6 just by holding them in that solo cup longer I also use a solo cup or a small
pot but what I do is I take a clone um you know you can always just well I mean 18-6 works sometimes
but not always um you know for me it's all I always want to be sure you know when I'm when
I'm messing with either a breeding round or a flowering round um you know for for you know for
bud I want to make sure that I know where my males are you know so if I brand new seeds I always grow
the plants up take a clone or two off each one root it out take one clone put it in a solo cup
for something small flower it out for 10 days do it all with all of them at the same time number
um and that's how you find your males and your females um and that's a you can do a small little
fetal hunt that way and find your you know top pick you know which one flowers first or things
like that okay so so off off the main plants you're taking clippings from each one marking them
and then forcing those to flower essentially and then you find out exactly what that plant is there's
no no guessing and that way you don't you know you have a male and you don't stress out the the
mom yeah exactly I don't like to put a plant in and take it back out personally um if I'm gonna
pop a seed you know the reason I'm popping it is because I want fresh genetics I want that hybrid
vigor I want healthy plants so um and that mom is like the original you know before the first
generation clone so as you as you clone off a plant eventually it's gonna have a little bit
genetic drift so why not use that one plant if you're gonna either breed with it or even grow
with it um you want to make sure to first of all preserve that strain so a lot of people put that
strain in the flower room some of them male some are female some of them are great some of them
suck they smoke it that's the best weed you've ever had did you take a clone no it's gone forever
so if you're gonna spend all the money on seed in my opinion you might as well take it clone it
find out it's male or female pick your your favorite one or however many you can you know
fit your space that you like and that way you have a uh you know exactly what you got you know
and you and you have it for future growth so you could continue to cut off the that mom and have
that mom forever you know if you so choose but um that's my that's my opinion on on sexing it's like
you can go under 18 six but there's no way to tell for sure until you go 12 12 um well that's
not necessarily true but that's how i do it just but that's just how to be to be certain you know
i always like to do a good job of cataloging good job of labeling and then picking my phenos is like
it's my bread and butter and his bread and butter because if you usually pick you know between 10
50 100 seeds you want to make sure that you're labeling things properly and picking the best male
the best female just not just hoping that you get the best one when you put them in so that's how
i like to do it to make sure that you save those seed genetics and you don't just grow them out one
time and talk about them for the rest of your life never never slow them again right so someone
mentioned uh pistol positive colorado breeder
first time soon i grew some pistol positive strains by a colorado breeder levi
my favorite was gorilla grodd that had gg4 and one he named pie face that had the key lime pie gsc
pheno um someone else said pistol positive has some interesting gear
y'all have to check them out pistol positive
and then uh all right well i think on that note my my food has arrived i think it's about time for
i gotta call it a night and we have about 180 people still tuned in so i appreciated everyone
um and then and then so just everyone knows so we had like james loud um short um
uh eric from hbk uh we had some technical basically no phone reception issues but uh
because i wanted to do a day of breeding and just have like different people like
like wrestlemania style tagging in tagging out man jumping in on conversations uh
yeah like two of us here but yeah well you need to borrow the costumes from your son so you guys can
be uh right so but but i appreciate the time and uh so basically if people want to buy your stuff
uh can they just go through your instagram your respective instagram the websites on the
instagram yeah so project.com we don't all we don't offer our heirloom uh varieties on the
website because the website is a strictly cbd hemp website um so if you're interested in hemp or
cbd products uh hard and soil cbd.com hard and soil project.com we use uh hemp regular hemp seeds
and feminized hemp seeds as well so you can contact me through the instagram for all that
uh if you have any questions i'm happy to answer everything so thanks for the thanks for the time
and the support you know if you ever want to have us on again yeah you can contact me at
covert genetics on instagram and then my email there's a link for my email on my instagram or
covert genetics at gmail.com and your last name is covert
maybe maybe yes it is that's the that's the key that's the that's the bigger is it or is it not
i don't even know if i know the real answer that question ah you've never seen his license yeah
that's that's not the fun of it though it's not the fun so all right will you go eat your dinner
all right thank you everyone take it easy i'm gonna kill the uh
