Woohoo! We're gonna have a good show today. Today I'd like to welcome Simon from Serious
Seeds. He's the creator from AK-47 and a bunch of others. Several that I really like. Serious
Kush is one that I grew out last summer. I've bred with AK-47 which is a backbone, a wonderful
strain. I love it. And welcome Simon. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself and
Serious Seeds and we'll kick it around a little bit.
Okay. Hi Ron. Nice to be on the show. Thanks for inviting me. Yeah. Well, let's see. I
started Serious Seeds in 1994. At that time I was working at Sensi Seeds. Well, just before
I just stopped. I worked there half a year or so and then I stopped and then I started
my own company which was Serious Seeds. Yeah. The first year we already won like I think
three Cannabis Cups. AK-47 is one of them and Cali Mist and Chronic were the others
I think at that time. Yeah.
I love the name Serious because I'm a serious breeder too. When I heard Serious Seeds I
go, I wonder what that's about. But there's so much BS in the seed business and I know
you only have like 18 strains or 12 strains and I understand that. I really, really understand
that because to take and just cross one of your strains to another one of your strains
and then make another one of your strains is really not what you're going for. Tell
us why you chose Serious and how you do your selections because I love your philosophy
behind breeding. I wish everyone would adopt it. Yeah. You understand it because you're
a breeder Ron. That's how easy it is. The people who are not familiar with the process
of breeding, for them they think it's normal if a new company starts with 50 new varieties
to think, ah, this is a good company. I got 50 different names, must be a good company.
I exist now for 30 years almost and I have 18 varieties. Gives you the idea that it's
very easy to invent names and stick a name to a seed because from the one seed to the
next you don't see a difference. You can't see the difference in seeds. You don't know
what's in there until you grow it out. I think most of the young people who buy seeds now
they look at the vast tsunami of seed companies out there and everybody has, I don't know
how many names and it is about who shouts the loudest, who draws the most attention
and that's where they buy seeds from probably. I mean, they have no idea of history or what
happened in the past. You can't really blame the young people for that. But yeah, you know
that it takes time and testing and failure and starting all over again to make a new
variety. I usually work with setting some goal, not just like, ah, I crossed A and B
and let's see what it is and I start selling the seeds before I even tested them myself.
That's sort of normal in cannabis land. I hear now in America, it's completely crazy.
People breed two sort of known strains with each other and they start selling the packs
for outrageous prices and they haven't even seen the results of what grow out of the seeds
themselves. They started selling them for a thousand euro for 10 seeds and crazy things.
You can't follow it anymore and that people are crazy enough to buy them. That says something
about their level of knowledge.
Right, right. Well, I've bred, I've had your AK47. I grew it the year before last, not
last year, but I've actually been breeding or growing with your AK47 for about 10 years
and I've actually got the seed and I've been working the line myself. So I've got eight
generations on it to this point and I was going through your website and I saw your
one with all the calyxes on it. I don't remember what they called it. Maybe it was a serious
kush. I'm not sure what it was, but I called it Cactus Jack. It popped out when I was running
that from AK47 and bam, I got this Cactus Jack and we said, well, what's that? I grew
300 out and I got one of this. So I started working with that one and messing with it
and I've been running it out for a period of time. I sent London some pictures of it
and also you've got one that I really like is the one with the pink calyxes. The one
with the pink calyxes. I grew one that's similar to that and it was enough about me talking
though. I want to hear about you and to talk about some of the back history on the Sirius
Six. Tell us a little bit of the story about that one.
The Sirius Six is a plant. So like I said, I always have a certain goal in mind and for
Sirius Six, I wanted to come up with a plant which is ready before the real bad weather
kicks in. Which is from, you know, plants here have the time till let's say the end
of September, half or the end of September around there. And then autumn really starts,
heavy winds, rains, whatever. And plants which are then out, they don't really, you know,
they don't really, they don't do much after the 1st of October because the sun is also
too low. It's not strong enough anymore. And when seeds are not, plants are not ready
by then, basically you got to stop, you know, there's no, then they're too late. Those plants
are not fit to grow in the Dutch climate. So the Sirius Six is ready between half of
September, end of September. There is some variation in the plants or some are, let's
say the bulk is ready around the 20th of September. Some are a little bit earlier, some are a
bit later. And the thing is that variation is sort of irritating me. So I'm still working
on the Sirius Six. And one spin-off project of that is the Sirius Seven, which we gave
seeds with two people who bought Sirius Six. We gave a few promo seeds of Sirius Seven
also to get feedback, you know, to how's it doing and your circumstances, where do you
live? You know, can be England, can be Czechia, can be South of France, whatever, but that
is more to get some information from the people. And the Sirius Seven is more uniform than
the Sirius Six.
What's your, what's your latitude there?
What was it again? I'm very bad at numbers. Yeah, I'm 53. Can it be? I'm not sure.
You're, you're, you're, you're pretty, so you got a real cold climate. I, I think one of the best
things that happened to my breeding is when I moved from Oregon to Canada. I have gotten
tested, I have gotten so much mold and mildew problems and PM and stuff worked out of my
gear up here that it's, it's unbelievable. And the reason why I settled on that pink
is because it's, it's unmoldable. It's really, really good. I wish it had a little bit better
stem structure. The one I have, I don't know if you're what you, the stem structure is
on yours. I wish you had a little better stem structure.
What are you talking about? Which, which?
The Sirius Six is similar to one that I have that will not, will not mold. Right. It's
got the same pink pistils. London, can you show them a picture of the one I have? I only
could find one in like week three of flower or something. This is mine when it just started.
It's a very dank smelling, very crystally. But I can't get the stems really strong, but,
but as far as rot goes, everybody I sell it to send it to that grows it right on the coast
where it gets these in the fall, it gets heavy, heavy dew to where water's just running down
the plant. It won't rot. And so, and it's got a really dank flavor.
So that is, of course, that is one of the requirements for a plant to grow outside at
that time. So it has to be very high resistance against fungus and mildew. And this is, yes,
that. So yeah, it's a very popular strain also because yeah, people can grow it.
It's pretty sexy to look at.
Yeah. Yeah. The pink is beautiful. About 50% of Sirius Six is pink. So you have the pink
or the white Pheno, but that is not strict. I mean, that's, that's color wise. There is
a difference, but you know, there's no people, you know, sometimes we get emails like, yeah,
the white Pheno is more crystally or whatever, but that is not true. It just, you know, there's
variation goes on and, and, and color is one of the, one of the things which varies. So
you have very good, like you found a really good pink Pheno, which works very well. And
and other times I found a really exceptionally nice white Pheno in the parents of the Sirius
Six lines when I was trying to improve it. And, and that is now the Sirius Seven, because I was
trying to find a really beautiful pink parent basically, but I stumbled upon this white Pheno,
but really early, really crystally, you know, one, one, one of the plants which stand stands out,
you know what I mean? So that became the mother of the, of what is now Sirius Seven. And,
and I'm still looking for a similar pink. Yeah. Outstanding plant to my, my, my idea is basically
to make the Sirius Six in a pink version and a white Pheno version. And the white Pheno,
it seems we've, we're there, which is called Sirius Seven now. And I'm still working on the
pink Pheno for, I don't know how many years now, but yeah. I have the same problem that, that some,
some won't have the pink and other ones will have the pink and the ones that do have the pink,
there's about half of those that at ripeness, when it's ripened in the fall, the plant gets
really purple. The whole plant itself gets like maroon. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, similar. Yeah. So
nice. Tell us a little bit. Let's see. I want to hear a little bit about Sirius Cush.
That's one of my favorite, favorite ones just to, to, to grow. It's easy to grow. It's I,
I just like it. I like the, those, the terpenes. Tell us about the background of this one.
Yeah. So this is Cush is, is a big yielder. It's a very uniform plant. There's people who grow
them from seeds because they are almost like clones, very uniform. It's very strong. So the
thing is my personally, I like more, let's say the sativa type of plants, sativa type of effect. So
most of the plants in, on our menu are a bit into that direction. I mean, also like AK47, you know,
so it's also mostly sativa, but it has also initially this sativa high, but later on you
feel also more heavy and the Sirius Cush strain is yeah. To come to have an answer to the people
who are really looking for, you know, a strong sedative effect basically. Yeah. It'll put you to
bed. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people use it for pain. I've given it to people that, and for, they say,
oh, I can't go to sleep. This one is something that's wonderful for pain and to go to sleep.
Yeah, exactly. And for people, I know, I know we have friends who have, you know, back problems
and stuff. And for those kinds of people, I made the Sirius Cush. So yeah, it's, it's, it's, yeah.
So it's, it's basically Cush mixed with white Russian, you could say, and this came out and
it's really, yeah, it's, it's actually a nice thing. And I like, I like it to show uniform.
Well, your AK47 is very, very uniform. I've been working with it and I sent a London, I grew it out
in a, in a, an entire room and I'm able to grow AK, the AK47 from seed now that I've been, I've
been working the same seed. So I make feminized seed out of it and I'm able to grow it and get an
entire room that's just stunning and, and consistent and same chemotype, same flavors
and everything. Yeah. That is something I, I see it as a requirement almost, you know, that you have,
I mean, you make a description of a strain. That means that the plant should answer to that
description. That means, you know, not, you should not, not look at 10 different plants completely.
So I work on uniformity. That's, I think, yeah, that's, it's a minimum standard
that people should adopt. But a lot of the young bucks we bought a rate where I work at an LP,
we bought $8,000 worth of seed from everybody, you know, and then we grew it all out. And a few people
stood out and a few people stood out in the wrong way. And I won't say who it is, but, but they're
big, they're really big and they produce a lot of seed and a lot of varieties every year. And it's,
it's, it's stunning to see what people will put out. Yeah. That is, again, it is more about,
you know, the talk you have and marketing is more important than quality people for marketing
and for quality. That's true. I'm not so good at that. London, show him, show him the picture of
the room that I'm in, like leaning down over an entire pod of AK 47. So, so he can see that. Look
at that right there. That's from seed. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that says it all. This is, I love to see
this and yeah, we get a lot of those pictures and yeah, we love it. Then I feel, you know, like
finally I did my job. Yeah. It's a gold standard as far as I'm talking. I'd like to see you get
that on Daga.loves, the seeds there that the future cannabis project has. I would like to
see them be able to offer the AK 47 for you or something, figure out a way to get that because
it's, it's a wonderful strain and because of its medical abilities to take away pain from old
people, which we are. You don't need to remind me Ron, I know. We need to get that out. I would
be glad if Peter, if you're listening, you know, get this on Daga because the people need to get
this and I'm sure it needs to be in everybody's portfolio. It has, it's a must. You know,
but the thing is Ron, by mentioning the name AK 47, people have to realize that, you know,
there's so many pirates and cowboys out there which use illegally my names and other popular
names as well. And with staggering how many people don't have any ethics or whatever,
AK 47 is being sold by so many companies. I mean, I'm fighting it on a daily basis.
But it's not the real thing. You have the real deal. See, I got it like 10 years ago and I've
had a friend who got AK 47 in Germany that was supposed to be from you, but he grew it out and
I said, sorry, that's the wrong stuff. You know, get it from, he got it from a little growth shop.
So, you know, if Daga could get the real deal to the right people, people could have one of
those in their portfolio to keep and for posterity. Yeah, we can talk about it later, how we
are going to do that. But yeah, this is a big problem. People have to realize it because we
sometimes get emails from people, you know, big words and complaining and whatever and AK 47
really bad result and what this and that and the next thing. And I said, okay, well, where did you
buy it? And can you show me the package and stuff? That's not even our AK 47. But this gives our AK
47 a bad name. People read on the internet and that's not from us in the first place.
Your seeds always come with a batch number on them, right? I saw that seeds that came from you
that I know that was, that had like a batch number on them. It's an individual number. Every
seed package has an individual number. So we keep track how we, how we, you know, to which shop we
sell it or to which distributor we sell it. Actually, this is to help the customer.
Basically, if the customer has a problem and they come back to us with the number in really big
letters is on the package, save the number in case of a problem. And if there is a problem and
they have the number and we know when it is sold, whatever and it sticks, then we send them new seeds
because if they buy serious seeds, I want them to have a serious experience.
Something goes wrong, even when it's their own mistake, you know, whatever. Okay. That doesn't
matter because I want to have serious experience. So did you hear that everybody, this guy,
he breeds the right way. He sells his seeds the right way. So if you get a seed from serious and
it's the real deal, you're getting the real stuff. It's not gonna, it's not gonna do bad stuff. It's
gonna have the resistances built in. All the genetics are going to be smoothed out. This
is a true state of the art breeder that we're talking to today. What do you have that's coming
up? Like that you're working on that? Let's say I know the seven, I guess you said is coming up,
but what do you have? Yeah. The seven is an outdoor strain, but that is like the white
phenol of the series six, let's say. So all the people who want to grow outside,
they have to look into the series six. You can't fail with that one, basically.
So the newest one, which just came out is the Seriotica. The thing is,
this because everybody is using my names and then smearing the name by selling bad seeds. So
I have my name registered and everything worldwide, but you have to take people to court
and it's a long process. It's costly. So now I invented something else, which is I use the name
serious in the name of the seed. And it started with serious six, serious six was the sixth
variety I came out with. And that's why it was named serious six. Nobody has sold fake seeds
under the name of serious six. So after that, I came out with Seriosa and now Seriotica.
Seriotica is a new thing and it's fantastic. Yeah. I'd like to grow that one. It's pretty
sexy looking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And we've had no bad comments so far and everybody's very,
and the one is one, we have a website here in the Netherlands and they grew this one
to see how it did. And they immediately had a record in yield and that the record in
the, I said it, how fast it was done and the overall yield. So they were really happy with it.
So somebody grew it in Spain outside, no fungus till the end and buds like you wouldn't believe,
like, you know, like really big cola bottles. And the stem on that, you can't see the stem
in the picture, but it's got a nice stem too that can hold it up. You don't need to stack them.
Yeah. They are, they stand up by themselves. It's really a nice thing. It takes all the boxes,
basically. Man, I got it. I got to grow that one. What's that? What's the terp flavors?
Is it like got myrcene in it or is it on the sweeter side? The thing is, so the, if you grow
the plants out, they're very uniform. They're the same height and the moment they start flowering
and the flowers develop, then you, then you start to see differences. Hey, the flowers,
they look different on, you know, when I have very long pistols, when it's short pistols,
you know, things like that, which is not really of importance, let's say. And the flower,
and it's also with the terpenes, the terpenes can go in different directions, which means
in the end that you have, you know, let's say 10 plants and the plants, they all grow the same,
but you can see the flowers. Some buds are a bit more, whatever, more elongated and other
ones are more round, little things like that. All plants have our fantastic terps, fantastic
quality, but there's some are more like, taste like cookies and other taste more like a lemony
and other taste more like tangy, some is more, more diesel, whatever. So it is really,
I think it's, you know, we have, we have in our, in our, let's say the serious,
yeah, breeders room or whatever. We see that people are sort of debating which of which
particular plant they like best. They're all great. And some tend more to this taste,
some tend more. So it's difficult to find your preferred plant basically, which is really nice.
So they all differ a little bit. It's not one. I like that. I like that to hunt through. I,
as a guy who hunts through lots of problems, I work 300, 300 lines a year. So I'm got 300 different
flips that I'm doing a year. And then I grow out populations of 160 to 300 of them to see what,
what they're going to be. So you get a good look at what you did there. And then, you know,
if it's a waste, you just trash it. Right. And if it's a good direction, then you keep working that
line. So that's why I work 300 lines. So I can actually produce 10, maybe a year or five, maybe
a year. That's it. So I'm working 300 lines to wind up with five that I'm going to continue to
work with. The rest of them fall off the end into the trash pile. And then I work the five that are
stunning. I just, I just came across one by exotic seeds. I'll send you, I still got to mail out
those, uh, those hay seeds that I was telling you I was going to mail out. Cause I, I got to dig them
out of the freezer and everything and get them, but I'll send you a couple of those.
Yeah, I know what you mean. It's great. I like how you work, Ron. We talked about it when we
saw each other in Canada the other day. Yeah. I really liked the way you work and how you,
what you're doing and it's great. So yeah. We do that, do the real breeding. I'm hoping to,
I'm going to be retiring here. I'm like right at 65 and getting ready to retire, but I'm hoping
I can get like Belushi or somebody in the United States to take up my gold hat seeds or somebody
to, uh, somebody to take it up worldwide or, or whatever, you know, I'd like to see them go
other places because I haven't really pushed my genetics. I've got stuff that goes back 40 years.
I've got tie from a tie stick that was like 40 years old. Right. So, and I kept the lines going.
I actually kept continuing the line. Right. So I have 22 in my whole lifetime. I have 22
strains that I call foundational and those 22 strains. That's all I got. I've got 81 that I
work with and 21 that are foundational and that's a lifetime. So people that are getting that many,
a, a, a, a drop like ethos just came out with a new drop and they've got like 99 different
strains, you know, Kim Rose and this and that, and you grow them out and you go, okay, well I see,
you know, I see why Simon is such a stunning breeder is because he's doing it the right way.
And I really enjoyed talking with you at the show and, and, uh, was glad to be able to, uh,
to catch up with you. Um, let me see. I had another question, but I forgot what it is. I
just love the fact that you only have 18 strains. That's, that's like, that's what true breeders is.
I think people, if they could get them direct from the grower themselves and archive them,
you're better off. Like I've got cherry pie that goes back from the day. I've got a blue gelato 41
from back in the day, you know, so some of these old strains that I have themselves and put away,
so they're locked up, locked down. So anytime I want it, I can pull it out of the, pull it out
and reset it. So, uh, you know, people ought to get their strains right from you and then put them
away and hold them for a lifetime because we're not going to be around forever. No, that is,
so true. But yeah, but you also say, but, uh, you know, the, in your whole life you came out with,
what did you say? 22 varieties. That's it. That's it. Well, that is that, that, that's,
it says it all. That means serious about what you're doing. And that's also why I chose the
name serious back in the day to show that. Yeah. Yeah. You try to do something in a serious way,
basically. Yeah. That's all it is. And yeah, you know, I, I'm glad I get the recognition from
people like you who also know what they're doing and yeah, they can, they can, they can see it when
they grow the seeds. They, yeah, they can see that it's, that it is true what you're trying to.
Yeah. I like the fact you say you, you make a plan, you make a plan when you're going to breed,
you have a plan, a goal and how the steps you're going to get there. And a lot of the people,
they just say, okay, my plan is I'm putting number F with number Z and I'm going to come up with,
you know, something fantastic, you know, and, and it's, let's call it train wreck,
you know, cause that's what it's going to be. Yeah. Yeah. What's the future look like for Simon?
Are you going to retire? And are you going to keep, I, we're going to keep growing until we're,
we're dead. Right. But are you going to keep breeding? Probably somehow, some way or the other,
at some point, maybe other people will do the, you know, the handwork or something. I'm still,
I'm a couple of years behind you. So I still have a couple of years to go before my retirement
knocks at the door. So yeah, I will, I want to continue for as long as I can basically.
And yeah, I just, you know, it is like, it is something which you choose when you're at a
young age because you're passionate about it because you like it. So it is, it sticks with
you. It's partly hobby, partly work. And you had a lot of recognition from people that also
stimulates and yeah. You know what they say? It's just a nice, you've got to do something in life
anyway. So, well, do you ever run other people's gear? Do you run, I like, I do what's called
strip mining. I buy, I get gear from everywhere and I run it out if I like it. And if I like it,
I'll self it, I'll run out 150 of them. I'll see what's in there. And then maybe I'll work with it.
Maybe I'll throw it away. I don't know. Do you ever run other people's gear and what people
do you find as an encouragement? Do you like talk to people? We talked to millions of people
at shows and stuff. Who is your, who would be somebody that you would look up to or be aware
of their work and like the way they go? Well, for instance, Shanti Baba from, you know, the
Mr. Nice Seeds. He works in a nice way. And Ace Seeds in Spain, they do really good work.
And I can't think of anybody else. What's your favorite strain that's outside of something that
you made? Like I really enjoy Blue Gelato 41. I don't know who made that or whatever, but it's
just, it's wonderful when I have it. What do you like? Let me think. But you can't pick any
serious seeds, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Because I like serious kush, you know, what would you say
is your favorite from someone else? You know, it could be famous. You know, we love the hazes,
you know, or at least I do. Perps. I liked Perps from the Canadian strain back in the day. I'm now
working for a couple of years already in, how do you say that? Yeah. I'm working with the Perps
thing too. And I've now, I've now came to, yeah, I've uniformized it. Let's say I've now got a
plant which is very uniform, which is always Perps or whatever, because there was too much variation
in there. So that is a strain I like and I'm working on it and I hope to come out with something
purple at some point, but yeah, I'm already working on it for years, but that was the one,
that's the thing I like. Yeah. Super silver haze. I liked. Yeah. I still have that in seed.
I have super silver locked up. Yeah. That's amazing. That takes a little long. I bet it was
trying, I've worked with it on and off for years to try to get it to be faster, but I don't think
it's not going to work. It's still 10 weeks. Well, the thing is, that is also something I
still like to do because the series six is based on sativa plants from African origin, because
you know, South Africa, in the South of Africa, you have, because the whole of Africa has that
same side of sativa type of plants, but in the South, they have evolved to flower quickly because
there, you know, it's the winter kicks in at some point, it's not tropical anymore there.
So that is why series six, it has such a high resistance because it's mainly based on,
let's say sativa type of genetics. With those, you could maybe shorten flowering times of,
yeah, the tropical sativas, like series six is not only sativa, but I'm, yeah.
I have a sativa that I can plant outside here in Edmonton, Alberta in seed, and it can grow and
finish right here outside without even touching it. You can sow it in the fall if you want, or
you can sow it in the spring. I sowed it June 1st and harvested it just a couple of weeks ago,
and it's absolutely stunning. And you don't top it, you don't do anything. You let it grow
10 feet tall, and the top third is just loaded. We got the big, big honking colas. It won't blow
over. It's got a stump on it that's like two inches. You know, the finishing quick is something
that I think is going to be in our future, whether we like it or not. We're going to have to do that
because if people are going to grow outdoors, you just can't grow do-si-do outdoors or wedding cake
or whatever. You're not going to pull that off. You're going to have to get some seed from Simon
or Ron. Because what you just described is very comparable to the Serie 6, I think.
It's also a very early finishing sativa, and that's why the malt resistance is so high.
Everything which has Afghani bread in it, which is practically everything nowadays,
is very susceptible to mildew and fungus because in those areas where the air is so dry,
there is no fungus pores in the air. So naturally, the plants have not evolved to have this
resistance against fungus. And since Afghan plants are bred into everything,
that's why there's so many problems with fungus and mildew and stuff.
I have a weird way of getting rid of it. It's probably a Frankenstein hack, but I have a river
next to where I grow, and I use river water. And I spray river water on my buds to week five or six.
I just spray it all over them, get them all wet, let them grow up against the plastic on the top
of the greenhouses and see if they rot. If they rot, they're gone. And so I'm able to hunt out
genetics that are amazingly mold and fungus resistant by torturing the hell out of my plants.
And I think it actually turns on genetics in there that might have been sleeping because it
didn't need it. But because I'm finishing my seed where the plant is already frozen for four weeks
at different times to minus three, minus one, minus five, and still finished out, I think I'm
turning on genetics that's making my stuff so cold tolerant and so mold tolerant by watering with this
river water and letting it, if you've ever had a plant grow up against the plastic, it'll rot
anything, right? But I've got plants I can grow up against the plastic and they grow sideways along
the plastic and that bud is tucked right up against there and it doesn't mold. And I spray it too,
so it gets all that condensation that comes down on the plant. And it's just, the name of my show
is The Sift. And that's, I think, where the art of Canada's breeding is, is knowing what to choose.
And I have think I've got a knack to choosing the right plants. I'll grow out 300 and I'll pick one,
put it in a tent, separate it, and then I'll breed with that one. And I can tell you do the same
thing in The Sift because that is where we take it, where we want to go. We're genetic engineers,
but we're doing it the old fashioned way. Yeah. And that is exactly what you now describe,
this being, you say you have the knack and I have the knack too, because it's about that. It's about
choosing the right plant, you know, yeah, whatever you do to find the right plant,
you're torturing your plants with making the circumstances so favourable for fungus.
So, and if the plants can withstand that, then they must have a high resistance, which is great.
Exactly. That's how it works. You know, that is one way of finding this,
you know, this high-resistancy plants. And yeah, exactly. That's a very good,
you know, example of how to go about finding high-resistancy plants.
Yeah. And sometimes when I want to get, let's say I got a plant that doesn't have any CBG in it,
and I can cross it to this, some plants that I have that I know have CBGs, and it's also got
passes on that genetics for the CBG. So, let's say if I had whatever it was, and I wanted CBG in it,
I'll cross it with that one, then I'll go back and I'll work that line, only one cross out and
then back into the line. And then I will sort that just like you would make an auto, right?
You get like 25% of them are auto, the rest are regular, you get rid of the regular ones.
And then I'll sort that way to be able to get it where I want to go. So, I love sifting. That's
just that it's, if you have to have the knack, if you don't have the knack, you won't be able to go
and pick the right thing. And like autos, I sift autos by reversing like 20 or 30 of them. And then
as they grow up, I'll sift two and use them as the donors, right? And then the target donors for the
autos, I'll take 40 or 50 of those and I'll pollinate only with those two that I sifted
from the donor plants. And then I'll keep 10 of the 50 or 100 I grew before as what I'll go for
the next generation. So, then you build stair steps on that. And I've been sifting in a different
way on autos for a couple of years, and I'm going longer and longer and longer. So, I pick the last
male or the last one that I get to flower. So, I've been getting longer and longer and longer
autos. I have 130 day autos. That's really long. So, 130 days. So, you plant it and it'll flip the
flower August 1st here. And then it'll flower for two months or three months. So, I'm working with
Della Hayes, Super Silver Hayes and Amnesia Hayes trying to get that into this auto so that I can
convert that to an auto. And that way I can have a three-month finish on a one-month veg in an auto.
Yeah. And but they will start to flower at a certain age because you say August 1 now,
but if you would germinate them earlier, would they also start to flower earlier?
Yeah. If you do, you can get them to flower really quick. But you can also, if you have 24
hours of daylight, you can really, really push them way out. So, the way I do it is I plant them
as we're coming up to here, June 22nd is our maximum Sunday. We got like 20 hours of daylight
or I don't know what it is, but it's just, when I go to bed, it's light and when I get up, it's light.
And I'm pulling tarps and stuff, but I found that that's just the way I do it.
Yeah. But I also do work on autos and, but I do all the work under 24 hours.
I mean, if they flower under 24 hours of light, then it's a true auto. So, I work
the 24 hours and yeah, I do also different things with them.
I just think it's going to be a future. If we're dealing in the commercial cannabis business,
people are going to want to go, let's say, you were talking about Africa. They're going to want to,
everywhere's opening up for cannabis. So, the business model, it's going to be horrible going
forward. But for genetics, we want to get plants that they can machine plant with a vacuum seeder
out in a field. They can come back three months later and machine harvest them and go direct to
a wash or milling for concentrates or something. That's the future for outdoor. It's going to be
mold resistance, yield, the metrics on the percentages and how easy it is to grow.
That's going to take the future away where these places where they have cheap labor in Africa or
places, they're going to be able to slaughter the people that are growing indoor cannabis up here in
Canada as soon as everything's able to be shipped here and there. Yeah. I think indoor cannabis will
be limited because of the costs. You can't compete with outdoor grown. The thing is the quality. I
mean, if you talk about really, really, really the highest quality, then the outdoor always
loses from indoor grown. But on large scale production or if you want to take,
I would say that extracts or whatever, then it's needed. But I mean,
costs will come into play. You see now that that is in Canada. You can see that really well
or in America. You know, the thing. Oh, it's in Oregon. In Oregon right now, the wholesale prices,
you're better off not even growing your cannabis because it's just the wholesale prices is crazy.
But I could grow. I can see how I'll be growing a quality outdoor flower that test in the 20%
range that will. Oh, I wouldn't talk to you about that. They'll test in the 20% range that they can
machine plant machine harvest for about 20 cents a gram. And they'll be able to mill it and do
pre-rolls. And, you know, Philip Morris will be selling it as Marlboro green or whatever. And it
will be it will be cannabis that they'll grow out in the field. They'll blend it all together. And
you know, this is the home growers that will want to grow. That'll be there forever. But I don't
know that the commercial the commercial market is going to be able to stand the pressure of
cheap outdoor. I don't think so. I don't think so. Especially if you know, if it's globalized
and other countries, cheap label countries, areas, Colombia, you know, African countries,
they will probably. Yeah. You know, and we'll be able to get that those three month, four month
flowering hazes back and we'll be able to buy it for 60 bucks an ounce. Yeah, I see that happening
in the future. Indeed. I want to ask you a question about morphology and the way plants grow.
It's something that I've noticed over the years. I've seen a bunch of different type of plants.
You've got your auto flower and your fast flower leanings that have three to five fans, you know,
that you've got that. And then you've got your your standard plant that has five to seven finger
fan leaves and maybe maybe long petioles or maybe short petioles. And then you have your cookies
line or whatever that can have up 11 finger fans, you know, nine, seven to 11.
Have you noticed that in the stuff you're breeding because you do mainly sativa? Do you find like the
Afghani would be the more of the five finger? What have you noticed with the lines that you're
working? I the lines I work at, I usually, you know, can go up to 11 or 13 finger plants.
So that's definitely sativa from from old school. Yeah. Oh, by the way,
the serious goose, have you seen how big the leaves of the series? I've got pictures of them
is bigger than my chest. I can put one on my head. It's coming all the way around my head.
Yeah, it's great. I actually got a female of that once with the longest leaves I've ever seen in my
life. They're a quarter inch thick. They're like as thick as a cigarette, maybe but but 10 inches
long. The fingers, they just got they don't even have enough structure to hold themselves out. They
just kind of melt melt down to the bottom. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's crazy. It's crazy. So you'll
you have to also remove some some leaves from it, you know, flower those big fan leaves, but
don't do it before the third week of flowering. I always advise. Yeah, because if you do it before,
I just say to people out there, but if you remove the leaves before the third week of flowering,
generally, depends a little bit if it's a longer or shorter flowering variety. I mean, if you take
the leaves before that gives a stimulus to the plant to grow more leaf, then you see that actually
secondary growth. Yeah, I get a nice hairy bud. Yeah, they grow bigger and stuff. So it's there
is no point removing these before the third week of flower is my that that right there is is a
ticket that's worth the price of admission to today's show, because it's true. If you default
too early in flower, what happens is it taps the brakes on your plant. And because you tap the
brake on your plant, then you slow the plant down, then it's got to catch back up again.
And you mess with its rhythm. Don't mess with your plants rhythm default two weeks before you flip.
And then three weeks after you flip. And then maybe a week before you harvest, you know, but
yeah, I do I do only that I do a flower before flower you also remove, but flower only one time
only. Yeah. And that then you also have all the plants go through go through your hand. So you
can also see the plant up close. There's already flowers because it's three weeks in flower. So
it's a really great way of checking up on the plant. And at the same time remove the leaf,
you only need to do that once. If you do it earlier, let's say after one week of flowering
or something or two weeks of flowering, you will actually increase the leaf growth. So you will
have more leaves. So you have to do it again. So it's also you increase the work and stuff.
Yeah, and you'll get sugar leaves, you'll get sugar leaves in your buds, that'll be like
one right on top of the other. So basically, you can't even see the
hairs because it's got all those leaves filling in. Exactly. That's the one that's not.
Wonderful. Well, it's been wonderful talking to you. And do you think London are there any
things that we have a few questions from the audience before we finish up the day?
And the first one was J5Foe20 asked, have you ever seen pink, the pink pistols,
we're specifically referring to the pistols of earlier of the
Sirius six. Have you ever seen the pink pistols hold through till harvest or do they degrade?
They do degrade. They are in life, they are, you know, very pink till ruby red.
But that is only when they're alive. And when they when they when it's dried, you can still
see it a little bit. But it's not really those colors don't stay. No, it's only in the live plant.
It can really appreciate it. Yeah. Yeah, same thing. Same thing with my cultivars. You don't
see the pink. You don't see the pink. Once it's ripe, ripe, the on anything that the pistols kind
of fold away and turn golden or amber, yellow or red or brown. But they don't stay pink. Yeah,
they never stay pink. I have seen a plant I have seen a plant in the, you know, in the long distant
past, who had actually purple hairs and dried because I bought it as a, you know, as a thing
to smoke. And I bought it because it's that such beautiful pink pistols. And I had no experience,
whatsoever. It was, you know, before I really start going and I've never seen it again. And
I don't know where it came from. And so have you ever seen that? I do. I have a Hindu Hindu Kush
that keeps purple hairs and when it's dry, it's quite green, but but the hairs are purple and,
and then it gets like a little purple right when it's done. But the hairs do they remain
very purplish. Okay. Yeah, but it's a really small but it's never going to be commercial.
It's it's like maybe thumb size. The very tip the apical meristem is thumb size. Okay, it's
it's not not what you would do. But it's really tight to just rock rock hard. Okay, well, that
is interesting that this but maybe you can you can change that. I mean, the fact that it has those
purple pistols. Yeah, you could probably take that characteristic and move it to a plant which
has bigger butts. Yeah, yeah. Well, I grew it outside. I grew it outside. And in the heat of
the summer, it got quite a bit bigger. But if you grow it indoors, it's just you can't even stick a
pin through it. But outdoors, it gets much more it grows tight out. It grows so tight outdoors.
It's got mold problems. Yeah, but it is an Afghani plant. You said? Yeah, yeah, yeah,
it gets bud rot. So yeah, so they are very. Yeah, they've I it's for me. It's indoor only
period indoor only I don't think that I it's something I haven't worked with because I don't
think I can fix. Sometimes the juice is just not worth the squeeze. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Next question. Mr. Magoo. As Simon, we heard 150 for for for you, Ron was usually when you
open up a plant and try and look in what's going on inside. Simon, how many seeds do you put down
for your huts when you're looking for that is for the hunt. It is basically the space you you have.
And my number is typically 100 because indoor space is really precious and costly or whatever.
So I first do I was a test run with a smaller number. And if I think, hey, this is really
promising, we need to really go into it, then I go 100 of them, but never more because that I can't
afford it basically space with 100. We can see what we know what's under the hood with 100.
Exactly. Yeah. Awesome. Next answer. Oh, since Amelia asked Simon, the origins of bubblegum.
Okay, now bubblegum is the thing which comes. It's a question which which comes up often.
And the thing is, okay, the when I was just when I was starting in Amsterdam in the early 90s,
there was some a friend of mine from the US and he brought a group of plants back.
He imported it into into the Netherlands and and that was called bubblegum. But there was,
they were very diverse. There were different phenotypes, let's say.
I got clones from them. And Adam at that time from Adam was from
TH, which is now TH seeds. But yeah, I had that time there was other seed coming with other names.
But we both we both grew had those clones and we we worked with them. And we both grew or produced
our own bubblegum from those original cuttings. And mine was is more a bit more sativa leaning.
And they're bubblegum. So you could say the original bubblegums are the bubblegum from
serious seeds and the bubblegum from TH seeds. And, and all the other bubblegums are derived
from that, or they just steal my name, which is I registered the name in the past. And many,
of course, many, yeah, fake companies use the bubblegum also. So if you want to have the real
bubblegum should buy it from serious or from TH seeds. There's two versions, let's say.
It's a great a great calyx to it's just a really loaded plant really, really nice buds.
Yeah. And yeah, and it is really the thing is with the bubblegum.
You know, there's also a tendency Ron, I'm sure you know about it. If you have,
if you hang on to a clone of a clone, and you clone it again, and you keep it on cloning over
the years, that plants, they can, let's say change over time. Just probably epigenetic changes with
me, which means DNA doesn't change, but some, some genes basically are blocked, because there
is some sort of a blocker, which is called a methane group is put on the DNA, whatever. So
then certain genes cannot be read and expressed anymore in the plant, or it is just being a
buildup of viruses or whatever it is, but plants can change over time and plants are really old,
I can see that they behave differently, they grow differently. And this happened
also to the bubblegum. So at some point, I didn't like the bubblegum anymore, how it
had developed. So I really had to redesign it. And this happened about 10 years ago, or so by now.
So I really redid the bubblegum. And I was working on it anyway, because I was making
female seeds at that time. So the regular bubblegum and the female bubblegum were,
came out of that project. And I'm really happy now how the bubblegum is. I also get a lot of
yeah, people who, the bubblegum is also a plant which is very uniform. If you grow it out,
it's like clones. And it has this really nice bubblegum flavor. And I get a lot of happy
emails from people about the bubblegum. Yeah.
Nice. Well, any more questions, London? Are we good?
Cy Derelict asked the history of Cali Mist, legendary strain.
That's one of my favorites, too. That's a good one.
By the way, I want to add something to the bubblegum story, which is,
I took one of the bubblegums I have, which is which sort of, which we call the strawberry flavor.
Strawberry flavor. And I crushed it with an AK-47. And that is now strawberry AK is the variety. So
there's a lot of people who, there's also a lot of myths, let's say, going on about cherry AK.
And yeah, this cherry AK out there. And I think that the strawberry AK we sell now is very much
like what people think of when they think about cherry AK. So everybody who wants to,
you know, wants to have cherry AK, they have to try the strawberry AK seeds. Then you have a really,
then you have that strawberry cherry. That's a matter of, you know, if you if you smoke it,
you smell something fruity, something red fruitish. But is it strawberry? Is it cherry?
I don't know, but it's right there to taste. Anyway.
What was that other question? That's a good question about the percentage of breeders in
the future will be putting in years to work before releasing their seeds, or will hype
everything so it moves fast. Yeah, I get it. I think there's going to be a lot of people that
are going to hype their stuff to where when you when you buy a pack of seeds from some of the big
guys, it's more bullshit than seeds. Pardon my French. It's all hype. But if you get them from
Simon, I can assure you that these have the homework and old people have time. We've got
the time to work on these. So I'm sure he'll be working on these lines right on out. So what do
you think? What percentage in the future do you think people are going to do their homework in
the future? Or is it going to be just all? You don't see it. I don't see it for now. I hear,
like I said, I just talked to a friend from California the other day. And we were talking
about seeds and about selling seeds. And he was also trying to get my seeds in there because it's
difficult to get them into over the state borders and over country borders and such. And so I said,
yeah, now California is now free. So I think seeds are not interesting anymore. Everything
about clones. And he said, no, no, the seeds are even more expensive here. And then he told me
that story, what I said earlier, that people are crossing two well-known plants, well-known names
with each other. They sell the seeds and they have even themselves and even grown them out. But just
on the words on, you know, like I cross this with this and you can buy the seeds for 1000
euro per pack of 10 seeds. And they fly away. People are lining up on fares, whatever,
to buy those seeds. And I think people are crazy. People are completely crazy.
So I think how the things are looking that there will be more of that in the future,
because it's paying off. People are crazy enough to buy them, you know?
Right.
And so people, yeah, they will continue.
Yeah, but once they grow them out and they get the taste of like, oh, I just grew out this,
I spent like all summer long growing out this crap and then it bud-rotted to the bone
at the very end, right? So all they get to have for their year is larvae. So, you know,
people need to come around to the real true genetics, I think, or come back.
That's why they probably have to sell them so expensive, because it's a one-time thing,
you know? You plant them once and then you're disappointed and you never do it again.
Right.
It's fucking crazy. Yeah. But the thing is, it's all about trustworthiness. It's about
make-believe. I mean, if people have, you know, the Americans are good at that. They have a great
talk about, you know, whatever they're selling and they can convince people to buy it. You know,
I'm not good at that shit. I have to sell good seeds because my talk is not good enough.
Yeah, well, as far as I'm concerned, everybody can get in line to kiss my butt because I'm
going to keep breeding the way that I breed because I'm old and I don't care.
No, I'm the same, you know? I mean, yes, I want to put in the work because I don't want to be
disappointed when I would tell a seed and everybody, you know, falls over you because it's,
you know, disappointing, then you feel like a failure, you know? That's the thing.
So I don't want to disappoint people, basically. My philosophy is very easy.
I want to buy this. I want to sell a seed that I would have liked to buy myself.
I agree. That's it. Very simple. Yeah, definitely. Well, any more, London?
You know what? That's about it. If any of the other questions that we're seeing here are pretty
much... Actually, one did just pop up that came up that I think it would be a great last one to
finish it off is what's the one cultivar, Fino, that got away from you, that you wish you mothered
and worked or worked with? Well, the thing is, of the 18 varieties we have now, we've basically
just lost two because Biddy Early was our cheapest seed and was a starter seed for many
people. It was a great plant. I mean, it was our cheapest, but it was worth more than we sold it
for. And that's because at some point there was another guy in the Netherlands who had another
seed company called Megas Genetics and I took it over. So I took his, I think he had five names or
something, and I took them over and I continued with them, but we lost the Biddy Early mother
we used. And the same happened with the Motavation, another strain of him.
The seeds we have, we sell, and when the seeds are sold out, that's it.
So just to check that, because they're not going to be available again, is the Early Biddy
and the Motavation. Motavation is really a nice plant. It's a bit leafy, but it's a very nice,
very strong plant. But for somehow it never got very popular. I mean, it's much better than
many things out there. But anyway, it never caught on. Maybe the name is not right. I don't know.
That looks like it'd wash. I think that plant right there that I'm looking at would wash well.
Have you done it?
I've never tried it. No, no. That is a new thing. You know what you mean with water and then shake
test. Yeah, I've never did it with this strain.
No, I would recommend somebody try this for fresh frozen washing. This would probably wash,
but you'd have to give it a go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, it's been a wonderful talking to you, Simon, again, and we'll see each other again.
You're going to be back to grow up next in the spring?
Well, the thing is, I was invited to go and that's why I went. And
if I get another invitation, I'll go again.
But it was nice to meet Jim Belushi.
It was nice to meet you again. It was indeed very nice.
Good. Well, thank you for coming on to the show. We're going to do a little intro,
extra and go out. But thank you for coming on and talking with Simon. It's always a pleasure.
If you guys get a chance, get some seed direct from Simon. You'll get the real deal, I'm sure.
And hopefully we can get AK47 on Daga or something like that. That would be wonderful
so that people can warehouse that genetic because it is one that's worth saving.
And I'll jump in really quick and say as well, just before you close us out, Simon, and say
goodbye, is after the show is done, hop over to channel two. We do have some other content going
on where you can watch Leighton Morrison chatting about organic agriculture over on channel two
when this show is done. But go ahead, Simon, what were you going to say?
Yeah, I just wanted to say it's a pleasure talking to you, Ron.
What I already found out when we met in Canada and it's still like that. And very nice to be
in the show. Thank you for inviting me. Thank you for coming.
Wish you a lot of success, you know, continuing.
You too. Godspeed. And someday I'll get over there and we'll visit you if the world holds together.
