Alright so did you have fun with Legos?
What did I drink for dinner tonight?
Wine.
That's right I drank wine.
And what did you drink for dinner?
Apple cider.
Apple cedra.
Apple cedra.
Ugh.
Okay.
Can you say hi to Tony?
Hi Tony.
Can you say uh uh uh?
Alright give me a quick boop and a doink.
I don't hear a boop and a doink though.
Boop.
Boop.
Boop.
Ow.
Doink.
There we go there's a doink.
Okay.
Daddy can I have the earphones?
You want to listen to the earphones?
Okay look at Tony has a big cigarette in his mouth.
How are you doing?
He's got a big old cigarette in his mouth.
How you doing girly?
How you doing girly?
I hope you're having fun tonight.
What'd Tony say?
He said have fun tonight.
He said I hope he's having fun tonight.
I hope you're having fun tonight.
Are you having fun?
Can we get a rock and roll?
Did you listen to some rock and roll in the car with me today?
Yes.
When I picked you up from school?
Yes.
Okay.
Can you and your Hello Kitty pink pajamas go in the other room?
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Nine.
Ten.
Eleven.
Twelve.
Thirteen.
Fourteen.
Fifteen.
Okay.
Can you and your Hello Kitty pink pajamas go in the other room?
One.
Without stepping on any of the plants over there?
What plants?
Well, they're all little baby plants right there.
Oh, they're so cute.
They are very cute.
Like you.
You're like a little baby plant.
No, but you're tiny too.
Daddy, draw here.
What's that?
Those, yeah, your sister drew those drawings.
You can draw here.
I could draw there.
You could draw there too.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can draw there.
You can always draw here with cool pictures.
That's right.
You can draw pictures on the, that is a whiteboard wall.
Yes, that you can draw.
That is a, yeah, I cannot do that right now because I get yelled, you're killing me.
So what is that?
I'm looking on some Georgia pie, Georgia pie, junkie genetics.
I'm about to get a cut of this.
My nephew brought me some of this to smoke and I asked him to bring me a clone.
Shit tastes like OG Kush breath.
So I just, let me tell Lucas that, uh, check your, yes, baby cake.
Kevin!
Kevin!
Kevin!
Kevin!
I need to make a post.
Yeah, in the early days, I'm looking at Chad's comment.
In the early days of vape pens, I, uh, I hit them hard.
I don't really have any vape pens around.
I'm not a big, uh.
Yeah, I had a fucking vape pen for about fucking four days and the fucking motherfucker blew up.
And I was like, no, they smoking the shit that blows up.
I mean, when they first, when they first came out, I was just like, this is amazing because you could be like,
I would be hanging out with my parents and like my mom's 85 year old friends and I could be smoking a vape pen like 10 feet away from them and.
They'd be oblivious to what was going on.
Yep.
Look at that.
There he is.
How's it going?
Lucas!
How you doing, brother?
Doing well.
I might go get my earbuds because I can barely hear you guys.
Sounds good.
So, and then, uh, Jackson is, uh, finishing up not jujitsu, but, uh, Aikido.
His son is doing Aikido.
So he'll, uh, hopefully be on in a couple minutes, but, uh, actually, you know what?
Let me post the, uh.
Yeah, I was about to make a post right now.
Well, let, let me send you the thing that I made, which, uh.
That would work.
I thought it was.
If we let him know, mean Jean's going to be on here offering stuff.
We will have people show up.
That's what we need.
Really.
Yeah, we don't pull anyone, but he does.
You know.
All right.
How you doing, brother?
How you doing, Lucas?
I think you might have yourself on mute, brother.
That's where you go.
I'm like connected, but I can't, I can't hear through the earbuds.
Um, go into options under more and click under settings and audio and you'd be able to pick the headset.
Look at that.
We even have a screen.
This is actually for the microphone side, but we've gone through this enough.
He's on the phone right now, so he's going to have a different option.
Yeah.
Default speaker.
It's the, uh, it's the speaker source, right?
Yeah.
Our audio.
Everybody can watch our, our behind the scenes troubleshooting.
This is a.
I'm not able to hear you guys.
So I.
Okay, hold on.
Let me give him.
We're going to level up.
We lost him.
He'll be back.
So I just texted you.
Let me know.
That'll work.
I thought it was clever.
That's the work.
All right.
Let me.
There is that's a, that's Lucas's nickname for everybody out there.
Me and Levi and my buddy Rain Man all gave him that nickname when we all met up in person because he was younger than all of us.
So y'all want to throw some, some trolling at him.
Make sure you remember his name.
That's baby Bubba.
Luke.
What's going on?
Any time, brother.
One of my friends needs help and I can help them.
I'm all for it.
So this is a conversation I've wanted to have for a while because when Lucas and I were kind of first talking about doing this,
I am all for it.
Yeah.
I've been there.
I'm all for it.
It's my little secret.
I'm all for it.
There's a lot of people in the world that I'm all for.
I'm all for it.
I'm all for it.
So this is a conversation I've wanted to have for a while because Lucas and I were kind of first talking about people who influence the two people.
He actually leave.
I was the other one.
realize that again tonight, but Tony and Jackson
were kind of people who influenced you.
So I was like, it'd be cool if the three of you
kind of had a conversation where you were just
kind of talking about how you crossed paths
with these guys and what their influence was on you.
And then from the flip side, kind of like,
you could take anyone under your wing,
what resonated with you guys about Lucas?
So Lucas, why don't you, since Tony's here right now,
why don't you start with him?
Where you guys kind of first crossed paths
and when Jackson hops on, we'll move on to him.
Honestly, met Tony on Facebook, really.
I forgot, I don't know if it was a specific forum
or something, but we just kind of became friends
on Facebook and then we're talking about the plant
and just growing techniques really.
And then moved on to other stuff,
breeding this, that and the other.
And then it kind of came down to like,
hey, I'm going Emerald Cup, you're going Emerald Cup
and let's meet up.
And so we made it happen.
And so we met up in 2014 at Emerald Cup
and we all rented this house
and stayed together in this house and smoked
and had some great sessions at night
and went to the Emerald Cup during the day.
And it was very amazing experience to be able to,
meet up with people that are so like-minded essentially,
and then be able to learn.
That's my biggest thing is always learning
and continuing to learn, really what I love to do.
So it was great to be around peers
that have a lot more experience and knowledge than I did
and be able to kind of try to cut that learning curve
a little bit and just kind of shut up and listen
and just ask questions when I did.
And yeah, it's been, it was great.
What year was that?
Just give people context.
What year was that Emerald Cup?
2014 was the first one.
And was that the first Emerald Cup you had gone to?
Yes.
It was the first Emerald Cup I've been to
and the first one we all got to hang out at really.
And-
That's the year I had my booth
with the Probiotic Farmers Association.
We were raising money for-
Was it or was that 2015?
No, I had my booth in 2014.
It was the first year I had my booth, I believe.
It might've been 13.
I get my dates mixed up after all them surgeries I had.
So I could be off on those dates right there.
But you guys helped me out with my booth that first year.
Fuck, I wouldn't have made it back to my car
if you guys weren't carrying my ass.
My fucking legs quit working and shit.
That was the first year people realized
that I was really having issues
with my fucking leg and shit.
That was just before I fucking really got injured.
Yeah, I remember just even to try to
get you a lunch break, man.
Got you water, rolled your joint,
went and covered the booth for you
while you went out and smoked
so you could try to medicate and fuel up a little bit.
Cause yeah, you were so busy.
So busy.
That was the first year I met so many people
that I've been talking to online for years.
Since like 2011, I'd been offering public information
to anybody that would hit me up.
And when they had the booth with the PFA
and Organics Live and Gage was with us.
Yeah, Grokashi Allen.
Yeah, we all had a big ass booth together
and we got fucking slammed.
So many people hit us up and that's the year I met.
I got to shake hands with so many people
that I've been talking to.
And that was the greatest thing of those events
was the actual interaction with so many different people.
I thought it was just gonna be Levi and Lucas and Rain Man.
And I ended up basically talking to every person
I'd ever encountered on Facebook.
And it was pretty fucking cool, man.
So many different people for so many different walks
of life showing up all with the same interest.
It was killer.
And I feel like that was such the amazing thing
about World Cup.
Yeah, you got to meet up with a bunch of peers
that you met online and then you just message each other,
hey, let's meet up here, sesh with some people,
hang out, talk for a bit.
It was like catching up with old friends.
You picked up where you left off, like online essentially.
And so it was great experience,
especially to meet everybody
and then just the plethora of knowledge and information
that was tossed around that weekend was definitely amazing.
Yeah, we were up fucking all night talking,
me, you and Rain Man.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, no, it was funny this year
just kind of seeing people who for two years,
all that like people I know well,
and by know well in the same way that I know you guys
where it's like every interaction I've had with them
has been like this, but like we talk enough
where I'm like, we're friends.
And it's actually funny because when Jackson comes on,
I was thinking earlier, I was like,
I'm probably gonna ask him half the same questions
I asked him at the Emerald Cup.
He was the last person I talked to at the Emerald Cup
and I have no memory of what we talked about.
I was so high by that point.
And it was the end of the second day.
And the only thing I remember was him helping me
bring all the gear back to the car.
And I was just like, this dude's awesome.
It was like raining out.
And he was like, you need some help.
And I was like, oh, okay.
I was like, you can take like the small,
like I wasn't gonna make him carry like the big shit.
It's like that backpack there, like you wanna bring that?
He's like, yeah, man, no problem.
And I thought that was awesome
because he definitely could have just like,
put his head down and walk the other way.
Yeah, he's definitely a very kind soul
and an amazing person, that's for sure.
Whew, fucking A, man.
I can attest to that too, 100%.
So what were some of the seeds you picked up at the,
I mean, because you're from Colorado, right?
No, I'm originally from California.
Oh, you are?
I moved to Colorado.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I was born in Palmdale.
And then I just grew up in like Granada Hills area.
I had a lot of family in like kind of Northern LA.
Grew up in between LA and Phoenix, Arizona.
And then about, yeah, 2015, I moved out to Colorado.
And was that the right move?
Are you happy?
Or do you?
So, yes, I love Colorado
because I'm a big like outdoors person.
I love bow hunting and fishing,
you know, just camping.
I just love the outdoors.
But yeah, I mean, I kind of originally came out here
during trying to get in on the green rush
and then, you know, got in
and really was disappointed with what I was seeing
and kind of got out of it
and just have continued to grow as more for myself
and as a hobby.
And I've just always loved to play with plants
and see what I make and grow what I make.
And yeah, I feel like that's one of the most,
I don't know, it's very satisfying to like make something,
grow it out, and cure it out, smoke it,
and just know that you produce that
in every kind of aspect in a sense,
especially with even like making bubble hash too.
I don't know.
There's just something very satisfying about it
that I've always been obsessed with.
Yeah, I feel like, I mean, I remember,
I think it was the first 7-10 cup in Colorado at a,
were you there when that happened,
at Grassroots and at Adam Dunn's spot?
Mm-mm.
But I remember like talking to Adam
who, you know, had been in Amsterdam
and it was like Amsterdam was going in reverse.
Like it was at the forefront of cannabis freedom
and it was regressing,
whereas Colorado was like this hopeful place.
And so he kind of set up shop there
and now I kind of feel like,
like Oklahoma is where everyone's going.
Yep, yep, yes, indeed.
I actually, I did get to meet Adam Dunn at CannaCon
in like 2019 maybe.
I forgot exactly when, but yeah,
I got to meet up with him and he's a really cool guy.
Yeah, Oklahoma's the new hotspot.
Just like every state that becomes legal,
that's the same thing that happens.
Everyone rushes there before they set the laws in
and tries to get their fucking cash grab.
And then those laws start dropping in
and everybody's like, fuck, where's the next place?
I gotta go.
Yeah, well and they're still like medical.
They're not like rec yet.
I feel like rec is really good.
Unfortunately, I feel like that's what destroys
the greatness.
Although what's weird, what's interesting
is I feel like people are now starting
to move out of Oklahoma.
Like I know like Paul, Pablo Potcasso was in Oklahoma
moving out.
Brandon was talking about moving out.
And so it's kind of like.
Well, and that's where it's like,
what's the next best state?
And it sounds like it might be Montana.
Because I mean, you can go up to Montana
and get a cultivation license for 500 bucks
and you can get a dispensary license for 500 bucks.
But let's say for breeding specifically,
what I find interesting is someone like Brent,
I wouldn't wanna be in Oklahoma and trying to compete
in the rec market.
Like for Oklahoma, wallet share.
But if I were breeding and I could sell seeds
all over the world, I'd be like, fuck yeah.
And so is Montana kind of like that?
Where like you could set up shop
and just do breeding projects at a scale
where you can move fast.
Yeah, I mean, it sounds like it
and it's actually affordable.
You don't need to bring thousands of dollars to the table
to be able to run numbers.
I mean, that was my biggest thing
when I was looking into it.
I was like, man, this is actually like feasible
for somebody who's not rolling in dough.
So I was like, it's something I've thought about
and kind of looked into.
It seems like that's gonna be the next big state.
It's a lot of space.
And it sounds like I was reading an article.
It sounds like they did about 12 million sales taxes here
just off of going medical this past year.
It's funny, someone just,
I don't know if you can read that.
Yeah, Kings Reserve at two in the map, dude.
You're gonna like those.
The two I picked for the F3s,
they were extremely dense, heavy,
and thankfully the BLR added the structure
so they were able to hold themselves up.
And there were some very quality gassy.
Had a little bit of lime in there, not too much.
But that's definitely one of my favorites lately
is that Kings Reserve.
I found the stud I've been working with in the F1s,
he was just packed with stamen clusters,
lot of resin, extremely gassy.
And that one I made with the King Louis cut
I got from Kevin Jodry.
That cut's fucking awesome.
So was that something,
was that kind of also through that Emerald Cup experience?
And by the way, when you went to the Emerald Cup then,
were you still living in California
or had you already moved to Colorado?
Yeah, so a quick little, I guess, kind of backup.
What essentially had happened is 2014,
I had gone to the LA High Times Cup in San Bernardino
and that's where I met Jackson and Leo
at the aficionado booth.
And I was really big in the Probiotic Farmers Alliance
and trying to help boast that.
And I had talked to Alan
and he gave me a bunch of Grokashi
to go and hand out at the event.
And so I got to talk to some people that I'd met on Facebook
and they had been using Grokashi
and talked to them about how they liked it and whatnot.
But essentially, that's where I met Jackson and Leo
and they were like, oh yeah, man,
you think this is cool,
you need to come up to the Emerald Cup.
And that's when I decided that 2014,
that was the first Emerald Cup.
Yeah, I think I was at that same High Times event.
I didn't think the High Times events were all that cool.
I was super high and I was there by myself.
They're not on the same level as Emerald Cup, man.
You go to those fucking things,
it's kind of like a fucking,
just like some kind of insurance conference and shit.
There's some pamphlets on the tables and shit.
There's two guys with big booths
and a bunch of fucking models
trying to get you to give your script up
to fucking take a dab off of fucking 45 other people.
Booth babes.
But I remember, so I was super high
and the first people I ran into
were these guys, Guy and Adam.
Guy, they're the founders of Papa and Barkley.
And this was, hello sir.
Well, hello brother.
How's it going guys?
We're talking the High Times Cannabis Cup
in San Bernardino in, what was it, 2014 or 2015?
2014.
But, so I met these guys, Guy and Adam,
and we were walking and I was like,
can I just hang out with you guys?
And we just wandered around the whole time
and it's the Papa and Barkley guys.
But yeah, it's, I like the Emerald Cup much more than,
like anything High Times related I'm not a big fan of.
And what's funny too is because I feel like
at that cup when I did meet Jackson and Leo,
I really, I knew Leo, like, oh yeah,
I've seen your Facebook profile, this, that, and the other.
But at the time, Jackson had a profile picture
of his pity, his pitbull.
And then once he said his name, I was like, oh, that's you.
I put Facebook profile to person in a sense.
And I was like, oh, hey, what's up?
So, yeah.
You knew the dog first.
In a sense.
They wouldn't let the dog go to the cup.
So how was martial arts class?
Oh, it was cool.
I just dropped him off today.
We had to go do some running around
and grocery shopping and stuff.
But it's good.
That's dad life.
Yep.
I got him in an Aikido class now that's all ages.
So he's one of the younger people.
How old is he?
He's 10.
Okay.
He's 10.
Wow.
My three year old who made a cameo
when we first went live, we had a poo today,
which was large and she was very proud of it.
We went to preschool and yeah, we've had a fun day.
Dropping them.
So we were, I don't know if you heard any of it,
but one of the things I was saying was
you and I had a conversation at the Emerald Cup
of which I remember none of,
cause I was super high by the end.
I think that was the end of day two, right?
Yeah.
Yep. Tail end.
When I got there, you'd already,
you said you'd already been sitting there
for I don't know how many hours each day,
but 10 hours a day or something.
That was a lot of joints to get through.
But what at the, so at the Emerald,
well, so there's the Emerald Cup
and then there was the Regen Conference.
Like whose flower resonated with you
like I know Bob Hemphill that's been making waves, right?
Yeah. He brought a flat of jars up there
and he had each jar had like a nice
like two or three gram chunk from like each plant
out of, I don't know, out of whatever.
So there's like a jar and it has like six different buds
in it from six different plants.
So it's cool to see like, you know,
it's always cool to see like the cool, the very,
like, oh, this is this, look at this plant.
But when you can actually see like, all right,
this is what six look like out of this.
You could see like they were all,
everything was quality across all the crosses.
The male or males he used,
I'm not sure if he used more than one male,
but whatever that male side was made everything just like,
you know, these just meatballs of state.
Every time someone would break up the weed
to pack up bong heads or pipe loads or whatever.
And I was standing, you know, whatever,
eight feet away or something talking.
And I kept being like, what is that?
You know, like everything I'd look over
and they'd be breaking something up out of those jars.
It was just really funky, you know, super nice.
And the bud is just, you know, super, super cool.
As far as the shape.
How would you, how was the profile?
What did it smell like?
The one that he gave me like right before I left
was like, it smelled like burnt garlic bread.
Like it was right on its way
to being just straight skunk weed, you know?
Like you can tell that if you mess with it enough,
you could get something that would have that profile.
Cause skunk to me is always like when I smell it,
it always reminds me of like coffee beans
and burnt, just burnt in general.
And like, but like burnt rubber, burnt garlic,
burnt onions, you know?
And it had, they just smelled like burnt, you know,
like true garlic, I don't smell that much.
I have a lot of stuff over the years
that kind of smells like, kind of like propane,
which technically is garlic.
And that it's like loud and funky,
but this smelled like, almost kind of like
half burnt garlic bread,
like straight out of the broiler when you're like, dude,
don't take your eyes off the garlic bread.
I like smelled it and I was like, fuck.
It had that, it had that real garlic smell to it.
Super nice.
And from a distance, all of it had was really skunky.
You can tell there's a lot of that in there,
but then they had a lot of subtlety too.
There was like, some of them had a little bit of grapiness
and depending on the cross, the Sensi Star Cross was like,
I don't know, the Sensi Star Mom he uses,
I have that one too.
To me, it's already like really skunky weed,
but it has a different kind of thing over the top
that's hard for me to describe it.
It's like, strikes me as fruity in a way,
but way in the background, not like fruity,
like not like Amsterdam fruity, more like,
almost like, you know, when you smell like really good OG
and it's like all chemical,
but there's that little thing in there that's sweet.
That's like-
That fucking cantaloupe backside or something.
Yeah, just this little tiny bit of stuff.
That Sensi Star has that.
So with that puck cross, it really made it like,
I don't know, really, really funky and gassy
and just super killer.
And you know, like the way the bud is, you're like, okay,
I wouldn't mind having all my weed look like this
as far as processing, trimming and everything.
Cause it was just like all meat balls, you know?
It's that really-
Yeah, that shit had killer look.
Really cool look.
And also like when you break it open,
some of it would be a little bit like,
there's some weed that when it's dense and chunky like that
on the inside, it almost like it grows too much.
So it like grows on top of itself a little bit.
There was a tiny bit of that, but it didn't matter.
It was still just so coated.
It reminded me of this stuff back in the day
that my buddy called Garlic Bud
and I never knew where he got that
if he like just named it that,
but it was really similar to that.
And I know Mr. Bob was saying that Sensi Star
is a Garlic Bud cross.
And like, he kind of suspects that some of the,
that like the diesel maybe has that in it.
And the Garlic Bud, right, is like a Shiva cross,
which is like a NL skunk, I think.
So, you know, I think when Sensi released Neville's Shiva
or Garlic Bud, they changed it to Shiva.
But, you know, like anything with those heavy Afghanis in it
it can pop right out and be that pure gnarly Afghani again.
Like Neville said, if you breathe like the NL5, NL2
a few times, if you don't really select away
from the really pure, pure Gani,
that it'll just all of a sudden turn into number two
and kind of revert back, which is like, you know,
all of us have bred with like deep chunk
and Bubbas and Gani's like that.
And they, you can see, they just like,
they take right back over.
So, you know, I think that whatever, you know,
that probably, he probably called it Garlic Bud
cause it was something that was popping out of the Gani
in the Northern Lights.
And maybe complimenting a little bit of it
that was in the skunk or whatever, but it was bomb.
The nug is super bomb.
I'd pull it out right now, but I've completely mangled it.
And it's like in little pieces sitting on a jar lid
right now, cause I just keep like,
like, does it really smell like garlic?
And it's like, yeah, it still,
it still smells like burnt garlic.
So that was cool.
That was the Puck Backcross too.
And I got two packs of them, two packs of those from him.
And, but all of them are good.
And they have those right now.
Those are up, I think on Speakeasy
and a couple other things.
They're definitely worth getting
because it's been bred back so thoroughly to that,
to that old Hashplant and Northern Lights
that was in that Hashplant release that it's like, cool.
And it's like, good, good breeding stock
to put some meat on stuff.
I told him I'm probably gonna put it on like lime
and some other, I'll probably,
I brought it home and I smelled it.
And then I smelled my grape soda skunk.
And I was like, all right, the side of it that's accurate
is almost just the same as like the grape soda skunk
where it smells burnt.
You're like, there's this burnt smell to it.
And that I associate that with skunk.
Like if you've ever had your car skunked
or your house skunked, that initial upfront skunk,
not when it's tapered out and it wound
like that old dead skunk, but like that skunk spray,
it smells really burnt.
Like on top of everything, I just always feel like
it's like just fucking my head up with that burnt garlic.
And that was what that was in there.
And I wouldn't say it smells like straight skunk
the butt itself, but when you find those things
and you know, you play around, it could be in there.
So I was gonna do that, put it with those things
that are like that.
You guys have seen some of the lime stuff
that comes out skunkier.
It's always layered, but it has that punch to it.
It'll make your car smell like skunk
when you leave it in the car.
I've noticed that too, is like,
you'll have certain cultivars that like,
it's not necessarily super skunky,
like smelling it to the nose, but man,
you put it in the car and then you come back
a couple hours later, you're like, God damn,
there's like a fucking skunk right under the car.
Like.
Yeah, it's kind of just the smell of good weed.
That's what's so funny about people hunting
so hard for skunk, is I'm like,
it kind of also smells like a skunk, guys.
It's just like, there's very undefined.
And I try to, yeah.
And I try to explain that too, is like,
I'm like, I, like my drive to work,
I smell, hit skunk during the summer almost every day,
if not every other day.
And I'm like, there's different levels to it.
Like there's like straight, fresh,
you just hit the skunk and you wanna throw up
because it's like tires burning and plastic and chemical.
It just so nasty.
Fucking funky ass old eggs and shit.
Yeah, and then, or it could be, you know,
like 20, 30 feet away and you pass by it
and you're like, holy shit, that was like some good weed.
What the, you know.
It smells really good, yeah.
Yeah.
I like the smell.
I've always liked the smell,
even without associating it with weed.
But like, I remember being with my friend back in the day
and he had this little rabbit, a little Volkswagen rabbit.
And we ran over a skunk and we like hit it,
those cars are the bottom was like really not a lot to it.
Like when we hit it,
you could like feel it hit your feet in a sense.
Cause it just hits the underside.
The floors are thin as fuck.
And there wasn't a lot of insulation
to keep it from coming.
And it came in the car and I was like, holy shit.
This is not the, this is not that second one
you were describing where you're like,
ooh, that smells good.
It was like, no, it's like pepper spray.
And that's what they have, you know.
Yeah.
And you almost say, yeah,
it's like, it almost makes you wanna throw up.
And it was like, oh, that is just so overpowering.
Yeah. Super, super nasty.
And in reality, like that's a cool novelty for weed,
but you know, I don't see people really like having that
and wanting to like, you know.
That's how my egg plant,
Afghani I had back in the early eighties was,
you couldn't take more than three hits off that plant.
You'd have to put the shit down.
It just fucking left the nastiest fucking taste
in your mouth of rotten eggs.
It was fucking devastating.
But the high from that shit was,
it almost made you not wanna smoke it.
You'd smoke too much of that shit
and you couldn't do nothing.
You ain't getting up, your legs don't work.
Yeah.
Fucking, it just was too much shit.
But that plant, man, I wish I had it back
since I know about breeding more now
than I did at that time.
I'd be able to work that into something.
Yeah. They're cool.
Those are cool like that.
Like the novelty of it to be like,
oh, you can smoke anything, huh?
Like in Cheech and Chong, you know,
and he's like, yeah, I smoke everything, you know?
And then he's like, oh shit, he's way too high.
It's like, that's cool to have weed that's like that.
That was what the, that pog,
that Northern Lights oil can, the old.
Yeah, that's the one we talked about.
Yeah, my favorite plants off of that
was that ones where you would like,
you'd smoke it and you'd be like,
there's not anything really desirable about this.
I just feel really fucked up.
But it was cool to like, be like,
oh, you think you can handle anything?
Try this.
But you wouldn't, you know,
like you'd feel like you bumped your head, you know?
And that's definitely some Afghani.
But like the high power Afghani is not the washed out plane.
It was like just overwhelming, you know?
Make you feel like you drank too much, kind of.
Yeah, it was kind of like fucking being drunk as fuck.
Like you're not doing nothing.
You're not standing up.
You're not fucking, you're not,
you're not controlling your faculties and shit.
Like I've had friends smoke that shit
and piss all over their self fucking
trying to get up to go to the restroom
because they thought they had shit handled
and their body just wasn't paying attention
to what they were thinking and shit.
Or fucking people,
this one kid used to come steal the plants from my mom
when she was growing this shit
until she chased him home one day in the van
and fucking caught him at his house.
But some friends of mine had found the plants
that he was stealing from us one year.
He was hiding them in the creek
on this little fucking sandbar in the middle of the creek.
And he was finishing them out there.
Well, my friend's wife one night
telling me the story of this weed
that she found her uncle found in the creek by my house.
And I let her tell the fucking story.
And then I fucking described the fucking pots
they were in and shit.
And she's like, those were your plants.
And I'm like, yeah, that's the best fucking weed.
That shit will fuck you up.
Everybody was fucking, fucking faded.
Just there's no weed like that today
that I've smoked in a long time.
And the closest thing I could probably think of
was that oil spill I got from you at the cup
that one year, the flavor was there.
It was fucking, it was killer.
That was phenomenal.
And I mean, I ran a bunch of oil spill F2s
that I had got from baking in the sun on IG.
And I mean, I found some really good ones
but I did not find anything like that.
The bud that you gave us.
Yeah, that's an F-
The oil spill is like triple X.
OG to Royal?
Royal or something.
But the one I'm talking about is the old-
The old can.
That's the old shit that's in the,
it gives the chemically smell to the Black Lime Reserve
when you get that eucalyptus and those funky ones.
And you can find it in there.
Some of that shit isn't stony.
And some of it is like really, really gnarly.
But like the old one pure was the kind of stuff
where people would get it and they'd be like,
yeah, we want something different next time.
Because it's just put them out.
They're like, it's too strong.
We're like, there's no such thing.
Yeah, people would fucking think
you were lining fucking joints with shit.
Yeah, no, I had given some Black Lime Reserve
to some of the grow shop owners here in town.
And she was like, yeah, I just straight passed out
on the couch in the middle of like watching the show.
She's like, I can't smoke it if I find too many things.
Yeah, it depends on which one you get.
But that stuff is in there.
But it's definitely not as common as it was.
And I think in that like that old hashtag,
that's like what Mr. Bob said on one of his posts.
He was like, yeah, I was smoking Chem D all day.
And then I took one bottle of this.
High as hell.
And that's like, I mean, that's kind of the most stony.
Chem's kind of the bar for like, okay, what?
If you can't get high, try this.
Try some Chem 91 or some Chem D.
And he was like, yeah, I was smoking Chem D all day.
And I hit that puck back cross two or whatever
he was smoking and he was like, boom,
I was just instantly lit.
So, you know, that was old stuff.
And that's all, you know,
it's all coming from the same old stuff,
which is probably what was in a lot of the things that,
you know, I remember like one of the first times
I got really high, my buddy had this weed
from this dude in Napa and I smoked it.
And I was like, dude, I've smoked weed before.
And that was laced, like, this is drugs, dude.
This isn't weed.
I've smoked weed.
This is not weed.
And he had more of a tolerance than me.
We were like 11, I think, or 12.
And he just laughed at me.
He was all, dude, it's just weed.
And I was like, no, dude, this is way, way,
this is way laced.
But it was just that little difference in tolerance
to where I thought like it was just some,
I thought there was some weird drugs in it.
I'd never smoked and it was just bud, you know,
he got this weed from this dude in Napa
and he had this little sack and we like loaded it up
in a little film canister thing,
like a little film canister with a down tube in the top
and a little tube out of that.
And we hit it like that.
And I took like, I don't know, like three,
smoked like three bowls out of it thinking like,
oh, dude, I smoke weed, you know.
And I'd been smoking like bud shake and shit.
I didn't even, you know, I didn't even,
it was like I was smoking like good weed,
but probably not, you know, the difference
if you like really inhale it,
and you really like it chokes you and shit.
And I was just up there like, dude, like, you know,
like half, it was like straight dream state.
Like I remembered later on, like vaguely that day,
I couldn't remember it clear.
And there was a lot of weed back then I smoked
that was like that after that.
But like now I don't see,
I don't see that much weed like that,
even when people smoke it when they don't,
when they're not smokers, you know,
they're still like, oh yeah, I got hella high.
But you know, you don't think it's laced.
Yeah, they used to say that with that Afghani
I had all the time.
He used to smoke with people and they're like,
you put shit in the joints, dude.
Why would I be putting shit in the joint
and sharing it with everybody, motherfucker?
I'd take that shit and keep it if I was fucking laced.
Yeah, that's the thing is people always think
everyone wants to lace everything.
It's like, no, people with like potent drugs like that,
they're like, dude, I don't wanna just give it away
to strangers as a joke.
I'm like, I'm gonna share that with my friends.
We get fucked up.
I'd rather have you fucked up off my good ass weed
than have you fucked up off some cocktail of fucking drugs
that I'm trying to sneak at.
That's crazy.
Yeah, even weirdos are like,
I don't wanna lace nobody's shit.
It's very rare I think that people,
you know, it has happened.
I know people who have had people do that to them,
but it's not a common thing.
But with that strong weed, it's a lot more common.
The accusation's more common than the reality, you know,
because shit'll get you.
Yeah.
That's funny,
because that like reminds me of the first time I smoked
like actual dank, you know,
and it was supposedly sour diesel.
It didn't necessarily have that diesel-y flavor,
but man, it was like a psychedelic experience almost.
It was out there.
Yeah, some shit's gnarly.
And if you really wanna get that gnarly experience too,
you know, you can't, if you smoke all the time,
you know, you're like,
oh, none of this weed out here is that strong.
But you know, if you're not,
you give that to somebody who doesn't smoke very much,
like you gotta watch out.
It can be, you can really fuck up somebody's day
if you give them what you're used to.
And you know, it's like when VHO first came out
and it was all, people were like open blasting
and Pyrex bowl and shit in the tube, you know,
and then you like take a fucking bong hit
and you got like this much smoke in the bong
and you're used to having like a three footer
and you're like, oh dude, it's nothing.
People take like this much smoke
and they're just like fucking zoned, you know.
Sick, you know, people throw up and shit.
But weed'll do that to you if you don't have the tolerance.
No, I've seen people get weird off.
From the PVC.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You get high off the PVC, you know.
No, that was the weed.
Yeah, the PVC flakes right off the fucking coating inside
as soon as you fucking, you cut that shit,
it starts to flake right off.
Yeah, it's just eating it for sure.
You know, I'm thinking about kind of like
the most high time like I've ever been.
Like the puff and paint and shit.
And I feel like some of them were,
I had super old weed that in retrospect
probably had some sort of mold in it.
And back to back weed, so I was living in New York
and my brother and I went, one of his friends owned a club
and the first week we went
and I think Sonic Youth was playing.
And we smoked a joint and I literally was just like,
I started feeling hot and like sweaty
and I felt like wave after wave
of like dissonant sound coming at me.
Like think of Sonic Youth, like their sound,
it was like tidal waves.
And I like just started holding my brother
and it was him and his girlfriend and me.
And then I went blind, like I couldn't see.
So I'm like in this packed club,
just getting like hotter, sweatier, like tinglier, blind.
And they ended up just sitting me in the back of the club
for like the next, I just sat for four hours just by myself.
And then the next week we went back.
And I think like Beck was playing.
And it didn't happen to me that time,
it happened to my brother.
Like we smoked and we went to the bar to get drinks.
And I remember handing him like a Jack on the Rocks
and I put it in his hand
and it basically just slipped out the bottom of his hand.
The glass shattered, my brother went down after it,
just like collapsed unconscious.
And we carried, like the bouncers came over
and I was like, and we carried them outside.
But I feel like it had like mold in it or something.
And that was from just straight flour, huh?
Yeah.
Wow.
It could have been, I mean it too,
it could have had some weird, who knows what like,
as far as when people were just spraying
whatever they heard would help, would work like,
keep the, oh, you've got bugs or just use this shit
or oh, it's illegal but my boy scored it or.
It's that Eagle 20, baby.
Trust me, I got a disease from that shit, brother.
So it's 100% possible.
I've got a permanent disease for the rest of my life
from them pesticides.
So that shit, you could be smoking all kinds of crazy shit
back in the fucking, just like 2010,
was probably about the last time people started
to fucking get hip to fucking the fact they were poisoning
everybody with bullshit.
But yeah, I mean too, I've seen people smoke clean weed
that we grew and just hit a joint.
Like a dude I know who was working for me,
he was smoking all the time.
You know, he had all the weed he could want to smoke
and shit and we're all standing there by these soil bags
and he like hit the joint and all of a sudden
it was the craziest thing.
He like hit it and you know, some people,
sometimes like people like flop out
and he'd like floppy fish but when he did it,
he like bent like a horseshoe backwards in half
and he like landed on this chainsaw
and luckily he had like big dreads in it
so it didn't do anything to him
but we were looking at him like, holy shit,
he just landed on a, you know, it was turned off of course,
but he like, boom, right back on his head.
Like his head hit the ground and his feet
were still basically on the ground.
Like over the back of, he like arched over these soil bags
and like wasn't even touching them
and bam, hit his head on the chainsaw and we're like shit
but he didn't even feel it because of his head,
luckily his hair, you know?
And he just took a hit off of a joint, you know?
It was like, boom, horseshoe backwards and was just out,
you know, so you never know, like it's, you know.
I see my brother go out from a bong hit, man,
just fucking straight to go out
and hit his head on the table and fucking,
once he hit his head on the table,
he fucking went into having his fucking seizure
and shit, it was fucked up.
Yeah, no, I've done it before.
I hit back in the day, you remember the wizard bongs?
Yeah.
The ceramic wizard?
Yeah.
Back in the day, it was like, if you had a bong,
like it's pretty likely you either had like an acrylic,
like a shitty acrylic bong or like a wizard bong
or some kind of a ceramic bong.
I had the ceramic, what was it?
Aquarius chick, man.
Yeah, those little ones, those little cast ones,
little cast, you know, usually like white
with like, they look like they're tarnished
or something, right?
White and got the fucking little steel bowl
coming out the top.
The little bowl and the little carb on the back.
And then they had the one that was like that,
the same size, but it was just like basic ceramic,
like smooth.
And there wasn't that many bong,
with a little tray for a little,
put a little nug in the front of it and shit.
There wasn't a lot of different kinds of bongs,
but like, if you were bawling, you know,
somebody mentioned you got a graphics, right?
And if you were really bawling,
you had like the glass graphics and shit.
And, but that was kind of, that was a little bit later,
but like, I remember hitting the wizard bong
and I took a fat bong hit and I like held it in like,
like I argued it,
when I blew it out and it was just clouds.
And I like took another breath
and I was still blowing out clouds.
And I was like, oh shit, there's no,
I'm not getting any air.
I'm breathing in air and it's still coming out smoke,
you know?
So then all of a sudden I'm like, like this.
And I fucking wake up and I'm like in this little space,
like this wide, like narrower than me, right?
Between this little couch, like a love seat
and the wall that was made out of like redwood paneling
that they had like sandblasted that paint on
and they sandblasted off.
It was all like, like you could see it was like,
you know, like half inch, half inch,
like nice redwood paneling, right?
It was pretty thick.
And it was all attached to the wall and shit.
It wasn't like it was like in between.
It was the outer wall of the house by the front door.
And I like woke up and I'm like down in there like this.
I'm like, what the fuck's going on here, you know?
And my boy, he goes, dude, you just flopped.
And when you fell back there, he goes,
I saw that board bow all the way out
to that outside of the wall.
Like it like went like this.
He's all, I can't believe it didn't break, you know?
He saw it went like that.
And I was like, holy shit, that wizard ball,
that thing hits, you know, like, damn.
Just like trying to like shake it off
and like act normal and shit.
And I was like, damn, I got fucking high off of that one,
you know, and when you get high like that,
like you don't shake it, but yeah, it's a seizure.
It's a straight up seizure.
Your brain doesn't get any oxygen.
And you floppy fish out.
Like people watch people do it on nitrous
and shit like that.
And it's just, you know, it's, there's nothing there.
Sound like a fucking dare commercial right now.
Like don't smoke this shit, you know?
Or like dare to get really fucking high
because you know, this shit's for real.
It is, man.
Fucking man.
That's funny because I think it was yesterday
or something I threw up a Nancy Reagan graphic
from back in the day.
Send in some man.
Oh, check it out.
I went to a school that was one of the test schools
for just saying no.
It was one of the first ones that they fucking sent
that shit to to try it out and fucking.
We all used to wear our shirt, the just say no shirt
when we had weed.
So we'd know who had the weed to smoke and shit.
Well, do you guys remember the Reagan physical fitness stuff
in like grade school where like,
it was like how many pushups can you do?
Pull ups.
Touch your toes and shit.
Right.
Jumping.
Hell yeah.
Dad is doing all kinds of stupid shit.
Well, just quickly, I gotta go convince my three year old
she has to go to bed, but Tony, you have the power.
You got the controls.
All right.
And so Lucas, you talked about kind of meeting Tony.
Can you talk about meeting Jackson?
And I'll be back.
Yeah.
I mean, I feel like it was also a very similar situation.
Meeting just, I don't know if it was a form
or something on Facebook, just meeting Jackson on Facebook
and kind of just commenting on each other's posts
or on similar posts and just kind of,
and then friend requests, this, that, and the other.
And then we, yeah, 2014, February, High Times Cup.
Yeah, you and Leo, I think that was probably
one of the best times that I actually got to talk
to you guys, because you didn't have a line
that was like blowing around the corner.
So it was really cool to talk to you both,
but it was great when I finally realized,
oh, you're the dude that has the potential
you're the dude that has the Pitbull profile picture.
And then it was just how generous you guys were.
You're like, oh, try this and here's some of that
and this, that.
And I was just like, wow, these guys are fucking awesome.
And then you were telling me about the Emerald Cup
and yeah, that's when I was like, oh shit,
like I need to go to this, check this out.
And so then it was cool to be able to see you again
at 2014 Emerald Cup.
And I believe in that the one that the Black Lime Reserve
won second place.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So cool.
Yeah.
And the High Times Cup, the trip was there
when we were at the Emerald Cup.
It was like, everybody knew like it was good outdoor seeds.
And then we went to the SoCal High Times one
and everybody's like seeds for outdoor,
who's growing outdoor?
Like, what are you doing?
You know, we're in San Bernardino,
we're in LA and shit.
And nobody really, it was just like,
we were just kind of chilling.
And that's where I met like Braveheart
and gave him some seeds that he wound up finding
that Nubia in.
And then that's like where I met Brandon from 3rd Gen.
And like a lot of people at that one,
I wound up meeting and that was a cool show.
And it was cool too that it wasn't hella crazy,
you know, because you can't do shit
when everybody's just running up
and trying to answer questions and shit
and keep your shit together.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was a problem.
But yeah, but it's weird though.
Those cups are weird too.
Cause if you're like used to that Emerald Cup,
I'd been to the Emerald Cup like four times or something
and three times, something like that.
And then you go to a High Times Cup
and I'd never been to one.
And I was just like, whoa, this is crazy.
Like, I remember like standing there
and I was like eating some nachos
and these dudes are sitting there
and they're like throwing out pre-rolls at everybody.
And they're like smashing my food on my nice clothes
and shit.
And I'm like, dude, like, what the fuck is this?
Like throw fucking swag at the peasants and shit.
Like what the fuck is going on?
You're ruining my shit, man.
I'm just like trying to hang out.
Like I pre-rolled, man, I don't want your pre-rolls.
Dude, what are you doing?
This shit's rude, you know?
But everybody's like up there like, oh shit, free pre-rolls.
And it was crazy.
It was just like, I'd never seen it.
I didn't know that kind of a scene was there, you know?
And then now-
Yeah, that shit was weird when Wu-Tang was playing.
They were throwing out fucking joints,
fucking left and right, man.
It was crazy.
Yeah, it was trippy.
But overall, yeah.
That was 2012.
And I remember you had like that ghost train,
Hayes crossed with the African.
What was it?
Melange Gold.
The Melange.
Yeah.
Yeah, I still have those scenes in the fridge somewhere.
I never popped them, but I know they gotta be a gnarly.
I saw some cool ghost train Hayes over the years.
That was one of those weird crosses that had like,
it was a cool mix because of the odd ends of the spectrum
that were put together, you know?
I've seen some people, I think it was like two years ago,
a friend of mine up here had one.
I saw his plant.
It was like 17 feet tall or something.
It was just a globe of huge buds,
but it was as big as a Hayes plant.
I was like, that's a cool.
You see why people like to do those real crazy far ends
of the spectrum crosses, you know?
And I ended up popping some of those.
And I did find a female that smells exactly like the mother
that you had smelled the nugs of.
And she's definitely, I can actually run her indoors.
I mean, she damn near triples in size,
but she like fills in, she's got nice dense buds.
She goes like 12 weeks instead of like 16, 17,
like the Melange did.
But man, so far everyone I've let tried it,
really, really loves the profile on her.
Yeah, it has that.
I know the one that I saw had that real,
real heavy on the terpeneline and the pine,
but it was a lot to it.
It was layered.
It wasn't just like, it's funny,
because there's like, over the years,
there's those ones that gave all that kind of weed
a bad name, you know what I mean?
Like the washed out,
like the one that was the worst that I ever saw
was the Amsterdam flame.
And I don't know if it was all like that,
but the Amsterdam flame was like,
it had like a little bit of terpeneline
and it had nothing else.
And it was just like, just nothing to it
compared to like something like good ghost train haze
or like a pine tar kush or like the candelabra I had
where it's like, yeah, it's tons of terpeneline,
but it's like, boom, right in your fucking face, you know?
That stuff tastes terrible.
Yeah, it was more in that vein of where it had like,
then it had some stuff that was hard to put a finger on
that was that weird,
that weird kind of stuff that's not weird.
Like, I don't know how, there's no describing it.
So a lot of the haze stuff is like that.
It's just like, ah.
Even like those, like Cuban blacks and stuff like that.
You're like, it almost, it's a smell
you almost can't even detect,
but when you smoke it, there's a lot of flavor, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
Had that going for it.
And see, I, to me, like it,
I guess that terpeneline is like,
I just call it like a traditional like haze.
Like it's really hazy, you know?
Like I don't know really what else to describe it as.
But man, the smoke on it, it's amazing.
And what was crazy too, like I brought other flower down
and because it was raining and whatnot,
like the humidity just wrecked my shitty cure at the time,
because I really didn't even know
what I was doing back then.
Not, you know.
And that melange gold, man, it kept its profile.
Like even through the humidity and it was very pungent.
And even now, I mean, it's, you double bag it
and it still stinks up the room, you know?
Yeah, some weed's durable like that.
I used to grow, I used to grow these two clones at one point
and one of them, no matter how good you grew it,
never smelled that much.
That was the Northern Lights.
And then I had the Dirt Big Bud.
And we had a time when we fucked up
and we had like a, we had like the drying room
was like just behind a plastic wall from the grow room.
And it was okay because when the grow room was going,
it was getting exhausted.
And so the other room would always stay
around 70, it wasn't ideal, but it was good enough.
This stuff would come out really good.
Yeah, it worked.
Yeah, but we like left after we replanted
and we forgot to turn the exhaust fan on.
We killed the whole grow freshly replanted on Christmas Eve
and all the weed in there wound up getting dried
in a room that probably got to be like 120 degrees, you know?
And the Northern Lights usually was hard to get a smell from
but it would still be really, really dank.
It tasted good, it just didn't smell that heavy.
And then the Dirt Big Bud, like it still smelled like
this is the shit, even though it was dry,
even though it was flash dried overnight in 120 degrees,
like it was in a fucking food dehydrator, you know?
But some things are just durable, you know?
You can't, it's harder to ruin.
Yeah, and I've found with running a lot of OGs lately,
like, you know, it smells amazing growing,
but man, trying to keep it and get the same, you know,
in the cure, or at least, I mean,
what I've been experiencing lately.
Yeah, it's crazy how the differences between them,
some are way more durable and they'll, you know,
you don't have to do anything really.
And then other ones, it's like, man,
you really gotta be on your temps and, or not temps,
but your humidity level and not dry out too much.
So yeah, I ended up just dubbing it goat haze
because it's one of the, I love it,
and I haven't really smoked anything like it.
Like I've smoked the Durban,
that reminds me of it a little bit, but yeah,
that thing, I mean, it can dry for five days,
it can dry for 10 days,
and it just comes out incredible every time.
Yeah, some stuff will do it.
That's, I noticed too, some of those more,
some of those, some of that, the African stuff like that,
and just in general, like those crazy sativa things,
like they're just, and a lot of people say it,
like they're not even good till they're a little older.
And then there's stuff that people like mess up on purpose
because they think it's better like that.
Like they do like the Malawi cob and stuff.
They say like, yeah, ferment it.
With most things you wanna, you don't wanna ruin it,
but for some reason, like people like wanna ruin that,
and they've done it for a long time
and they've had the weed around.
So it always makes you wonder,
like if there's something to it.
And I don't really know like necessarily
that everybody would wanna do that,
but like it's crazy to go through an intense process
like that when these people have done it
for however many hundreds of years,
and they're like, no, you gotta do this to it.
It kind of makes you wonder about that kind of stuff.
But yeah, I was trying to think of another one too
that they, that kind of people mess up on purpose like that.
But what I was thinking about first was like tobacco.
Like you can't smoke tobacco green.
I tried it, because I was like,
if weed is better green and it sucks when you wind up
fermenting it and turning it brown,
then what is tobacco like if you smoke it green?
I'll bet it's fucking bomb
and everybody's just attached to this,
this like idea of it just being old and brown.
And so I tried it green and I was like,
oh man, nope, can't do that.
Don't do that.
Like your whole mouth is instantly coated
with this bitter, crazy chlorophyll.
Like you just like, you gotta get rid of it.
You gotta brush your teeth, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
Did you see that comment?
Yeah, I was gonna just say some Cascadian.
He's talking about breeding with the NLs from,
and the Bubba's.
He says he's working with a Bubba and NL1 right now.
I'm doing a Bubba NL2 right now in a fem form.
And I'm also doing a, my Mudbone regular cross
to the NL2 end of the Bubba, it's a Bubba back cross.
I'm doing some work with that Bubba now.
I got it back from my partner.
I smell 420.
He passed it back to me.
I've had that plan for almost 16 years now.
So I figured I'd fucking do some more work with it
as fast as I can.
Okay, so I start losing shit once again.
I made me jump on my ass when I,
once I started losing shit and got them back,
I was like, it's time to start fucking just doing
whatever I can with each one of these lines
and save them and see for myself,
pass them out to friends.
Keep the favorites.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, so like Bubba,
I had this friend named Lance
and Lance was one of the first people who I knew.
He had to be the first person who I knew who ever said it.
We always thought he was saying Bubble Kush.
And he's like a super, super mellow, hella cool,
like a stony, stony dreadlock in a way.
Dude, and when he would talk,
he'd always be like, ah yeah, Kush Bubba, Kush Bubba,
you know, you gotta try that, Bubble Kush, you know.
We were always like, what the fuck is this Bubble Kush?
You know, and he finally like would have
some little pieces of it and shit.
This is like 2000, probably like 2000,
2002, 2003, something like that.
And it wasn't common stuff at all.
And he used to get the weed that we had
that was what we called Hindu,
that we got as Hindu as the clone.
And he would be like, oh, this is Bubba, you know.
And we'd be like, oh, well, if you say so,
you know, I don't know.
And he'd be like, yeah, people like,
this is like crazy, crazy high end shit.
And we'd be like, all right, well, you know,
it's just what we got.
My buddies, this is what we got.
This is the Hindu, you know.
And he'd be like, oh yeah, this is Bubba all day.
And then he showed us the Bubba and we were like,
yeah, it's Hindu, you know.
It almost had like a little bit less fuzzy look.
The Hindu looked almost a little bit more fuzzy, you know.
Like how, like when you look at like something
with long legs, like Mac, how it looks fuzzy, resinous.
Whereas the Bubba was like a little bit more shorter,
shorter resin.
And so like, he's like, dude, you gotta grow this.
You gotta grow this Bubba.
And I was like, well, if you get it for me, I'll grow it.
You know, like I'll grow whatever's really bomb.
And I had that Northern Lights back in the day.
And this was like, so this was early 2000.
So this was far enough back that I had basically started to,
once I had like, like I said, like my Northern Lights,
it didn't smell that much, it tasted good.
And then I had like some other crazy shit,
like that Dirt Big Bud, Dirt Perp, Dirt Perp Mark.
And some other things that were just like really,
you know, things were just like crazy, crazy dank weed.
And so I had gotten to the point where I still knew people
who had that Northern Lights.
And I was like, yeah, whatever, they have it.
I don't need to keep it if they have it, no big deal.
And I had made, I had got back stuff like that,
the Northern Lights that the dude had crossed that oil can
back into it, hella times, back crossed to it.
And there was like all these things that were around
and I was like, all right, cool, whatever.
And I like, I really, I really fucking didn't,
I slept on it basically.
And, cause it was just what I was used to.
And so Lance is like, you gotta grow this Bubba
and he gives me this Bubba Kush clone and I grow it.
And I'm excited, like, oh, I gotta grow this thing.
And I'm looking at it and I'm like,
looks hella similar to Northern Lights, you know?
And I grow it and it finishes and I'm like so disappointed.
I'm like, this is Bubba Kush?
It doesn't smell like shit, smells like Northern Lights.
Like it's good bud, but whatever.
And then it finished and a dude wound up being like,
oh, I'm like, which ones do you want here
out of these pounds?
And he's like, I'll take these ones
and I'll take the indoor ones.
And the indoor ones were my outdoor Bubba Kush.
But he looked at them and he just assumed
that they were indoor because they had that indoor look,
because they looked like, back in the day,
a lot of indoor everybody got came from a couple families.
It was like AK, Northern Lights,
you know, white rhino, white widow, white shark.
There was all those things that all have that kind of look
where they're really resinous, bright orange hairs,
really light green.
Outdoor was usually like a little purple or big fat leaves
on like, it looked a little more leafy
or big pine cones with thick stems.
But like, there's those certain things
that people associated with the indoor look
and it was really like that.
But I took that because I was like,
I thought it was gonna be this crazy exotic weed
and it's just this dumb old shit I've had
since I was a little kid, you know?
Like, this is not special weed.
And I grew it and it was gone
and I never even asked to get it back.
And that was like, I don't know what Bubba that was,
but it was like all the way green, super frosty.
When you smoked it, it stunk up the air.
It was a lot like Hindu.
And that was the trip about the Hindu too
was when we grew it outside, it looked hella plain.
It just looked like this plain green bud with orange hairs.
It wasn't super frosty,
but when you grew it indoor, it turned solid white.
It looked like what Rascal, if you ever saw it,
at San Bernardino at that cup,
if you went to Rascal's booth, he had jars
and he had white master kush.
And that white master kush, that's what our Hindu was.
If you look at that, you'd be like,
this is the same phenotype, different weed,
but you could see it was like, that was that shit.
And I honestly think that Hindu master kush,
Northern Lights, probably even maybe a half
or a quarter of the white or all of the white,
a lot of those things, I think they were all really
just like from some old lines that were either
half Northern Lights and had gotten leaned that way,
or they were all Northern Lights,
or they're the same Afghani as Northern Lights or whatever.
But like, I think like that was like
one of the most common things that got dispersed the most.
And people were like, it's fast, it's chunky,
it's super resonance, it's super stony.
And that was like an era where that was
what was the most important.
And that was also why I underrated all that kind of shit.
Now I'm like, okay, well, there's stuff that's more exotic,
but I still want just that old,
like meat and potatoes kind of shit.
So that's like the, somebody asked like about
the Northern Lights here, the five cross two,
the two cross five from Todd McCormick
that came from Seattle Gray, Skunk Tech,
scored us packs of that.
And I was gonna run through some of them
and see like what the similarities are.
But I saw what he grew and they looked like they were,
and they looked like they were,
stuff that pops out of my lime a lot
and stuff that popped out of that original
other side of the NL cross and my side of the NL cross
when I made the limes.
But yeah, I think this guy says NL two reminds me of Bubba.
I think Bubba is NL two.
I've got them growing right next to each other right now.
I mean, they're hybrid, but yeah.
I've got Todd's NL two growing right next to the 98 Bubba.
And then that's growing next to my one hitter,
they're all plants that don't stretch wide leaf.
Just like you're saying those, the Hindi type Afghanis.
Then the NL two puts on a leaf that's probably twice
the size of the Bubba though.
I mean, the fan leaves on that thing are insane
compared to Bubba.
Is it from clone?
No, the NL two is from, well, yeah, it is.
It's from clone.
It's a clone of the seed mother.
But it's the first generation clone.
It's the very first clone I took off the plant.
It's not like a fifth or sixth.
One took off another mom.
It's actually the very first one that rooted very well
off the mother.
And I put it in there next to a clone of the Bubba
and also a clone from my one hitter quitter,
all three together.
I'm running them right now.
They're a month in.
The NL two's very light compared to the Bubba in color,
but they're all the same structure.
The stretching, the same amount,
the profile coming off of them are similar.
The NL two's a little louder than the Bubba is
at the moment, but the Bubba will come in later
and bring in some more shit.
But my one hitter quitter is louder than both of them
in there right now.
Nice.
They're nice though.
I like smoking that kind of, I like breeding with them.
I like to use them for my breeding
and adding into the stuff that I'm working with right now.
That's why I got them going.
Mom.
I just asked if it was a seed plant.
Cause you know, sometimes you start something from seed
and they get those huge leaves and then you clone it.
And then after a while it's like,
or even you start things with a seed and then they mature
and then they're about to flower.
And all of a sudden the leaves go whoop
and they turn into the, you know,
but if they stay big, that's awesome.
But yeah, like the Northern light seeds
that we originally had, we had the one
and the one that got cloned was the plain one,
but like four or five years later
we started the rest of the pack.
And there was one in there that was like all the way purple
and it was just like straight loud skunk weed, you know?
So like in the Northern lights, there's definitely,
it's not as consistent as like what, you know,
kind of it was made out to be.
I remember I read about it in high times when I was a kid
and they're like, it's 42 generations indoor,
bred in Seattle and this and that.
And I'm like, no, it's not like, it's not even,
nobody, you don't need to do that.
There's no point to it, you know?
Like they would have grown clones by that point
and put the other seeds in the fridge.
But, you know, but, but yeah, I originally thought,
you know, they make things sound like, oh, they're so perfect
and that's, what's funny too about like about now
people are like, oh, this modern shit, it's all garbage.
And I'm like, dude, I like grew, like I'm saying,
like I grew Neville's Northern lights for years and years
and it's amazing and I think it's great, but yeah,
like your lights go out for more than a fucking night,
like the shit all herms on the lowers.
Like it all does it just like any of the shit
everybody says now is crap.
It's like, this is the shit from Neville.
Like that shit hermed out if you stressed it out, you know?
And it's all hella plain, you know?
It was like, but, but, but, and it was also mixed up.
It wasn't like it was all exactly that one thing.
So like, you know, so it's cool to see,
I wanna see like what comes out of these ones,
out of these Seattle Greg seeds.
And it's really cool.
Cause even though I only ever saw a little bit like Neville's
I've grown so many crosses of the stuff that I had
that was like the one side that was like NL,
Afghani Burmese and that side that was RNL
crossed with Afghani, Wahakian.
And I've seen so many different things come out of them
that like when I saw like Todd McCormick
start to post the plants that have the leaves
where there's like all the fingers
and then there's the lone finger.
He was able to like walk right,
200 lime plants going at the time you post it.
And I walked around and I'm like, here's one, here's one,
here's one, and you look at them.
And they're really similar.
It's not to say it's that it's, you know,
that doesn't confirm that, oh, these are legit.
But I mean, it's, you know,
Seattle Greggs is legit at the sources
you could ever find for some NL, so.
Did you ever get a bud actually growing there?
Cause I had a grape skunk that did that
throughout that leaf and then-
That's called epithelial growth, brother.
It's a causation from a hormone buildup in the root tips
that's then passed through the phloem and xylem
and it manifests as,
sometimes it'll manifest as a flower
on the center of a leaf.
It's called epithelial growth.
It's just a hormone reaction.
Sometimes you'll get it from too much kelp and shit.
It can happen to that.
It's not necessarily genetic though.
You can influence it with other-
Yeah, you can influence through hormones and shit.
So it's not something you're gonna breed into a new line
that's gonna start popping out.
I've seen so many people have been trying to do that
since the first time I seen it.
There's a few lines out there,
old Vic High's space queen,
some of his crosses would show that also.
But it's coming down to a hormone issue at the root tip
that's passed through the plant
that manifests as that epithelial growth.
I've posted a few times on Instagram to show people
that there's other plants that also show this.
Yeah, and then you know how all those things are.
It's like the thing,
like you saw the debate about the purple stems.
It's like it's influenced by genetics.
And there's gonna be some plants
that are gonna produce those hormones easier than others.
So you'll see it more commonly on something.
It's hella common on some cookie stuff and stuff like that.
But they all have different metabolisms.
You know what I mean?
It's like my grandpa could eat,
I eat all day twice as much food
and he was skinny as a rail.
If I eat like my grandpa,
I'm gonna be twice as fat as I am now.
So like there's like,
it's like it's not just genetics,
but it's influenced by genetics.
Some things are gonna be more likely to do it.
But like you said, it's gonna be hard to just lock it in
unless you find something that does it just so easy.
Yeah, it's gonna have to show up all the time.
Because most of those plants,
if you grow it outside or if you grow it inside
or even different environments inside,
that's not gonna show up.
Or if you go synthetic,
or if you go to even different types of organic systems,
you may not get that showing up at all.
So if it's not a trait that's gonna show up
every time that plant grows,
it's gonna be a fucking issue trying to lock that in
when you're breeding.
I mean, you're just fighting the fucking feeling
at that point.
You want it to happen,
but you're really wasting a lot of time
when you could be steering something else
with that kind of passion and drive
and have it happen much easier
than chase something like that.
Cause that's something that, and like pink pistols,
people are always trying to chase that.
That's also something.
It's influenced through the pH of the floam in the plant,
which is just, it's brought up again
through the root system.
So if you're gonna affect the plant,
you're gonna have to do it through your inbreds
along with the genetics.
And it comes down to hard as shit to breed for that.
It's just, it's difficult.
And there's so many plants that already do it.
It's like more people just find the genetics doing it.
Dive into some Afghanis and look at them
in week three and five,
and you'll find them in the population.
A lot of hybrids are gonna show that all the time.
It's just a reaction to a anthocyanin,
it's called choline,
that builds up in the tissue of the plant
that helps it change those colors and shit.
Gotcha.
Trying to read all these comments.
I honestly, I can't see any of the comments.
Oh, I guess click chat.
Someone asked about the Bob's Cheddar.
The Bob's Cheddar that's going to come out
tasting like berry kicks.
That's the main terpene profile,
the taste that's gonna come out of that thing.
Extremely dense on the shorter girls.
They, you can knock your friend out
with those nugs if you wanted to.
The taller ones that have more of that,
like a fresh marshmallow feel to the buds,
those are fucking good for pressing.
They're gonna produce a large amount of trichome oil.
Cheddar Bob's shown that shit on his live feed
and that stuff comes out killer when he's pressing it.
And just quickly, people are asking
if the auction's happened.
We may do an auction.
I'm, having done many of the auctions
where it's like trying to connect YouTube username
with whether someone paid,
I'm a bigger fan of just being like,
let's put 10 packs of X up and people pick them up.
But basically, so tonight,
so this is a conversation I've wanted to have for a while,
independent of raising funds for something.
It was basically Lucas, as someone who's breeding,
who looks up to and was inspired by the two guys above us,
I thought it'd be cool to get them all together
and kind of talk shop.
And then.
That crazy part is that High Time Cup
that Lucas first met Gene,
that's the first time I also met Gene in person.
That one High Times Cup, it wasn't the most packed.
Oh, you were down in LA too?
Yeah, I was down there.
That's the first time I think I did some trading
with Jackson.
I was down there with my partner, Nick.
He used to be one of the breeders,
he used to breed for GOD Seeds a long time ago
and he also owned his own company after that.
Me and him went to the cup because his wife and me
had been going to school since like I was in fourth grade.
And one day he hits me up and he's like,
you know this chick named Jessica?
And I'm like, yeah, man, I went to school with this chick.
He's like, that's my wife.
So that's how me and him hook up.
I've been same way I met these other two guys.
I was always in some grow group on Facebook,
sharing information and shit.
And I started getting people in the industry
kind of recognizing that I wasn't full of shit
because of the way I was offering information.
I wasn't just fucking passing junk.
So I ended up meeting,
that's how I meet Min-Jin and Lucas and my buddy,
basically everybody that's out here right now.
I'm from a cat that one day posted pictures of my hands
from being sick to, you know,
somehow I got accepted by this community
and Jackson and Levi and Raymond,
a bunch of these cats I ended up meeting
for the first time at that one cup.
And it was fucking, it was cool shit, man,
to finally meet people and put a face
to the actual people that were talking online and shit
and be able to find out that they were fucking way cooler
than I actually thought they were
in these fucking groups and shit
because when you get to meet people.
He didn't think you guys were very cool in the groups.
No, I thought they were cool as shit in the group.
I just, they were fucking, they were way fucking,
it was a whole different level when you meet these cats
and they're not fucking, they're not selfish.
They're not egotistical.
Like you meet them, like the first time I met Gene,
he fucking traded some seeds with me
and he spent more time talking to me
than he probably needed to, right?
Now he didn't have to talk to me like that.
And then that's happened with multiple cats
in this industry.
Same thing happened when I met Scott from Rare Dankness
and Levi, when I met him in person,
them cats didn't have to spend an hour or two hours
talking to me like Levi did
or Scott from Rare Dankness the first time.
They could have just went back to the booth
and sold some seeds, but instead, for some reason,
they wanted to talk to me.
And that's when they go from just being these dudes
typing on the internet that could or could not be
who the fuck they say they are
to people that you can tell,
actually know the shit they're talking about
when you just sit there and speak to them
for a couple of seconds.
It goes from just being this random shit
to somebody that you not only wanna speak to more,
but it drives you to wanna be more like that person
in your own breeding, in your own life, really, for real.
I meet a lot of these cats and they start showing me
a whole different side of the cannabis community.
And Gene's the first cat that put community
into this shit for me when I fucking got sick
and almost died and shit.
Without him, I wouldn't have been able to fucking
probably get off the fucking,
the opiates that they had put me on.
So, and then all these people that I eventually keep meeting
and like what we're doing tonight,
just helping each other out.
This fucking community is something that we all need
to cherish a little bit more.
So I appreciate you guys.
Same, same.
And I mean, yeah, it's like, I never thought,
Scott from Rare Dankness, I had bought him seeds
from him at the LA Cup and then saw him at the Emerald Cup
and never would have thought he would ever remember me,
just from buying seeds and talking a little bit.
And sure enough, I see him, we make eye contact,
he starts heading over to me and goes to shake my hand.
Hey, how you been?
And we started talking about bow hunting
because that's something we're both really big into.
We didn't even talk about plants at all.
So it's, like I said, it's really cool to meet up
and you pick up where you left off.
It's not like, oh, hey, just meeting you for the first time.
It's like, oh yeah, we were talking about this and that
and whatever.
It, I don't know, it definitely made me know who I like
to associate with, because I got to go around
and see how everybody's running their booth
and how everybody holds themselves.
And I mean, Jackson was giving me, oh, here, smell this.
Oh, take some nugs, just so generous
when he didn't need to.
So you can really tell who you really wanna associate with
when you get to meet people.
So it's really nice to be able to meet people.
That's always my favorite part of having weed
and seeds and all that, is to be able to give stuff away.
If anybody doesn't do it, you got to do it.
It's the funnest part of all of it.
When I first started growing weed,
the big thing for me was I was like, okay, I got some weed.
The big thing for me was like, oh, I got to show this
to the dudes who had good weed that I didn't have any.
I had no weed and I'm looking at the weed like,
damn, so how do you get it to be good?
And how do you dry it?
And when do you trim it?
And what's it called?
And what do you do?
Like, what do you water?
And what kind of food do you use?
And what kind of sun did you grow it in?
Did you put it in pots or was it in the ground
or all that kind of stuff?
And people tell you shit and then you grow your own weed
and you have it and you're like,
oh, I got to show these dudes, check it out.
I did it.
Like, this is this.
And then you're like, oh, let me give you some of mine.
And then you give people weed.
And then you get addicted to just being like,
you realize that-
Check this out.
Yeah, and you realize that when you give stuff to people,
that if it's nice, that it's gonna make them happy,
that they just came across this thing
and you realize, wow, it's crazy.
I just got this bag of stuff
and I can just hand it to somebody.
And they're like, oh.
Like, it's the coolest thing.
Because it's in human nature to want to have interactions
and want to have positive interactions
and meet people and have it go good.
And ever since probably we were damn near wild.
You hope when you...
That's like where the handshake and taking off your hat
and all that kind of stuff comes from like,
hey, I'm not gonna kill you, man.
And like, so everybody, it's in our evolutionary,
it's in our evolution to be like,
okay, I wanna have these positive interactions
with other humans.
And there's only so many ways you can do that.
People love music for that.
People love sports for that.
People love food for that.
And weed is just like this one more thing
where you're like, you know somebody's into weed.
You're like, well, if you like weed,
you're probably gonna like this.
And then you get to like, it's a party, right?
Right away, you're like, okay, cool.
Like you're into weed, I'm into weed.
And everybody wants to do that.
And weed is just a trippy thing
because you don't have to agree with people
on a lot of shit.
And like maybe you do, maybe you don't,
but like everybody can kind of look at it.
It's almost like mathematics.
Like we can like, it's like spelling.
You're like, how do you spell that?
You spell it like this.
Like, is this shit dank?
It's pretty dank.
And people have differing opinions about weed.
But for the most part,
like if people are actually interested in like the weed
and the plant itself, if someone has like interesting weed,
you're gonna be like, oh, let me check that out.
And you guys can like,
it's like something to share with other humans.
It's a cool thing.
And that's what like,
then when I went to, I learned that
almost from a negative thing about the shows.
Like I went to the shows
and there was like a couple of breeders.
So I went to like talk to like, oh, check this out.
You know, like I was like, I had some crazy shit.
And I was like, wow, this is gonna blow people away.
Like to see this.
And like, I wanna see what they got, you know?
And like, you know, ask people like who are selling seeds.
Like what's in here and what does it take?
How many packs do I need?
Is this, is the one like the picture,
is this common or do I need eight packs?
Or what's the deal?
This is cool.
I would like to find this.
And people just kind of shrug you off
and they're like, dude, you buying shit or what?
Keep it moving.
Yeah, or you know, somebody else is running the booth
and it's not even the breeder.
And it's like you and Leo were there answering questions,
doing whatever, you know?
And it's a lot different when you get that interaction
compared to, hey, let me get Joe Schmo
to come run my booth for me
while I'm out doing whatever, you know?
Yeah, it might've been better.
It probably would have been better like for me
and probably for people waiting.
Like if the shit moves faster.
But I was like, man, I've already been there.
I've already like seen what that's like
when you go to come up.
And I've had like before all that in regular weed shit,
I've had people like kind of shrug off your weed,
like man, whatever.
And fucking, you know, like ego trip on you and shit.
And you're like, dude, it's not,
it has nothing to do with that.
I'm not like trying to say it's better than yours
or whatever.
I'm not gonna kiss your ass.
But I figured like, you know,
you're looking at it more like a scientist
or, you know, like just like a nerd.
Like this is this, like check it out.
And then you realize like, oh, there's no enthusiasm here.
You ain't an enthusiast, you're a business person.
And that's cool.
Like I can respect that,
but I can't really get down with that.
Like, and like, what can I, I can't do shit with that.
So you're like, all right, I'll just keep going.
I'll go over here.
But I've never, I've just been,
that's like a turnoff to me
with like that kind of interaction
when you're like, fuck, all right.
Well, so cool.
Let me just jump in for a second.
Cause I think this is something that I love
and respect about you and Tony
and like a Kevin Jodry where,
you know, like when you go to an event,
like a conference and everyone's wearing a name tag
and they're the people who at that event,
like you'll, everybody's kind of like talking to each other
and there are people who kind of like their eyes glance down
at your name tag to determine whether
you're worth their time to talk to.
And for me, when I'm at an event,
I don't give a shit if you're really important
or not at all.
If I'm having an interesting conversation with you,
like I'm in, like, I don't care if you're someone
who can drive my business forward or whatever.
And I feel like you guys are like that
where you'll talk to whoever and give them your time.
And I mean, Lucas is nodding.
Like he gets what I'm saying.
Like you guys are accessible to anybody
and everybody who just wants to talk.
And you're not trying to rush through a conversation
with somebody because they're meaningless
so that you can get to somebody more important.
And I feel like I speak for a lot of people
when I'm talking to the two of you up top
and like a Kevin in saying that.
So that, and that's what I love.
It's just like, we're all at this event
and people are just down to shoot the shit
and have good conversation.
Yeah, I mean, like I've learned over the years
that like people, basically if people will talk to you,
like they're all interesting.
Like everybody's interesting.
There's nobody who like, you're like everybody.
And you know this kind of shit.
Like if you're like eating shrooms or acid or something,
you're like, dude, that's like, that's a person.
Like what's the odds?
Like if you really look at the whole universe,
I was talking to BioVortex about this.
I'm all, what's the odds, dude?
Like it's way more likely
that you would have never been born.
And then it's way more likely
that you would have been like fucking plankton
or fucking bacteria or some shit
once you are gonna actually come into
having a life force, right?
But like you wound up being a human,
which is pretty crazy.
Cause it's like the dominant species, you know?
So you're like, holy shit.
Like I remember eating shrooms and being in the woods
and being like, what the fuck?
Like, this is fucking crazy.
It's almost kind of fucked up,
but it's magical too because you're like,
how the fuck am I a person?
This is crazy.
And that's just at the very base.
That doesn't have anything to do with like,
oh, you're a big deal and fucking you.
I fucking heard this guy fucking won a fucking,
got a fucking, got championship rings in the NBA
or this fucking dude has six Bentleys
or this dude owns airplane.
It's like none of that shit.
All that shit is minor details past the fact that like,
somebody is a person who's like lived a whole fucking life
and made it, not died, wound up here.
And then after all that shit too, it turns out,
hey, you know, like they like plants.
They like weed.
They're fucking here sharing the same space as you
and all that shit.
And like, you know, it's just a trip.
Like nobody has enough energy to totally just be like,
like I've been at places and I've had people come up to me
and they're kind of fucking weird.
And they're like kind of, you know, draining
and they're fucking doing weird shit.
And you're like, all right, well, I can't take this on.
It's not to say they're not interesting.
It's just like one of those things of like, all right,
this is just, this is not gonna work.
I can't interact with you very much, you know?
But usually if people are like cool
and they're actually coming up with a good vibe
and everything, it's like, well,
what the fuck else are you gonna do?
You know, like you really,
you got some big important thing you wanna be at.
Like, I don't care about like all that identity shit.
You know, like I've had people in my house before
that were like, you know, fucking dangerous dudes
come by for some fucking do some shit.
And fucking dude, you know, wants to grab my weed.
Like they're like, well, fuck, what's fucking wrong?
No, dude, you ain't, give me my shit.
I only got that one jar of that.
Get your hands off of my shit, you know?
My boy's like, dude, like that dude,
that's like a scary dude.
And I'm all, get him the fuck out of my house.
Fuck that guy, you know, he's an asshole.
I don't care.
I don't care who, like if people are, you know,
so they have a big identity.
Like I'm more interested in like just people's, you know,
humanity and if they're cool
and if they're gonna come be nice to me,
I'm gonna be nice to them.
Like, you know, people are respectful and normal.
You're like, cool, all right.
There's just those rare kind of people.
Sometimes people show up and they talk to you
and fucking very weird, you know?
And you're like, dude, I can't do this.
Like you're just fucking with my vines.
But that's pretty much the only people who, you know,
or, you know, if people are fucking big shit
and I'm giving me your shit and trying to, you know,
just like, you know, push you around or whatever,
then I'm like, I'll fuck these guys too.
But anybody who's cool, it's a cool thing, man.
And I live in the woods too.
If I was from New York, I'd probably be more like
a lot of these guys who don't wanna talk to anybody
because they're just people, people, people, people.
Like I live in the woods.
I don't have to be around people all the time.
So like, you know, talking to weed people,
it's the shit, man.
It's a fun thing.
I've had cabin fever plenty of times, you know?
Yeah, and it's, I mean, and everyone, you know,
has a different experience with life too, you know?
So getting to share each other's experiences,
whether it be through weed or whatever, you know,
it's really, it's awesome to meet
some really interesting people, that's for sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think, you know, it's kinda like
people who start by asking you what you do
versus just like,
it's like that determines your importance, right?
Versus just like,
yeah, the handcrafted seed sorters.
I actually, so can you guys talk about,
because Tony, you made one too, right?
And you're on mute.
Yeah, like Cascadian Grown.
Cascadian makes a handmade wood version
and I have a 3D printed version
that they work well for helping folks
that are doing small batch breeding to sieve seeds,
even if you have quite a lot of seeds that work,
but there's other ways to sieve seeds on a larger basis,
but yeah, they work killer, man.
Yeah, I need one, because sorting seeds by hand sucks.
Well, I got one printed here I'll send you, brother.
I'll send it in with the seeds.
I do the old, I just use a big old like cookie sheet
and like a credit card
and then you just tilt the one side up and do the.
Well, the seed one where you can just drop seeds
through the top and with a fan,
just blow that fucking chaff away
and you end up with clean ass seeds very quickly.
Super clean, yeah.
Yeah, I did the trays like you're talking about.
I'd use like the plant trays with the grooves,
like the white plant trays.
Yeah.
And then I'd do that.
And then after a while I realized like, oh shit, okay,
you can like blow the weed.
Blow it off.
It'll come up and then I was like, okay shit.
So then after a while I started like using a bowl
and then I would use a bowl and I'd just be like,
just blow it all out and there'd be like all the seed left
and I was like, fuck, okay,
because the seed don't wanna blow up the side of the bowl.
And I realized it worked easier than a tray.
And then I seem like you can take a five gallon bucket
and use like a hairdryer.
Yeah.
So you had mentioned the hairdryer.
That works hella good.
And you can take a cheap hairdryer
cause I was just talking to Bio Vortex about this.
He's just like, oh, why don't you just use the one
with the, that's just adjustable.
And I'm like, oh, well, my girl told me like,
those ones are expensive.
They always cost like 50 bucks to go cold or hot, right?
So they sell the one that's always hot.
It's like $9, right?
You can get like the little Conair $9, one, wherever.
And then you just open it up
and then you see which wire attaches to the heating element.
You pop out the heating elements, just a little coil.
And then you pop out the wire that goes to it.
Boom, it comes out totally clean.
There's no nothing hanging out.
You just pop it right off, screw it back together.
And then you got one,
and it'll warm up a little bit just from the motor running,
but it's not like a hot hairdryer, right?
So now it's just air.
So now it's just air.
So that works really good,
especially for small stuff in a five gallon bucket.
And then if you put it into something that's shallower
than a five gallon bucket, then you can blow out,
you can get like the stems and stuff
that's slightly lighter than the seeds to come out.
And that'll do the final clean.
But what I started doing was putting it in,
I got this garbage can that has a handle on it.
That's like, it's like not like,
it's not a lightweight garbage can.
It's like heavy plastic.
It has a handle on the back and it's for like dumping leaves
and it has a flat front, like instead of having the,
like the lip of it, instead of being around,
it comes to a flat side and it like,
like dumps out like the end of a shovel kinda.
And so to dump stuff out of it,
you can dump it out of the corner, hella easy.
It's super nice.
But I take that and then I use a shop vac
and I hold the shop vac and I put the shop vac
so that the end of the hose blowing out,
I put it on so it's blowing air instead of sucking it.
And then I take the garbage can full of all the crushed weed
and I bump it on the ground
and it keeps the seed settling to the bottom
and it keeps the weed fluffing up.
And then you can't put the shop vac inside the can.
It has to go right on the outside of the can.
It's just the perfect amount of air.
And then I just hold it and I go bump, bump, bump, bump,
bump, and all of the weed flies out
and it leaves all the seed on the bottom.
And then you get to a certain point
where it's now it's mostly, it's mostly cleaned up
and then I'll put it back in a tub
and I'll just like take off the last little bit
of what's still seed that has the husks on it.
And then I'll put it back in, blow that out.
And then I put it into this smaller thing
that's about half as big as a five gallon bucket.
And then I hold the shop vac hose
so that the opening is like right here on my hand.
And then I hold it back like this
and I just go and shake it.
And it gets rid of all the stems and all the white seeds.
And then it's fully sorted.
And I can do like, I can go through like two pounds
of seeded weed and get like a bag of seeds like this.
And the whole thing only takes like maybe 20 minutes
or something.
So it works really good that way.
But it's like a whole process of learning like, okay
where do you hold the air?
How do you dump it?
How do you shake it?
And all that.
But for me, I can't beat it with a sorter,
but with like having like smaller bags
where I'm gonna wind up with like a few hundred seeds,
the little seed sorter to set on top
and just be able to go, boom, rough it up, put it in, boom,
put it in a bag.
It's way better because I don't have to go
through all that process, handling the big old can,
doing all this shit.
So like I use both.
You can also take the trim bin that we use for trimming in.
It's got the screen.
You can put all your fucking seeds
with the fucking shaft in the top of that.
If you've got air conditioner outside
or a heater, just set that shit.
So the fan comes on and hold that fucker
about two feet above it and slightly lower it down
as the fans coming on, it'll blow all that shit right out
of there and leave you with fucking clean seeds
in about 30 seconds.
There's a lot of tricks.
Some people use like a box fan, set it up on a chair,
put a bin in front of it, put another bin right behind it.
So there's like a fan and a bin and a bin.
And then you just dump it in front of the fan
and all the weed blows into the far bin
and all the shit falls into the close bin.
That's more like traditional people used to do.
Yeah, it's traditional windowing right there.
Yeah, that works out.
It's the same thing like using the AC or whatever.
There's tons of ways to do it,
but I've liked doing the can, the big can
and the smaller can, because I'll like go through,
I can do a bunch at once.
And then everything's like easy for the pouring
and putting in bags and all that.
And it all winds up working good.
But the little seed machine, clean seeds, really good,
especially if you have variable speed.
Because you try it and it's like-
Yeah, mine comes with a variable speed
so you can turn it off and on.
You're talking about like the seed sorter,
the little white box?
Yeah, hold on.
Look, yeah, that black box right there.
Yeah, I got one printed right here.
Hold on, I'll show you.
Like the one Tone has or the one Cascadian has,
they're like, they're bird seed cleaners.
Oh, yeah. Cascadian has one also.
It's a bird seed winnower.
So they're designed to winnow bird seeds.
I don't have the front on or a fan,
but this is what they look like right here.
So a fan goes right here
and it comes with an adjustable motor
from off to fully on.
Then on top, it has a funnel.
Mine has a funnel.
You drop the seeds down the funnel.
They follow this path.
As soon as the air blows across here,
the heavy seeds drop and all the light seeds
and all the chaff comes up and goes down the bottom.
Put a tray under each side and it's done.
You've got all your shit sorted.
You can run them twice
and it should have all the white seeds removed.
And I did about 10,000 seeds in this on a live feed
in like two minutes.
So they work fucking well.
You just have to have bone dry material
and you're not trying to save the material
to fucking make cash.
There's a lot of people want to make cash out of it too.
But when you go through fucking pounds of seeds
and the seeds are more valuable than the hash,
just put it to you guys like that.
So it comes down to what do you want to do?
You already got a half broken, right?
To go through the machine.
It's already got a bit crushed up.
You break it all up and it dropped.
What you can do is you can take like five gallon bucket,
cut the bottom like four inches off of the bucket
and then put a screen on the bottom of that bucket.
And then put that inside another bucket.
And when you break up your weed
or you run it through like the grates,
like hardware cloth screens, it all comes through.
And then you can take that top one
and you can take them, shake them a little bit
and then pull off the things off the top,
pull the bucket out.
And then in the bottom, then you have all your Keith.
And I've collected like a lot of Keith like that.
And then, cause no matter what, when you crush it up,
you're not going to be crushing it into your machine.
You're going to be crushing it into something.
So if you crush it up and put a screen on the bottom,
you'll still get all your Keith.
I crushed mine above a trim bin.
Yeah. And then you find out, yeah, same deal.
You find out which ones are dropping the most hash too.
So like, it's a good way to see like,
okay, that one hashes, this one, nothing fell through.
It's all grease.
And then you have an idea like what plants are better
probably for hashing, without having to do washes and shit.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, for everybody looking right now,
Cascadian grown has a link in his IG for his version.
I'm serious.
If you guys are seriously out there breeding
and you're making seed stock
and you don't want to have fucking tennis elbow,
you're tired of fucking staring at a fucking pan.
These things will get your shit done fast
and you can go spend time with your fucking family.
You can go hunting, you can go golfing,
you can go grow some more fucking plants.
Yeah, it's not fun at all.
No, you gotta have some kind of trick.
You gotta have some kind of trick.
And then too, with the machine,
like I'm talking about going,
okay, so I'm gonna get all this seed out.
And so I'm using like the big can and the little can.
By the time you get down to the point where it's like,
okay, it's seed, but the seed is like,
you know, like if it's a lot of seed,
what'll happen is it's like,
you gotta move it around so much for the air
to hit where you want it to be.
So you can actually do the first steps I'm talking about
in a bucket or whatever,
then take your seed and put it in the machine
and use the machine just to clean the seed,
not even to take the weed out of it.
You'll wind up with a drawer of white seeds
and a drawer of dark seeds.
And then you're like, okay, all these are viable.
And even in some of the white ones,
even a little bit of them are viable,
but they're not really what you wanna keep anyway.
Well, if it's dark, they're pretty much always viable.
That's why it's got the exits in.
It will straight dump white seeds out of there.
Once you get like cascading inside here,
once you dial the fan in based on your seed size,
some seeds weigh more than other seeds.
So you'll be able to turn it up higher.
But when you're dealing with like a,
say a hay seed that's really small,
you need to turn this thing down
so that those white seeds will fucking shoot up and out
and the good ones will fall.
That's why you need to have that adjustable dial on there.
So yeah.
But for sure, I'll put this one together
and send it to you, Peter, when I do send the seeds in
because I've seen a lot of people saying
they want me to restock
and I'm sending shit in next week.
I've just been lazy as shit.
So that's how it is, man.
There are some stuff we got in there though.
I had like days of,
it was my dad's 91st birthday.
So I went to Florida for like six days and I came back
and I was just packing orders up.
But so, all right.
So there's something called Black Lime Reserve.
Mm-hmm.
And Black Lime Reserve has,
it's had an impact.
And I feel like its impact has been
probably not as much in the commercial market, but like,
I mean, so.
With millions of dollars of sales of things
that have been bred with Black Lime Reserve
being an accurate kind of ballpark.
I don't know, but I know people have made
definitely like dozens of people have made stuff with them
and released them.
I mean, I've even, everybody who asked me,
like I put them out as an F1
and then I said I would never put out any more of them.
And so anybody who asked me like if they could increase them
and sell the increases, I've always said, sure.
So a lot of people have had F2s.
And then as far as hybrids, there's a ton of them too.
So it's definitely gone around.
I think one of the reasons why it doesn't do as well
for like commercial stuff for me personally
was like, it is that kind of weed that I get,
it winds up with a little bit of that Chem 4 color
where it winds up being kind of gold.
And if you know what it is, then you're like,
oh, that's dank.
It's because the resin on it gets like a gold color to it.
And those ones with that color, actually,
a lot of times are really nice ones,
but they don't all do that, but a lot of them do that.
And people will tell you that about a lot of Chem 4 stuff.
It'll get like this gold color.
So people associate it with being like old
because you're used to seeing,
if you see diesel and it's that color,
it'd be like three years old.
But Black Lime Reserve looks like that pretty quick.
And it's partly because of the greasiness of the lime
and partially because of the Chem 4 gold resin color
that it has.
And I think that's one of the reasons.
And then, it's a little bit harder to trim.
Some of them, like my fate,
like the one I won second in the Emerald Cup with
was like really hard to trim.
It wasn't like what you wanna grow
to just have tons of weed,
but it was what you wanna grow to have that sack of weed
to like competition grade dank,
because it was really, really nasty.
Yeah, the terpenes on it are insane.
Yeah, tons of terpenes.
A lot of them test up around like 5% terpenes.
I've seen people test a lot of stuff at 4.5, 5.1 and stuff.
And then, it's one of those ones that somebody,
I think it was Blue River Terpenes.
They're like, yeah, we ran all these different things.
And it's still like the only thing
that ever produced that much of a jar,
the percentage of terpenes they got off of running it
to extract straight terpenes was just like
way higher than anything else.
And there's other things that get,
I'm not saying it's like the record holder or anything
for in general, but for them it was.
And it's just like really, it's really tasty
and it's really stinky.
Well, I mean, if I remember correctly,
I think on the 2014 Emerald Cup,
it was only like 18% total THC and whatnot,
but it was like 5% terpenes.
And it took second out of what, like 1200 entries?
Yeah, I mean, I think that year was probably more
like 600 or something, but it's still a lot
of different bags of weed for people to go through.
I remember I showed it to like Kingston Herb
and Blaze went up, they came to the house
and they were like, oh, what are you gonna put in the cup?
And I showed it to them, they're all,
there's no way anything's gonna beat this.
Like there's no way anybody has any weed
that's gonna have more impact when people smell it.
And I was like, oh yeah, whatever.
You know, I'm like, if I gets in the top 20
and gets noticed, I'll be stoked
because I'd already entered other stuff.
So the year before, I can't remember
if it was the year before or the year before that,
but I'd already entered stuff and it was like,
but it didn't even place.
And so I was like, okay, well, if it gets anywhere,
I'll be stoked and then it got second.
And those guys were like, yeah, dude,
it smells like, it's like ridiculous.
That was the one that they were like,
oh, that's nosebleed turps.
You know, like you smell it and you're like,
oh, fuck, that's like burns your nose, you know?
And it's super, super dank.
And that one is not a lot of them.
I remember I had these people cleaning my weed
and they were like, oh, it just smelled.
They're like, what is this?
It smells like lime.
It smells like lime, you know?
And I like smelled the weed and I saw that they were like,
they had like just started trimming
and they were using this shit that was like,
it was like lemon wood oil,
like toxic shit.
I'm like, guys, you can't use this shit.
This weed cannot, I can't do anything with this weed now.
Like this is petroleum shit.
Like you cannot use this.
And now all this weed smells like
this fucking petroleum wood oil, like Murphy's wood oil.
I was gonna say Murphy's oil soap.
Dude, they were using it for scissor cleaner.
And I was like, you can't do this.
I'm like, the weed smells so heavy like this shit
that it's obviously all over.
And they're like, no, no, no.
We clean the scissors with it
and then we wipe our scissors off and we burn them.
And there's nothing left on the scissors.
And I'm like, no, this shit is ruined, you know?
And I had like, I don't know, whatever it was,
they were a bag of weed in each.
And I'm like, no, this is, you can't do this.
If you guys really wanna use something that same way,
you need to use like olive oil or coconut oil
or something like that.
And then make sure there's none on your scissors.
You can clean them,
but you need to have clean scissors
when you clean the weed, you can't do that.
I don't want stuff on the weed.
I'm like, this is like people's medicine, you know?
And so they started cleaning the rest
and I came back out there and I was like,
end of the day, I'm like, fuck, I'm gonna have to fire them.
It just all smells like this fucking shit, you know?
And then I like start checking around
and I'm like, I don't have that shit out here.
And I start looking and I like, go grab the weed,
that's in the, still hanging up on the stems.
And I like break some down and I like trim some up
and I smell it and I go, holy shit,
this is what the weed smells like.
It smells like this shit that they happen to be using.
So I was like convinced that it was, that was what it was,
but it really wasn't.
The weed had never really smelled like that.
They had just been using it.
They were cleaning it all the way off the scissors,
but it had this petroleum fucking nasty, you know?
I was just convinced, you've grown it,
you can see how I could confuse that.
And I was more familiar with the one that had more of the,
like I entered with more of the chem D smell
because that was like the first one
that I had really, was really familiar with having, you know?
But it was a funny thing because I was like,
you're driving me fucking crazy.
You're getting this stuff all over the weed
and then it was like, no, it's just the weed
just smells like petroleum and lemons, you know?
It was super cool.
And that was kind of the overall thing, you know?
But then there was the one,
like the one I entered was like very,
like it was very skunky, but with a lot of lime peel to it
and a little bit of almost like chem D funkiness.
But you know, I like chem D,
it is skunky weed in a sense.
Just, it's also very musky and gross.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, I fell in love with it and I was so thankful,
you know, that you saved Tony and I a pack
because yeah, I think you were almost sold out of them.
By the time I was able to actually get up to you
and get them, you know?
And I think you only did what, 250 of them?
So yeah, it's been some of my personal favorite smoke.
Just yeah, because it's so raunchy almost, you know?
And so I, yeah, I felt like it was super special to me
and I made almost 10,000 seeds of F2s
and now I got, you know, a good few thousand
to hunt for myself and I'm already popping through them
and found two really nice limey females.
I got, they're in flower right now.
They're like two weeks in,
but they just reek of like lime chem funk in bed.
And like anytime you brush by them, you just smell them.
You're like, oh damn.
So I'm really excited for those.
Well, so all right, so Lucas,
so you take black lime reserve
and then what direction are you trying to push it into?
So I mean, what I like to do is pretty much
like a selective open pollination.
I want to try to keep as much of the genetics in there
without bottlenecking it too bad.
So, you know, but I did end up
when I did some stress testing,
I did find one female that herned out.
So I got rid of that one.
So I just, I try to keep the lines as open as possible
and just call anything that's, you know,
not necessarily desirable.
So I just try to keep it not bottlenecked.
I'm reading the comments.
Someone asked if the black lime auction already happened.
I don't think, we don't have an auction, right?
No, I think honestly you just want to like
put them on the site.
All right, so the,
I don't know if I want to say the gist of it tonight
because originally I've always wanted
to have this conversation and we're having it,
but we also want to raise some money for,
do you want to talk about what we want to
raise some money for?
So essentially my wife, we're both fairly young,
but she had had a car accident shortly
after she had gotten out of high school
and it has caused her severe neck pain, migraines.
And so we've just been having to go to the doctors
a lot for that.
And then we ended up getting her ablations in her neck,
which essentially kind of like cauterized her nerves,
but not actually like cauterizing them.
It just kills the nerve endings in a sense.
And that with,
she did, I think 30 Botox injections
in the face for the migraines.
And so the insurance, you know, it helps,
but it was still very expensive.
So we've just been trying to keep up with that.
And it's just been kind of tough lately.
I'm in the middle of trying to make, you know,
new projects and trying to,
cause I have a lot of people that already have my seed.
So, you know, they want new stuff
and I'm trying to get that out
and waiting on testing reports, this, that, and the other,
but just kind of in a really hard spot at the moment.
So just trying to, yeah,
do what I can with what seed stock I have
to be able to kind of mitigate our hardship at the moment.
So that, yeah, that's essentially what it's for.
And I think like, I love the idea of
the Holy Grail in life is like,
your work is what you're passionate about
and you're moving in that direction,
but like you have a day job too, right?
Yeah.
Like you're, yeah.
Yeah.
And this is interesting.
Like, I want you to get to the point
where you can hang up the cleats on the day job
and be like, I breed full time.
Cause that's what I, like, I'm really good at it.
And that's what I love to do.
And I mean, you know, like I, that's what I want to do too.
And I thought coming to Colorado,
that would maybe be possible and it wasn't.
And, you know, I, that's why I kind of mentioned
Montana earlier.
That would definitely be a place to actually make it
kind of feasibly possible.
But as far as like my space that I have now,
it, yeah, it's more of a passion for me.
It's not, yeah, I have a day job.
I don't live off of trying to pump out seed.
And that's, you know, that's why you don't see me
just hitting every male to every clone only female
or whatever.
Like I selectively choose what I want to breed
because I want to breed, you know, for what I like.
And all of it, you know, has mainly been for me.
And I've just, you know, after posting pictures
and stuff like that, people are like,
oh man, like, can I get some of those
or this, that and the other?
So I just ended up finally, you know,
kind of selling a lot more than I anticipated.
So I decided to just kind of start a brand.
And, you know, that's when I did ask Jackson,
hey, is it cool if I do, you know,
kind of monetize these a little bit
because I am getting a lot of, you know,
people wanting it, this, that and the other.
And, you know, packaging isn't free,
shipping's not free.
So, and it's just, it's helped me,
like I constantly am putting whatever money I do make
back into my grow, trying to make it better.
Like I recently had to buy all new lights, you know,
and that was a few thousand dollars.
And that's not, maybe, you know,
it's not a big number for some, but, you know,
for me and what I'm doing, you know,
that's a decent chunk of money.
So it's not necessarily easy for me to just go out
and buy 10 lights or whatever.
So I'm constantly putting back what I receive
into my passion and my hobby, you know,
and it's just like, people like, you know,
some of the stuff I do and seeing people,
what they do with it is really awesome.
I've sent seeds all over the world, really.
It's been really cool to see what people can do with it.
I even got a cut of BLR into the,
to a buddy into the rec market down here.
And I mean, he used salts and whatnot,
but the buds on him were insane.
They were giant, it was Coke bottles
that were two foot tall and it mass,
massive yields with it.
And so it, you know, and on top of it's extremely stinky,
you know, it's got amazing,
not everyone loves it's terpene profile.
I love to smoke it.
So yeah, I, you know, it's just about what I am trying to do
and what I like to create, you know,
I'm not just trying to pump out a bunch of seed
to try to make money.
So, you know, I'm like doing something that I love.
So can you talk about kind of like some of the stuff
you are exploring and like to explore?
I mean, I, and I think for me, it's interesting.
Like I have, it's like Jackson's right below you
and it's cool that we have like someone
who created kind of an iconic,
I mean, I just put some Brandon Russ stuff up
and that's Black Lion Reserve.
I have, you have Black Lion Reserve in your stuff.
The Ranch has Black Lion, like so many people,
like Josh has Black Lion, like so many people have that
as kind of a building block of what they're working with.
And that's why I thought it's cool.
Like, where did it come from?
And what was the genesis of it?
And why is it resonating with so many breeders?
And I think it's really cool that Jackson sits here
up in the hills watching other people run with it
and just do cool shit with it.
Well, and that's where I'm very thankful, you know,
that he is, you know, cool with us, you know,
playing with it and doing what we do with it.
Because there's, as we all know,
there's a lot of people that are like,
oh, you know, yeah, I'll give it to you,
but you know, don't replicate it, this, that, and the other.
And it's like, he's like, no, have fun, you know?
And I tremendously appreciate that
because it's been one of my absolute all-time favorite smelts
and, you know, being able to A, make sure it stays around.
Because when I first, you know, germinated them,
I didn't see a whole lot of people like running them
or doing anything.
And I was like, why, why are people like sleeping on this?
And then finally over time I've seen it,
I was like, okay, like I felt, I felt secure.
I was like, okay, other people are like,
we need to save this cultivar, it's extremely special.
So, so can you talk about kind of Black Lion Reserve
is in a lot of your stuff, but then kind of the other,
like I see some of the Kevin Jodry stuff in there.
So, I mean, I, when I started this new setup,
I tried, I kind of had a plan.
I wanted to do like run through a bunch of OG seed stock
that I had and kind of work some OGs that I like.
I'm really big into Skywalker, Wi-Fi.
So just trying to, you know, kind of improve
on the genetics and, you know, structure,
maybe tighten them up a little bit
since I like to stretch really bad.
And, you know, just try to improve upon them
and keep them in a preservable form
and not necessarily a clone.
And so that's kind of like what I started with
and I've slowly been popping some other stuff here and there.
I'm working on, right now I just pollinated
Kevin Jodry's CDSR fuel line that he started
and shared with Tony that he ended up sharing with me.
And so I just made probably a few thousand F4s
of those for preservation.
I really didn't have a handful of seeds.
I just, like I said, try to do open pollination.
Don't necessarily want to bottleneck the line.
So I'll definitely be sending those,
getting those to Tony just for sharing them with him,
sharing them with me.
I'm also working on back-crossing OG Kush breath
and purple oracle.
Just popped a decent amount of grape line made F2s
that I had made.
I got those from Jackson as like tester.
I don't think he's ever released that line.
And so I popped a bunch of F2s of that.
And then I plan to hopefully find a nice male out of those
to back-cross to purple oracle, get that.
And I know a bunch of people have it in seed form,
but just for personal stock.
And once again, try to improve upon the lineage
or not lineage, but it's growth traits,
this, that, and the other.
So with those being said,
that's kind of what I'm working on now.
Then I plan to kind of transition into a grape
kind of profiles.
I'm going to pop a bunch of what I dubbed
midnight knockout and that's grape line made
cross to the black line reserve.
I kept all those for myself really.
I shared a couple with some friends here and there,
but I'm going to run through a bunch of those
further the line on that and probably hit it to the
oracle back-cross and play with that a bit.
And then I got a few other kind of purple flavored
cultivars plus Tony just got a hold of the SR 71 PK.
And he said that has a real grapey profile to it.
So that'd be nice to kind of mix in there.
And then probably once I'm a little satisfied with that,
I'm going to run the cherry limeade lines that he also,
Jackson had sent me a little bit ago or a few years ago,
I guess at this point,
he gave me some cherry West BX,
some of the juju,
which I was actually going to ask you about that
a little bit about that.
And I believe pyromance,
I'm not entirely sure if that's part of the cherry limeade
line, but I plan to go through those here.
Once I kind of get done with my little OG run of different
OG seed stock and kind of get some seeds made that I really
want done.
Yeah.
That juju line is cherry limeade.
I had a really nice,
a really nice plant that came out of the F2 and I seeded
that and everything from that plant gets that tag on it.
And I bred that forward to,
you know, I made F3s in it and I bred those.
And then with that,
I think I worked with the two and the one out of that.
Those are my favorites, you know, and then
those are really good.
That one, I entered one of those.
I entered a plant out of the two in the Emerald cup.
And it was like, I think 20,
trying to remember, I think 24% THC and like 5% terps,
4.9% terps was a really high total.
It was like a lot of terpenes for such a high THC,
you know, I can't remember 24, 27, I think it was 24.
It was like 24 and five, which was a high total.
It's a lot of resin, you know?
And just to be those, basically those two things.
And so there was, so out of that,
then I bred more coming out of the number two line.
And I took that to F5 and in breeding that,
I bred out all the weird little,
all the little Urkel duck foot, not duck foot,
but you know, like the little.
OGKB look.
They're not like other weed people called duck foot,
but it's like, I call it duck foot
because it all goes the same way.
All the fingers go in the same way, like a bird foot.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, so I bred that out of it.
And so what happens is when you get rid of that
in a line where it's inbred like that to F5,
then I was able to take a male out of that
and put that back on the original cherry pie clone.
And that's what I call cherry pyromancer.
Ah.
And that is basically, that was like the,
like the beta test of that cross
to see if it was really the way I thought it was.
Meaning I'd really eliminated that trait out of it
and also locked down all the stuff that I really wanted,
which was basically like that, you know,
a lot of resin with all those qualities, you know,
like a lot of resin and good, good resin, you know?
So when you pop those, you won't get any of that,
you know, that mother carries that,
but it almost completely has to be coming from both sides.
You know, it's almost completely, truly recessive.
I say almost, because there's a thing
that's really similar to it that comes out,
but it's not quite the same thing.
It's just like a weirdness that's like that,
but it's not that real, real OGKB thing, right?
Yeah.
It does have the leaves where the leaf stem
runs down the main stock a little bit,
which is something that happens with those types.
It's like the most noticeable thing about those.
Some of them will do that a little bit,
like that's not completely recessive,
but that full on look, it totally is.
And so what happens is when you take that F5 without it,
it doesn't have a copy to contribute back to add to the mom.
So you basically get a straight cherry limeade
that's leaned back with all the things
that wanna pop out of the mom,
but it's been bred far enough apart
that it doesn't behave really like an inbreeding anymore.
It behaves more like an F1.
So if you don't know how it works,
you look at it and you go, well, it's just a back cross,
but it's such a distant back cross
that you're basically making an F1
because they've totally gone different directions.
They've been bred in different ways.
And you've got rid of certain things.
So now that you don't have that in there anymore,
it was actually a good way to check to be like,
okay, am I just, every time I'm going forward,
I'm getting lucky and it's carrying it,
but it's not popping out in any of the plants
that I've grown, because I'm not growing thousands of them.
I'm only growing dozens
or I'm only growing 50 or whatever, right?
But when you take it and you put it back
and then you grow 50 or so of those
and none of them have that weird thing,
you go, all right, it looks like in these lines,
once it's at F5, I've eliminated that trait out of there.
So it's cool because it's like,
you wanna breed the cherry limeade with the cherry
to reinforce some of the cherry turps
because it's so tasty.
The cherry limeade is amazing by itself too,
but the cherry has some of them
that have so much rose in them.
And the cherry limeade tends to be more like cherry lime,
where the original cherry mom I used is like rose oil.
It's really, really cool.
So I wanted more of that,
but I also didn't want to dilute that.
So I was like, all right,
if I take this and I put it back, we'll see what happens.
So that's what those are.
And I just said, the region thing,
I brought up some little buds off some little plants
I grew of it, like five different ones.
And they're all just, every one of them's like,
damn, there's this one, there's this one.
Some of them are a little more dense.
Some of them are a little bit more like the mom
where they're a little bit more kind of fluffy
and not as desirable as far as commercially,
but as far as for smoking, those ones are killer
that are a little looser and a little fluffier.
And I can't say anything about on those,
about the stability indoor,
but I think you could probably get a good cut
if you go through 10 of them or something,
or if you rerun the cuts,
or if you just consider it to be like cherry pie
and you just shave its legs,
clean it up on the bottom,
because they're always on the main stem.
So, like, if you just want to grow some for smoke,
because it's such good weed,
you can just grow it and be like, okay, cool.
We're hitting day 20, go look through,
remove all those things, look at it again at day 30,
and be like, okay, there's no,
and when you do that, you probably have taken off a few
on each main stem of every plant,
but you could find a cut, I think that'll be stable.
But that mom does carry a certain amount of stuff
that does the cherry pie thing, it's cherry pie.
It's just, it's a bag seed out of cherry pie.
It's more stable than cherry pie.
When you grow her inside, she doesn't hurt,
or in a depth, she won't hurt.
But when you breed her,
then all that cherry pie stuff comes back out
from her mom, which is also her dad.
Yeah.
Appreciate that, thank you.
Yeah, so those are killer.
And that's what the, that's cherry pie,
original cherry pie, bag seed mom, mine,
crossed with the Juju F5.
And then probably, I probably gave you Juju F6s
or something too, you know?
Yeah.
They probably have the same dad.
Yeah, and I mean, not to mention,
I try to keep it on down low, but your dude, your SkyJarro,
I am absolutely like obsessed with him.
I probably found a really Skywalker-y Fino.
But man, the color and the smoke is phenomenal.
I'm running through, I hit the two that I really loved
with the Black Climber Reserve,
and I'm running some of that right now.
And it, I've got profiles that range from like plastic,
like melting plastic to a little lime.
Like I've found some skunkiness in that line.
So I'm definitely gonna be playing with that line
pretty heavy, because that dude, that SkyJarro too,
is one of my absolute favorites.
For seed, for a seed line, it's a really good,
it's a really good OG leaning seed line.
And I put it out more because it's one of those ones
where like, if you have an OG cut that you've been holding,
like you take a male out of that,
you don't even know how,
you don't have to really know how to breed it.
It doesn't have, and the worst case scenario on those
is they're a little bit plain.
And when you're looking for a male
to put on your favorite clones,
because you wanna get what the clone is.
I learned years ago with that Northern Lights,
how good it bred with things.
It was like, you could breed it with things.
And then whatever it was, it would like be all,
it doesn't have enough of a crazy thing to offset it.
Like the worst thing you can do when you wanna,
when you have a cut that you really like,
and you really wanna get seeds that are just like it,
you do not wanna breed something with it
that is already like super loud and the shit, but different.
Like now if you can get some,
now if you can pull one out of there
that you know is a really super loud OG,
like if you reverse your males and go,
okay, this is the loudest of the OG in the Sky Jaro,
and use that, that's good if you're putting it on a Kush.
But like, if you wanted to cross it with something
even that wasn't OG,
those ones that are a little bit more to the plain side,
they're really good plants with big buds,
they don't like to mold, they have high THC,
they smoke good, they have a really good high,
it's not clouded or muddy or shitty.
And so it's like that really good line
to pull males out of to make stuff.
And for me, especially Kush's, but also for anything,
because honestly, it's really similar
to like the old Northern Lights that I had
in that it's just very resonance, green bud,
it doesn't have like the most overwhelming of,
there's no terpeneline, there's no sweet berry smells,
there's none of that stuff that's like the most common
that washes everything out
and wants to like take over the whole cross.
So like, that's what those ones are super killer for.
And when I took that and I put it back on the Skywalker,
again, the Skywalker Cross Skyjaro,
when I grew those outside and I had a row of only,
I think seven or eight females,
right around there, they were huge.
But when they budded, I was like, damn,
out of that one row, like seven plants,
there was two or three that were like the best OG
that I had ever grown.
They were way better than anything
that I had used to make them.
So it's definitely, put that on Skywalker,
put that on whatever OGs you have.
I mean, it would be good to put on Diesel,
it would be good to put on anything.
You could put it on Urkel, you could put it on whatever,
it would be really good.
Cause it'll get, you'll get the smells coming
from the other side, but you'll still get all,
it won't water down the potency,
it won't water down really, like it'll bring good things
and it won't mess up the good from the other stuff.
It's that good, transparent males.
Yeah, yeah, I'm definitely in love with it.
So what's the genetics behind Jaro?
That Jaro is that, that was that sour that I got
when I first, when it was the first sour
that I was able to ever get.
And I still to this day, I'm always like,
well, I wasn't there when people had the very first sour.
But as far as what the first sour that anybody had
in Northern California,
it was all one thing for some years there.
It was like, if you saw sour, you knew it was sour.
Like outdoor, it had like that really,
it's really like silverweed.
The plant grows super fast.
It gets big, long fat buds
that are a little bit of a bitch to trim.
The hairs are like that kind of a light,
like they're like tannish.
They're not really, they're like a little bit
like pinky tan.
They're not really brown or orange.
They're like a cream color.
Yeah, they're almost more pink than they are anything else,
but not like pink, not like pink, pink,
not like pink hairs, but they just have that,
like that really, really mild color to them.
And then, you know, like just for me,
like what is like real sour.
So it's funny, because somebody else who saw sour
10 years before me or whenever it was brand new
and they popped the seeds or whatever,
that's not even sour.
But for me and for everyone in Northern California
knows that to be what, that's what sour diesel is.
I got that cut and I had had that Hindu
I was talking about earlier,
and I hit that with this black affee,
which was super dank.
And at the time I called that black coffee
because the Hindu and the affee made together
made a really nice coffee-ish smell.
But my buddy noticed it was like liquorish-y
and I was like, oh, okay, it is kind of liquorish-y.
That's like where the smell comes from a lot
in the root beer, comes from the black affee a lot.
And then I took that and I put that on that Hollywood PK
that I had, which is that OG one,
not like the SoCal pure kush or the, you know,
not the Indica squat little one, the really viney one
that gets like the kind of fruit loopy halitosis weed on it.
And then I had that, I called that,
that was the first OG clone that I had was that PK.
So I called it OG coffee after I made that cross.
And then I put OG coffee on the sour diesel
and then that was Jaro.
And then I had that and I put that like 2010,
my buddy gave me Skywalker and I put that on,
I put that on that Skywalker clone.
And that Skywalker clone came from the same guy
who my buddy got that headband that I wound up with.
And it's just like this dude that was in Trinity
that now is Humboldt Standard on Instagram.
He was the one that that Skywalker came from
and that headband that I got came from
that's in the root beer.
And so I took that OG coffee and I put it on that sour
and I put it on that headband.
And I did that, I think 2007.
And I originally thought 2008, but then I thought about it.
And I was like, no,
cause I remember moving out of my house in 2009
and I already had the weed was like over a year old
from the headband and the sour
from the same plants that I seeded.
Cause I didn't wanna trim them.
Cause those plants compared to a lot of stuff
I was had at the time were a bitch to trim.
And I was just like, ah,
cause like I didn't have that much sun there
and it was still good.
Like it was killer weed,
but it was like the last thing to get trimmed
when I was trying to go through everything.
And so I just wound up taking the, all the headband
and I think the sour, maybe the sour got trimmed,
but I remember taking all the headband
and turning it into tincture for my grandpa.
And he was, he just wound up sipping on headband tincture.
That's all.
I need to get you that, that Skywalker Lucas,
send that thing down to you.
Well, and I was gonna say next is,
dude, that cheese that you have is, that is remarkable.
I have never, I mean, I've bought in a bunch of cheese
and I've never actually like smoked anything
that tastes like cheese.
And then dude, you brought that to the Emerald Cup
and I was like, holy shit.
Like this smells like from under cheese, nasty, funky.
Like it was amazing.
And I've never smelled anything like it since.
And I definitely would love to get that from you
just to grow for smoke, honestly.
Yeah.
See, that's what I did exactly
what Jackson was talking about earlier.
I wanted to bring some of my herb to the people
that I called my peers and my friends.
So I brought the space cheese when I went to the cup
that year with Lucas and you buying them
just to see what other people who smoke herb
that I think are connoisseurs would think of my herb.
So that was one reason why I'm now breeding with that line
and have offered seed crosses using the Mr. Fremanda mail.
And it was all because basically it passed the test,
not just through me, but everybody else.
I've been running that line for years.
I take it to the cup and other people thought of it
as quality herb.
And then that's what I ended up using now
in all my crosses that have been over there at Doggins.
You can now that I've been dropping on everybody.
So yeah, it does have the UK cheese moment.
It also has a blueberry.
There was a cat that bred the blue cheese here local
that passed me the cut before he left town.
He was supposed to move in town
and ended up leaving the state
and never came back for the cut.
So I started to breed with it.
And so I used the cut.
I made my space cheese with it by crossing it to my angel.
And then now I pulled out of that space cheese line,
a male and two females that I've been using to breed with.
The females don't like to get pollinated
for some fucking reason.
I've only got about a hundred seeds.
I've only released 20 seeds of that line period
in one auction.
But I use the male on all the new crosses
that have been dropping everybody that I showed.
He produces a lot of resin.
He can produce a lot of anthocyanins.
Let me see if I can find a picture of him here real quick.
Dude, I can only imagine GMO, your government cheese.
That's gotta be straight nasty.
Oh, that one's nice.
But the crazy part of,
I've been finding bubble gum popping out
of a lot of crosses that use that space cheese male.
It came out of the Topanga, a bird push.
It came out of Ghost OG
and it's came out of GMO so far in testing.
Multiple testers and in my garden.
So it's come out of different environments
from outside and inside.
It's crazy.
I didn't think that shit would come out of GMO,
but I've got one government cheese this year
that tasted like Tops Big League bubble gum.
Same with the Ghost of Mary Jane.
Same, it tasted just like fucking bubble gum.
It was crazy.
When I was breaking the seeds up,
my brother and my mother were upstairs
and they come downstairs and go,
what the fuck are you fucking with?
I'm like, damn, it's this fucking GMO cross.
Smells like fucking bubble gum, crazy.
It stays on the planet for a while.
Those come out of the greener phenos.
The darker ones have more of a halitosis.
It's just like a bum that was drinking ripple wine.
Kind of bubble gum over there.
So yeah, they're nice.
There's some purple ones, Anthro ran some.
He's got a killer one that he fucking grew.
I don't think he's exactly-
Yeah, he's holding a Wi-Fi OG cut for me.
I need to go meet up with him.
Hopefully we'll get some decent weather
and go snag that from him
and probably take down that GMO OG that I found.
He sounds like he really wants that.
Yeah, but I wanna, here, I'm gonna show you.
This is the male that I used for, this is Mr. Firmando.
This is the male out of the space cheese line.
That is gorgeous.
This is him outside when it gets cold.
So he can produce a lot of trichomes
and a lot of color outside.
He's fucking nice.
But let's see that.
He's where some of the colors combining
with that GMO cut to produce that purple,
actually black girl that Anthro found.
There's a lot of, this is one of the government cheese.
Yeah, yeah.
This one's nice.
There's one that has a real,
it likes the foxtail add on it.
Let's see, where is it?
Here's the top of the hornet foxtails right here.
Oh, damn.
Yeah, I'll send you them.
I got a fucking shit ton of them.
I'll send you some.
I believe there's some at Dog.
I'm not sure if they went in.
I just, I'm gonna be sending some more stuff in there too.
I'll send some stuff in there.
I don't know what Peter's gonna do with that.
We're gonna do, but there's gonna be some stuff there
available for you and for Cheddar Bob
and his family here coming here pretty soon also for folks.
Appreciate that.
That's next week.
Yeah, yeah.
So there was a, Jackson, do you see that?
Coco Animal West.
Those, some funk ran those
and loves them.
He's got some, couple pictures up of them and stuff.
He made some F2s and sent some back.
I'm about to run some of them out in a early spring dep
to see what they do, but it's a cool,
it's a cool cross because the cocoa plants
are like really big with really big, huge, long buds
and are more like spongy.
And then the Animal West is more of like a classic cross.
It's a cookie thing, but I've bred it to be like
a little bit more like loud, funky, funky cookie stuff
and just super pretty.
And, you know, the cocoa,
all that whole root beer family
has a lot more of a bright high,
but interestingly enough too,
some of the animal crosses,
animals like the oldest of the cookie cuts in circulation.
So that's like what they called like platinum cookies,
which is like platinum thin mint, basically.
Like it's the original thing.
And so when you breed it, stuff pops out of there
that's not in later stuff.
And some of them are like really spacey, heavy highs.
So there's some neat stuff that comes out of the animal.
And then there's really cool highs
that come out of the cocoa too.
So those were promising to me.
And like I said, some funk is the only person
I can think of that ran them and I'm about to run them.
And, you know, I mean, they look like kind of
like cookie weed, but he said that they're, you know,
they have the high, like I would expect.
That's more, you know, more to it and more, you know,
less one dimensional than a lot of the stuff
that's from all that family of stuff.
And I figure you could probably find some in them
that would be way bigger than any of the animal west.
The animal west is pretty small
cause the animal's pretty small itself.
And then, you know, I don't know,
but I'm curious to see really what it does.
And then I don't have a ton of those.
There's enough that I could put a little bit out of them
if they do really good.
And then the animal west is consistent enough
that I could recreate it pretty close
and then, you know, try a couple of lines of it.
And cause I didn't clone the parent.
I didn't clone the male of that,
but I could probably find a male
that makes the same kind of population again.
And, you know, be able to really put those out.
Cause it's just, it's kind of, it seems like a,
it seemed like a sensible cross to me when I made it
just because animal west, if it was really big,
would be one of the craziest plants around.
It's just so pretty.
And it actually has the really good weed,
but it has everything you want.
It looks wise for the cookie thing.
So yeah, I don't know.
I figure they're probably, you know,
super, super tasty smoke, super good high.
That's what some folks said.
So, so far so good, but they're, you know,
they're still kind of unexplored at this point,
but he did them in a greenhouse,
stressed him pretty hard and said, you know,
no problems with instabilities and stuff,
which they're, they're very distantly related.
Technically they both have that same OG coffee in it
way back, but you know, you breed things far enough apart
and put them back together.
You usually get a generation where they're more stable
than if they were a fresh F2 or something.
So yeah, I don't know, but they're promising.
I want to check them out.
So if nothing else, maybe you'll hunt through
and find a cool cut and circulate the cut, you know.
I just got 09 animal and the animal,
and man, I used to get a lot of good,
good smoke of it down in San Diego and yeah,
I just got her in house and she's like halfway done
and she's glorious.
I'm really excited for her.
I like it.
I mean, it's what popularized cookies
and then everything that went around
that was really circulated that gave everybody
their first idea of cookies was the forum.
And my friend is one of the couple people
who the animal came to me from, like his buddy basically.
And they're also the ones who found the forum initially
and circulated it.
And he said, you know, they had the animal
and they had the forum.
And when they got the forum, they were like,
oh, this is just as good as the animal, maybe better.
And then they had them both.
And then they thought they still had the animal
and they wound up only with forum.
And then after they had it for a while,
they realized they fucked up
and forum wasn't as good as animal at all.
And so like, that's just a good like measure of,
you know, the quality of it, just that, you know,
the original guys who had both,
once they lost the animal and only had forum,
they were kicking themselves like, fuck, okay.
So, you know, I mean, I got it.
I didn't really know much about it.
I got a little bit of cookies and I was like,
oh, it's cool.
You know, this is like 2000, early 2009,
I wanna say or something.
And then there was this thing
that they called intergalactic blue cookies
that was slightly different.
And I smoked that and I really liked that
because I got high and it was a good, you know,
I smoked a couple of joints of it and I liked it.
And then I got the animal
and the first people to get the animal,
basically Sear wound up with the animal
and he gave it to like unknown profit, Frost Boss,
a couple other people.
And when he did that, I was one of the people
who got these plants off of his counter
in these red solo cups.
And I got one and I was like, oh, cool, whatever.
And then I finally grew it and I didn't even wanna grow,
I didn't wanna grow two of them.
I wanted one cookies and one root beer.
And my mom had the clones at the time.
And I said, hey, can I get a rooted animal
and a rooted root beer?
Cause I wanna go ahead and do just one plant each,
you know, so I have them.
And then I looked at the plants and I go,
these both look the same.
And then I went, they're not growing that fast.
So they must both be animal.
And then they went all the way,
I think I cut the weed December 5th.
I think, believe it or not.
So it's kind of funny because you figure something
that runs that long,
it's probably got something pretty dank in it.
You know what I mean?
Like, it's like, that's not your average Amsterdam shit.
That's like you're putting out and you're like, okay.
So, I mean, what did I have there was like,
basically everything flips like August 5th.
So you got like August, September, October, November.
So you're talking about, you know,
you're talking about like 15 week, 16 weeks strain.
I'm like shit.
Okay, well, what's this stuff gonna be?
So I cut it down and I go,
I'm only gonna probably have two, three pounds of this stuff.
These plants are small, the buds are little.
Yeah, not really much here.
And I weigh them up and there winds up being like almost,
I think seven pounds from the two plants.
And at the time was like in the many days
and the weed was like,
weed back then was at the point when it was,
I think weed was worth maybe 19 at the time or something.
And I showed him to a dude and he's like,
oh yeah, these, he's like, these ones,
I would pay 27 for this.
And I was like, damn, this shit is like got some value.
He didn't even, he did it just on the strength
of looking at the weed in the back.
Wow.
And the pounds were like this big
and the pounds of everything else were like this big.
And everybody who saw pounds would go,
that's a half, right?
No, that's a pound.
The only way you can get weed to weigh that much,
it's not because this papery leafy matter,
these stems weigh that much more.
It's not that much woodier, it's resin.
There's that much more resin
than it can be this big, you know?
And so, I realized like, damn,
this is the only weed I'd ever grown like that
that was that resinous was back in the day
when I had this pure dirt perp from my buddy chief.
And that was the same deal.
A quarter pounds were like this big in a Ziploc.
That was still in the Ziploc days, you know?
Yeah.
And you would open up the bag
and there would just be like, you'd pull it out,
you'd pull the bag off of the weed
and you'd pull it out like it was duct taped on there.
And the whole weed was shiny,
like it was made out of glass from sticking to it.
And that was the only weed.
And I've seen a lot of weed do that like partially,
but this would do it the whole way
because it was just resin.
And it was these narrow little buds.
And we killed the clone
because it looked like it produced nothing,
but we didn't know that a pound was only this big.
You know, we're like, oh, there's no weed there.
The buds are small.
It's like, yeah, but the pounds is big.
It actually turns out it yields the most, you know?
Yeah.
But yeah, the animal though,
that was the only other plant that I ever saw
that put that much resin on itself.
And then I figured, okay, yeah,
everybody said, yeah, it's cool.
It's not really that stony.
And I was at this spot and I smoked it in a crowd
and I was like, fuck that, I'm fucking high.
Like, I don't really almost wanna be here right now.
Yeah.
And I was smoking weed all the time.
And it made me like antisocial where I was like,
oh, people looking at me like,
oh, you know, that way too high feeling.
And I was like, okay, it's good, you know?
And then when I smoked it for a little bit,
it didn't do that.
That was like a 10 year period of my life.
Well, I thought I was-
Just smoking and being in like social settings
and being like, I don't like this.
I was convinced that I was very antisocial
and shy for like 20 years.
And then I realized that I was just extremely high
for 20 years.
As soon as I started smoking a little less,
I was like, holy shit, okay.
Yeah, I've really just been paranoid, you know?
Just hilarious.
It is what it is.
Oh man, that's awesome.
Yeah, it's been some of my favorite smoke
since I first had tried it.
Yeah, it was probably like 2010, 2011
is when I was first finding it.
And yeah, it's been one of my top five since.
Yeah, blew up right then.
And I remember I had my buddy who had it.
He was finding bag seeds.
He gave me some of them.
And I popped them and I grew them.
And I was like, wow.
I remember looking at the weed in veg
right before it flowered and looking in the sunshine
and just looking at the top of the leaves
where they're coming out at the very top of the plant
and just looking at it and just being just coated in resin.
And I was like, well, I mean, say what you will,
but like weed that produces more resin
than everything else is pretty cool, you know?
Nothing wrong with that.
It's just-
Well, I mean, and that's what we're trying to grow.
We're not trying to grow plant matter.
Well, I mean, if you're trying to make a commercial weight,
but in the long run,
we're literally just trying to grow lion heads.
Well, then that's what winds up happening too.
You realize is that there's no way to grow vegetative matter
to get as heavy as resin.
Resin is like, you know,
bud is like crumpled up newspaper
and resin, you know what I mean?
Is like a bag of sugar.
Yeah.
It's like, if something gets,
the more resin you can get to be in a place,
even if it's a third the size,
if it has twice as much resin,
then you're right back there again, you know?
And the resin really tends to help it to not mold
and there's a lot of good stuff
that comes with having so much resin too, you know?
So-
And plants protect it, you know?
Yeah.
And then, you know, like that's what's trippy too is,
like if you don't, like for years,
I was always everything with seeds or clones.
I was like, okay, where's the end all be all plant?
I want that plant that's perfect.
And if it's not perfect, then I go to the next thing.
And somebody is like, check this out.
And you're like, oh, I'm gonna grow this.
And then someone has one that's better.
And oh, you grow that.
And you keep abandoning all these things.
And then if you start breeding more stuff after a while,
you start realizing like, dude,
I didn't need a perfect plant.
I just needed one,
one trait that passes pretty easily from that plant
into these other things.
So like, if you really wanted, it wouldn't be that hard.
I've never done it.
I don't know why,
but it wouldn't be that hard to take like lime
and cross it with animal
and wind up with a plant with as heavy of resin as animal
and pure lime turps.
And all of a sudden you'd be like, wow,
this is a great hash plant.
Whereas lime is too,
you know, lime is too greasy
and the animal actually you could wash it.
And like, you know, so over the years I've realized like,
all right, that's the kind of stuff.
So like last year I made,
I made a animal cross GMO Meyer Lembski.
And I made animal cross grape soda skunk.
Cause I'm like, these things are gonna be like,
this is like the kind of stuff where if you don't want just
that kind of simple animal smell,
you know, like grape soda skunk has all the turps you want,
but it's not really that potent.
And animal might not be the most potent by itself,
but inside animal are things that are a lot more potent.
So, you know, if you're breeding,
it's all about like combining things,
looking for what's great
and then running in that direction.
And now I like if a plant has one really cool thing,
I'm like, all right,
well I wanna breed it with a few things
and see if I can get that to travel into something.
And if it does, then I know like it's worth keeping around
because I don't need it to be perfect.
I can make a really good plant.
And you look at it and you go,
dude, it's gonna take you five years to do that,
10 years to do it.
But once you start doing it, you're like, dude,
by the time you actually like look at time,
you're like, dude, it's been 10 years anyway.
You should have fucking done it.
So, you know, now I just try to collect
those good single things.
Sounds like you have a project to do this summer.
That lime animal, dude, that sounds,
if you haven't done that already.
Yeah, I was gonna say, if not you,
a bunch of people watching right now are like,
I'm gonna cross this too.
Well, and I mean, but I think people already have done,
have already done cookies and lime.
I mean, black lime reserve and cookies.
Like I think probably you already did.
Yeah, I did that.
Right, like it's there.
But yeah, I mean, I definitely would,
you know, I definitely would do that.
But like, that's why I did like,
I did the one with the Meyer Lemski.
Because the Meyer Lemski, as far as I can tell,
is a very good tree.
It just has been bred very differently.
And, but I think it is,
I think it has the same old Burmese
with that citrus in it.
And so Skunk Tech crossed it with the GMO
and pretty much they came out like a more frosty purple bud,
but still had the Meyer Lemski crazy passion fruit,
grapefruit Meyer lemon nose on them.
And so I was like, okay, well,
they still don't quite have the resin that I want on them,
but I do like how they look purple and pretty now.
So I was like, damn, I'll put them with,
I put them with the wild strawberry
and I put it with the, which is a cherry limeade.
And I put it with the animal.
And so those I know are kind of gonna be like
in that same realm of, you know,
like a super citrusy animal,
but they're not like, they're not the norm.
That's not like a,
it's not gonna be like a orange cookies
or something like that, you know,
because they're more like passion fruit.
So it should be cool.
But yeah, I mean, lime would,
that'd be super bomb for sure.
Yeah, well, I'm getting some,
I think they're lime, your lime one BX,
that was F2.
I got a buddy sending me some of those
cause I wanna work that into BLR,
but I might have to hit the animal I have
and I'll send you some seeds of that.
Do the two of you smoke a lot of rosin?
Or not really, are you more flower?
Maybe when I get a press, I don't have a press.
I do love rosin, but as far as like,
I pretty much just smoke flower and bowl ash.
And Jackson?
I've never got, I've never really got into it.
Like if other people are smoking it
and like, I don't have to like drive for an hour
or something, I'm out of like a busy town
with stoplights and shit.
Yeah.
Like I'll go ahead and hit it,
but it's not, I'm not in the routine of it.
I'm more in the routine of like hitting the ball
and hitting joints.
So my question is more, it's like in your breeding,
you're not focused, like you're like,
this would wash well, but like,
it's not really what I'm interested in.
So I don't really care to breed in that direction.
Do you find yourself breeding just in the directions
of shit you're interested in personally?
Or are you like, this would be good for people
who like hash, I'm gonna make something in that direction,
which isn't something that I'm really that into myself.
The thing with like the concentrates thing
is it tends to be similar to how I breed with,
for like, for numbers, like as far as THC, like CBD numbers.
I tend to go for whatever is like really special to me
as a plant and as a sack of weed.
And then some of it turns out really high THC
and some of it turns out high CBD
and some of it turns out good to wash
and some of it turns out terrible to wash.
But it like all comes down to like, really,
I kind of do whatever I really like.
And then only certain things wind up being the way they,
you know, like being good for what they're good for.
But because right now, like the trippy thing is like now,
it's like if you grow weed
and you don't have the best market for flower,
then it's kind of like a plant saving grace,
like shit, can I wash it?
Like, that's like the last ditch effort to be like,
okay, fuck, we'll just wash it.
And then like, if you can make good hash rosin
or good straight melts, then, you know,
that you can get rid of for sure,
as long as it's special, even if weed isn't going.
So there's become over the last couple of years,
there's become a way bigger benefit to have and stuff
be able to be washed basically, right?
So now there's like a certain amount,
there's also the thing where like,
there's only so many types of weed
that are from families that wash well.
So if you're really into rosin,
nobody can tell me that they're really smoking
all the flavors of weed, because I know for sure,
they're basically smoking Skittles, papaya,
and GMO and banana.
Like, they're pretty much not smoking much else,
because those are the only things
that really yield well like that.
And so like, it's cool, like people will be like,
oh, that's all, dude, only straight rosin.
I'm like, that's cool,
but like you're not smoking a lot of flavors,
you're definitely missing out on a lot of spectrum.
But instead of me just being like, oh, whatever,
you know, you guys are missing out.
I'm like, well, you know, why not try to figure out
how to, you know, everything's just recombination.
So it's not like it's impossible
to take these other flavors and make them washable.
It's just that a lot of people wanna take
whatever these elite clones are that are already wash.
They go, fuck, they wash,
and then they make crosses out of them.
So then everybody gets stuck with that.
But it doesn't mean that you can't take,
it doesn't mean that you can't take like something
like cherry limeade and put it with banana
and easily dominate the banana turps
with the cherry limeade turps,
but keep the plants that wind up having
the banana resin heads that have the cherry limeade turps.
It is a little bit tricky though,
because there are certain terpenes
that really don't like to stay.
They don't, they just,
the nature of them is that they're runny.
So like you'll never get,
like to get the nastiest cherry limeade extract ever,
it's basically damn near like water,
and you have to make it with,
you have to make it with butane or something like that.
And the flavor of it is insane.
I have stuff from what, 2017, I think, in my fridge.
And it just smells like, it's cherry limeade,
but when it's been BHO and it's sat for years,
it just smells like watermelon now.
And you can like take that and put it on a joint,
and it is like crippling for people.
You know, you get so high from it,
and it tastes so good, but you're never gonna get,
it's like you can make cherry limeade stuff that will wash,
but you're always gonna sacrifice
a certain part of that flavor,
because it's those specific terpenes
that don't like to wash.
It's not just a coincidence of,
oh, this resin's like this, and this resin's like this.
So like, I attempt to get as much of that
over to something that will wash,
but at the same time, I know you're still gonna have,
if you wanna taste it,
you're still gonna have to maybe smoke,
you're still gonna have to smoke BHO or flour,
or as funny as it is, everybody hates flour resin,
flour rosin, but if you have like cherry limeade
and you press the flour,
you can press it at such a low temperature
that it's not like most flour rosin,
because you can basically press it at like 110 degrees,
and it'll come running out like maple syrup,
and then the flavor is still insane,
but it's not practical,
because if you put it in a jar,
it's like old school hash oil, it's oil.
It's not like what people expect to see with rosin.
It's like cold maple syrup at the thickest,
that's the thickest it'll ever get.
So yeah, I don't know, but I think about all of it,
but when you play with it,
you start to see like,
there's gonna be certain terpenes
people are gonna be stuck with
if they only want things that are washable.
There's some stuff that's only gonna,
you either have to leave it on the flour,
you have to press it out of the flour,
or you have to do some other kind of extraction technique,
because it just doesn't,
you put it in water and you just get bubble bath.
You know, that's it.
You get a bubble bath and nothing on bottom.
You know, you could drink the water.
Yeah, it smells great.
Yeah, it's amazing, but it's all gone.
You're like, oh shit.
But I feel like with hash has stuff
that at that time was new and novel,
kind of won all the awards,
like when like three years ago with like banana turps.
Like, if that's what you were introducing
into a competition, you probably win it.
Whereas in different years,
like maybe there's like a papaya or,
are there trends of things,
if you're the first one to like nail that profile,
you'll probably win the awards?
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, imagine, I mean,
some things are just have incredible flavors.
I mean, nothing really beats
that crazy Skittles flavor in a hash.
It has the most incredible flavor, right?
But like, imagine if you're serving somebody something
and they've never had,
like imagine you're giving people fruits
and you know, it's breakfast
and they've never in their life
tried a really ripe pineapple
and you bring them pineapple.
The first day they try that pineapple,
they're gonna be like, oh my God,
this is so like, this is like flavor explosion.
It's so tart, it's tangy,
it's got all this crazy perfume to it.
It's amazing.
And then they're like, oh yeah,
the next day they're definitely gonna want
to get a plate of pineapple.
And the day after that,
they're gonna be like, I want a plate of pineapple.
But like 13 days later,
they're gonna be like, dude, fuck pineapple.
I don't want pineapple.
Like, this is just, it just, it tastes like pineapple.
It's like, yeah, it's great,
but you might not have,
you might have to not eat it for a few months
to get back to going, yeah, I love it.
You know, like it just, everything wears out.
So that's like why with weed,
it's like I, like when I first had cherry limeade,
I was like, fuck, this is so tasty.
It's such a showstopper.
And I, you know, smoke it for like four or five days
and I'm like, no.
And then a lot of things that are more,
a lot of things that are more subtle
have more staying power.
Things that are intense tend to burn out more.
Like intense garlic, meal after meal after meal.
You're like, damn, it's just garlic.
You know, like I love garlic,
but I don't necessarily want to have it every single meal.
After a while, you're gonna be like, dude,
I wish I had like a red curry
or something that doesn't have garlic in it, right?
So, you know, that's like the nature of stuff.
So like things that are less intense for me,
that's why I started,
that's why I like the root beer so much.
Because when you smoke it, it doesn't have an intense flavor.
It just has a really great smoking texture.
It has a really enjoyable flavor.
And I could just smoke it, smoke it, smoke it, smoke it.
And I never got sick of it
because there wasn't enough of a thing
to make me get sick of it,
but it had all of the high and the texture
and the way it hit the lungs
and the way it hit the forehead and all that stuff
that it was like, oh, I just want to smoke that again,
you know, or things that have a lot of layers
so that when you smoke them different days,
it's the same weed, but you notice different things.
But a lot of the more popular hash things,
they're very much in your face.
And they're so impressive on a knee jerk reaction,
just like my cherry limeade.
Well, and that's what I was getting at.
It is like, I feel like those things
that catch your attention for a minute
are the ones that are gonna win the award.
But like, it seems like you're saying root beer
wouldn't win the Emerald Cup this year,
but everybody who's smoked it like five years from now
would still be smoking it.
Yeah, I mean, for me personally,
like I can't speak to what other people enjoy,
but for me, it's been one of those ones.
Like root beer and lime are the ones where I'm like,
I only really need to have those two.
I'll just alternate between them.
And then if I don't have one of them,
the other one's fine to just keep smoking and smoking.
But everything that has a little bit more
of like a really one intense thing to it,
it just, after a while, it just kind of burns you out.
I mean, even like Blue Dream had a really cool flavor,
like especially the smell when people burn it,
because it's that haze thing.
You're like, oh, okay, that's cool.
But it was like, after I smoked it for a while,
I was like, it just has this,
it has this thing like when you eat medicine
and you don't, and you're like, oh, it's grape flavored,
but there's that thing that tastes like aspirin.
It's just like this one thing that like pops out
and it starts to wear on you.
And after a while you don't like it.
Something like Skittles doesn't have that.
It's all likable.
Cherry Limeade is all likable.
But after a while you're like, yeah, it's all likable,
but then it just, that aspect of it gets overwhelming
and burnt out, just like trying to eat.
My analogy is always like trying to eat.
When you're a kid, you think ice cream every meal,
but eat ice cream for every meal.
And you might get through one day and you'll be like,
dude, no more ice cream.
It's gross.
You just don't want any, because it's intense.
It's like McDonald's.
Yeah, and it's incredible.
I mean, I'm not saying that those things
aren't an incredible experience,
but after a while you're like, where's the other things?
And that's what's trippy with hash to me
is that it seems like there's kind of that thing
that you smell when people dab it
that smells like grapefruit, which is really cool.
And then there's that thing that smells like Skittles.
And then there's like the musky GMO type stuff.
And there's the banana, which I love.
These are all things I like.
I like the way the hash tastes and I've dabbed them.
But like, you know, there just, there's only,
it doesn't seem like there's a whole,
there's not a whole ton of them.
And when I see always what the hash winners are
or what the new hash strains are,
they're just a remix of these five flavors.
And a slight variation on that can be incredible.
Like, you know, everybody's always like,
oh, we've already done this flavor.
It's like, yeah, but if you try it,
just a little bit different,
just a little bit different, you know,
you can do it a little different,
but I don't know how long you can go doing that
where you're not gonna start to be like,
all right, we've got to try to incorporate
some of these other odd things, you know?
I don't know.
It's a trippy thing just because there's so,
there's so much to them, you know?
But then some people, they just like one flavor
and that's it.
They only ever need that.
And they want the most intense one.
So it works for some people.
Lucas is in the darkness now.
Right?
Where's this guy going?
He's doing laps in the house.
He's going in circles.
So this was the other question.
So that one I made because like I said,
when I did the Skywalker across SkyJarro,
it came out so good that I was like,
oh, okay, SkyJarro, I want to put on different OGs, you know?
So I put SkyJarro on an old OG cut
that came from my buddy that he,
that's been called like the crystal,
or a few other different things.
And it's a old, old cut.
And I never actually did anything with those.
I still have those.
But I put it on the clones that I got from my buddy.
You know, he said he had ghost OG and I got it
and I grew a couple of them.
And I was like, damn, that's like the OG
that I remember from way back in the day.
That's like really, really earthy and skunky.
Like, just like, OG, you know?
And so I think I grew it the one year.
I'm trying to remember what I did with it.
I grew it and I crossed it with Cherry Limeade.
And those wound up coming out really cool.
But the next year I was like,
hey, can I get some more of those?
So I got some more of those
and I hit them with the SkyJarro.
And the SkyJarro male, I have a picture of it
somewhere way back on my feed,
but you can see it was a big, chunky, pollen-dumping male.
And it's budding in that picture under it,
like a four-bulb T5 that's like eight feet away from it.
It's only in there for like,
to keep the light cycle going basically
and make it not just like peter out and not drop pollen.
So it's like put in there basically
when it was like no flowers developed
and then it opened, you can see it like went
from basically being like,
just like starting to get male flowers
to being like this big and just all pretty much
under no light.
So you can really see the vigor of what that one was.
And it's just good, it's good, good cush, you know?
And the differences in them is that,
like I said about the SkyJarro, it's the same deal.
I grew a bunch of Ghost S1s to see what it does by itself.
And it was the same like the SkyJarro.
It's like there's ones in it,
they're like kind of all real similar weed.
And then there's ones in it
that are just a little bit nastier of OG
and some that are a little bit more subdued.
And so, you know, that's everything that's in the Ghost
and then everything that's in the SkyJarro
can be described fairly similar.
Although the SkyJarro itself, I grew buds that were,
you know, outdoor were like this big
and like, you know, huge long colas.
There's pictures of that further back on my feed too.
There's actually weed pictures from my big plant gardens
if you go way back on my feed
where you can see what those looked like.
They're like big party balloons.
And so it's one of them,
they're those ones where if you grow them just right,
they get huge, big, long buds.
And if you grow them decent, they get nice buds,
but OG and all those different things that come from it,
they're those ones that are real variable
depending on how you grow them.
And I mean, all weed is like that,
but OG is really like that.
It's like one of those ones where it's like,
back in the day when people would sell those clones
before people could get their hands on it,
like, you know, around like 2000 and stuff
before it like ever really circulated,
you'd get the clone
and you'd get the recipe for how to grow it.
And if you got the clone by itself,
you were gonna struggle.
And if you got the clone and the recipe,
then it was plug and play and you can grow a lot of weed,
but it's still like that.
And I grow everything really simple
with just like nice amended soil.
I don't test soil.
I basically just add a certain amount of stuff to the soil
and then I plan them and they do good for me.
And that's just the luck of it.
There's probably some things that wouldn't,
but that's like the deal with those
is you'll see if you look at people's pictures
of Ghost Oji, Sky Garrow,
some people will have every single plant.
They're really consistent as far as the look.
Every single plant will be like these big buds like this,
everywhere, you know, golf balls leading up to it.
And then other people's, you'll see it and be like,
oh, it's not as big,
but you'll notice the other plants are like that too.
So it's not like it's the variation in the genetics,
it's the variation in just the way it winds up growing.
But they're either real cushy
or there's some that are like,
and when I say cushy, I mean like straight Oji,
or there's some that are a little more like cocoa powder,
hashy,
and then there's some that are,
there's less of them that are more like
my old Northern Lights where it's just like,
it's just all just, it's just hashy.
Like you can make the hash off of it
and the hash would smell cushy,
but the bud itself is like not that loud,
but it still tastes really good.
They tend to all have a nice high to them, high THC.
You know, they're nice.
They're nice, they're that nice round golf ball Oji
leading up to a big long bud.
And they get really pretty colors when they,
on the leaves when they finish,
but the bud's green.
And yeah, if you look through my feed,
you can find places where there's pictures
of people who have grown.
I think my story might still have one up.
That's a guy posted.
It's probably cut about, you know,
12 or 15 days before I probably would have cut it,
but you can see how nice it is.
And they kind of seem to all, you know,
look like that from everybody.
Can you talk about Skunk Tech?
Because you were talking about clones
and my friend John was talking Skunk Tech clones
coming from your genetic,
like do you guys work with each other?
Yeah, so Skunk Tech is like one of those dudes
who's like, you give them seeds and he's like,
cool, I'm gonna pop them.
And he'll just pop all of this and I'll pop all of that.
And he'll pop a bunch that he made
and he'll pop some that he scored somewhere.
And he'll clone every single plant
and he'll keep everything.
And then he'll go through everything with people
and be like, okay, what's good?
And like, he does like a lot of work.
And anybody who does all that shit knows
it's kind of like a mania and it's not easy to,
it's not easy to be like, okay, I'm gonna pop,
I'm gonna keep these 200 females
of all this different stuff.
I'm gonna label them.
I'm gonna keep all the clones until we smoke them all
for a while and figure out what's the best.
And then anything that's decent, run those a second time.
And in the meantime, plant a bunch more plants
and just keep like running through all this stuff.
And he does that.
And so, I give him stuff to test.
And then if it tests out nice,
then if it's something that's good
and I'm gonna release it and he has like a killer cut of it,
I'm like, go ahead, put out a killer cut of that.
Like he put out the pie scream cut.
He made the root beer, root beer cross,
root beer cross Jaro.
He put on the GMO and that wound up being
that really nice GMO root beer clone.
And he circulated that and just keep looking through things
and finding things that are really nice.
Like if somebody can go ahead and go,
yeah, I went through 20 packs of seeds
and I cloned them all.
And there's this one plant I really liked
from all of these.
And then they're willing to release that plant.
It's a pretty cool shortcut to having a plant
that's really nice.
And it's not like he's just looking at it.
He's like taking the jars and sitting down
with four or five people and going through
and being like, okay.
And then going and chilling with two or three more people
and another buddy over here.
And that was John's point,
which is like as a commercial grower,
when Skunk Tech hands you like, this is the cut.
It's like, no, he fucking did his work.
And like, that is the cut.
Yeah.
I mean, there's like somebody might get that cut
and be like, I don't like that cut.
And some people might see something that me and him
were like, oh no, I'll get rid of this one.
And they're like, oh, that's the one it should have been.
But you can only do so much to go through
with doing all that selecting and narrowing it down.
And they're basically,
everything that I've ever like pulled out,
there tends to be people have differing opinions
of like, this is the one or that's the one.
But what happens is when you put it in this group
and then you put it in this group
and you put it in this group,
there'll be like, there'll be like these three
that everybody thought was pretty good.
But then there'll be a couple
that some people thought were great
and a couple that other people thought were great.
But there's usually that one or two right in the middle
where you're like, okay, this seems like it.
And then at that point,
you can't really ever get any better than that.
You'll still have some people who grow it
and are like, this sucks.
It's not even as good as Chem D.
And you're like, well, I mean,
you know, like, sorry,
the cut's not better than the very best cut there is.
But as far as in this group of plants,
like this is the killer one
and Chem D don't taste like this.
Chem D tastes like Chem D.
So fucking grow Chem D, you know?
But like, it's always funny
because people are, everybody has their opinions, you know?
But in general, like that's,
it is a cool thing to know
that somebody went through a bunch of stuff.
They kept everything long enough
for everybody to look at all these.
And then this is the one that everybody was like,
don't get rid of this.
You've got to keep this one.
And that's like what the Piescream27
that he just put out a couple of was.
It was like, okay, this is like,
this is like what pops out of the Cherry Limade
that's a really cool one.
But it also has like the more solid resin
and it just has so much resin
coming from the Wedding Pie side
that it was like, this was kind of when I made the cross,
it was like kind of one of the ones
that I hoped would pop out.
And so, you know, it was like
that particular throw was really rare.
There was a lot of what I was hoping for,
but there was one that was like,
oh, this is this one I didn't quite expect,
but it's a really good combination of these things.
And so it was the one that was like, all right,
like a lot of times if seed is good,
you don't really want to clone the one that is common
because if you have the seeds, you're like,
well, this one might be killer, but it's common.
So you wind up going with the one that is,
the one that is way up there
that's with all the best of them,
but it's the one that's like, damn,
this one should be cloned because otherwise
we're gonna have to go back through another 60 seeds
to find this particular throw, you know?
And that's what that cut is.
And it's like, everybody knows if you wanna go through
60 seeds, clone them all, keep them all,
you know, like it's a pain in the ass.
So, you know, that whole selection process is super cool.
And that's why I'm always like, hey, try this thing,
try that thing, you know?
And he'll show up with, you know,
like four or six flats of jars with like 18 jars
in a flat or whatever.
And every one is the top of a different plant.
And we'll just sit there and be like,
oh, okay, this one, this one, this one.
It's like, all right, this one's got the look.
Does it have the nose?
Whoa, it has the nose.
All right, damn, well, does it have the flavor?
Ah, it doesn't have the flavor, it's harsh.
Okay, fuck that one, put that one over there.
All right, this one's got it, this one's got that.
And then you taste it and you're like, oh shit,
this one tastes really good.
This one really sticks, you know?
And then you're like, all right, put that over there.
And then you go back through and you're like,
all right, we got all these ones over here.
And then I'll like hang on to them for a while.
And then after I'm done with them, putting Post-its on it,
writing on the lid and shit,
then I'll give them back like the leftovers.
And it'll be like, okay, I'm gonna go take these down
to go hang out with these guys.
And then everybody will do the same thing.
And all said and done, you wind up with those one or two
cuts out of the thing.
And it's a fun process and it's definitely different
than just one dude sitting there and going,
oh yeah, yeah, this one's fat and frosty and it stinks.
Okay, cool, yeah, it's good, all right, right on.
You're like, okay, I like it, but what do these guys think?
And what does this guy think?
And then, you know, so it's a cool thing.
And he's willing to like show up here with the jars of weed
and be like, here, check these out.
We go through them and stuff.
And it's a cool thing when people have that kind of ambition
and, you know, fuck, keep those cuts, you know,
like rooting all those cuts all the time, fucking nuts,
but he pulls it off.
And when he finds one you love, you're like,
fuck yeah, I made that.
Oh, it's awesome, yeah, no, it's really cool, you know?
And then sometimes, you know, you look through things
and you're like, ah, these are cool,
but none of them are worth keeping as clones.
And sometimes it's not the worst seed
that doesn't have one worth cloning.
Sometimes none are worth cloning
because all the seeds are good.
And you're like, well, if they're all good,
why do I keep a clone?
I already have the seeds.
They're all cool, we don't need to keep a clone, you know?
Like, you know, and until you find those ones
that are really like something that sticks out
or is different, but, you know, for the most part,
there's usually something that is worth cloning
as long as you go through a bunch of them.
And Lucas, do you see that question?
What grows structure?
She is definitely, she grows pretty wide.
She's got a very bushy structure to her,
especially the more lime smelling ones that I've found.
You will find some Camapinos
that are definitely a lot taller,
but I would definitely expect them to,
the shorter ones not to necessarily double in size,
but the taller ones a little bit.
They definitely can hold themselves up pretty well.
That is one trait I've really loved about her.
Going into almost everything I've hit her with,
it's really added nice bushy structure
and the branches can really hold themselves up
for pretty decently sized buds, honestly.
She's a decently heavy feeder.
I would say on the mid to higher end.
Not anything specific as far as like being
like a calcium lover or anything,
just nice all around on general diet, really.
But you will find the lime Camapinos really quickly.
But yeah, she'll throw down some giant, giant nugs.
I wish I could like pull up my photos
and show them of some of them I have,
but I don't have a laptop, just on my phone.
It's okay.
So on a totally random note,
where'd you get the ABC that you have?
I had a buddy in Arizona that bought some,
I don't know if he got them from CSI Humboldt
or it's Hybrid Tech the one that did them, I think.
Or either source, but he had popped half the pack.
He got two females and the rest were males.
He killed off the males and he wasn't gonna grow the rest.
And I was like, dude, let me get those.
And so he sent them out to me.
I popped the rest of them.
I also got all males.
So I just collected pollen
because ABC is something very unique.
So I got them from someone in Australia.
It took a lot of seed, very few of them sprouted.
And the three that sprouted, I had done two
and they started to go into flower
and then I brought them back into veg.
And I had a third one that was tiny
that was catching up and then I put them all into flower.
And I already knew the first two were female.
So I was like, please be male.
And then the third one turned female
and I was like, fuck, I can't seed them.
And then you were like, I only got male.
So you sent me the pollen.
Yeah, so they're now seeded.
It's just gonna be from, I guess, Americanized ABC lineage.
It all came from Australia,
but it sounds like you got the more authentic,
if you wanna call it that.
Did I send you the pictures?
I saw the ones you posted.
Okay.
I got some of those ABC seeds too sent to me
by the homie Bird.
He might be in the chat.
I'm not sure.
I'm gonna be popping some of those this year too
and see what comes out of them.
Yeah, I only, I had two pop out of six that I had.
So definitely don't expect high germination rates.
Yeah, no.
Well, these are ones he made his self.
So he made F2s out of what he had.
So given that it's 1230 at night on the West Coast,
so it's like 1.30 your time.
Yeah, I was about to say it's getting late.
And you have work at what time tomorrow morning?
I'm off tomorrow, but my wife works.
So I'm gonna try and stay quiet for her.
So, all right, so we have your stuff up on the site.
And then it looks, I haven't seen Cheddar Bob pop up,
but I think he's asleep.
But anyway, he threw up five of the cherry pie clones
and I just smoked your cherry pie haze,
which was delicious.
But, and then, and I'll post the link to all that stuff.
But Jackson, is there anything you wanna put up
in terms of either, my favorite thing is just seed packs.
But if you wanna auction something or?
Well, I know the auction thing's kind of a pain in the butt,
but I had an idea and I'm not sure how to swing it.
I figure, I don't know, probably people joining in
would probably trust you to randomize it.
But I was almost thinking if you wanna do,
if he's gonna drop the reproduction black lime reserve,
right, the packs.
I was almost thinking if you could almost do it
like a raffle where the packs he's selling is like a raffle,
I could send you a couple, I could send you like two
or three packs of the original black lime reserves
and you could randomly drop them in the box,
in the boxes that you're putting his seeds in to go out.
You know what I'm saying?
Meaning that randomly.
If you buy a pack, you might get another one.
You know how a raffle is, right?
You buy a ticket, maybe you win something.
Yeah.
So you could almost make it like the packs
that he's putting up are like the raffle tickets
for the F1 packs.
The only issue there is Lucas,
I don't think we have a lot of packs.
So it's basically like a person's chances of winning
are like one in four, which is amazing
for the person who's winning.
Yeah, I mean, I'd sent you five
and I don't know how many were left on the site.
I mean, I could put more, I ran out of stickers.
We don't have to figure it out tonight.
That's the beauty of all this.
But we do have Lucas's stuff up
and Jackson will figure something clever out
and we will raise some money.
Yeah, I love that people are helping out.
There are only three on deck.
All right, so.
Uh.
I can definitely, I can probably do maybe like 10 more
when I get more packaging material in,
which should be here this week.
We'll figure something out and I'll let everyone know.
But that was an enjoyable conversation.
Yes, I definitely thank you all for coming.
Can I just, I know you guys have been on
for three and a half hours, but flipping it,
Jackson and Tony, can you talk about meeting Lucas
and kind of what you liked about him
when you first met him?
Oh, well, for me, man, when we first met,
he had a passion for something similar
to the way I was when I started.
But he was ready to listen and learn.
Like that was the first thing that popped out
when we started to talk.
He'd ask questions and he wasn't trying
to just give me his input of what he already heard about.
He was literally trying to learn some new stuff
about a craft that he was trying to put in.
That's one of the things that first hit me
about him on the breeding side.
But on the other side, I met him and his father
and his family and his mom.
And they were just cool people, man.
So for me, it just came down to the vibe that I got off of.
Like I said before, it was just him typing
on a fucking keyboard.
But when we finally got to meet face to face,
he turned out to be a cat I wanted to have
as a friend for a long time.
And the four of us, me, Levi and Rain, man,
you should have seen how her ass was crying
when we all fucking left and shit
because of the kind of friendship we bonded to, man.
It was funny and shit.
We were all laughing at ourselves for crying,
but we found the three friends out in the world
that we would have never ran into
if it wasn't for cannabis and shit.
So for me, meeting Lucas was life-changing for me.
Same, same bro.
Yeah, so both these dudes I met,
really, I mean, you meet people in person,
I kinda knew who both of them were from online
before I met him.
And then you heard the little cup story,
meeting, getting the ghost train,
Hayes, Melange Seeds, checking out the weed.
That was probably what?
That was only, I think that was the second event
that I had ever worked at.
So that was back in the days
when everything was still kinda crazy.
It was really, those were the good shows.
And you could just bring a big turkey bag
full of untrimmed weed and break people off buds.
And we were doing, we had Frenchie was there
and we were doing the dab bar with the hash
and we had all the different hashes and everything.
And it was just like a party and everything
and they came through.
And contrast that to what California has turned into.
Oh dude, yeah.
And so, he was one of the first people
who I can remember giving stuff to
that actually grew it out and gave me feedback.
And he was actually the first person,
I'm pretty sure that grew Sky Jaro.
Did you grow Lime Pop Kush?
Yep, yep.
I think that was one of the first batch
and that was amazing.
He was one of the first people
who grew Sky Jaro and Lime Pop Kush.
And that was, that had to be,
I mean, I didn't even breed those to put out
until a couple of years later
based on getting good feedback from you
and from like Nader from up in Canada
and a couple people.
And so, that's really how I kinda got to know him
was through giving him stuff
and anybody who gives people tester seeds
knows most people you give tester seeds,
you give them seeds and that's it.
You know, like your seeds are gone.
There they went.
And you're like, well, right,
chalk it up to whatever,
but like, yeah, he's one of the first dudes
who actually really grew stuff,
gave me feedback and stuff.
So, he's been solid.
And another, one of the people who was like,
oh yeah, I was gonna make more of these.
You said you're not making more
like with a Black Lime Reserve.
Is it cool if I put some out?
And I was like, yeah, cool.
And I've had people literally take my seeds,
make a ton, start selling a thousand packs
and then come on my feed and be like,
eh, these seeds suck, dude.
And I'm like, well, they're good enough
that you're selling a thousand packs of them, right?
Not only did they not like touch base
and be like, hey, is that cool?
You know, it's just, it's all good.
People don't know how to touch base,
but it's cool when they, like you,
when you go out of your way and you do.
But beyond that, I've had people
who were straight up like, yeah, your seeds suck.
And then you go to the thing and you're like,
well, everything you're selling is all my seeds.
So like, they can't be that bad, right?
But you know, so like the weirdness on the scene
is definitely prevalent within a lot of ways.
And, you know, he's one of those dudes
that didn't do no weirdo shit and went above and beyond
and, you know, gave me good feedback, good pictures
and, you know, that's kind of how I know him
is through just like, you know, trading stuff
and, you know, actually a person who grew some stuff out.
Levi grew some stuff, Tony grew some stuff.
There's only a certain amount of people, you know?
And, you know, it's a cool thing.
But he was-
He was selling equipment back in the day, man.
I remember getting some of his stuff
back in the day, man.
I remember getting some of the first crosses from him
with the stuff that he had from the dad's cut,
he used to call it,
because he had this plant that he wasn't 100% positive on.
And he sent some of the samples to me and Levi.
And I think he even got some over to Jackson
to see what we all thought it was.
And like, he's always checking shit out
and asking questions, man.
It's always been cool about that shit.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Yeah, man.
All right.
I was gonna ask another question,
but then I was like, let's end it.
Let's end it.
It's the mercy killing.
All right, well, yeah.
All right, so one, go pick up some eclectic, elegant skier.
I think I put the link in a while ago, but.
Yeah.
I gotta find the link, hold on.
And there's a cherry pie clone in there.
So Tony, can you talk about the cherry pie clone?
All that cherry pie came to me from Kev.
It's a cut that he's grown in his personal garden
for a while.
She handles,
the climate he's got up there is high humidity.
So she'll handle high humidity.
That plant, loud.
You get your hands on her,
she'll fucking change your garden.
She's nice to smoke.
She's a short plant, finishes nine weeks.
Yeah, you could take her 10 if you want to.
She's gonna put out colorful buds,
dense, compact flowers.
Man, she's nice.
I've used her in a few crosses so far myself,
especially with some of the,
like the Ghost OG Kim Dog Special Reserve stuff
I got from Kevin.
I've passed some of the stuff that Kev gave me
over to Collective Gallegance, to Lucas.
He's used them in some of his stuff over there.
Levi's done the same with some of those crosses
I got from Kev.
That cherry pie is a nice plant, man.
If you guys have never smoked her or grown her,
get her in your garden, you'll like her for sure.
She's gonna be, she's gonna be loud.
A lot of people have used her in their breeding.
Just do a small Google search and you'll find out
she's been around.
She's proven her ability to shine.
She's a nice girl.
Yeah, and full disclosure, the cut you sent me last year,
I had, I went to Rhode Island to visit my parents
for like two weeks, and I gave it to Tom,
who I call the Grim Reaper,
because every plant I ever put in his possession
ends up dying a tragic death.
That clone did not make it.
It's like in college, I had a boa constrictor,
and it was like six feet long,
and I went to live in France for a year,
and I gave it to my brother,
and between him and my college roommate,
the snake died, and like neither of them
took responsibility, so I had to like piece together
like what happened to this snake
in the year that I was gone that it died,
but anyway.
Yeah, Case Gideon's asking if it's the same one, Nicky.
Is this the same cut?
They both came from Kevin.
The same cherry pie that's used in the bacon OG.
But yeah, I'll get you another cherry pie, Peter.
No problem.
Thank you.
I got some Kim's if you want those too, man.
I got some of those ready right now.
I got the Kim 91, the Kim D, and a Kim 4.
Well, this is why I want the greenhouse in Camarillo
so I can take care of stuff,
because like at my house,
my wife doesn't want me growing anything,
and then if I bring it to other people's places,
it's basically like I'm at their mercy.
I hear you.
But all right, let's get this off Lucas's head.
All right, well, thank you everyone.
Yes, thank you guys.
Much love and respect.
Thank you for Peter for putting this on,
and yeah, thanks for spending almost four hours with us.
Thank you for everyone coming to join and listen to us chat.
Yeah, these conversations are not short form.
It's like six hours later.
All righty guys, you all have a wonderful night.
You too, man.
All right.
Tony Jackson, any parting words?
No, man, but I'll try to figure something else out too
to get you to go along with those,
and then we'll figure out if that idea works.
I told people I was going to auction
the Black Library of Congress,
the Black Lime Reserves,
but we can figure out a way to just slide them in with something else.
Yeah, by the way, was that a Photoshop?
Where did you flex your skills in that graphic?
That's just on the meme thing.
The meme generator?
Just a background with a, yeah.
Yeah.
Those impressive visual design.
That just takes a couple seconds.
I'll do it real quick.
All right.
Well, thanks everyone.
Have a good night, and we'll talk to you soon.
Right on.
