Hey, everybody. Welcome back. Another episode of the Friendly Cannabis Show here on Future
Cannabis Project. And tonight, we have a guest you may be familiar with. I'm pretty sure
you are. But everybody in chat, give a welcome to Madame Cannoli. Kimberly, how are you doing
this evening?
Very well. Thank you so much for having me and for everybody who's joining us.
Yeah, I'm you know, it's fun to talk with you. There's so many different areas that
we can go and explore. Tonight, we want to talk about the online premiere of the film
Frenchie Dreams of Hasheesh, which is, as I just said, coming to an online premiere.
So can you really quickly give everybody a date of when to expect that?
Yes. So we finally set a date. It's going to be Saturday, April 29. And it's going to
be at 7pm. And we're going to be doing release parties in three locations, starting with
Europe, then going to the East Coast of the Americas again at 7pm. And then finally, on
the West Coast of the Americas at 7pm. So we hope to have events, hosted events and
online events, where we'll pass the hookah and do a bunch of other fun stuff, some Q&A
after the film screenings that everybody's watching, hopefully simultaneously at 7pm.
And that really makes it fun, too. It's just a community effort. You know, I love the pass
the hookah. That's gonna be fun. I can't wait to be a part of that. But for everybody who
hasn't seen the trailer for this, I just want to play the trailer real quick. I'm excited
for this. Now this is it's been touring the country and we'll get to that here in a second.
But I'm excited for the online premiere of this and chat. Let me know if you guys can
hear the audio. I'm just going to play it right here and we'll see. We'll see how it
goes. All right. Full screen.
It's a shame that you can't smell it.
Breach has produced the highest quality cannabis in the world based on our tell all.
Endocino could become the Vinhead. Everything starts with the land, the farmer.
Uh oh.
There goes my internet. We're just building the suspense here, people. Just building the
suspense. Let me exit full screen and see if that helps anything here. I'll just refresh
it. But, okay. Sorry, stumbled there. Let me try this one more time here because I
know you're going to want to see it.
It's a shame that you can't smell it.
I'm hunting the perfect, the pure, the extreme rightness of those raisin eggs. Everything
starts with the land, the farmer, and the genetic.
There's plant entities that are controlling the human consciousness and ganja rules this
region.
We in this region have produced the highest quality cannabis in the world based on our
tell all.
Endocino could become the Bordeaux of the cannabis industry worldwide.
Crazier by the second. This is daylight now.
There's earthquakes, there's forest fires, there's mudslides, there's floods, and there's
government regulation. Acts of God and the Board of Supervisors.
The way legalization is coming, they're really hurting small farmers.
For the moment, it's over-policed, over-regulated, and over-taxed.
It's basically economic assassination. We're going to take our financial resources and
we're basically going to smash these guys.
The way we treat that plant, the way we work with it, will define the future.
The sacred goddess bring blessing, the sacred goddess bring joy, the sacred goddess bring
protection, the sacred goddess bring healing.
Om, I am green, clean, shame, ganja, my name.
Wow, that was just a minute and a half of footage from this film.
And I can't wait to watch the entire movie.
How long is this film?
It's a feature film, it's 90 minutes.
Okay, so 90 minutes.
And it looks, you know, the footage was great.
You had the drone shots from above, some quality cinematic effects there.
Was this all shot in one location or one region?
No.
So this, our filmmaker, Jake Remington, followed Frenchy around for a couple of years, went
to Spanabus, went a few times up north when Frenchy went up to visit his farmers, and
just captured footage.
You know, our original concept was around, we had been working and I was looking at Frenchy
and I said, oh, it'd be amazing to do something like Jiro Dreams of Sushi.
I don't know if you've seen that film that chronicles the life of this second or third
generation sushi maker and he's 80 years old and he has his son working for him.
And at that time, Frenchy's apprentice, Bell, was working with him.
And I just thought, you know, what they were doing was so, in a way, simple, but so focused
on every day doing better.
And in the film, Jiro's son always asks him, so did you make the perfect sushi today?
And Jiro would always say, we could do a little bit better.
And so we used to joke with Bell, we would say to Frenchy, so did you make the perfect
hashish today?
And he would be like, well, there's always room for improvement.
So initially, it started out, we hired Jake Remington, our filmmaker, to videograph Frenchy's
do-it-yourself hash making workshop, the last start of the hashishing workshop.
Because Frenchy had been getting requests from people who lived in areas that were never
going to be able to come to our workshop.
One day, he was driving up north, I think with Jake actually at that time, or maybe
with his friend Leo Stone, the breeder, and he got a call from somebody in Lebanon that
wanted some advice from Frenchy about fine-tuning their hash making process.
These were people whose, you know, maybe grandparents or great-grandparents had made hashish in
the traditional manner, but somehow through prohibition and just like worldwide pressure,
they had lost some of the details in the hash making technique.
So Frenchy, he was so excited because he spent part of this drive up north talking to this
guy and talking through him fine-tuning some of his hash making process.
So that's when he came to me and he was like, we need to film the workshop, we need to make
it available to everybody because some people are never going to be able to come and join
us in a hands-on live workshop.
And so we did that and that was so successful and we enjoyed working with Jake so much that
we said, okay, now we want to do this bigger story.
And it coincided with, they started filming the last year of adult use in California when
we could sell direct to the consumer and things were relatively easy to manage.
And then we transitioned into so-called legal cannabis and, you know, all hell broke loose
and it was, you know, it was just by bureaucracy.
And yeah, so that was a very, very interesting process.
And while we didn't calculate it, we documented a very important time in history.
Very important time, definitely on the cusp of, you know, a major turn of events.
It was a shift from, you know, obviously the legacy market into the current one, but
there were a lot of people that made up this legacy market that are left out of the current market.
And not because it's a lack of desire, like you said, bureaucracy kind of killed it.
And that's so very true.
And that's, you know, kind of ties into Origin Council, which we could talk about as well.
But that's, you know, helping the farmers in that area have a voice, which is huge because
as we've all seen, commercial cannabis is a locomotive.
Yeah. So the Origins Council is a nonprofit that is headed by Janine Coleman that serves
over 800 legacy farmers and businesses in California.
And they are working with a lot of the other farmers groups throughout California to collectively
have a better voice when it comes to legislation and working with the government here.
So very important work that they're doing.
And they also happen to be working with some of the farmers featured in the film who have
created an entity called the Lost Coast Farmers Guild.
And they're doing something that's very near and dear to Frenchies heart.
They are doing studies on cannabis terroir.
And terroir is this French concept that says some products have a recognition based on
the environmental conditions that grow those products.
So that means the soil, the air, the water.
And they say even the soul of the farmer who grows is part of this overall terroir.
And when you have a place that that specific product gets a recognition from the people who
consume it, that precedes it having like a marketing name.
You know, so it's kind of like before the Emerald Triangle became worldwide famous for making
the best cannabis on the planet, people knew that's where the cannabis was and they talked
about it to each other.
So in France, around the turn of the century, the Chamber of Commerce of Bordeaux worked
with the government to create what are called named appellations.
So named place of origin, meaning that only wine grown in that specific area could call
itself the name from that area.
So like Bordeaux, if you're an appellation from Bordeaux, you can put on the label, you
know, Bordeaux, use that name or from Champagne.
So you can't be a bubbly wine and simply call yourself Champagne.
You have to be from that terroir that is labeled Champagne.
So the idea is that there would be a terroir up north that is designated, you know, specifically
to these various parts of Humboldt and Mendocino and Trinity because they have this recognition
that preceded the marketing efforts around this now.
So, yeah, so it'll be very interesting to see these scientific studies done to document
this and to ultimately create a protocol that then could be used by people all over the
world.
And I would love to see this type of appellation structure to protect, you know, Hashish in
Afghanistan or Lebanon or Morocco, you know, the traditional producing countries that have
an existing fame that should be protected and recognized as well.
You know, you've definitely made an important point, and I know an important part of the
search for the perfect Hashish was sun grown, sustainably grown as well.
It's a big part.
And one of the things that tends to thrive in that type of soil structure is, you know,
the microbes, the microbiome.
And the more that we learn about soil structure, the more we learn about these microbes, we
really learn about how they impart their impact on cannabis, which would make sense why, you
know, that specific region or different specific regions is able to offer something unique
and worth protecting in a manner like that.
Because, you know, Kali weed is known around the world.
You could go anywhere in the world to meet Kali weed and people will know and it demands
a premium.
But, yeah, having something specifically humble or Trinity or Mendocino County, Emerald
Triangle, that would be great to have.
And that's what this group is kind of working towards.
Yes.
Perfect.
OK, well, I want to talk to you about the movie a little bit now.
This has been this project has been done for a little while.
You have taken this kind of out on the road and you took that on the tour kind of across
the country this past year.
We started on 710.
That was the first screening in San Francisco.
And we did two screenings in San Francisco, one in L.A., New York, Chicago.
I've done two screenings in Canada.
And now it's time to prepare for the online release.
And to you know, my goal is to really create a bunch of buzz around that to try and get
mainstream media to pay attention, because I would really love for it to be picked up
by some type of streaming platform where not only people within the community would see
it, but curious people outside the community would see it.
Because right now, most of those platforms, they have two types of cannabis content.
Silly stoner cannabis content or murderous cannabis content.
You know, and I think those are two extremes that most of us are not really part of.
Most of us are highly functioning individuals who do all kinds of creative work all day
long. And, you know, we're not negatively impacted by our consumption.
Or even if you might be a little silly, it shouldn't be anymore.
I don't see the silly drunk, you know, kind of content only associated with alcohol
consumption. So.
So, yeah, I would love to.
So to that end, I'm really hoping to organize a bunch of viewing parties with people
worldwide. My idea is that we'll have three screenings starting in Europe at 7 p.m.
You know, kind of watch the film together, have some Q&A after the film.
I'm really hoping that I can get people to get a hookah or a shillam or some other smoking
device so that we can pass that around.
I plan to use the live stream, restream platform so that I can have some about 10 people
with me on the platform, but that it will simultaneously feed to my Instagram, YouTube,
Lost Coast group on Facebook so that we can have just like a really nice community event
that transcends the limitations of COVID and time and space.
And then after we've done Europe, we'll move to the east coast of the Americas, which
would include Brazil and that side of Mexico.
And then three hours later, we'll move over here to the west coast and, you know, have
just have like this ongoing party all day long to celebrate the community, the film
and talk with some of the farmers and people involved in the film.
I think the filmmaker will be able to join us.
So it should be great.
That'll be fun. A little bit of Q&A.
And I know that you had some pretty fun locations.
You did a few of these at drive ins and you've also did them in movie theaters.
Was there any other sort of like kind of unique spot that you had one of these premieres in?
Well, the Grow Up Conference hosted us at the conference facility in Niagara Falls.
And that was a huge space, very beautiful.
And then this past month, beginning of this month, the Lift Conference hosted me in
Vancouver, B.C. and that was on the conference floor.
So that was kind of interesting as well.
Yeah. And how did, you know, you know, big crowds, intimate crowds.
What was the, you know, atmosphere of the crowd?
Because it's kind of like what we're, you know, building with the premiere here.
Was there a lot of, you know, bonding? Was it kind of like a celebratory?
The first one, the premiere we did in San Francisco.
So we did a wake and bake before the film at a local bar and grill.
And because of COVID, now all the restaurants in California have taken over the sidewalk
and they've got seating on the sidewalk.
So this bar and grill owner, he put tables that could hold about 100 people on the sidewalk of San Francisco.
And he was super chill. He let us break out the bombs and the shilloms and everything.
And we were just having a sesh there on the streets of San Francisco with, you know, food and coffee.
And all of the friends who came, that theater held about 250 people.
It was sold out.
We had all of our sponsors who gave us things to put in the goodie bags.
So there was some edibles. So people were really, you know, having a great time.
We had pre-rolls. It was really lovely. Yeah, really, really lovely.
I think everybody is just, you know, we've been through a lot with the pandemic, especially as a community.
So it was so nice to just get together and celebrate Frenchies, celebrate the farmers,
you know, celebrate each other by being together again.
So I'm hoping that we can, you know, do that by having one big event on the day of the release.
Of course, people are going to be able to watch it at their leisure whenever they want, you know, after that day.
But I just think it'll be really lovely if people get together in their house with friends,
almost like if you were doing a Super Bowl event. But this is going to be the Super Hachiche event.
It's going to be way cooler. Yes, way, way cooler. Sorry to interrupt you there.
Not at all. Not at all.
You know, that probably sounds like one of the personal highlights because, gosh, you know, again, coming together again,
this plant, hachiche, it does so much for bringing people together, you know, people of all different walks of life.
So I love that. And I love that the event did that. Did you have like, you know, in the in that kind of tour of movies,
did you have any just personal highlights or moments that just kind of really brought you an unexpected joy or,
you know, as they say, like gave you the goosebumps?
After each event, we did a Q&A and, you know, people were so kind and so, you know,
recognizing Frenchie and sharing their love, love for him, his apprentice, Laura Bell.
She goes by Cherry Blossom Bell on Instagram. She's been with me in the most of not all of them,
but most of the places that we've gone. And that's been really lovely for people to just kind of see how the torch has been passed.
She's now director of operations at Heritage Mendocino in Ukiah.
They have a hacherie there where you can go in and it's got all, you know, it's it's not a wall, it's windows.
So you can watch making watch her making hash and they use a 500 gallon machine.
So it's really super cool. She won last year first place for hachiche for the white thorn rose.
And they got, I believe, a second place for the rosin. And this year she won the Eagle Clash.
So we're so proud of her. I mean, she's just really doing beautiful, beautiful work.
And so, yeah, I think that's really lovely.
Another element of this whole process that's just been enormous.
So at the time of French's passing, we had the videos for the do it yourself hash making tutorials only in English.
And a group from Brazil reached out to me because oddly enough, French's second largest following is in Brazil.
Brazilians love traditional hashish and a lot of them have come to his workshops.
And so this group who actually are involved in the cinema industry in Brazil,
they reached out and said, we'd love to put subtitles on your workshop videos.
Would you give us permission to translate the videos?
And I said, oh, that'd be epic because we have so many followers there. I'd really appreciate it.
And so they did this open source as volunteers.
And we have this last group on Facebook where people can ask questions about hash making.
And I answer the questions because I've seen all of French's workshops.
I've probably seen a hundred Frenchie do the workshop a hundred times.
So I'm like the Frenchie parrot now. So I posted saying, hey, everybody, the do it yourself videos.
For those of you who speak Portuguese are now available in Portuguese.
And so then somebody from Spain said, well, if you're doing the Portuguese, I can do the Spanish.
So I'm going to do the Spanish. And then, of course, somebody from France was like, well, if you're going to have Spanish, we're going to have French because Frenchie was French.
And then, of course, the Italians came and the Germans. So to make a long story short, we now have the sub titles translated into six languages for the do it yourself videos,
meaning that we have the potential to reach a huge part of the world's population to teach them how to very easily make cash using a very simple mini washer and a set of bags.
So that was so lovely. And because they did that, when I told him, you know, hey, I'm doing the film, he was like, well, then we'll do the subtitles for the film as well.
So the film has been prepped. And when we go live on the VOD for Vimeo Video on Demand, you will have the option to see it in five languages.
And oh, by the way, we do have it in English as well, because Frenchie English subtitles when it talks English.
Yeah, I get about nine tenths of everything from Frenchie.
Yeah, that is such a wonderful resource to you.
That's the community, right?
Yeah.
It's just the beauty of this community. And God bless them, because, you know, we're talking about a legacy industry and there's a lot of slang there that if you were to ask Google Translate to translate this, it would be hilarious and nobody would understand what was really going on.
Google Translate would not do a thorough job.
Throw a bag. How is Google Translate going to translate throw a bag? Or, you know, selling packs?
Yeah. I'm so excited to see that, too, because, you know, we're really happy with the information we can get here.
And, you know, in English, we're always like, oh, you know, the more the better. And it's new and it's still coming out.
But having had my past experience, too, as a DJ and working in that industry and supporting that, I became friends with a friend, a Spanish speaker.
And it was amazing how little information was actually out there. And I'm like, dude, we need to, you know, do something like that.
And it was so well received.
It's so frustrating. I mean, we've been living in a bubble in California for 20 years now, and we don't realize it to a degree.
You know, the amount of freedom that we have with cannabis. It's funny because like even when you fly out of California, like if you're going from California to Denver, you just you'd like, let me pack my medicine.
It's no big deal. You know, I'm safe. But on the other hand, I would never drive to Utah or Texas.
You do become like this, like there's, I don't know, little island states. And as long as they connect, you can travel and you feel like it's cool. You know, like I can go to Seattle because Oregon's in between.
But I can't go to, I don't know, Montana or whatever. What's the state there between Washington and Seattle?
Idaho. Idaho is...
Yeah, exactly. It's like, no way.
Living in Washington most of my adult life, which is my cannabis life. Yeah, Utah has always been a big no. There is zero tolerance state. So what is sitting on my floor right now is enough to go to jail. So no thanks. I'll skip Utah.
So I'm assuming, yeah, you guys probably didn't make it through Utah on the tour. But if they're in Utah, you can stream it. So that's good.
Yeah.
And you probably won't need subtitles in Utah, but we'll get past that.
And you had mentioned, you know, the producer and kind of the collaboration and how it really was sourced with the community. Were there some other people that were kind of key in the process of filming or maybe post-production? Or did you have a lot of hands on kind of...
No, it was largely Jake. It was a very small, it was one of these kind of bootstrapped things. I was the funder, Jake, and he had a couple other people who helped him do the filming. You know, he had the one guy who operated the drone. But by and large, it was Jake. And this is, you know, it's kind of charming because Jake's like six foot two.
You know, he's a very large human, but he's so quiet and invisible when he's filming. There's footage in there that I'm like, when did he take that? How did he capture that? Because he's just very, you know, he just disappears when he's filming. And he's got such a... well, you saw from the trailer, just such a thoughtful eye in how he captures the authenticity of what's going on.
Yeah.
And a lot of those things too, they're just in the moment. They happen. So you have to be prepared and have that skill behind the camera. Because again, a lot of that, you know, I like film too. So, you know, angles, what's in focus, what's out of focus, lighting, these little things, they're, you know, from the trailer, they're all there.
And I think it's also, you know, it's not like he stopped and said, okay, let me ask you a question. The beauty of it is he took, I think over the course of the two or three years that he followed Frenchy around, there's over 80 hours worth of film. And within that, he had to listen to all of these people, because it's largely him observing and capturing people talking.
And so he creates a dialogue between these voices, between all the participants in the film over this hour and a half. And he kind of leads us on this journey of the celebration of Frenchy and his hashish and the love he has for the farmers who provide the quality that allows him to make such a beautiful product and the impact of, you know, the greater environment that we've all been living through.
So yeah, for me, it's kind of rather extraordinary to be able to do that. And just the pandemic was an odd blessing, because he really hunkered down and reworked the film during the pandemic. And the results for me is kind of nothing short of amazing when I know what he was working with.
Yes, I mean, 80 hours of footage condensed down into one cohesive story for 90 minutes is for anybody who hasn't done editing before, you cannot appreciate that.
Yeah.
So that, yeah, that is very awesome. And that is, you know, kind of going to ask about storyboards, but it just really kind of sounds more natural, which is a great way to film.
Was there anything that you missed or you didn't see footage of that you had kind of thought, well, you know, that would have been great? Hindsight's always 20-20, right?
I mean, I suspect, you know, within the footage that didn't make it, there's another film, you know, I mean, there's so, so much there. Of course, there's little things that there's short bits with different people that I would have loved to see as well.
I think at some point, you know, you have to allow the artistic license of the filmmaker to just do, you know, what he thinks is best. So, yeah, I'm sure that, you know, there'll be opportunities to share some other small sections and whatnot over time as we move forward.
And that'll be fun too, because sometimes not everything will fit into that big cohesive story, but it's still five minutes of something you feel is really important.
Very interesting. Yeah.
Yeah. Gives you the opportunity. What do you think maybe, you know, without giving it away or without giving it all away, what is maybe one of your favorite scenes or one of your favorite moments from the documentary that you had that people should look for?
I don't think I have a favorite per se. I mean, obviously, it's so lovely that, you know, he captured Frenchie in his element, you know, so happy to be working with the farmers.
There's lots of what we would call hash porn in there, you know, macros of trichomes and lots and lots of hashish over the years, you know, as Frenchie's making, he's filming.
And so just memories of all the various places and people that we were working with and the beautiful fields of the Emerald Triangle, the wisdom of all those legacy farmers who had the bravery to go through what they went through and, you know, protect the plant, promote the plant and advocate for her so that we could get to the point to have the freedom that we have now.
Because even in Europe, you know, like France, they've gone backwards. They've made the laws even more harsh when it's ridiculous. They have something like 67 percent of the population smokes, but yet they have these draconian laws that they've put in place.
And they're trying, you know, even like in Spain, they have the social clubs for people together and they're trying to make it so that tourists can't, you know, go to the social clubs or similarly in Amsterdam.
You know, they're trying to make things more difficult with the coffee shops there. And it's so sad because it really seemed, you know, I used to feel like, oh, this model in Spain is so smart.
They require that the coffee shops or the social clubs there that you can't see them from the streets. So they're all in buildings where there's no window on the front when you're going in or in a basement, you know, kind of situation.
And that just seems like, OK, adults are going to be doing these things privately in the comfort of this space. That's not exposing children and people to something that's not appropriate for their age.
So it seemed like such a harmonious way for society to figure this kind of thing out, similar to having bars for alcohol. Right. So I just wish we could continue to progress in that direction and quit harassing people who choose cannabis as their preferred way to relax and have fun with each other.
It just you know, I was thinking about it because Frenchy wrote a book during the pandemic on the history of cannabis concentrates, and he goes way back almost to like the birth of civilization and really looks at how, you know.
So, you know, cannabinoids evolved into a plant 20, I think it's 26 million years before humans were around. So that means that somehow French used to say, if you didn't believe in God, it would make you kind of say, well, at least there was a divine intelligence because the intelligence said, I'm going to create this plant that is going to be perfectly matched to the endocannabinoid structure of this being.
That I haven't yet created. I'm going to do it, you know, like 26 million years later. Right. You know, it's me. These mammals are going to evolve and they're going to have a structure within them that is healed, that is amused and that is relaxed by consuming this plant.
And so I was just thinking of the war on drugs and going, how stupid are humans to outlaw something that has been designed to help them feel Frenchy used to call it overall well-beingness, which I love because it's true.
You have the opportunity to smoke and you have one kind of head high or you can consume edibles and give the overall body high, which is different. And it's just it's like, when are we going to understand this is this plant is such a benevolent, good thing for us in terms of our interactions with each other, in terms of creating community.
And also when you look at hemp in providing so many good resources for the planet that don't do harm. And when you think doomsday clock is 90 seconds away from the point where total human annihilation is imminent. Yeah. It's like, come on, guys. It's time to stop fucking around. Excuse my French.
Get it together, people. Come on.
And let the plant lead, you know.
Nature has so many great examples for us. That's where many of our best inventions come from. I was talking about this the other night. I'm like, nature knows the answer. We just need to learn to speak the language.
Or listen, we know the language if we would just listen.
Yeah. Well, I'm glad to see that moving into the cannabis space, too. You know, obviously, more so with the outdoor growers indoors. We're a very ungreen industry, very ungreen industry. It's like kind of mind blowingly frustrating how ungreen we are. Regulations is most of it. Being indoors is another part.
But what we're trying to promote and what you're trying to promote, too, is that sustainable kind of sun grown work with nature. Destroy it.
Yeah. Now, Frenchie used to get very, very frustrated with the packaging and thinking about how much waste we have and what we could do with the cannabis byproducts potentially in terms of that.
I think also when you look at like the packaging for wine, you can put wine, a substance that if you over consume it or a hard alcohol for that matter, you can put it simply in a bottle with a screw top lid.
You can have alcohol poisoning kills.
Oh, yeah.
Cannabis over consumption of cannabis or hashish. You get asleep for a while and you may have moments of intense anxiety, but it's not going to kill you. And yet I have to triple package it. I have and I can only put a gram in a jar that has to be child proof screw up. I have to put that in a box and then I have to somehow seal the box.
It's just like.
And it's not even like the ideal way to preserve the things that we're trying to keep about this. It's just it's almost like completely besides the point as far as like quality control.
So, yeah, hopefully, hopefully they work that out. There's there's a lot of hopes in this industry, but that's what keeps us moving forward. And I'm glad that we're having this conversation and I'm glad that this film is coming out for everybody to view because, again, I'll play the intro here in a few moments. But just that minute and a half.
It's inspiring. So it's cool to see.
You know, I was going to ask, OK, so is April 29th at 7 p.m. in a few different time zones is it's going to be happening.
You went around the country and you were doing the online premiere now. Was there any thought or consideration of entering this into some film festivals?
We did, actually. And we did not get accepted.
The paranoid in me kind of goes. So are we still there when it comes to, you know, cannabis content?
I was so we got kind of generic form letters for from a couple of them. And then we got a very thoughtful, nice letter from the one woman who said, you know, love the film, loved the the whole content, but that it didn't fit the theme that they had for their festival that year, even though there was no stated theme that we could have been aware of ahead of time.
So it's just this kind of thing where, again, I still feel to a degree that anti-cannabis sentiment to a large degree is alive and well, and that if it's not stupid stoner content or murderous stoner content with a shock value that, you know, if it's just people celebrating hashish and farmers doing cool farmer things.
And oh, by the way, they happen to grow cannabis as well.
Yeah, right. Well, the irony will be when we find out the festival sponsor is Smirnoff. So there you go.
You know, something like that. Yeah. Yes. Yes.
We're laughing, but, you know, those cannabis consumption lounges in Las Vegas, one of the requirements was that they had to serve alcohol.
See, I would think you would want to not intermix those two, just even from a logistics standpoint, because I asked 10 out of 10 people, more people get in fights on alcohol than they do with cannabis.
So why why marry the two?
I hear you. But how many large cannabis conferences have you been to where the after party you can't smoke cannabis, but there is alcohol available?
And then all the cool kids are out back behind the dumpster smoking as usual.
Exactly.
I'm going to put the link up here, too, for everybody to sign up because you have the list right now as far as information to.
So to make it easy for people, the day of the event or a couple of days before, I'll send out the link with the VOD information, the video on demand information.
So people will know really easily how to access it and with the details.
And then, of course, I'll be continuing to post on the various social media platforms about the opportunity to host an event and be part of the parties that we're going to be doing after the movie screenings on April 29th.
Cool. And I'll put that clickable link in chat for everybody trying to click their screen right now.
That's in chat. It's also down in the show notes as well.
So anybody watching this on the replay, curious, definitely go down in the show description.
You can find that there. Also find the Instagrams to follow to stay up to date, as well as Frenchie Cannoli website, which we covered on our last show.
We went into the different tabs of that website.
But oh, my gosh, guys, is that a freaking wealth of knowledge and resources.
So please do yourself a favor and check out the Frenchie Cannoli dot com website as well.
And I want to let everybody know, too, we're going to go for probably about another 20 minutes here, but we are going to have time for some Q&A.
So if you have any questions, go ahead and get those in here and chat.
I'll kind of keep my eye on those and star them and then we'll get to them in a second.
So if you have any questions for Madame Cannoli, we do have Andre is watching here.
I've seen a lot of people pop up offering their support.
Andre Howard says, Hey, FCP and Madame Cannoli, it's Andre promoting the Orange Turbo project.
Now, that was one of Frenchie's favorite hashers, wasn't it?
Yeah. So that's a lovely cultivar that's made by MTG Seeds.
And so about a year ago, people were asking me what Frenchie's favorite cultivar for making hashish was.
And could we do a group grow and the Lost Art group to all grow the same cultivar and kind of see how it responded to different terroirs worldwide and then make hash from it and just like share the details with everybody.
I didn't realize it, but the breeder behind Orange Turbo had passed away about six months before Frenchie or maybe a little bit more from neurological Lyme disease.
And so I reached out to his family saying, Hey, do you have any seeds left?
And they're like, yes, we do. And I said, well, we'd like to do this project. Would that be OK with you?
And so we did this amazing group grow on the Lost Art Facebook group.
I think we have 300 people or more worldwide who grew Orange Turbo last year.
We've had a lot of lovely posts on the Facebook group.
But what we're going to do, Frenchie did something called the hash porn twice a year.
I've scaled it down to only once a year. So we're going to be doing this the week before 420.
And it's simply a photo beauty contest of your hashish or the rosin that you made yourself.
And so people post to their own Instagram.
They tag Frenchie's account and they put pound hash porn six so I can easily find it.
And then for the images that we deem, you know, kind of to the beauty level that we we aspire to.
I repost those for one week on Frenchie's Instagram account.
And I have guest judges who help me evaluate and they choose their favorite entry.
And we have some prizes for that. And then we have the overall Internet favorite.
And this year we're going to have a category just for Orange Turbo.
We're going to have a prize for what everybody feels is their preferred or, you know, the best Orange Turbo.
And we have a few people among them, some famous hash makers that are washing the Orange Turbo this year.
So I'm really excited about that.
It's been beautiful to see people growing this cultivar together and how she's responding.
There's been some phenol hunting done because it was done with seeds.
So, yeah, it's just been a lovely, lovely thing.
And I'm actually exploring the idea to do another group grow with another cultivar.
And so I'm talking with a few people about that right now.
Gosh, just look at all these examples here.
Some of I mean, some of just this one of our categories, oddly enough, because, you know, cannabis consumers are amazingly creative.
We have a sculpture category.
So people, as you can see in here, there's all kinds of cute little sculptures.
We got the Yoda. We got the yeah, the little kind of monkey.
We've got the bumblebee.
One year we had a bunch of roses that people made.
Yeah, it's just been an amazing amount of fun.
Yeah, that's that's fun.
And that'll be fun to keep watching, too, to see just the creativity of people.
And, you know, I love to see, you know, some of the darker color people be OK with the darker color.
I think we got led down a unfortunate path that we were taught.
It has to be clear to do that.
That's the island of North America.
Because you guys don't have culture.
If you had to have culture, you wouldn't be obsessing over that.
And that's a very narrow slice of the dimensions of rightness.
And people obsess over that a little too much.
You know, when it's kind of like when you look at the alcohol, what's available to you is alcohol.
French used to say, you never hear vodka drinkers trashing people who drink cognac or somebody who drinks wine saying, oh, what are you doing drinking beer?
So within the dimensions of the rightness that's offered to us, you know, I think if we really were to do lab testing on that, you see there's different cannabinoid profiles.
There would be different terpene, different degrees of terpene intensity.
And based on that, how that impacts your body therapeutically and psychoactively, psychologically, there's different nuances to that.
So we need, you know, all of those variations because our life is not a one size fits all situation.
What I might want to consume in the morning is not what I would like to consume at night.
French used to say normally he didn't use rosin that much, but sometimes in the afternoon instead of having another cup of coffee, it was great to have a dab or two of rosin because that was punchier for him.
Yeah. So.
So, OK, we've covered, you know, when it's going to be, where it's going to be online, how there's going to be some activities to as well.
What is it going to cost for people to get the stream?
I think that we'll do the same thing that we've done at the movie theaters.
It's going to be fifteen dollars, you know, just like a normal movie ticket.
Awesome. That definitely works for me.
And is this something, you know, that I'm going to be able to kind of watch again?
Is it's, you know, I kind of buy the way it's structured.
It's over a time period.
So you'll have the opportunity within a time period.
OK. And that's funny. I've not not done that video on demand before, but, you know, I've rented plenty of movies off Amazon or my Hulu or whatnot.
So kind of fits that structure.
And this is April 29th again.
And anybody worldwide is going to have access to this as well.
Is that I mean, to the extent that their country allows them to access.
I don't know if there's any countries out there that are like banned female.
I don't think so. But, you know, I mean, there's always you never know.
Yeah. North Korea.
Yeah. There's a few places that might not like it.
Russia doesn't like the concentrates.
But what I want to do to and the reason why I ask is I want to I want to buy somebody's ticket this evening.
So before we go, I'm going to actually I'm going to put a number into our private chat.
So, Kimberly, she can verify there was a number before I started asking for numbers.
But I want to sign up somebody.
I'll get your information and we will make it possible to stream it for you.
April 29th. I am actually going to be in Amsterdam myself.
So I'm going to organize a party there.
So I'll hook you up.
That would be awesome. Yes. April 29th.
Yes, exactly. Yep. I'm just thinking Kings Day is the 27th in Amsterdam.
That's their I don't know, lack of a better term, 4th of July.
Me and my wife, we're excited. There's a big like 30,000 person outdoor rave where I'm an ex DJ.
We used to do this all the time.
Haven't been to one in a long time.
So, yes, we're looking forward to that.
And now I've got the 29th to look forward to as well.
So that'll be cool.
I'm going to put a number into our little private chat here.
So nobody sees that except me and Kimberly.
I'm going to type start in to the comment section.
And I will take the first person who hits the number.
We've got a little over 100 people watching right now.
So let's go one through 400.
I'm going to go ahead and hit start.
There you guys go.
And again, I'm going to buy your ticket for the premiere of Frenchie dreams of hashish.
I'm excited for this.
And thank you, Kimberly, so much for coming to tell us about this, to give us a little bit of a primer.
And I want to let everybody out there know as well, too.
You are going to be in the next episode of the Frenchie Dreams of Hashish.
We're going out there trying to spread the word as much as you can.
So anybody out here who's listening, if you do your own shows,
if you have a buddy that does a show,
if there's a show that you really love to watch and you think you have to connect to Seth Rogen,
he's the one I want to talk to.
That's funny.
I'd actually wrote Seth Rogen down here earlier.
We were talking about possibly looking for a streaming service or something.
And I'm like, I got to talk to Seth Rogen.
And then you mentioned, you know, it's either like stupid stoner or like killer stoner.
And I'm like, oh, well, that's kind of Seth Rogen.
Well, I mean, I love Pineapple Express myself.
Honestly, I'm not against that, the comedy aspect of that.
But, you know, just let us into the room, too, is all I'm asking for.
Because, yeah, it really does seem like, I mean, I know, for example, when I do the hash porn,
if somebody posts a photo from Italy or from Spain and I repost it,
Instagram takes it down, systematically takes it down.
So their local government must be leaning on Instagram to do these things
because all the other photos stay up.
The last couple of hash porns I've done, these people in specific countries have been targeted.
And it's just really frustrating.
It's just like, really?
We haven't moved beyond that anyway.
Yeah, that is a little frustrating, particularly with the more we know
and the more we learn about the endocannabinoid system, more about the benefits.
You know, we're talking about normalization earlier.
It's, you know, the latest TV show I've been into, it's like the dad on the sitcom.
I have never seen him without a beer in his hand.
I'm just like, wouldn't it be great for the day where, you know,
like they go in the garage and just smoke a joint and then talk, you know,
about whatever's going on in their day.
But, yeah, we're not there yet.
And surprisingly, nobody has guessed the number yet.
I've got something that's close.
I'm going to give it another minute or so.
And then we'll go with the closest if nobody guesses it spot on.
I figured we would get it with all this, with as many people watching as we can.
But I'll keep my eye here on chat.
Is there anything?
So I just want to confirm, there was a question.
So Frenchie makes this concoction called the gizos.
You're right, guys, it is gizos.
And he basically takes hashish and marinates it in a little bit of Kahlua
or coffee or chocolate alcohol overnight.
And then he warms it up a little bit and puts some like heavy cream with it,
some sugar.
And it's just this crazy edible concoction that Frenchie makes when he wants to.
Like a lot of times he would make it on Christmas Eve or, you know,
other days where he was feeling a little celebratory because it has a good little kick to it.
Frenchie was known for his edibles.
True story.
I met Frenchie at a full moon party in Pokhara in Nepal.
And they had made an edible concoction based on this style of using dried fruits
like they do in Morocco to make Majoon, which is a kind of hashish edible concoction.
But again, they had marinated these dry fruits and a bunch of charas,
which is the live hand rubbed resin that you get in northern India, Nepal,
and mixed it with all this fruit.
And at the time in Nepal, there weren't a lot of good sweets,
like there weren't a lot of good cookies or chocolate or any kind of candy.
So everybody was kind of sugar deprived.
And we all ate a ton of this edible and got so crazy high.
One day he sat in a lotus position for 24 hours.
And he wouldn't believe us when we told him that he'd been sitting like that
when he finally woke up because he had consumed a little bit too much.
So, yeah, enjoy the gizos.
Proceed with caution.
If you're new to edibles, remember, start low and go slow
because you don't want to put yourself in a situation
where you're having a bad body high experience.
That's just not fun.
But yeah.
Yeah, those can be a little frightening.
As we said, you know, you're not going to die.
You'll be uncomfortable for a while, hopefully fall asleep
and then come out of it.
All right.
I am going to play.
Somebody got really close there.
Yes, I see.
I see someone with a very close.
I'm going to go ahead.
I'm going to play this preview one more time.
And then we'll come back and I will announce the winner
if nobody has nailed it on the head.
Well, first, I need to get to share that screen.
How about that?
Let's see here.
Sharing screen.
We do it all live, folks.
We do this all live.
All right.
I'm going to come over to this other screen.
I'm going to hit play one more time.
We will watch the trailer for Frenchies.
I dream of hashish.
It's a shame that you can't smell it.
I'm hunting the perfect, the pure, the extreme
likeness of those raising everything.
Start with the long, the farmer and the genetic.
There's plant entities that are controlling
the human consciousness and ganja rules this region.
We in this region have produced the highest quality
cannabis in the world based on our terroir.
Mendozino could become the Bordeaux
of the cannabis industry worldwide.
Crazier by the second.
This is daylight now.
There's earthquakes, there's forest fires,
there's mudslides, there's floods,
and there's government regulation.
Acts of God and the Board of Supervisors.
The way legalization is coming,
they're really hurting small farmers.
For the moment, it's over-policed,
over-regulated, and over-taxed.
It's basically economic assassination.
We're going to take our financial resources
and we're basically going to smash these guys.
The way we treat that plant,
the way we work with it, will define the future.
The sacred god has spring blessings.
The sacred god has spring joy.
The sacred god has spring protection.
The sacred god has spring healing.
Om, I am Hrim, Hrim, Hrim, Ganja, Mahayana.
All right, everybody.
Excited for that.
I will announce the winner here.
I am excited to say Mr. T. Barrington guessed 171.
The number, and anybody who knows me
is going to kick themselves for not guessing this number,
173 was the number I wrote down in chat.
T. Barrington, you know how to get a hold of me, sir.
Please hit me up on Instagram.
I am more than happy.
I'm going to buy your ticket for Frenchie's Dream of Hashish.
Thank you for watching.
Everybody, thank you for watching
and thank you for playing along today.
Anybody, you got one minute to get a question in,
if you have any.
But I just see a lot of love and support for you, Kimberly,
in the chat and a lot of thanks for doing what you're doing
and continuing to spread the word and the mission.
So I want to thank you for that as well.
Yeah.
Well, thank you for having me.
And yeah, I hope that many of you
will be able to join us on April 29th.
Maybe have your in-home party to share the film together
and join us after for the Q&A with some of the farmers
and with the filmmaker.
I'm really looking forward to putting something nice together
and I'll be keeping everybody updated via Frenchie's Instagram.
And of course, if you want to receive the email
with the link for the streaming,
it's at FrenchieDreamsOfHashish forward slash streaming.
And that'll just put your name on an email list
that's been building on Google Docs.
And I'll let you know ahead of the day,
you know, how to access it.
And hopefully the tech gods will smile on us
and it'll be very smooth and we'll all have a wonderful time.
Yes, I know we will.
It'll be cool. It'll be fun.
And I will enjoy it being halfway around the world,
smoking and raising one with some actually good hash.
That's half the reason we go to Amsterdam
is for the good hash there.
Now that we're speaking about it.
I'll have something hopefully proper to raise a glass for.
But for tonight, you know, again, thank you for your time.
Everybody in chat, thanks for coming along
and we will see you guys next time.
So thank you very much and have a great night.
Bye-bye.
