Hi. Hey, good morning. Good morning. Let's see if I can get this right. All right. So
how are you and your Bokoshi balls? They're just, you know, thriving and ever fuzzy and
how are your buddies? They're excellent. I really enjoyed seeing what the worms did to
that. It was pretty cool. Yeah. I love all your experimenting and I will say that a lot
of my worm farms are taken off because of some of the inoculation that you gave me a
few months ago. So I really appreciate that. Oh, thank you, Brian. Thank you. Especially
the rose beetles. I think most people on here know that those are pretty expensive. So to
be able to get them and then breed them saved me a lot of money. So appreciate that. Wow.
Cool. Yeah, I kind of understand why that's happening more. So that's going to be part of a
down the road disclosure. But yeah, that's beautiful. Thank you, Brian, for demonstrating
that. Absolutely. So what are we going to talk about today? Are we going to go into a little
bit of history about who you are and how you arrived at your living soils, sort of like
passion. And also I'd like to hear a little bit about how we first became acquainted through
your education or your education of our egos platform and kind of maybe start there and
work our way into the present. Does that sound good? Yeah, that sounds great. Okay. I'm
talking about worm farming today with rabbits using a specific rabbit called a lion head
rabbit. So I'm excited to get into that. And I actually have them hanging out with me right
here so I can kind of show how intelligent they are. And they're really fun to just have
around the house. I've been able to actually get mine not only to be potty trained, but to
understand to only poop and pee in the pots. So there's all these worm bins downstairs in the
basement. And he can literally go all the way up to my bedroom all the way down to the
basement. And obviously, my kids enjoy them. I have two little boys, four and five. So having a
bunny in the house is kind of fun. And he just kind of runs around and does his own thing. So
I enjoy that and it improves the soil. And we can get into all that. But so for those that don't
know, my name is Brian Waksman, 303 Organic Cannabis on Instagram. And I really started out,
I guess more in the underground market. And you know, sometimes I'm hesitant to say that, but it
is the truth. Yeah. So I, you know, I learned off of friends and peers and made a lot of
mistakes. Not ashamed to say that I lost a lot of crops, full tents before and stuff like that.
And, you know, that's I guess when I also noticed that you really have to have the same vision and
cultivating cannabis as your business partners. Because if you don't, it's really hard. I even
noticed like back in the day, I mean, we were just growing in like a basement sized tent. And the
plants really started to decline in health because of the friction of all like, you know, we were
arguing back and forth basically on how to grow the plants and we wanted to improve the grow and
we just weren't seeing eye to eye. And that's so I started to take a little bit of, you know, the
money that I had and I signed up for Dr. Lane Ingham's courses on Soil Food Web. And they were
pretty expensive. But I felt like it was well worth the time. And my son had just been born. So I
had a lot of time obviously to kind of like sit around and grow my plants and educate myself. And
so once I started to learn about her methods and that kind of stuff, she had a like a private chat
room where you could talk to other students and people would talk about other up and coming. And
you know, this is maybe eight or nine years ago. So it wasn't like everybody knew really even what
we were talking about back then. And myself included, I didn't really I mean, I was taking the
course, but it was still really hard for me. And then that's when somebody told me about a guy named
Jeff Lowenfelds, which I'm sure everybody knows about now. And I read his first book Teeming with
Microbes. And that kind of broke it down for a farmer from Georgia type, you know, I'm not I'm not
that of an academic, if you will, but I do love to experiment and do research and that kind of thing.
So his book was able to break that stuff down. And I started to play around with the Soil Food Web.
There's even a gentleman here in Colorado that's pretty well known in your neck of the woods, that does
really good work with like worms and worm farming and stuff. So I actually drove the 90 minutes one way to
get that specific inoculation. And I started playing around with that. And that's when I really started
to improve my cannabis skills, cultivation skills, I was then able to get a job on a commercial facility
here in Denver, Colorado. And that's really where the organic part started to come out in me is
because I found out real quickly that even though we were, you know, all the marketing and everything
that we were doing was supposedly medical, there was really nothing medical about the facility that
that was being run. And there was a lot of things that were being sprayed and that kind of stuff.
Eagle 20 forbid Avid. And I personally know that Eagle 20 was being spread late into flower. So
those were certain things that, you know, when you first come on, you know, this is your dream job in a
way. So you don't want to rock the boat. And to be honest, I didn't really know what Eagle 20 was, you
know, I just knew that, for whatever reason, the head grower wasn't was really big on me not applying
it. So then when I started to do some research and stuff, I started to rock the boat a little bit. And
then of course, you kind of know how that happens sometimes. And I had to find another place. And
that's where I really started educating people because I was amazed at, you know, how brilliant some
of these cannabis cultivators were. But they really didn't know, really about like, they knew about
brand names, I should say, right, they knew about brand name amendments, but they weren't really
talking about like plants, like what is really, especially on microbial level, it didn't seem like
anybody really knew about that. So that's when I, I joined the social media sites for cannabis. The
first one in Denver was something called Mass Roots. And so I was on there trying to educate and made a,
you know, a little name for myself on there. And then there was this other thing called do the doobie
app. And that was really where I felt like I was able to gain traction is because it was, I mean, it
was cannabis based, it was gamified. So people really enjoyed it at first. I don't know if you've ever, did
you ever try that or anything? Any of those apps?
No, no, no.
Yeah. Like, like many things with cannabis, it was probably a good idea. But they both both companies ran
out of money and stuff. So that's when I really brought I had this whole organic cannabis thing. I
brought it to Instagram. And somebody already had that name. So I just put the 303 in front of it and
off I went. And, and since then, I've, I've seen, you know, the dark side of what people are doing behind the
scenes to now where a lot of people are really wanting to clean up the industry and growers themselves want to
be proud of the product that they're they're farming. And I would, I would say, you know, eight or nine years
ago, back when that was going on, it was really kind of an inside secret that the big commercial farmers
would never grow or I'm sorry, never smoke the stuff that they were growing for, you know, some big, some
company, some big brand. They would usually back then buy it from like the underground guys. Yeah, we were
craft and, you know, we couldn't compete against the dispensaries back then. So how do we, you know, we had to
improve on quality, that was really the only thing I you know, it's not like we have a bunch of money. So how do we
change that? And that's really where I dove into the whole like organic idea.
Thanks for articulating what is kind of like a movement that we still get to be like, creative within because, you
know, we've, we've gone through that motion of like, answering to the quality issue at a very early stage in this
game. So it's kind of cool. Congratulations.
And I would say that, you know, these big, big time farmers are big time owners of these farms. When they do
understand this concept, I really think that, you know, as these years go by, their product is really going to
stand out. And I think
we have yet to discover, yeah, how she's going to express herself given the right conditions, like it's night and
day.
And there's a lot of brilliant minds out there that are just popping up, you know, that maybe five years ago,
wouldn't have shown their face three years ago, wouldn't have shown their face. So if those people are watching,
you know, come on out of the woodworks and let's discuss things because I assure you that it's not, I don't feel
nervous about talking about cannabis anymore at all, like this kind of stuff.
Yeah. And it extends beyond, I mean, she's teaching us how to grow food and how to sort of get realigned with our
natural environment on such a profound level. And she's been such an instrumental goddess in teaching young men how
to farm and how to garden and how to, you know, pay attention to their natural world. I mean, what a blessing. And also
like, yeah, as far as like not being afraid, but also realizing that it's through cooperation and like communication that
we get to learn the most. Like, I've learned so much from you, Brian, even stepping into your basement that day, I was
like a little kid in a candy shop and seeing your bunnies and how amazing they are. I was like, I need to know more
about this. And just in that little bit of time, I picked up so much knowledge just by being, you know, in communication
with you. So thank you.
Well, that's really been my goal for like, probably like the last three years is just to share knowledge because I know that
you've helped me in tremendous ways, friends of yours that I now follow on Instagrams, you know, just following people
and seeing what they're doing. And it just really helps with the time frame. And I can't imagine if I would have had this like
10 years ago, if we would have had this kind of platform, how quickly, you know, it's the guys in their early 20s that are
actually taking over the cannabis industry. And I have no shame saying that or any hats off to them because they are they
should be, you know, using technology and educating themselves on a whole nother level. Yeah. From my background, I used to
play online poker, and it was kind of the same way. It was these young kids that really understood technology that were able to
educate themselves to beat these old guards that played poker their whole life, but didn't see that many hands. Yeah, I see that
same way, especially with like the solventless guys and that kind of stuff. They're able to educate themselves on a whole nother
level. So they might not have been farming for as long, but their educational level is far superior. And hats off to the, you
know, the guys that are out there that are continuing to educate themselves and sharing that knowledge. I know that some of them are
going to always share their secrets, but I do see some of them sharing like tips and tricks and stuff like that. And, you know, that
goes a long way too. I mean, I'm sure you know, as well, like, I just want to smoke the best and the cleanest. Yeah, it keeps me it
keeps me sane. It is medicine for me. And if I didn't have it, I probably would be a different person. I smoke all day every day.
Maybe that's not the best. But it is something that keeps me focused. And I'm able to get a lot of things done. And I'm very
productive. And I know that I wish my mom was watching this because I know back in the day, she used to think that just because you
smoked a lot of cannabis, you're sitting around watching TV. You know, I don't even have TV cable, that kind of thing. I'm, I'm very
focused on education. And so, you know, hopefully, if somebody ever sees that I could tell my mother that people are successful and
use cannabis as a, they used to pump me full like Ritalin and Adderall. My mom would literally, you know, I'd have to take it and
show her my tongue and the whole thing. And the reality is the cannabis was kind of doing the same thing. And now I've taken it to
where I can really focus. I've been doing actually a lot more writing and educational things. And that's really helping like, really
open this whole new world that I didn't really knew that I could that I could do. So there's some educational things that are coming out
that I've been working on behind the scenes. And this COVID thing is really kind of helped. Tina and myself, we're going to do a lot of
these live educational classes. And we still are going to do that. So yeah, we are. I guess that's like a little plug there. But
you know, when we're allowed to really focus and find things. You know, there's a couple places they're starting to open up. So I think in
you know, in the next few weeks, we might be able to make some moves. But please shoot out to us and like the DM reach out to us. I mean,
and the DM and stuff on who you would like to see. I'm all about reaching out. And, you know, I don't, I like having and listening to other
people. So it would be great. You know, you and I can obviously be a part of it. But yeah, it would be great to be a community.
Oh, yeah. And Brian, you're so talented at that. So I went to a before the COVID thing hit, we were, we were in engaged in, in planning this out.
And I went to a Instagram class that Brian gave. And I was really struck by how, you know, he had this room full of people. And he was
definitely giving us knowledge. But at the same time, he was drawing us into this participatory event that was, you know, in truth,
amplifying everybody that was there. And it's a new way for us to be in society with each other to be on that level of like, win win, like you
did when you do better, I do when we all do better, we all do better, basically, right. And it's the practice of that. And Brian, you're so good
at it. You're just a natural when it comes to community. So I'm really thrilled to be working with you.
Well, I just, and everybody that I associate myself with, I just try to always be as genuine as possible. And I think that carries through. And
shout out to Deguerre Forge of MeloVora, he would be helping us out with this whole DAPR. I don't know if you guys have ever seen that, but it is
his first class. So yeah, we want to bring class to some of these educational events. There are some that I've been to around the country that I
just feel like I want to class it up a little bit. I think that we're going to be able to do that with everybody here in Denver.
I do too. I really do. I mean, it's yeah, it's yeah, cross platform, cross pollination. Let's, you know, yeah. Let's be microbial about it.
Right.
Let me see that rabbit.
Yeah.
Alright, so I've always kind of had an affinity for certain things in life. And I've always named my rabbits after like, it's kind of embarrassing saying like
gangsters and stuff. So this is actually Freeway Ross, or the real Rick Ross. For you out there that don't know the rapper Rick Ross just stole this
guy's name and made a bunch of money off of him. So shout out to the real Rick Ross. His name is Freeway Rick Ross. That's why I named this bunny
after. He's the smartest bunny I've actually ever raised. Like I was saying at the beginning of this, he is potty trained, but he's next level potty
trained to where he can go up and down my house, all the way up to, you know, the third floor of my bedroom, down to the basement where he poops and
pees on his own. And he loves like, well, he really loves green beans, but I gave him a bunch and he loves like buck choy and Brussels sprouts and
stuff. So I make sure that I feed him organics. And then he goes downstairs and he poops in the worm bins for me. And so I'm using four, four
composting worms, right? Can you? I guess I got to hold him up here. So I'm using four compost. This is a lion head. I should say that they're one of
the smartest rabbit breeds out there. And you can almost kind of like this one, if you get a special one, you can get one where they're basically like
kind of like a dog. Like I can be like, come on, Rick, you know, or my boys like to call him Rick Rick. So Rick Rick, let's go boy, you know, and he'll run up
the stairs and do his thing. But he is basically feeding the rest of my basement. And what I'm doing down in the basement is worm farming for living soil and
just for, you know, my own enjoyment, I guess.
So how big is your bunny?
He's not that big.
Yeah, and I think the breed was created in the 90s. So as far as I understand, you know, that's not really that long ago. So they're still kind of little
rabbits. I really highly recommend you guys worm farm with rabbits. But take the time and spend a little extra money on getting a lion head because the white
dwarfs are actually not that smart. It's gonna be pretty hard to get them potty trained. And their pee is actually kind of ridiculous, as far as like ammonia and
stuff. So you're probably gonna have some issues.
Do you have to compensate for that in your worm bins? Or does it just completely take care of itself?
Well, I have so many worm bins. Yeah, I think I have like 15 going. So he'll just run around. Like he just does his thing. So he'll poop in this one.
And he'll poop in this one. And if I notice he hasn't pooped in a certain one for a while, I'll just put treats or hay or something in that one. And then
okay.
Yeah. But you know, the goal is to
Yeah, my daughter had a pet rabbit when she was a baby. And yeah, it got a bit but these guys don't bite, huh?
Um, I wouldn't say that. But they're, they're really intelligent. And they're, you can have a really sweet. Yeah. So yeah, I mean, as long as you're sweet to them, they're gonna be sweet to you as long as you don't scare them or
anything.
Yeah, yeah.
But I have had a lion head that I used to call Griselda Blanco. I think I'm pronouncing that correctly. But she would bite for whatever reason. But that's why I actually called her or named her that. Because she was she was a feisty little bitch.
But another you know, another smart rabbit, but she would bite it.
I love this so much.
So yeah.
Does he beg for food?
Is that a red wiggler?
Is that a red wiggler?
This is actually a big one. This is a European nightcrawler. So we're using the bunny poop to feed four main composting worms. So we use the red wigglers, which I'm sure most people are familiar with. That's like when you know, when you Google composting worms, that's what usually pops up.
Uh huh.
Those work like the top four of the of the pot itself. And so when those red wigglers are turning things, the goal is to get about, you know, 2000 of them at the top there. And they're gonna burn about seven pounds of worm casting for you every single month.
What?
Yeah, these things are ferocious eaters. As long as you're feeding them. And these are all optimal conditions. But again, you're using like, again, you know, bunnies eat all day and poop all day. So if you're just constantly feeding that worm bin,
and if you can get a smart enough bunny, he'll do it for you. Right. So I'm up here working typing and stuff. He's down here feeding the worm bin. You know, back in the day, I had them over. I built like a cage that was over the worm bin.
But again, you run into a lot of those urea, ammonia, nitrogen problems where it's just, it just, I think salts and stuff to build up in that pee. So if you just put them, and to me, that's not really humane as well. Like, if I'm going to have an animal I want to enjoy, you know, I enjoy having the bunny around.
Yeah.
It's fun and stuff. So I don't really like that method. And I know that a lot of people do it that way where they just put the bunnies over and to me, it seems kind of like a factory. So I might be getting like the, I'm sure sometimes he might be like, pooping on the side of a, you know, but for the majority of everything and for how much he poops, it is no work. He just does his thing.
Wow. And there is crosstalk that happens between, you know, animals and people like, you know, I have goats and I have a new Muscovy ducks and it's like this training process and then they become like the communication that happens. It's really, truly amazing. Like they can integrate into your lifestyle.
It's good.
So the next ones that we use are European night crawlers.
Okay.
And that was,
that's actually this, this chatter worm here.
Okay.
Can you guys see that? Oh, there we go.
Now I can.
Yeah. So they really, really wiggle.
Really all compass worms kind of wiggle, but
they work the middle of the pots and they work in conjunction with the African night crawlers. And the reason why they're called night crawlers is because at night they come to the top and feed. So the reason why I like
introducing those into, you know, as long as probably like a 20 gallon air pot, fabric pot,
there's enough room where all the worms can, you know, work their little area and there's not any competition. I have heard that you're using like a smaller pot
that sometimes there's competition or some of them might even like kind of push each other out or I believe it was Rachel Gajasano was saying that she's seen like worms eat other worms.
Oh, wow.
I've always just had huge pots as big as I can, because I try to, I view it as like the stomach
for the plant and I try to have as big of enough stomach and healthy of enough stomach as possible. But if you're doing like a three gallon or five gallon, something like that, I could see you having issues.
Because they like to burrow, right? And so when they're working like the middle of those pots, they're working in conjunction with those African night crawlers and African night crawlers
are another real workhorse with the red wigglers, but they're working in the middle of the pot. And the Europeans compost things as well, but not as fast.
Okay.
They are, for me, at least I can get them to be a little bit fatter. And I know that they're going up and down as the days go by building those dissolved oxygen channels for me,
which is extremely beneficial just to keep the plant. I'm sure everybody here has like aerated their yard before, their front yard, try to improve like the health of their grass.
If you live in an HOA like me, so you don't get fined. That's kind of what they're doing, right? They're going up and down, up and down and they're aerating,
building those dissolved oxygen channels. And then at the bottom of the pots is something that I've really just been working probably like the last year. And these are called Alabama jumpers or I'm from Georgia. So I like to call them Georgia jumpers.
And they work the bottom of those pots and they really,
they work almost as an earthworm, but they do compost as well. And so if you have like really hard compacted soil, clays, just buy yourself a lot of Alabama jumpers and give yourself some time and they'll reproduce for themselves.
If they're all these composting worms, if the conditions are optimal, they will usually double their entire population in 90 days.
Wow.
So you can really start to build, you know, especially if you're in raised beds, you can really start to build quite a little worm population for yourself.
And what's the lifespan of these? Are they, do they, because I read somewhere that they can be, they take two years to mature. Is that, is that not true?
No, they, they take about two to three months to mature.
Okay.
It's said that they can live up to four years.
I would imagine most of them are living between one and two.
Okay.
But again, they're multiplying constantly. And the cool thing about worm farming too, is you're never really going to see a bunch of dead worms because they're 90% water. So as soon as they die, the microbes and everything, if everything's healthy, I mean, it just returns it back to that soil.
So like Tina, when you gave me that, I mean, it was like a bag, right? She was able to give me a bag when I got back from Oklahoma and I was able to inoculate a hundred gallon worm farm that I had used probably about a year and a half, maybe two years before that.
So it had been alive, but obviously it died.
So Tina gave me that. I was able to inoculate this entire hundred gallon from the top and I would just water that in and then give itself time. And these red wigglers started to reproduce over time.
And then I reached out to my buddy Frank up in New York. So shout out to him with Urban Castings. He was with us, Tina, at Chris Trump's, great guy. I ordered worms from him.
Some of the red wigglers and the Europeans, and I haven't looked back since. So it doesn't take a lot to really start this. So if you guys, yeah, if you have peers or something like that, yeah, just help each other out. Just a little bag full and some time and you can change how you grow.
Tina probably saved me maybe a year, two years of me trying to rebuild everything that I had or a trip up to Fort Collins, I guess, to see the buddy that everybody knows up there.
Can we mention him? You had mentioned him earlier. Is he mentionable?
We'll get this later too.
I know him as like the worm guy and the only here's if you guys can figure this out.
Oh, I know who John is.
John. Yeah, he has a company name and he has a phone number, but he never.
I know. I yeah, exactly. I know you're talking about. Okay, so I'll get a list out to all these people that you're mentioning. We'll make sure that there's going to be something attached to all this.
I'm worm farming now too. So.
Okay, good. Okay. Can we get worms from you?
Yeah, absolutely.
Really?
And for people in this, you know, I'm not it's not like I'm not trying to I'm doing it for enjoyment, but I do want to sell some eventually because I'll have a bunch. But yeah, if somebody's listening today, if they would like to get get some, you know, if you're probably willing to pay like shipping or something like that, I'll get it.
I'll throw in some worms and maybe some seeds from Duke. Okay. Oh my god. Yeah. Free Duke diamond for you guys that don't know. Shout out to Duke diamond, unfortunately. So I'd be great to do like a little giveaway with some of his gear. Yeah.
So tell me about the process of building these bins like go through a little bit of it step by step just because I feel like so what's in your what do you start with? What's your starting point?
Really just sphagnum. I start off with that. If I know it's going to be there for a really long time, I'll put maybe a little bit of lava rock on the bottom. But I don't like to do a lot because like I said, I am more farming with the Georgia jumpers. And those are going to the bottom. And then I'll put a little bit of lava rock on the top.
I don't like to do a lot because like I said, I am more farming with the Georgia jumpers. And those are going to the bottom. And I have noticed with some of my pots sometimes that I see a bunch of, you know, it just doesn't seem like it's as healthy. So I don't know if the worms are dying down there or I guess I would have to still experiment but
Have you added lab?
I have before. Yes.
Okay, because I had kind of a similar issue with that bin I'm running and I added about a cup of lab and it completely did away with any kind of funk.
Yeah, and I think, you know, when you start and even when you start like a raised bed, you know that there's going to be like this little hurdle if you will, of a fungus mass.
So, and reach out to appear. If you could, you know, if you're really forward thinking farmer, I would have, by the way, you know, this is something easy you can do is with these springtails.
These are super cheap, you can get these like, you guys see me.
You can get this is like a reptile place, but these are decomposers that are going to work in a symbiotic relationship with your composting worms and they're going to break organic matter down into basically carbon.
And we all know that carbon is like the currency of the of the soil food web. So the more carbon that we have in exchange everything that's going on within the soil food web, the healthier. Everything is the healthier that whatever plan is that you put into the soil, whether it's tomato or canyon.
And that's something that I feel like Tina, myself and other people that have been on Tina's Instagram show really believe in is that you just feed the soil, right? It doesn't really matter about the plant anymore.
We're not, we're not really focused on synthetics or chelated nutrients anymore. We want things to be broken down.
We want to be top feeding, knowing that it's not going to, you know, some of these amendments sometimes might not even feed that flip. Right? And we're breaking down and we're feeding for next year.
And that's the part that I really like about this on a larger scale for commercial cannabis cultivation is that a lot of the people that grow in this manner are forward thinking and they're thinking like, okay, what am I going to do two years from now, three years from now?
How, you know, how good are my beds going to really be? And there's guys out there that have really gotten the fungal aspect through the roof where not only do they have a cover crop growing, but they have just a beautiful bouquet of mushrooms growing out of their raised beds.
And, you know, I guess I probably shouldn't say any specific names or anything, but you guys probably know who those guys are. And if you go to their Instagram, you can really see that the healthier, that almost like the more diverse things that are growing out of that cover crop, the healthier that plant is always going to be. Right?
And so the more diversity that you can put into your raised beds and your pots, the easier it's going to be to farm cannabis. And that's really the goal at the end of the day, right? Is to grow cannabis in a healthy and holistic manner and give yourself more time.
So with living soil, like we don't pH anything, right? We're using worms to basically do that for us. And if there is a pH issue, the worms will tell you because they'll evacuate the pots. So it's pretty easy to tell if something's horrific going on. But, you know, at the end of the day, you're growing with Mother Nature. So it's really kind of hard to screw up unless you start trying to add more things.
A couple of years when we first started doing this, some of my peers were kind of like, okay, so now what am I doing? They felt like they had to always time their plants. And I would always say this in my talks and stuff, I would joke with them, like, go outside, spend time with your family, stuff like that. Because I feel like as cannabis farmers, sometimes we can get caught up in those are our babies. Those are our ball and chain.
I know at one time, and even in a past relationship of mine, I probably wasn't the best of a boyfriend because they took, it didn't matter what was going on. They took my attention.
And so I do want to grow really good cannabis. I do want to spread the knowledge that, you know, growing cannabis with living soil is easier and you're going to have a better product. And, you know, when you first hear that, it almost sounds too good to be true.
But the reality is, there's a lot of people out there that are showing that this is going to be a fundamental thing as a farmer to understand.
And it's kind of harder sometimes to cultivate the patience that's needed to not add that thing that you think you need to add. Like to get away from the mental, like trying to fix everything all the time and actually allowing for the patience, the patience to allow the plant to kind of come into her own rhythm.
Because I mean, even from like a clone cut or something, if that plant has been used to a chemical environment and I'm introducing it into my living beds, there's a good like transition period that has to happen for them to kind of like, do you find that this happens for you? Like to even come into like balance with that system.
And then that, even then from then on, if I'm taking clones from that, it's the amplification happens through generations as far as it getting used to a living soil system. It's not, it's a patience game and an observation game.
It's a long man or a long person thinking game, right? We're thinking, we are thinking a year from now, two years from now, because we want to reuse the soil. And especially for you home gardeners out there, I mean, a few months go by and you don't have to go to the grocery store anymore. You can literally go to Whole Foods.
Isn't it amazing? Right?
Watch a couple of YouTube videos and you can make sprouted seed teas. Like with the rabbits in the rabbit manure, right? One thing I found, here's a tip, is make like a slurry out of it. If there's a lot of it, just put it in some water and make a slurry out of that.
A slurry out of what?
The rabbit droppings.
Oh, okay.
And then once, obviously it's hydrated, you can just drizzle that on top of your worm bins and they will go to town. If you take that super, super fresh worm castings and you put that on a troubled plant and you add some worms, and of course I would add the springtails and I would add rove beetles. I do that every time I'm really inoculating anything.
You're going to minimize the fungus issues. And if you do it well enough, you won't even have them because those rove beetles are vicious. And if you have the H miles, what is it called now? Like a scutimus? They keep changing the name of it.
Oh, yeah.
The predatory mite.
Yes.
Again, that's my Georgia education. So I might not be able to, I know about it, but academically I don't know all the names.
But it works. You know what it looks like.
Right. And I think that's the beauty of what Tina, what we're trying to show is that you don't have to be this super educated botanist to grow cannabis. They made me think it was that way back in the day when you would go to the grow store. But again, the synthetic companies were the only companies that were teaching us how to grow cannabis.
Well, exactly. We all have the knowledge and it's really based on observational skills. How good are you at just looking without judgment or without preconceived idea? Like that observational skill is something we all get to develop in doing this kind of work, which has nothing to do with intellect. It has everything to do with heart and connection and caring and being truthful about what you're doing. So that's so cute.
So take me, so we've got the bins, our worms are working, we've got our different three kinds, they're doing their job.
We have four kinds.
Four kinds.
Yeah.
Then when you, so what is your, do you have a recipe now you've got your plants growing? How are you integrating the worm castings and like, are you separating, how are you dealing with that? Are you separating the worms, putting them, how do you do all that?
So another thing that, another tip that I've always shared with the community is this thing called, or I guess the community now calls avocado tech, right?
Okay, right.
It's not what, I didn't come up with it or anything. I just, I felt like I was maybe one of the first ones to share it.
Yeah, I heard it from you first.
But it was definitely like a secret that we didn't share for a very long time. And now that we're all showing our faces and stuff, we're sharing with everybody. And basically what you do is you take an avocado.
I prefer it to be a little bit on the starting to mold side, but I still want the flesh in there. So there's like a, almost like an art to it. Sometimes you can speed it up in a brown bag.
But you'll, I personally like to take and put an X with a knife, like a baked potato and kind of pop it open. And the reason why I don't cut it in half is because when I cut it in half, it seems like there's way more mites that come to it in a faster manner. Right?
And that's great. I want that. But at the same time, I'm also doing this for worms. And if there's a ton of mites in there, sorry, my bunny freaked out.
Jumped off the table there. So if there's a bunch of mites in that area, the worms aren't going to really populate the way that you really want them to. So I use the baked potato method if I'm using, if I'm trying to use the avocado tech for composting worms.
Okay.
And then think of all the biofilm and all the things that's going on just in that little center of that avocado. And then my goal is to get them so happy that they're now going, you know, once they finish that avocado, they're now going and searching for other food. But they've obviously started to lay these eggs, which I actually have.
Nice.
I don't know if you guys can hold it up.
Oh, oh.
It's like a funky yellow amber color.
Yeah.
When you first like when you first start living soil, especially if you get springtails, you're going to freak out. I actually threw away a couple of really good genetics when I got springtails because I thought there were there were mites. I mean, I knew they were mites and everything. Like if you guys do a quick Google search of white springtail mites, everything that comes up on it pretty much on the first like two pages is how to get rid of them.
Right.
So they, at first it seems like they're a nuisance. But they're not. I mean, they're working in a symbiotic relationship. And they're honestly the secret to how you're able to speed up that living soil. I mean, how many people are watching? 16 people are watching us right now. So you guys.
20. I have 21.
Oh, yeah. Okay.
Maybe I'm 16 on your side, 21 on mine.
This is the first time I've ever done this so I appreciate that, Tina. But for the people that are watching this right now, the real secret to this, right, in cannabis is that you need to improve the calcium uptakes. You need to improve the sulfur. Right. And how do you do that? You do that with rabbits. Because rabbits actually have very high calcium and very high sulfur in their poop.
So as long as you're feeding them quality food, right, quality in, quality out, and then you're using worms to break down that poop. Don't put that poop on your plants. Right. Because especially in a commercial setting, there's all kinds of pathogens and stuff. Right. So we take that. There is a process and almost like an art form to this.
So we don't take any, even though it's a cold manure, and I should say that a cold manure like alpaca manure, rabbit manure, meaning as soon as it comes out of the animal, you can put it on your plant without it burning it. Right.
Okay. Right.
But because it is a manure, there are potential for pathogens. So we don't want to worry about that. So what are we going to use? We're going to use worms, basically little machines that know how to clean up everything and break everything down. And so as long as you use that rabbit slurry in that process, and then use those worms to break that down, those worm castings, better than anything you will ever buy.
And I promise you guys that. Anything you could ever purchase, you could spend thousands of dollars. There's no way you're ever going to get what's coming out of those worms.
What ratio are you using in your soil mix? Do you mind me asking?
For the, like for the 20 gallons I'm growing plants in?
Yeah. Like you do a 20 gallon. What's your ratio of worm castings going into that soil mix?
Yeah. So I actually don't really start off that much with them because I want them to break down that sphagnum, but I do top feed. So I will probably, you know, I don't even really use like an exact percentage, but I would imagine.
Oh, so you're growing inside of the castings. You're just, that's, that's your growing medium. 100%.
Not all castings. I'm using sphagnum peat moss as really the base. I'm using rice hulls. I'm using pumice for aeration, but in reality, what am I really using? I'm using worms.
Are you doing biochar at all? Do you have any of that going on?
So for you guys that don't know as well, I got picked up for on EverFlux Technologies. I'm a VP of soil sciences. So we're working hard with those guys to create really good products.
And one of the products that I am testing is bioflux that's actually inoculated onto biochar. So I've actually added that to my worm bins.
And of course, as long as you don't use too much biochar, it is fantastic. But again, with anything in life, right? Too much is a bad thing. And when it comes to growing, less is always better.
That was one of the things I learned when I was growing aeroponically. I was using house and garden back in the day, and we were using the full nutrient strength.
I remember there was this, it was called overgrow, I think. This is like so long ago. It was like the only place where people would openly talk about growing weed, where I felt like people were really trying to help each other.
And this aeroponic system, this guy was like, well, hey, man, if you're having that big of issue, just cut the nutrients back. Like dial it back in half. And myself and the guy I was growing with at the time, we never thought of that.
Right, right.
And we are new growers. I think we were only maybe eight months in at that.
Yeah, we didn't even have to tell them.
And the funny part is, we thought we knew. We thought we had the best. We were using the shooting powders and all these things that cost a lot of money.
For anybody that's thinking about growing cannabis that never has, I assure you that just the simple, cheap, clean, don't use guanos and stuff. I joke around that that's like saying like, your iPod or something like that, your CD player. Guanos aren't really where it's at anymore.
And it's a mined material.
And I know sphagnum isn't, you know, it's not the best material either. But if somebody could tell me a better...
Oh, you know what? Did you pay attention to Leighton's? Did you watch his interview yet? Dude, he's representing this company that's doing a post consumer cardboard product that you need to know about. I want to get some in your hands to play with.
Sweet.
It is pretty.
Well, that's what I'm talking about. If we could just have this little network of people that want to help each other. That's really been my MO in Colorado since day one of not being underground anymore.
Exactly. We're revolutionizing everything just by being cooperative and letting the plant show us the way.
Yeah.
I love you. I love what you're doing there, Brian. So you've got your... So how long did it take you to get your bins going? And how many do you have again?
I just have one really big red wiggler bin.
Okay.
Because in reality, I use so many of those red wigglers. I just scrape from the top and move them around. You don't really need a lot of that. But I have more bins for the Georgia Jumper, Alabama Jumpers and the African Night Crawlers. Those are really the two that I personally feel like really get the job done.
I've grown for many, many years with just a red wiggler and it definitely my plants looked great. But having these four in conjunction and having that real biodiversity that you helped me inoculate with is really what I'm running with right now.
I'm sure other people have seen like you can go out into the woods and you can mycelium hunt and you don't have to go and spend all this money on some of these nutrients that are really bogus. And that's why actually I was working for EverFlux is because they're using organic ingredients and it's a way to speed up that soil life.
So for you guys that kind of want to learn more about that, please DM me on that. I appreciate those guys because they're behind me on doing a lot of this educational things and there's a lot of stuff behind the scenes in these next few months that are going to be coming out.
So I'm really glad.
And they're doing transitional work with larger farmers too. So for people who are interested in scaling up, it's definitely an industry leader in helping us transition.
Yeah, and the product was created in California. It's tried and true on a bunch of it works on over 250 different agricultural crops.
So it's obviously a product that feeds the soil if it's working with that many different things. So I encourage you guys to check that out or reach out to me to find out more about it.
But yeah, I mean you're using certain products you could really use EverFlux bio, the BioFlux, the TerraFlux with the biochar and Terra, Tina's, sorry, Tina's had TerraFlux on the mind.
Tina's fuzzy balls.
Yeah, and really start to play with that and kind of see, you know, that's, we would love to hear what you have to say with that because we're experimenting all the time.
And Tina and I are starting to exchange notes and we're just excited to, you know, hopefully with this COVID thing, maybe we do we end up really do having a community where we are able to stay in touch more because I know when we would have those live events, it was like once a month.
We would kind of lose touch for that month and then we, you know, not everybody can make it. But now that's everybody's kind of forced to use technology.
Yeah.
I feel like.
It's kind of a thing with Instagram.
There's trade offs for being real time spontaneous, but I feel like it tests our like resilience.
Yeah, definitely test your brain power being able to recall everything live like this. So yeah, it's fun.
It's fun stuff, man. Okay, so we've got so we were doing a shout out to I want to try some of that TeraFlex.
Yeah, I have some just, you know, you know where I live.
I know where you live. We need to visit and do some chatting about next event, next happening. And yeah, I do want to hear from everybody if anyone has people that they want to hear from.
We can bring together.
I feel like between you and me and then the people we know that also know people.
We could reach out to probably a pretty good majority of the people that you know, you guys would probably be interested in hearing from and
like I said, we're really working behind the scenes for this educational thing. And if COVID wouldn't have happened, there would have been a lot more of these live events and a lot of big things going on.
So maybe not for 2020. But we definitely still have big, big plans. And hopefully we can do it in the fall or the winter.
Yeah, let's just do it. Let's get let's do a let's do a consortium of sorts and get some get some. Yeah, let's do it. I want to do it.
Look at this African nightcrawler. They're crazy.
Wow.
Hungry little things.
Okay, I'm definitely getting worms from you. I'm happy about that. So when you say that I gave you an inoculation, are you talking about that little bit from my weird orange bin of insects?
You gave me soil and a cloth bag.
And you like,
Okay.
Yeah.
All the things that were in it. Now, did you get a good healthy population of the mites and everything from that?
I did. And I got something that I've never really seen like an abundance of and it's this thing called orbital mite. I don't know if you're researching that.
So your stuff was like crazy with that. And when I put it into one of my worm bins, they went nuts. So obviously you don't want to make your abundant, but I just put a piece of watermelon, and they were attracted to that.
And then I would just take them and then go down the line for each worm bin, you know, as the days go by, keep inoculating. So yes, I was able to inoculate everything that you saw in my basement from your inoculation.
So, you know, for people out there that are watching that, that is, it's just time. And I guess, skillset, right? I mean, I know the things that are going to speed up populations.
And, you know, I was talking about that avocado tech stuff, if you guys really truly use that. There's a reason why that really took off on Instagram and social media is because it works.
And then once you see for yourself that you don't have to go out there and buy 10,000 worms, right? You could just go out there and buy 1000, maybe 2000, maybe 40, 50 bucks at most, maybe a little bit more.
But then once you have them, that's the beauty of it is using the avocado tech, now you just really need three months. And then as soon as you have that three months, you've doubled that population and now you're off to the races.
Now you can take that avocado with all of those worms that you, you know, got in there and I assure you a bunch of those are now pregnant. And you can take that and inoculate into another worm bin.
And avocados are pretty cheap. I know some people that feel like you don't need to use organic. I personally feel like you do. We're talking about a couple dollars there when it comes to an avocado on a larger scale.
I still feel like it's worth it. Because you're not potentially adding anything. And if you're on a commercial level, why would you ever add anything that you could potentially get popped for and then ruin your reputation or your brand or something like that?
When you were still trying to do the right thing, you just got cheap and went cheap on avocados. So for you guys that don't know, for anything organic, it will always have a nine in front of it.
So if you're not sure, like if you're walking to your grocery store and they have avocados over here, they have avocados over there, which ones are organic, the one with the nine in front of it will always be organic.
That's good to know. I didn't realize that.
Yeah.
Cool.
Full of tips today, Tina.
I know. So I'm still, for some reason, I'm still not visualizing this process. So you've got your bins that are basically your worm bins that you're feeding and your bunnies pooping on top of. Now, how do you transition that to having plants and cover crops in there?
Like what's your process? Do you then take that very pot and move it somewhere else and plant it? Or are you using some of that and creating your situation somewhere else?
I'm always building up. So like if I'm first starting a worm bin, the majority of it's going to be cardboard.
Okay.
Just to have brown, right? So anytime I add anything green, especially when it comes to like cannabis farming, I add brown to it. So I'll add, if I'm adding green, there's still a little brown in there. And if I'm adding brown, it's just all brown. I hope that makes sense.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Because you don't want too much green in there. Otherwise, you could have potential like issues, fungus issues, fungus gnats and stuff. And I've really minimized the like fruits and vegetables and all that stuff. I mean, I know it's great.
Well, you're feeding those to your bunny, right?
Yes, but also at the same time, like, if I can't really bury it down, I will, I guess sometimes throw that in the backyard for like the wild bunnies and stuff. Because I love for them to come and poop on my yard in the back.
But the ones downstairs, I found that if I really keep it where I'm feeding the worms, the bunny poop, and then I'm giving them actually like a worm chow that I buy from a girl off Etsy. I found that not only are the worms fatter and healthier and everything seems, but there's not really any more of those bug issues. Because in my opinion, it's because the rogue beetles just take off dramatically. Right? And then once you have, I mean, the other day I saw one that was like, no lie, like this long. I've never seen a real beetle that long.
Wow.
And so I think, you know, this stuff is kind of creating the utopias and the rogue beetles that I'm seeing that are extremely large are the ones that put your Bokashi balls in.
That's hilarious.
Who knows?
I'll have insight into that very soon. I want to show the bin real quick. Well, I want to do two things. I want to show you the soil that someone just helpfully put in the comments that it's called pit. I want to show it to you, but I want to also bring this bin over and show this thing. So this, so here's the bin, right?
And let's do this.
So there's what I gave Brian a little sample of this stuff. So then this is where the ball is. And as you dig in, there's just all kinds of life in there.
Something flew. So yeah, anyway, just thought they'd give people something to look at in reference to what I gave you.
Big hair poppy. I'm, I'm also cultivating these springtails. I don't know if you saw them earlier.
Yeah.
Yeah, but these are just really, they're, I guess, really well known in like the reptile, the varying world. They're known for just a cleanup crew.
So what I use them for is if you can get a ton of them to, I would imagine it's probably millions of them.
But back in the day when I would begin to water my plants, you would see it actually almost look like snow over the entire area that I had just watered.
And it was all the springtails that had just come up. And then once that water kind of goes down into your soil, those springtails kind of come back down as well.
And then they just take off breaking everything down. So like as you're watering every two, three days, you're just really increasing that springtail population.
I do have a secret for you guys. There's this stuff called morning wood that I use. You can get it. It's like, I think the brand name is like Ropashe.
And I apologize if that's not correct.
Morning wood.
Morning.
Yeah, it's morning wood.
Quite the name there. But that green stuff there is the morning wood and the isopods absolutely love this.
So you can go and get just one of these little, I think this costs like $7.50.
They put them in charcoal. And then I just put that morning wood in with the charcoal mix.
And then I let them sit for maybe like a week or two and you'll have more springtails than you can imagine.
You can then take them. I might not be able to show this, but you can basically like there's water on the bottom.
And then I just take right to the edge, right where the water will right to that edge. And then the springtails.
So if you get them where they all bunch up, they'll just basically jump out of the water into the pots.
And then you can literally just walk down the line and put them in the pots.
And if you need to move worms and that kind of stuff throughout your garden, again, the avocado tech is how you do that.
Every single worm is going to be attracted to that avocado.
So if you have like a, you know, I would set up if you're going to do the four worms, I would have four different bins that you're using that in.
And then you can combine them as long as the bins are big.
20 gallons. So if I'm really starting something new, you would use the red wigglers, the African night crawlers.
I see there's some new people coming in. African night crawlers, European night crawlers and the Georgia jumpers.
And if you use those four in a symbiotic relationship, you won't really have any issues growing cannabis as you progress.
Obviously continue to educate yourself. But if you really understand worms and you understand adding the springtails, that's really the secret.
And the bunny poop is what is for me is really my secret is that's what's really adding that calcium and adding that sulfur in a very organic way.
And then, you know, using IPM type stuff with predatory insects.
I love having praying mantis, whether I have bug problems or not.
And in reality, I love seeing praying mantis eating each other because that means I don't have pest issues.
Right. That's very interesting. Yeah.
So those things are again, you know, you got to be proactive with all this stuff.
It takes probably two to three weeks for those praying mantis to hatch.
But once they do hatch and they go through their life cycle, they'll be brown at the beginning and they kind of work the soil, if you will, and kind of the bottom of the stems.
Then they start to turn kind of like a light green. They'll kind of work the stem.
They then turn pink and then they kind of hide more.
I feel like that's when they get their like ninja skills.
And then once they're fully green and fully established, they will go to the top of the plants, kind of like the brown ones do when they're babies and brown.
They have more confidence, I guess. But once they're fully grown, they will guard that plant like almost like a guard dog, at least in an indoor setting.
And I will, you know, sometimes you have to kind of help the garden.
But if I see two of them on a plant, I'm more than likely they probably will fight.
So I'll just move them to the other side of the garden.
And I feel like that is just another way where you guys can be proactive.
And I know that we used to use ladybugs.
And I think it was Keep It Simple Organics, Tad Husey, who just wrote an article about all that stuff.
I encourage you guys to read that.
We've now moved on from ladybugs and now we use green lacewings.
I think those are fantastic.
If you guys have ever used ladybugs, you know that they usually just hump each other and then fall over and kind of like wiggle like this and die.
So they're not really effective.
I mean, the only time I've really seen them effective is that they would feed the praying mantis when there was no bugs around.
That's hilarious. Well, only the larvae eat pests anyway.
Larvae are fantastic.
Ladybugs don't do anything.
I don't know of a place where you can buy the larvae, but if you could, they look like little orange spotted alligators.
And they bite.
Oh, do they? I didn't know that.
Yes, they do.
Oh, that's awesome.
It's painful.
Okay, so here's that stuff I wanted to show you.
That's pit moss.
This is the stuff I'm going to get you some sample of for you to try.
So it's really like, it's all cardboard.
Awesome.
It's like a post-consumer thing.
Your company should be all about this stuff.
So we'll get you-
Well, if it's all cardboard, that would be a way better mix than the sphagnum for the worm bins.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm already putting it in there.
Yeah, they've got two different things.
They've got this cocoa mix, pit moss.
You got some questions here.
I'll make sure you get some of that.
All right.
Would I recommend cow manure?
No.
I don't.
I wouldn't.
I know there's Malibu compost out of California.
For the most part, you know, I used to use their stuff.
And then something happened.
Like there was, I had like a major problem.
And I started asking people and they had major issues.
And that's why I feel like a lot of us that have continued to talk about things.
That's why we're getting away from the guanos and the, like, other than the alpaca and the rabbit,
really getting away from any of the manures.
And knowing where your stuff is coming from.
Know your farmer.
Know your environment.
Keep it local.
You know, start to act like a natural farmer.
And your medicine is where you are.
Yeah.
I put in a semi-truckload of manure that was supposed to be organic into my outdoor garden.
And something, like you just said, something happened.
There was something in there.
And it literally took me three years to get back to even a level of normal.
Yeah.
So I don't know what was in there, but it wasn't good.
And I think that only comes from, like, dairy cows.
So to minimize that, just don't put it in your bed.
Don't even do it.
Yeah.
And again, like, if you're not sure about a product, just run it through your worm bins.
Or, like, just always throw it in worms.
Or, you know, put some castings in there.
Get some microbiology going on in there.
And kind of see how things work out.
Yeah.
Tried and true things are really, like, just simple ingredients.
You know, like I said, I was using that sphagnum.
Maybe now it's, you know, just a little bit of that pit moss.
Using some pumice and the rice hulls.
And then adding some of that, you know, worm castings from an old bin.
And then just moving on down the line.
And as long as you have some time, you can build an entire basement full of stuff, you know, with $100 worth of expense.
I mean, it's really, really minimal as long as you have the time.
And, you know, it does take 90 days, like I said.
And, you know, a quarter of a year is a long time.
But if you're growing cannabis, you already kind of are used to that schedule anyway.
So get some worm bins going and just mess around with it and see what you guys, you know, how you guys feel about certain things.
Yeah.
This Avocado Tech Outdoors, I don't think that would work.
Mainly because most of the worms outdoors are earthworms.
But try and see.
Yeah.
The trick I've always just used with composting worms and it works fantastic.
So, Brian, are you using any KNF applications on your plants in addition to your amazing living soils?
Right now I'm doing a grow trial.
So I am not.
But yes, when I get back to like my personal stuff, absolutely.
It's seven.
I mean, that's like saying, you know, are you going to put your chef hat on today?
Well, absolutely.
Good.
Are you going to go to Boise?
Are you going to go to Boise?
Are you going to Boise?
When is that?
In August?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm hoping that I will.
My son lives pretty close to there.
So hopefully so.
Like you need to carpool or anything like that.
Yeah.
And for you guys that haven't ever gone to anything like that, it is, I mean, Tina and I have created a bond.
I have a few other people that I've created bonds from because we shared a week together and we all learned how to grow.
End of August.
Oh, yeah.
Seller door.
See, I might not see the person again for a year, but you follow them on Instagram and you feel like, you know, you learn from each other.
That's really what I feel like Tina and I are really trying to do is at least here in Denver.
And hopefully we'll get those live events back.
Some of the things we used to do.
Yeah.
And so it's Chris's Trump's Korean natural farming five day intensive.
And it's really like all the past students.
Not all, but, you know, a good number of us come back and it's just community building.
And, yeah, it's kind of like what Brian's good at, too, you know, bringing people together to see kind of what happens.
Social experiment of people doing things they love to do together.
Yeah.
So Chris Trump's natural farming class, Boise, Idaho, end of August.
Check out.
Learning from one of the best in the country.
I mean.
Yeah.
Natural farming company natural are at soil steward on.
Yeah, that's what I'll do it and that.
Petro farming company.
If you try. If you type in Chris Trump K and F, I assure you, you will find the right place.
He is killing it.
Yes, you do need to get there. It was really fun.
It was worth every penny, in my opinion, and they gave us a really healthy lunch.
And then.
Day.
Enjoy the evening together.
Yeah, we got to run down the alleyway.
Yeah, downtown. That was crazy.
Quick story, this lady that was a bartender.
She said, oh, you guys, you guys can smoke some cannabis. That's okay.
And she let us go into this back area.
And so I think there was like four or five of us and we just started coughing tough.
And she came back there almost sprinting. She was like, I didn't know you guys would be smoking like this.
She started freaking out. So we had to go out in the alley and everything.
And it was fun.
Longer story. So we found an exit route, like, and ended up in the alley talking to Preston and then came back in only to learn that, like, we had set this trend.
Like every natural farmer was like migrating down to the basement.
And then we're like, there are all these stories emerging like, oh, my God.
And we're like, really, really? That happened?
We weren't there. We know.
Yeah, Idaho is not really big on cannabis.
So no, not at all.
You guys have more questions or stuff.
Yeah.
Questions.
What's up, Green Bean?
Basement hot bed.
Hot box.
Oh, hot box. Thank you.
It just comes out. I don't know why.
This has been fun, Brian.
Yeah, I really enjoy, you know, talking with you guys.
Yeah.
It's the best.
Yes, girlfriend.
Hey, Katie.
Yeah, Katie, I miss you. Can I see you when I come visit Brian? Can we like have a weird six foot like meeting?
If you hang out at my house, you don't have to buy those rolls.
We don't wear masks in here or anything.
Can I come visit soon and we hash out some of these details of this larger consortium we're going to put together?
What do you mean? Could I go over like what they do?
Big haired poppy.
Biochar doesn't quite turn into castings. But you know what?
But other things will break that down eventually.
Right.
A long time. Yeah.
And don't you think like I feel like it has some kind of I'm really looking because I'm doing the work with the clay stuff like the biochar ends up having this kind of electrochemical effect.
There's kind of a field that's getting established through this material that sort of helps everything communicate.
Absolutely.
So I feel like the EC is affected by biochar in interesting ways.
So breeding is with composting worms. Breeding is really the same thing.
You know, the goal is the avocado tech and to make sure that they always have enough food.
And that doesn't necessarily have to be like fruits and vegetables.
You know, contrary to common belief, the worms aren't really eating the cardboard or eating the fruit.
They're eating the bacteria that's building on the fruit and the cardboard.
So as long as there's enough food there, they really can just do their own thing.
And as long as you're using like a fabric pot, you know, I've tried this before when I was using like plastic bins.
And there's this thing that we tried called a worm bin or a worm in that you know, you could put it in.
Like the castings would come down, but it was always this mess.
And I found that, you know, using that hundred gallon fabric pot is really the biggest I can do for my basement because I mostly do this all myself.
And a hundred gallon, I mean, that thing is huge.
So I can like, I can move it, but I can't like really move it around too much.
And so once I had that, it's kind of like stable there.
And now my goal is really just to add food, really get the biology up and start that cover crop.
Because in my opinion, worm farming goes to the next level when you're using a cover crop.
And almost anybody that you see on like YouTube or showing how to do worm farming, they're always using like cardboard to cover it or a burlap sack, which works, right?
But again, worms like the rhizosphere, the roots, right?
And Dr. Elaine Ingham teaches everybody that the roots communicate with the microbes to something called exudates.
And so when she's giving off those exudates, she's attracting all of these different microbes to her little area.
Well, we're not able to attract those.
So we have to actually add those as like a top feed.
But once everything starts to build into that, now, cannabis farming is easy.
And I will say that right before I was on the Adam Dunn show this one time, I met Soma's daughter, and I think her boyfriend,
and they were all talking about how they grow cannabis in a living soil.
And they were also talking about how they believe that cannabis as a plant on like a metaphysical level knows that cannabis has grown in that soil beforehand.
So I have no idea if that's true or not.
But I have noticed that, you know, my clones, when I put them in a living soil, that's really, you know, been worked, like, let's say, at least a year,
they perk right up and they get those praying leaves even at a clone stage.
And I never achieved really that growing cannabis on a synthetic.
So that little bit there lets me know that, you know, the plant is, you know, when she's on, when she has her praying leaves,
you need to pat yourself on the back as a farmer, because there's really nothing else you can do.
I mean, she's getting ready, right?
She's taking in sunlight, and she's creating photosynthesis, and she is off to the races.
And as long as you continue to build that soil, you know, cannabis farming becomes not as hard as it seems when you first start out.
Yeah.
You know, I'm going to put a little two cents in there just because of what I've been learning a little bit.
There's a book called Regenerate, which I've been pushing for a couple weeks now.
Sawyer G is the author.
And what I love about it is he goes into quite a bit of detail around RNA and exactly what RNA is in its function,
not only with our immune function, but also a plant's immune functioning.
And so this cross-generational talk, the cross-talk that happens all the time, but it also happens cross-generationally.
So a lot of what we're doing for our plants that then succeed into the next generation,
whether through clone or seed, are having this RNA conversation that is transmitting just an immense amount of information.
So he goes into a neat description about it, and it's a nice understanding to have,
especially in this time of COVID because our immune functions are different than I think what people understand.
And the more of us that can really understand this and understand it through the cannabis plant,
because it's operating there really well, just like what you just said, that it's, you know,
they have this memory from generation to generation, what kind of soils they've been grown in, and it's the RNA.
And the roots, like, you know, when a root dies, I guess, I learned this from Minnesota Nice.
I don't know if you guys know who that is.
But the new root supposedly can tap into the old root and basically take all that nutrition that the cannabis plant before it has taken up.
And then if the roots are old enough, then obviously the decomposers start to break those things down,
and that obviously builds up in your soil.
And one joke that I learned from, I think it was Jeff Lohenfels is, you know, it's kind of like it's rough streets in the microbial world, right?
Like there's no, there's not really like a long life for microbes.
They're here and then they're dead and they're decomposed and then things quickly change.
So the biodiversity is king.
If you guys focus on that, if you guys focus on the calcium and the sulfur for the flavors and the turps,
you'll be growing cannabis better than most of your peers.
Wow, so good.
Yeah, well, the biochar would be still there.
And anytime I'm even making mix, it's not complete worm castings.
I'm not like I'm not making worm castings to sell or anything.
I'm just making worm castings to improve my overall grow.
And so it does have, you know, it's not as clean and pure as just worm castings, but I don't want it that way.
I like that there's a little bit of biochar in there.
I think that those are like, almost like a little hotel, if you will, for microbes.
And they're able to like go in the cracks and the crevices and multiply.
And, you know, again, as long as you don't overdo it with the biochar, it's fabulous.
If you overdo it with the biochar, you're going to have some serious problems.
Put one of the fuzzy balls in my worm bin last week.
Yes, that's exactly what happened the same way, Jade.
I've actually put two of her fuzzy balls in my worm bin, just with the red wigglers,
which actually don't eat as fast as the Africans or Europeans.
And they devoured it, destroyed it.
And the beauty of that is all of a sudden I saw an unbelievable amount of rove beetles.
So take that for what it is.
If you're able to have rove beetles in there and you put a bokashi ball in there
and you're able to get hundreds of rove beetles, that right there is probably worth $200.
I mean, rove beetles are not cheap.
Interesting.
Yeah, and they're going to amplify anything that's in, anything that they're part of,
it's going to amplify that entropic level, whatever it is, entropic level, whatever it is.
They're producing something.
Those vacuoletative anaerobes are producing a terrestrial form of chitin.
Exactly.
And what does chitin do?
Chitin makes the plant think it's being attacked, right?
And so a plant can't run away from bugs.
So how does she improve herself?
Well, she improves the overall health and vigor of herself.
And chitin is one of the ways that we trick our plants into thinking that she's being attacked.
That's why if you guys have ever messed around with insect grass,
which actually is something that we use at EverFlux,
the plants are extremely healthy from that alone because it's almost like a flu shot, if you will.
They think they get attacked, she grows healthier, greener, stronger.
And what are exoskeletons made out of?
They're made out of chitin, so that is a source for them to produce big-ass bugs.
That's right.
And you don't have to buy, like, super expensive stuff.
You can get crickets online.
And I would take dead crickets, right?
I think I could buy a ridiculous amount of them for, like, I don't even know, maybe 15 bucks, 10, 15 bucks.
And then I put them in a emulsifier, like a magic bullet, and I just grind them up.
And that's basically insect grass.
And it's probably a tenth of the cost.
So like I said, there's many, many ways.
If we continue to have these talks, Tina, I'd love to just continue to educate people because sometimes it takes months, years,
to really understand all this stuff and know that, like, hey, you can grind up crickets and it's not going to be a problem.
Before we all started educating each other, there were little things that, like,
I would be terrified back in the day to put a bunch of bugs into my, even if they were dead, into my growing medium, right?
Right.
Well, what happens if, you know, I just probably have silly questions or silly thoughts of what would happen.
Yeah.
Once you have that microbial life and you have the worms going on, now you get to experiment.
Now you might mess up, but who cares?
Throw some more worms in there, throw a little worm castings on top.
It'll take a while.
Yeah, because the diversity ends up balancing out.
And it's, you know, when you have a diversity that's inclusive of a lot of beneficials,
it's not necessarily that your aim is to get rid of the bad ones.
It's just to overpopulate them with diversity, and it really does balance itself out.
I mean, nature wants to live.
Nature wants to thrive.
And nature thrives through abundance.
And the beauty of most beneficial insects, whether they're in the soil or they're in the plant itself,
is they work in a symbiotic relationship with one another.
It's usually the alphas that emerge that are the problems.
So as long as, you know, you got your green lacewings, you got your praying mantis up top,
you got your predatory mites, and then you got your rove beetles,
you got your, I think it's scutamose now, the H-viles, predatory mite, and your worms,
everything else just seems to pop.
And I think, what was it, Green Bean asked the question, like,
best way to decompose within your soil is to start off with really high-end compost.
Spend the money and get, you know, some really quality compost.
I personally, I used to work for a buffalo, which was like a bison compost company,
and I had a bunch of that stuff.
So that's what I started with, and it was amazing.
And I feel like maybe that was part of that secret too, is that I was using bison compost.
At the time, I was using Malibu compost as well.
And I was using mushroom compost.
Yeah, I love that.
Rabbit compost, rabbit manure, and I think that was it.
But again, as you progress as a farmer, you start to notice, like,
I don't want to add all those things, right?
So you start to use less and less.
Like, I used to be big on making all these teas and stuff.
I thought that was, like, fantastic, right?
But as you progress in your thinking and your workload,
and you really start to think about labor, and this is more even on, like, a commercial level,
really what is the point of a compost tea, right?
It's just to add life, right?
We're just building up life, and then we're adding it on top of it.
Well, we can do that same thing, maybe not as fast,
but I have noticed that with certain compost teas, when you're first starting out,
if you're not really focused on that, and you do kind of make some mistakes,
there are alphas that can breed out of that.
I have personally seen people that have brewed compost teas, and it killed their plants,
because they just didn't pay attention to certain things.
So to minimize that, and instead of, like, really worrying about that,
we just put compost as a top feed, we water it in,
and then the worms are going to take care of everything else.
So there's less risk of some kind of myself as a human being making some kind of mistake.
I make sure that the worms are in my bins so that I don't make mistakes,
because Mother Nature, you know, if she's working together, she really doesn't make mistakes.
Those worms are going to break down everything you're putting in as a top feed every single time,
and they're going to do it in a fantastic way.
And the beauty of a composting worm is what comes out of them is always better than what they put in,
and that is extremely rare on this planet.
Usually what's coming out is only waste.
So I hope that people see that these little creatures are extremely beneficial to cannabis farming.
And you use avocado tech, and you have enough time and some space,
and you could build an entire facility growing cannabis with just the Soil Food Web,
the four composting worms that you need, the farmer brain that you have,
and some kind of really well thought out IPM management program.
And then you get to enjoy your weekends. You'll get to enjoy your nights off.
You don't have to worry about pH and all the time.
You know,
You girls be praying all the time.
That is a joy in life is to do what you love to do, but not have it be such a burden.
And growing synthetically on a, especially hydroponically,
because I have done that on a commercial scale, is a burden.
It really is.
Even though you love the plant, day in and day out, it becomes a burden.
And if it is your, you know, your livelihood and you're growing that for somebody else,
it's just hard to put the same love and care in a hydroponic grow that farmers seem to put into a living grow,
an organic living soil grow.
And, you know, work becomes play when you discover that you are actually a steward rather than, you know, an interpreter.
When you're being a steward puts you right in alignment with natural systems.
So you're not only learning things about the plants you're growing,
but you're learning things about your own microbiome, which is a reflect a reflection of the soil microbiome.
And then suddenly you're feeling more healthy and not just because you're smoking amazing weed,
but because you're actually ingesting through your working with the plant.
You're getting inoculated in your own body, on your skin.
Like everything comes into a unification that is just so pleasing.
And then work becomes play.
And we're suddenly like having these conversations and loving life.
So I so appreciate you, Brian.
You know, I want people, especially the home gardeners.
I mean, that's where I started.
Right. I was just, you know, to be honest, I was lost.
I used to play poker and then the government shut that shit down one day.
I just like woke up. I think it was tax day.
Like, I don't even remember now, like 2010 maybe or something.
And my whole world was crushed and I was growing cannabis as a hobby.
And so that was really the only other alternative that I had.
I didn't have a college degree.
I thought I would play cannabis or thought I'd play poker for the rest of my life.
And so I want to pass this on to other people because,
like as you guys can see, like I've had this home for since 2009, I believe.
And part of it has been because I understand how to grow cannabis.
I know I have to say that very delicately.
But the reason I have certain things in life is because I taught myself how to grow cannabis.
Yeah, she's, she's.
Me too. I mean, I have my own sort of story around how she's brought me into this very community that we're a part of now.
You know, like I had just gotten through, I was down for breast surgery.
I'd had implants, but I had breast cancer.
And so I went eight years with a prosthetic and I was tired of it.
So I had, I got my boobs and I was just like going through a divorce at that time.
And I just remember I was, I literally watched the entire season of Weeds.
I was not a, I didn't even smoke cannabis the first six years that I grew.
But I looked around my house and I was like, this is a perfect grow house.
So I just taught myself how to grow.
And I'd already been gardening.
My mom and I are big gardeners.
We were part of the farmer's market.
I'm really into growing.
I just, but cannabis is what, growing cannabis and aligning myself with her is what taught me about my connection to nature through a very long, for a very slow and thorough tutoring of me.
And yeah, I am incredibly grateful to her for her medicine and for helping bring us together.
Yeah.
And like I said, it's, you know, I was diagnosed when I was a young man with ADHD and they started pumping me full of drugs.
And they first gave me this thing called dexedrine and it made me feel weird and I never ate.
And so then they gave me Ritalin and then Ritalin made me feel really anxiety, like a lot, I had a lot of anxiety and just felt like a different person.
And then they gave me Adderall and Adderall was horrific.
It's fantastic.
Like, you know, if you take it on a Friday night because you need to study or something.
But if you take that day in and day out for months on end, there's something that changes in your brain.
And I don't really know what happened.
But I know that for a few months there, I did not feel like I was myself.
And so I quit.
I just blatantly quit.
And I basically told my parents that, you know, I'm an adult, even though I wasn't and I am going to smoke cannabis.
And I have ever since.
Wow, gorgeous.
True medicine.
Do you guys have more?
I know you guys were asking questions and we kind of missed them.
If you guys have more questions.
There was somebody who said B-M-B-T.
What is that?
Do you know what that is?
An anachronism?
B-M-T?
Yeah.
That was back in the feed.
Let's go back.
All right, let's see.
Microscope.
Yes.
Good to have a microscope.
Leighton is teaching me how important that is.
Mycelium has chitin-chitin too.
Yes.
That's the anaerobic facultatives as well.
And remember, mycelium is really like the difference between dial-up internet and fiber optic networks, right?
Once you have that mycelium going in that, so much so like you can see it growing in the sunlight.
Holy cow, is that entire world communicating.
And once you get that nice little fuzz for a living soil farmer or a natural farmer, that is kind of like our three pounds of light.
It's really hard for us to achieve certain metrics, I guess, that the synthetic world puts out there.
It's true.
But we've always said, even in my classes and stuff, I used to teach guys that were still kind of in that gray area.
Do you always want to hustle three pounds day in and day out?
Or do you want somebody willing to prepay you for two, two and a half?
And I would rather have somebody prepay me because I don't know if you guys have ever tried to hustle packs throughout life.
But here's the real secret.
You get the bubble guts, it fucking sucks.
You're worried the entire time, whether this is guys, you're homey or not.
The real truth of it is, is that you're extremely nervous as that kind of person.
And if you're making money that way, especially way back in the day, it was horrible.
It was a horrible existence.
I mean, we pretended and we made ourselves feel better with material things.
But on a metaphysical level and just on a health level, like probably even this kind of stuff, that came from selling packs.
So the fact that we can now do this in a legal way, and you know, I have children and everything.
Money doesn't really matter as much as it used to to me.
I just want to take care of my family.
But yeah, I think the Living Soil crowd, our whole views are shifting.
We don't really give a shit if we're growing three of light.
We're just trying to grow medicine.
Cannabis and greed do not get along, although they do seem to come hand in hand.
It's certain points of the development of the community.
But yeah.
But they don't, you know, those guys don't really last that long.
And I don't know if you guys are familiar with brands like MedMen and stuff.
But that's a classic example of greed.
That's a classic example of those guys basically thinking they're like, almost like an NFL franchise, yet they had no real talent.
They had no real quarterback for that brand.
And that's something that I would say to any owners out there is your head grower is your quarterback.
And if you don't believe in him and ride with them on the ups and downs of things, you're going to be like the Browns or the Rams, you know, I mean, you're never going to win.
Because you got to have an owner that believes in you.
And that's why I think a lot of people are starting to educate themselves with a living soil is because then you get to stand out from all the other cannabis farmers out there that do understand growing cannabis and are good at it.
But at the end of the day, how are you adding value to my farm?
And if your knowledge is going to bring my labor costs down and bring my material costs down, and you're thinking two years from now.
I hope I don't step on anybody's toes, but I don't really see synthetic guys thinking like that.
They're just thinking flip, flip, flip. Right?
Yeah, just thinking about that flip.
And with a living soil, you have to think about the future flips because you're feeding.
Number one, you're feeding for those next flips while you're growing your current flip.
And so, you know, that I think that helps with genetics.
I think growing organically keeps you, you know, going out there and being involved in your plants every day.
I know that when we would do like some consulting stuff, a lot of the stuff that I feel like with pest issues and stuff just came down because the team was actually lazy.
Right? And everything was so automated that they just that culture started to build.
And the weeks went by, the months went by, maybe a year or two went by.
And now everybody has gotten used to minimal work because everything was automated, but they weren't checking the plants.
They weren't making sure things were going and they had major, major issues.
So living soil, especially if you have your team, you almost kind of force your team to hand water.
To me, it's money well spent.
Oh, yeah.
Because you teach your team to scope and check the plants as they're watering.
There's nothing better than a human being walking the plants.
When I know when I go to these big like MJ BizCon and stuff and all these guys are pitching you and everything automated.
My eyes just close because I know, at least in my world, you have no idea what you're talking about.
Automated is the worst thing we would do.
Yes, automation makes people lazy.
I'm not saying everybody out there and I hope that people don't take it or.
Well, the natural farmer is.
Brian doesn't because if you grow cannabis, however you grow cannabis.
I personally like that. I personally like you. Right.
I'm not saying that living soil is the be all end all.
I'm just saying that I have personally found that with my skill set and my knowledge base, that I don't have the same knowledge that you botanists do.
And you guys that are out there growing amazing cannabis synthetically, hats off to you, because I wouldn't be able to do that.
I'm I just never got that skill set. So I educated myself in another way.
And that is to use Mother Nature. And that's really what Korean natural farming is.
That's what living soil is. At the end of the day, everything comes down to we're using nature.
We're speeding things up with nature. We're using our farmer brain to improve things.
But we're still using nature. And that's why we love sharing this stuff with you is because, you know, if I have a farm that's five years in, right.
There's no way that you guys could ever catch up with that farm because that soil is already churned.
Everything's become alive and thriving. Why wouldn't I help? Why wouldn't I?
You know, unless you're just a dick, I guess. But if someone asked me a question and I know they're not.
I know they're not trying to pick my brain where it's just, you know, you can tell people when they're genuinely asking a question or they're strictly asking me a business question because they want to take that information and make money off of it.
I hate those kind of people. But if you guys genuinely have like a question, like I have an issue with this or what the hell is a russet mite, you know, reach out to Tina, reach out to myself.
We help. I talk to people in the DM as long as they don't ask me to ship them weed and shit.
I'm willing to help you guys. I just don't. Again, I just sometimes when I help, I feel like then people take advantage of that.
And then they were like, I don't know, they get upset because you're not like basically helping them through their entire grow. Right.
Yeah, there's a few bad habits that we have to shed as we're sort of coming out of this dark age of silo thinking vertical, like everyone's against each other competitive, like we really are coming into a new paradigm.
And we're all having to get rid of our bad habits and kind of learn how to share with one another. And it's a process.
Like it's a pain. It's sometimes a painful process because I often felt like I'm giving away the king things that maybe I should keep to myself because I am still paying a mortgage.
I'm still like even with these balls, like I'm full, you know, there's I'm fully sharing the entire process, recipe, everything.
Like there's still part of me comes up with this risk factor like, oh, if I do that, no one's going to buy the balls. But really, it's not about that.
It's about like, if my area is thriving, if my little piece of acre is thriving, it's going to help your piece of acre thrive. And by everybody's thriving, we're going to change the world.
And we're going to be able to feed ourselves, nurture ourselves, medicate ourselves and help each other and, you know, and be at play again, you know, this whole theme of like, let's work smarter, not harder.
And it's about helping nature. And the only way we can do that is by helping each other because we're a part of nature.
And working smarter is us having conversations because there are certain things that I've learned from you, Tina, that probably would have taken me months, maybe a year to learn.
There's certain tips and tricks like, you know, I was sharing before with the rabbits and stuff.
I can't wait for the rabbit.
That's taken me years, guys. That's taken me years. And then I just rattle them off to you.
Are you breeding your rabbits?
I'm not. I actually save them from the shelter.
Oh, you do?
But maybe in time I might. But for now, no, I just I rescue them and then I teach them to poop in the pots.
And then I feel like they have a way better existence in life being able to just go amongst the house like a dog.
Do you think that they can be cohabitators of the cat?
Probably not, huh? Or maybe.
It's really up to your cat.
Right. Training the cat.
The lion heads, like I said, the reason why I like that breed is because they're extremely intelligent.
And they're really sweet. But if they're in a corner or something like that, they will bite the shit out of you.
Like my Gezelda, she'd bite the shit out of me when I'd feed her.
Damn girl.
Lighten up.
This food ain't cheap. You know, this organic greens over here.
Oh my God. All right.
So there was one question and maybe we can use this to kind of wrap up because I'm not I want to come down and talk.
We need to have a we need to have lunch and talk.
Yeah, absolutely.
So what's his name? Big hair. Big hair.
Big hair.
Happy is asking. I'm trying to reduce the local waste stream at our local distributor for produce.
How will you convert a thousand pounds of fresh veggies into insects?
I've been feeding to cows, but I'd like to do some insectary.
So, yeah, how about like start like, I don't know, quick rundown, like what it would take to scale up to that level.
Yeah, obviously. Well, at that level, I would probably start using like worms and Bokashi.
Oh, yeah.
Because at that level, you would need a bunch of worms.
I mean, that is.
Bokashi.
Bokashi is next level as well.
So, Tina, if you would love to have like another.
You're definitely way more knowledgeable on it than me, but we could definitely have a discussion on that because I think that was another like aha moment for me.
Cover crop was an aha moment for me.
And then what do you use for what do you use for a cover crop?
What do you have a mix that you like especially?
Yeah, I would I guess I don't know. Is it all right to build a soil?
I like those guys. Yeah, yeah.
They have a cover crop blend. It's a 12 seed blend.
If you don't if you don't want to shop like online, then you just want to go to a store.
Crimson clover is usually something that you can buy really easily.
I just load up on that if I wasn't able to get like a variety mix.
But again, diversity is king, right?
So the different crops that you can get, especially legumes and that kind of stuff, in addition with the clover,
that's really going to build that thriving living soil and the living soil way of like where we understand the soil food web,
because it's OK to have like if you really understand the soil food web, it's OK to have a little bit of bad things.
Like you almost kind of need it in a way percent.
Now, I'm going to get the rove beetles really take take care of all that.
So if you guys, you know, take away from anything today, it's that if you're going to grow with the living soil,
be so proactive that you're thinking it through that you guys are worm farming before you even start putting a plant in the ground.
And I assure you that you will appreciate that you took the time to set that up beforehand
because your life's going to be so much easier. And if you don't have to deal with fungus gnats,
and that's the other thing, too, is, you know, sometimes these owners, they don't, you know, they don't smoke.
They don't grow. They're just the wallet. So when they come in, they see a shit ton of fungus gnats.
You know, they give you these looks sometimes like, you know, like, does this guy know what the hell he's talking about?
But once you get over that hurdle, right, and it goes away, then everybody.
So to minimize your boss or your investors or whoever looking at you that way, be more proactive in these living soil grows.
And you are going to look like a rock star to some of these investors because not only growing cannabis that they've probably never seen before,
but if you're doing it the right way, the labor should be down dramatically.
Maybe not the first like few months because you're, you know, working everything through.
But once you're, you know, your process is in and you've kind of taken over that facility and you're running a living soil and the beds and everything are growing,
that labor cost goes down dramatically. And then it comes, you know, and then we, you know, I can continue.
I could talk about this all day, but then it comes down more than to like the genetics. Right.
And genetics are probably 50 percent of growing cannabis right there.
So there's just a whole line of things that if you really set yourself up for success at the beginning, you just won't ever falter.
You won't lose a crop. You won't have pest issues to where our powdery mildew issues or anything like that,
because you're just growing such a healthy cannabis crop that those issues, even if they pop up, like, let's say you had spider mites,
especially in a larger facility, you might have a pocket of spider mites, but, you know,
you might not ever see that because the mites, the predatory mites that you've been adding every few weeks, they've been keeping up.
Yeah. Yeah. I would love to have a genetics conversation with you,
especially because like being a woman grower, being of an age group that's not sort of like in the know
and not being a traditional part of the culture either.
Like the genetics game has been sort of the hardest for me to like actually be part of a community.
And I guess this is kind of like me saying, like shouting out to everybody out there who's hoarding genetics
or feeling some kind of ego involvement in it, that like this sharing of genetics or like even share it.
Like I'm doing this crazy genetics project that I am intuiting on my own and not getting a whole lot of help in the community from,
based on my observational skills, that it's going to take a plant a period of time to adapt to their environment.
And so anyway, there's a whole, there's a whole lot of things we could talk about in that,
but this is just a shout out to be like, hey, let's find a way to come together as a community around genetics as well
and figure out how to share stuff there because there's a whole lot that needs to happen there.
Well, and not only that, but let's share real truths with each other.
Because I know that people out there are afraid to say certain things,
but there are breeders out there and I am not afraid to say this,
that are taking two, $300 from you for a 10 pack of seeds and they've really never even tested it.
Right?
Right. Yes.
And then you might not notice that.
You know, I personally didn't notice it for many years because I was just growing in a tent
and I didn't have like just a huge amount of plants to run through.
But then when I started growing commercially,
a lot of these seed brands that I'm sure you guys probably are in love with,
they're on a larger scale facility, their stuff is not as good.
And I really think that if we had a real candid conversation, we don't have to name names or anything.
No, just talk about the process.
And know that, I mean, it's really simple guys, right?
If you see a genetics brand that's coming out with 20 new genetics every few weeks,
I mean, you don't even really have to be that great of a cannabis farmer to understand that.
How are they working those lines?
You know, and that's why, you know, I have a little thing that I've been doing as well.
Tina's been on Forever Flux where I've been interviewing people.
And last week we had a guy named Derek with Sunleaf Seed.
And he comes out with a line like every six months, you know?
And that really is kind of the difference.
You know, and I guess I am giving certain brands a shout out.
But I think Derek deserves a shout out because he really does work his lines.
Like he's, and he's not a, like he doesn't drive a Lamborghini and all this bullshit.
Like he's a guy of the people, you know?
I mean, he takes his money.
We're gonna get together again.
You want to get together again for one of these?
And I want to catch up on the interviews that you've been doing.
How can people find out about what you're doing over there with EverFlux?
Yeah, we're posting the videos at EverFlux Technologies.
It's under the education aspect or tab, I'm sorry.
Okay. Is that at their website?
Yes, ma'am. And that's going to also be posted up on YouTube as well.
And then, yeah, if you guys have questions or stuff, just reach out to us.
Tina and myself are here to answer questions, like I said.
And as long as you guys don't take advantage of us, I have no problem answering questions to the best of my ability.
Yeah, let's keep this as part of a conversation.
We like, let's go, you know, this is an ongoing relationship that we're having with each other.
And so, you know, yeah, let's like, you need help.
And but at the same time, if we've got things that, you know, we're needing support through products or, you know,
any of those sorts of things or attendance and anyway, you know, let's do reciprocation together.
Like I said, we're, you know, we're gonna have these live events.
Tina was the first person I actually reached out to because of like her message and the way she teaches and all that stuff.
So once we are allowed to run with that, I really think what, you know, there's Chris, obviously, I'd love to have like a live event.
Wendy's, Sonibus.
Yes.
Cultivating Classics, I saw you on there too, buddy, DJ.
There's just a lot of bright minded people that really understand it that maybe just because their Instagram is not as big or whatever.
I really hate when I hear people be like, oh, yeah, but you know, they only have this many or Instagram is bullshit, right?
The reason I'm on Instagram is because it's worked for me.
Otherwise, I wouldn't be on this.
It's just it's a platform.
It's a way for us to be able to educate and communicate with one another.
And my goal is to give the guys that maybe don't have, you know, they're brilliant, they're posting things and maybe four people liked it, but it's next level thought process.
So hopefully, Tina, I know, like, since you've been doing this, and I've been helping you understand social media, maybe that's something else that I could help the community with so that the message can be seen more.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Let's yes, yes, yes.
Platform building.
Excuse me, for you guys that don't know, if you have a cannabis account, especially like me that has the word cannabis in the actual name, I'm basically like shadow banned and everything you can imagine.
Like they don't really even show like, my hashtags to many people.
I mean, it'll show up in the feed, but it doesn't go to the people.
And so we as a cannabis community have to work together to kind of spread our material throughout the Ethernet of Instagram because their algorithm punishes you just for being a cannabis person.
And so, you know, to have my account at where it's at, could you imagine if we were actually allowed to like promote living soil cannabis and stuff like, you know, if we could add, you know, we're not allowed to do that kind of stuff.
So we need to find a way where we're able to promote each other.
And Tina and I already do that.
So, you know, I hope that you guys as well, like if you have something interesting or something, tag me in it.
And if I think it's cool, I'll post it up there.
I tag people all day.
I try to promote people that don't really have a voice or I just try to use my Instagram to promote others and show, you know, unique things in my life.
And I hope that other people in this community do the same.
I do see a lot of these people now with like, the ego starting to get to them and they're starting to like, really show their plants and all.
And I get that and that's great and stuff.
But let's use Instagram to further educate one another.
We all have pretty plants, right?
We all smoke dabs, right?
I'm not into the whole like, you know, we have cool rigs and we smoke good.
Yeah, we all do that. Right.
And we've kind of in reality, if you're in Colorado, we've been doing that for a while now.
So let's move on to something cooler.
And to me, that's educating one another, building a community.
You know, the material shit, like I said, I don't as long as I can take care of my family.
I don't know. I just don't really care anymore.
And then when COVID hit, you kind of see like what really matters when some major stuff goes down.
Isn't it funny how it kind of realigns how what's important to us?
Like, you know, the constriction, you know, there's two different forces, there's constriction and there's expansion.
And by being constricted from an outside way, we're maybe being taught to sit and learn what it's going to be like to expand.
And expansion requires like breath and reciprocity.
So when we're learning how to be in community, it's deaf and we feel like we need to be given a lot of education or whatnot.
And we're taking that freely from the people who are giving it.
But also in that, remember that you're also required to give.
Remember that it's a way of you know, it's a reciprocity.
Breathing is reciprocity. You're bringing it in, but then you're giving it out.
So let's all learn how to breathe together.
And we're gonna, you know, if you want to be greedy on that side of things, well, you know, this one guy taught me this.
What radio station does everybody listen to? And it's like WWI-FM, What's in it for me?
Oh, right.
So what's in it for you guys?
Well, the fact that you can shave months, years off of growing, right?
If we actually had a community where we were working together, and we're talking about certain things where it's like,
Hey, you know, I tried this on rusted mites, and it didn't work.
Do you know how much time you guys would have saved me back in the day if I could have?
Oh, yeah.
Nobody knew how to combat rusted mites at first.
Right.
You want to know the secret now? Soul food.
Right?
Oh my god.
You know how many years and trials and stuff it took me to just be able to rattle that off to you guys?
So that's the kind of stuff that I hope other people will start to do for us so that Tina and I can learn and you guys can continue to learn.
And if I can rattle off that, something that took me years to just, you know, you guys just got for free like that.
I hope that people kind of like pay it forward type thing and we really start to work together.
I would imagine in a few years if we had this kind of community, that all of our attributes would just be through the roof.
Well, I'm going to give you a little example of what that's going to feel like for everybody because I'm going to lay something down for you that you're going to just love.
And I'm going to make sure you get some of this to play with.
Do you know what helps a plant receive more sulfur in order to do that thriving amazing thing?
I had heard that it's like, oh, okay.
You have a little pit.
Iron.
Yep.
And so I and I so.
And you need something called a siderophore within your soil system to move that iron.
A siderophore is an iron carrier.
It moves the iron.
So this is an organic form.
So this is this shell is extremely high in iron because I had it tested.
So, okay, keep that thought for a second.
But let me tell you how I arrived at it.
And then I want to hear what you're saying, because see how this works when we share information, we build on each other.
Like I'm about to learn something from him.
And he now learns I have a product that's got a plant available form of iron.
So that's so fucking cool.
And those are the things that really make you stand out.
Oh, my God.
Right.
So what and there is a relationship between iron and sulfur.
So they they and I just found one research paper that I'm going to have to go back and refine.
But it's something about iron and sulfur go together to make something that resembles a protein in the plant.
But I was I was trying to figure out how what the ratio is going to be for the plants, the use of this as a humic and fulvic source.
And so I was using it at a different ratios.
One to three hundred seemed to be about the right amount.
But what happened was I burned all my plants because I was treating with sulfur.
There's a dom sulfur with wedding agents.
But guess which plants didn't burn at all.
The ones that I had treated with one to three hundred of shell is.
I mean, they were like they almost literally like thrived by it.
So then I started doing some research and I was like, what is this relationship between what is it?
And I just do iron and sulfur.
And I don't know what's happening in the plant, but they're creating some kind of a protein.
So I'm very curious.
Now, what was that word you use for a carrier is called a Cedero for Cedero for.
Yeah. I don't know how to spell that. So sorry.
Oh, look at it. OK.
We have a whole list of things to lose from this show.
Well, we have like I said, I mean, I just we could do this with with so many people.
Oh, God. Yeah. And there's so many brilliant people that never get a platform.
So if we were able to use our platforms, you know, it's not like we have a huge platform or anything,
but we do have our little platforms that we can message out.
And I think as far as living soil, you know, it is the future of growing.
I mean, it is absolutely 100 percent.
I know I'm biased on that, but I just can't see, especially labor and, you know, the cost of soil.
Like when I worked at this commercial facility in Denver, we bought bagged soil.
Right. So we were ripping bags of soil, filling like 10,000 square foot rooms.
I mean, cost effectiveness is that we weren't even buying totes, you know, and shoveling it out.
They thought it was quicker just to but we were probably paying three bucks extra a bag for that.
That quickness. And, you know, thousands of bags is what we were using.
And then what do you do with the bags? You stick them in a dumpster?
Yeah. And we all of our material stuff we threw away. We didn't reuse any of that.
Oh, right. Oh, the day back.
The facility that we worked at, they were like supposedly green or whatever.
And they were paying to have their stuff like removed on site and then recycled.
So then when we brought up like, well, why don't we just use it, you know, in our own stuff?
Right.
They didn't like that idea.
No. Yeah, the way.
Fox Farm. Yeah, Fox Farm is shit. And if you guys grow with that stuff, I encourage you to try something else and see what it looks like.
Yep. Hear, hear.
Yeah, rocks from the river to get like iron and yeah, badass.
Nice.
What did the burn look like with Jadam?
Typical like sulfur burn like it's it sort of eats the leaf away like you notice it.
I think first comes up is kind of like yellow spots and then pretty soon you've got holes in your leaves and it progresses over a period of days.
Like it's not pretty. You can do that with a sulfur burner too.
I mean, I, you know, I. Yeah, it didn't take much to burn either.
I can't remember what my application rate was, but I think it was maybe just a quarter teaspoon above what was prescribed.
It wasn't much. It wasn't much over.
So you want to be careful with your use of sulfur for sure or use a buffering agent.
And again, sulfur in that form, again, we're really using that to kill russet mice.
Yeah, that's what that's about.
Yeah. But I mean, that's it's an extreme. It's going to.
It's not it's not the best thing. I won't do it now that I know this relationship, I will never do that again.
I will never. I don't I don't actually use the Jadam sulfur. I'm actually the bay laurel that we talked about with Preston last time.
That so I had hemp aphids last year because I had my hemp license last year.
I had hemp aphids and I did and I had russets as well.
And that bay laurel with the Jadam wetting agent, what literally in two days put the population into such a great control that the what I was doing with the natural,
Korean natural farming kicked in and the plants, you know, overcame their own stress.
So I don't really and this year I'm not using anything. I'm only using Korean natural farming and I'm using the living soils.
And, you know, that's it. I mean, you don't need anything else. You don't need anything.
Click on all cylinders. Yeah, you don't need it.
What would you recommend instead of Fox Farm? I love their soil, but their other products suck.
You can make your own. I mean, that's what I would do.
Yeah, that's what we do.
Aurora Organics, they make a pretty good bagged soil.
Again, though, it's not apples to apples kind of thing.
Like if you're using a bagged soil compared to like something you built and made yourself.
I mean, it is a night and day difference.
You have the compost.
So you're practically almost there, right?
Maybe just try building your own soil and using like a sphagnum, pumice, rice holes, a little bit of worm castings.
Use those worms and run that as your soil.
And if you if you set that up a few weeks beforehand, it'll be ready to go right away for your plants.
And you just plant right into that as a clone.
Yeah. Healing Earth.
That's I mean, how can you say anything better than that?
If you can make your own, if you can get as local as possible.
And again, if you could really like understand the companies that you're buying this stuff from.
There are a lot of companies out there that are OMRI certified.
And I can tell you from experience when I worked at a company that we went through the process of being OMRI certified is bullshit.
They never came and checked anything. It was all on our word.
So just because something is OMRI certified, they did go out of their way better than another company.
But the reality, at least with that program, is that they just paid money to get that logo.
I mean, there's not really as far as I know, there was no one that ever came to our facility and checked what we did.
What our SOP was, if we dropped compost on the ground, you know, stuff like that.
And for it to be organic, we're not supposed to, if it falls on the ground, we're not supposed to put it back in the machine.
Well, I can assure you that like sometimes when mistakes were made and something fell on the ground, it was put back in the machine.
You know, I mean, so really know that, you know, there's brands out there that, you know, if you guys want to reach out to me that I can probably like tell you offline and stuff.
But I have no problem saying bullshit to Advanced Nutrients and Fox Farm and stuff because they've been ripping off new farmers.
And it's time for a paradigm shift, you guys. I mean, I'm going to tell you about what I did.
Like I have indoor beds that are 4x4 and I built them up myself. I didn't buy the fancy double-sided bags.
I don't have the money to do that, so I built my own beds.
And I've been gardening outside, so I used wood chips in the bottom and I used my own soil and I topped it with compost.
And then I topped it with wood chips and then I topped it with straw and started using, you know, started inoculating with the bugs and everything and let them kind of do the work of bringing those beds into order.
And it was scary to do that because I didn't know what kind of pathogens I was bringing in.
I didn't know what kind of insects I was bringing in, but I did it anyway.
And my beds are just getting better and better and better and better.
And the only problem that I didn't foresee and I've learned a lot from it is those darn pill bugs, dude.
I have an overrun of pill bugs because they break things down, but they also eat baby shoots and they keep me from being able to have a very good cover crop because they're literally eating all the shoots.
So I hand trapped as many of those as I could out of my beds and that's why I have the bin I have is because I was just taking all the critters I was trapping from my beds and moving it into that bin and now I have that as a kind of a pre-digester.
Add some magnolia leaves. If you add some magnolia leaves to that, they'll eat that instead of the shoots.
Oh, good. God, it's been annoying. But I finally put my Muscovy ducks, I built a little and I moved them from bed to bed and they literally ate all the pill bugs.
I like pill bugs.
And I'm having cover crop coming back up.
I think they work in a fantastic relationship with the worms and the springtails.
But again, if anything is out of control, if anything is too much where it's almost become like an alpha, then you have issues.
And you just bring your next in tropical in tropic level, which for you is the rabbits. Like it's so brilliant. I am in love with this. I want the rabbits.
Yeah, the rabbits are a game changer.
Oh, my goodness. And that's just bringing the next level up the next tropic level up. You're integrating that into your systems because nature wants to naturally progress towards succession.
So you're bringing in these higher successional levels. And with these things like the ducks or the rabbits or the higher level insects or yeah, it's beautiful.
And if I if I didn't have like HOA restrictions, I would probably start messing around with alpacas.
That's as great as rabbit manure is. It's probably the best. Alpacas probably twice as good as that. I just have never raised alpacas or anything. But their stuff is next level.
Malibu compost is definitely overrated. I don't know what they're charging anymore. But I remember that it definitely felt overpriced.
And if you guys, again, do your research on that, like,
biodynamic farming is definitely a system. But biodynamic farming is not.
How do I say this the right way? Biodynamic farming still has a bit of metaphysical things to it. To where if somebody as a brand is saying that they're making you a product using only biodynamic farming, that is probably one of the reasons why
Tina and I experienced the issues that we did is because they probably had a human being make a mistake. And that's so I'm not knocking it. It's just
there's a lot of metaphysical things for that. And I think people still even today, like, they still think like the ram's horn is something that is
like really needed. And in reality, it was just what they had back then.
Right. And it does serve a function, but it's a non-transparent function. And you have that the Korean natural farming has every piece of tool that you'd ever gain. I mean, they're both systems are kind of reflective of each other. And yet I do appreciate the simplicity and the transparency behind natural farming techniques.
Like it's so simple, specific, but oh my goodness, so simple. And you're getting the same results. I mean, and then
Chicken poop is filled with nitrogen. But again, that's a hot manure. So you're gonna have to wait and compost that down. I would personally use alfalfa meal instead of chicken poop for nitrogen source.
And again, nitrogen is like the Goldilocks principle, right? You only want her to be right there in the middle of her nitrogen uptake, because especially if you're using like nitrate nitrogen, she's going to eat that even in flour.
So if you're pumping her full of those nitrate nitrogen, your yields are going to suffer, your quality is going to suffer because she's still eating that nitrogen. So if you keep it more at that Goldilocks level where you do get that kind of fade as she's starting to go into flour and turn, then you kind of know you're at that right peak to where she is still munching at it. It is being removed from the fan leaf.
And then for me, I only take the fan leaves off if I feel like it would improve a bud site. I do believe in at least an indoor, you know, outdoor, it's kind of silly because it doesn't matter where the sun is. Obviously, it's the same amount of sunlight, but indoor, it does matter.
So I think that's where that part of that comes into is where you should de-fan things that are covering buds. But otherwise, I try to keep the plant as intact as possible. I do like to lollipop because I feel like that's improved yields. So there's a bunch of tips and tricks we could talk about it another time.
Yeah.
Are you getting rain right now?
Yeah, or it's about to for sure.
Yeah, we're getting rain here. Well, I can't wait to come see you and visit. And let's have a chat soon. We get busy and then we...
Yeah, we might do that weekly. I know Tina and I... Sheep compares to alpacas. It's not as good, but it's a close one. I would throw worms in that sheep compost. And if you have a bunch of chicken...
Why are alpacas next level?
Because they have more than one stomach like a cow. And their diet is really clean for an animal. So as long as you let them graze and do their thing...
Goats. Goats are good.
Yeah. But aren't goats gross? I heard...
No, I have four goats.
Don't they ejaculate all the time?
No, because you get a weather. So I have one male that's a weather, so he's fixed. So yeah, you want it. The billy goat's a different thing. Yeah, that's different. But they're amazing. They're smarter than dogs. And I walk them twice a day and they respond to my nose. And they're really amazing animals.
And it's easier to keep than an alpaca. I think alpacas are fairly sensitive to predation. Predation. Predation.
Alpacas are more like dogs too. Like they have their own personalities.
No, goats don't eat everything. That's such... You guys... Oh my God. I think witches owned goats because they've been sort of... People have so many misconceptions about goats.
They're like natural medicine finders. They will only eat the things that are at the perfect medicinal quality. So you can actually, as an herbalist, do a lot of figuring out harvest times and peak times to harvest using a goat as an indicator. They're amazing creatures.
Big haired poppy cow would be next level if you could find like an organic source. The problem is that even in Malibu that supposedly was that way. I heard that like that bovine growth hormone somehow got into their stuff.
And as far as I understand anything that's being done dairy wise, they always use that thing. They always use that growth hormone. Unless it's like an organic. And I don't really know an organic, pure organic dairy cow manure source. So if you guys do know one, please let us know.
I'm all about using different sources. It's not like I'm... It's not being biased or anything. It's just the fact that like if you can't source it, or if you know like using Malibu could potentially fuck up your entire crop, then I'm not going to spend full retail to buy their product and then, you know, just to have diversity that... That's not worth it to me.
Know your farmer, man. Know your grower.
Yeah. Horse manure is best as long as you know, you take the time to compost it. And I would vermicompost that. Again, there's a lot of like, there's a lot of things that horse manure and cow manure can have in it that if you're growing where your product is tested, you could fail. Microbial testing there.
Like, what do they call that? Just pathogen? Just pathogen? You fail pathogen?
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely. And these will be available. I make them available both on Facebook and on my IGTV.
But, you know, Tina, I really enjoyed this. And I think...
I did too. Thank you, Brian.
The way that you and I took... This is how we would talk if you and I were just sitting across the table. So, you know, if people want to hear us discuss that, I'm open to doing this again.
Yeah, absolutely. And these will be available. I make them available both on Facebook and on my IGTV account. Now, we did highlight a competition at the very beginning of this. So make sure you go back and kind of revisit that because it's going to be pretty cool. And Brian sweetened the pot with some seeds from Dominion.
From Duke Diamond.
Yeah. Duke Diamond. So we're going to do that.
Lots of love for him. He's not where he needs to be and he is not with his family. So let's hope in time that he's able to get back home.
Yeah, let's put that out into the universe and come together around community. So I'm going to watch your little three second DMs of your microbial, whatever microbial little wonders you have going out there. And anyway, you'll get the highlights. And I'll also post sort of a highlight of this of what the competition is going to be like and participate so you can get a lot of free cool stuff from us.
Yeah, that's what we're about. Giving back.
