Hey, everybody, we are going live right now.
I'm rough.
We have a great show going on right now in Clubhouse Conversation.
They've invited us in to go check it out.
So we're going to hop in there right now, real quick.
It's going to be fun.
It's going to be great.
And we're going to do it.
So we're going to share our screen.
I hear London's soft, mood music.
I feel like we're in an element where we're like floating through space.
And London says.
All right, London, hit back.
Okay, cool.
He's live.
Yeah, just give me a minute for the music.
But go ahead and start the recap.
I feel like we're shifting into the second half of this call here.
It's a bit of a jumpy cartoon.
Yeah, so how do you own a plant?
Right.
And you might want to own a plant if you have put a lot of work or energy or
resources in developing it.
You might want to find some type of protection so that you're the one that
has the rights to benefit from the commercial use of that plant.
Right.
And I think.
I think the community has really been quite bent out of shape about patents
because they think that there's something they're not.
I think everybody or the consensus is that somehow these patented plants are
going to change the ability for people to grow the plants that they have in
their existing collections.
That's just not the case.
Right.
Like.
For something to be patented or granted a PBR, which is a plant variety rights
registration or a plant breeders rights registration.
You have to be able to show that it's novel.
Well, you have to do two things.
You have to pass what's called the dust test.
So the dust test essentially is a test that has three.
Main criteria being represented by the letters D.
U.
S.
And those those that's an acronym for distinct, uniform and stable.
So this whole system was essentially created for flowers.
Right.
So it was all based on like paddle color or leaf shape or stem color.
Like those, those were the things that originally for which you can get a
registration and.
In the context of cannabis, it's like that world has changed now because we're,
we're, you know, obviously the, the, the crucial characteristics for drug
cannabis or recreational or medicinal cannabis or the chemistry, right.
Well, in traditional chemical, like if you were to patent a rose or sorry,
let's forget patents for a second.
I'm going to talk globally.
If you were to try to get like a plant breeders rights registration for a rose,
you actually couldn't submit the, well, you, you actually could.
They don't, they don't require you to submit a gas chromatograph for the scent.
And in fact, that's not even a valid characteristic for, for
registering the plants.
What they, what the system is really based off of flower morphology
more than anything else.
You can, you can submit genetic and chemical analysis as part of your package,
but the, the person that examines and grants the registration doesn't necessarily
have to take that information in consideration.
And so Trevor posted up on his, in IG, I think it was the last couple of weeks.
A form that was found on the, the UPAV plant breeding, sorry, not plant breeding,
the UPAV registration site.
And it's essentially the description form for hemp.
And so if you're registering a hemp variety, you have to declare, you know,
the size of the seed, the width of the lamina, the leaf, the size of the leaf,
the shape of the stem, you know, a whole bunch of things like that,
the length of the internodes.
And all, and it essentially, it's like a form that you have to fill out
and disclose all these areas.
Well, it's unfortunately, it's not really like a good form for drug
cannabis because the whole, when, when they implemented the use of that
registration system, that was before cannabis or drug cannabis was really
becoming a crop or at least a global crop.
And so the system and the set of criteria that they use for registering, for
registering a hemp variety is like kind of shit useless for registering a drug
variety, because it doesn't represent, it doesn't, it doesn't have anything
really on like flower morphology or color or scent, or, you know, even cannabinoid
profile. And so usually when a new, when a new species is added to like a
commercial use, these systems will adapt and they'll come up with a criteria for
listing chemical characteristics or characteristics of a plant that are
important to the industry.
And they're really the key traits by which we define cultivars.
Right.
And so easy ones to think of are like, you know, freak show or the Australian
bastard cannabis or any of these plants with the weird leaf mutations.
But that's probably not going to be enough to get you a commercial advantage
in the marketplace, right?
Like who cares about a leaf mutation?
It gets cut off at harvest anyway.
It never appears on the flower.
So if it doesn't appear on the end product that goes to the consumer, is it
really a relevant characteristic?
I mean, it might be, you know, color is nice on a nice purple leaf or a pink leaf
or is nice and all, and it looks pretty on a field.
But if that all gets trimmed away and doesn't end up in the consumer's bag,
doesn't really matter.
Right. But the point is, is that we can come up with a set of defining
characteristics.
With which to use to judge cultivars for uniqueness or novelty.
And when they start doing, you know, when, when they start doing these tests, one
of the things that you develop is a, it's like essentially a cultivar or a
variety reference set, right?
So you, you essentially gather up all the different types of, of plants that
exist in the industry or in the space.
They're all described.
And then if you want to, you know, that's your base reference set against which
to compare new registrants, right?
So if you show up with a new variety and you say, yeah, I've got this new variety.
It's new because of traits X, Y, and Z.
Then we have like a database or a set of reference care or reference cultivars to
go back and compare those actual, those traits against the dataset to see if you
really have something unique.
So anyway, I feel like I'm dominating the conversation here.
I'm going to shut up.
But any questions?
No, man, you're, you're dropping it.
Like that's, this is the stuff that I asked.
Like that's new and novel, right?
I appreciate it.
The info.
And also piggybacking on what you just mentioned, this dataset is out there.
You can go through and one, you can see all the patents that they've made because
the patents have been published and it's informative regardless of whether or not
you like, however people feel about them ideologically or politically.
It's a good way of understanding how this sort of plant breeding works.
And also there were two papers that you can correct me if I get his name wrong.
Ryan, I think it's Mark Lewis.
And he published in 2016 and 2018 a couple of PDFs that I've been able to find online.
A couple of PDFs that I've been able to find online.
And one of them goes through really all the work that was done to create that base sort
of reference set where all the testing for the different chemotypes, cannabinoid and
terpene levels of what was available on, you know, a wide selection of what was available
on the medical market back in like 2015 era timeframe about.
And then doing all that GC testing, plotting all of that data.
There's even some good slides in the PowerPoint presentation that shows how, you know, the
genotype, the environment, the phenotype, how all of these are interplaying to produce
a chemotype outcome and how they, you know, did breeding and not only did breeding, but
did it in a way to protect the IP that they were breeding for.
Yeah, I mean, sorry, go ahead, Matt.
No, no, no.
I mean, you're totally good.
I was just going to kind of like wrap in, I guess, you know, because we went live and
we covered so much earlier.
And this title up here is kind of, you know, for those that I guess don't fully understand
it is what kind of brings us here.
Everybody's been talking about IP for a while, but then the cookies, the industry decided
to drop cement shoes coinciding with, you know, Berner's Gaudi album with no credit
to Marcus.
But the big, I mean, I think the big crux of it all is, you know, the logo, too.
You know, it's not so much that, you know, it's the fact that the entire IP was almost
jacked or like everything about the stream is jacked.
But if you Google or I think Marcus's website is even cement shoes.com.
Yeah, he has cement shoes.com and he has a copyright on clothing for cement shoes with
that logo.
So, that's it.
So, yeah, it's like, I guess, kind of when, you know, like when we're talking about these
or, you know, these issues, it's like, here's a real life one.
And that's, I guess, the whole title of the room above is literally just because it here's
a landmark case right here and a prime example.
And I think as an industry tonight, we've covered, you know, Anthony's covered and Dr.
Anubis.
I love everybody's, you know, like, you know, giving in a lot of good information on how
we need to get ahead of this, you know, like theft, like as a community.
And really start pushing forward seed banks, sequencing.
And I mean, like, Dr. Anubis, if you wanted to, like, cover kind of what you hit to again,
I think you and Ryan were similar, but you had some great points as well, too.
But I mean, we covered so much the last couple hours.
So, the question that was brought to me was a little bit off the topic of IP.
It was how do we come together and maybe create some sort of global database where sort of
what we have is available in there for perhaps a reference, but just to see,
not necessarily for like ownership, but to kind of get everything together.
And there's so much emphasis these days for as far as like genetic, you know, data that
next gen sequencing techniques are the best and whole genome sequencing is the way to go, which
it has its place, but it is still a very expensive and it doesn't give it actually,
I find it's not as reliable as what are called microsatellites, which is my specialty area.
So, of course, I'm biased, but they're found in the non-coding portions of the genome.
They're highly mutable. So, they do different, they do change from generation to generation a
little bit. So, the idea is that the more different something is, the more mutations
they would have in that area, and then something that's very closely related.
And they use this kind of data to differentiate between like cultivars of olives and tomatoes
and apples and things that, like Ryan was saying, are not really morphologically different enough
to be able to, you know, take those really subtle nuances. And, you know, when you're looking at
plants, you're like, is that, is it not, you know, because these things don't fit really well into
boxes as nature doesn't. So, although they don't have to take genetic data, sometimes genetic data
is very useful in saying, yes, this is that and it's not that. So, in terms of creating some sort
of global networking database, sort of a library, if you will, we could use that kind of genetic
data. And that's the kind of data that multiple labs can generate and compile together without
any issues. There would be issues if one, like if, let's say, something miraculous happened
and the genetic companies that are out there doing genetic data somehow came together and
said, let's put all of what we have together and see what we have. They couldn't do that
because they don't use the same methodologies. They don't use the same sequencing techniques.
However, if we had a set of microsatellite primers, everybody could use them. It's not a difficult
lab technique to do. And fragment analysis is not really a difficult
analysis to do either. And that way we could come together as a global community and get some
things figured out there. And then another thing that Ryan touched on is that there's the three
things that a new cultivar has to be or a new thing that you can register and hold IP with
is it has to be distinct and unique and stable is the other thing. And so this is where I find,
I take a little bit of issue with having chemotype data as part of that process because
chemotype, you grow something in Oregon versus Texas, the potential for them to have a completely
different chemotypic profile, even if they use different soils, they use different nutrients,
if they use different this, that, and the other, they can have quite a different chemical profile
from each other, perhaps indicating now that they are not the same thing, which then muddies up the
water even more. And then one other thing that I just quickly want to mention is that right now,
the sort of places where we can put our IP that is not the plant protection variety office or
a patent, there's a couple of other companies that do genetic work, anybody can put stuff in,
can send it in and say, I want this sequenced and I want, and it's this and it's, and I, my name is
this and I live, and this is my business address. And it gets that blockchain ownership gets attached
to you, even if you didn't breed that cultivar or grow it or anything, you could have just gone to
the dispensary and gotten it. And now it's attached to you and you had nothing to do with it. So I
also have an issue with that, but Ryan has more experience with breeding and this sort of thing
than I do. But right now, as far as like breeding new cultivars goes and having ownership, it's not,
it's not really how it works right now, which is unfortunate, but it's how it is. So I don't know,
Ryan, maybe you have more to say on that. Sometimes I'm not very clear.
Abby, did you want to speak about the ethical data lines and how you're contributing towards the
data collection and things? Yeah, I guess that's a good segue. Hi, guys. Happy Monday. I'm glad to
see you guys over here. For some reason, it wasn't showing up for me earlier. I think it's an
incredibly important conversation for the industry, and it's also deeply complex, obviously.
And there are people who have been working for the past few years, kind of tirelessly,
I believe, since kind of phyloscape. There's been definitely groups of advocates for breeders, for
genetics, for plant rights. A lot of IP lawyers who've been working on this, and I'm sure you're
all familiar with the fact that the Open Cannabis Project kind of imploded a couple years ago,
and there was a group of people from that organization that went on to form the Ethical
Data Alliance. And part of our initial goals were kind of to try and solve this problem with ethics,
and so people could own their own data and protect these things. And there's been a lot of words
thrown around over time, like open source or prior art. And I've had those... If you haven't
tried to fill out a UPoV form, good luck, because it's a lot of questions, and it's complicated,
especially when you start getting into moving hemp genetics internationally. And I think hemp is a
great training wheels, essentially, for this. But we've run a couple of pilots with the Ethical
Data Alliance all the way through from the genomic sequencing to the breeders,
to different cultivators in different bio regions and the Appalachian piece. And so we were trying
to get it all the way through from the CE, the breeders, and then also the cuts through the
nursery, all the way through to the end and utilizing blockchain technology. And so at this
point, because we all know that metric is... And Fran Wells' monopoly with metric is just not
sufficient for the kind of data collection and different things we need within the industry.
So there's a lot of people who've been working tirelessly. It's a non-profit, but I worked for
two years because I really believe in this vision. And Filecoin recently saw the value of what we're
trying to do and gave us a grant. So we've been trying to create something called the Ethical
Data Exchange Network, because I think that the main thing is we've seen in the past, people don't
have very good ethics around this stuff. And it's obviously been an industry for a long time,
a big issue within the industry. So we're working towards creating another pilot at this point to
try and showcase and do more of a proof of work or proof of authority that this is the technology
that we need to utilize within the industry. But we're still kind of in this weird area, because
also it's like when you're pushing people who are pushing genetics in all these different spaces,
as Trevor's pointed to recently on his Instagram posts, it's like kind of a gray area,
essentially when you're starting to move. That's why Hemp is this great training wheels for us.
But it's like, how do these cuts magically appear in every new regulated market across the board?
So nobody's really tracking or looking at that piece right now. And I think that it's also
a great opportunity for us with blockchain technology to storytell the stories of the seeds,
the stories of the breeders, the legacy piece is incredibly important. And before we get lost,
we really need to utilize technology in order to track this stuff and improve, especially when you
start to think about patients and just everybody, consumers really have the right to have that
transparency. So I don't know, it's a very complicated issue that I think it's great that
you guys are having a room on the topic and I'm not saying anybody, I don't really know the details
with this new thing. I actually am super impressed by sometimes people's magic of how genetics get
pushed around in different directions. And I always want to see who get the credit, but it's
a very complex conversation. And we're going to be running another pilot through the Eden Network.
And this is essentially kind of like a gift to the community because anybody can plug and play
with what we're doing and what we're trying to do. So it's not necessarily for any one group or for
anybody. It's like any of you have some sort of way to plug in with what we're doing. It's like
openly transparent and for the benefit of everybody. So come join us. We have a fundraiser
on the 23rd called Festivus and we've great people involved. So it's literally, it's by us for us.
And I think that there are solutions out there. So I hope that we can kind of, and I think that IP,
I will say just one other thing. I think that royalties like really are going to become more
and more of a thing within the industry with breeders and that you really need to start
looking towards working to people who, with people who care about those things. So anyway,
I could talk about this pretty much all day long. It's pretty much been like a passion project for
me for two years. So this is Evian. I'm complete. I appreciate all that info.
I've got a question that's pretty basic actually now that I think about it. So metric is,
I've heard it referenced a lot with the United States and I've never heard of it,
like unless you're talking about the metric system, which I don't think so.
Is it literally just a planning, I guess a tracking system that you have to use? Like we
have Aramid and stuff like that for enterprise resource planning, but is that's what metric is?
Because I've been trying to... No, no. It's not ERP. It's a compliant software tool. So in the
Canadian system, you have to have a software tool or system that essentially does your reporting and
plant tracking and how much bud, how much everything. It's essentially it's compliance
tracking software. In the States, in certain States, it's mandated that you use a specific one
and metric seems to be the one that's ended up in a lot of States.
It's no different than like elevated signals or some of these other Canadian ones. It's just in
Canada, you can choose which one you use. In the States, you have to use a specific one that's
tied through the whole state system. And outdated and wasteful. And like they have
quite the monopoly. So it's also like, it's just not up to par with what we need. It's a CTS system.
So it's like cannabis tracking system from seed to sale, but it definitely is not the most elegant
design to put it politely. And it varies from every jurisdiction. So like California, if you
don't have your genetics in metric right now, technically speaking, according to the state
authorities, like tough shit. I have a friend, we're in a jurisdiction that got banned for a
time period. And so a lot of farms came online after the window for entering genetics had already
closed. And so these people had maintained their genetics, tried to get an exemption through
CDFA and different agencies. And were told tough shit, your genetics can't come into the system.
And if you want genetics, you have to get genetics that are already in metric. So that means either
seeds from a seed seller or clones from a nursery that's selling clones. And that was, yeah, that's
the system as of now. I mean, there's lots of workarounds and people figure out all kinds of
things, but as California's metric rules are in play now, if the genetics aren't in metric, they're
out of the system. That's horrifying. I'm sorry.
So like, this is a complex conversation. And there's a lot of really, there's a lot of layers
in this discussion, including something I've been a little bit hard with Anna about is the use of
the word strain, cultivar, and variety. And the reason that I have made such a big deal about
this over the last 20 years is that those words actually have specific legal meanings in the whole
plant registration world. And I like, in my opinion, it's hard. I think it's important that
people understand the definitions of the words that they use and the implications that those
words have on things like variety registrations. Okay. There's a whole, like I said, there's a
whole lot to unpack here. I mean, I'm scrolling up and looking at the top of the title of this room,
cookies slash cement shoes, IP and gene theft. Like even that in and of itself is a pretty funny
statement that is like, it's kind of nonsensical, like in a way, I think to me, go ahead.
Oh, I was just saying, I mean, I'm glad that you kind of brought that up because it's really
something that I wanted to hit as Dr. Anubis talked about, you know, the three important things and why
this, why this scenario is so unique. And it is kind of important because cement shoes isn't some
bullshit strain. If anybody has bred or grown, you know, go GKB, it's a finicky bitch. It's not
commercially viable. It dutted, it harmed. And most people properly so like, you know, like archive,
even, you know, like as if bred down the line with it, they still say in all their lines, or at least
archive, I've seen a couple other people say at least 5% of this line, you know, will have
hermaphroditic, like tendencies. And so like, the strain itself was not workable
for the commercial market yet it was, or arguably, you know, it was one of the most medicinal strains
for people to use. And Marcus, which most don't know, you know, is with Colts
classics, he worked it out more than anybody else in the industry and made it extremely stable
through cement shoes and, and made it commercially viable. So by, by cookies, taking
a gift that was given to them, and then taking the logo too, and then not even giving, even just
cred and I'd say like, you know, just like an Instagram post even is kind of mind blowing and
kind of fucked up because you talked about the, you know, the, you know, the three things,
stability is one of them. And, and like, oh, GKB was not at all. And I'm not sure anybody that,
you know, really, I'd love to find somebody that, you know, like argues and says that it was,
you know, like an insert of, you know, like original form. So can I, can I jump in there,
Matt? Stability in that sense is it's fun. It's funny. Stability doesn't mean what you think it
means in that context. Stability essentially means that the trait is present in all the plants.
And when you propagate that plant through cuttings, that trait, the defining trait reappears in all
of the plants. It actually has nothing to do with genetic stability because a cultivar that is not
genetically stable still has to pass the dust test. So we can get into the dust test if we want,
and maybe that's a different show, but if I can just kind of comment on what I was talking about,
and I keep getting a warning that I have a poor internet. So if I'm cutting out,
please someone let me know. But again, like if you go up and you look at the title of the room,
cookie is cement shoes, IP slash gene theft. Okay. Those things aren't genetic. There's no
genetic protection on any of those things. They're not cultivars. So really like this is more of a
trademark issue than a plant IP issue in my opinion.
You know, and we can get into specifics. You just broke up there at least for me when you said.
He's saying that it's a trademark issue and not an IP address. He's saying it kind of like what I
was talking about earlier. We got to be more serious about. We're talking about the topic of the
room about cookies and cement shoes. If you really dive into that, where did the parents
of the cement shoes come from? What does it come through the company that everybody believes?
It's cookies. So you're working with something from the company that made it famous and now
yours has become famous and they put it back in their system. It's just a trademark. There's
nothing novel about the plant. No one's registered it. It's not in any type of system. The only
protection that that can have is through a trademark of the name. And that's where you
would take that into a legal system because the plant has no protection in the genetic sense at
all. There's nothing novel about it. There's packs of it out on the market. Anyone could have
a genetic version of it because the seeds got out. There's clones of it out there. That's the
whole truth that I was talking about earlier. We have to be more serious about what we're doing
and what we want from the plant and how we're going to go about getting it. If you want to
protect that plant, you don't put it out there first. It's the last thing you do. Once it's out
there, you lost it because you've given it up. That's what you said you're going to do by making
it a public offering. We as cannabis breeders in our community don't understand the stuff that we
want other people to give back to us. It's like demanding respect without finding it first.
If you don't understand what you're asking for, how do you quantify what you get back in return?
You can't ask for them to give you respect for a plant that you use the genetics they already
claimed in your line. That's why I said we have to take them out and make it any business. It
could be anyone. If they're using what they had originally and claim it's yours, you're going to
lose. That's just how it goes down. This brings up the point of what is yours first. When I look
at the title and I see gene theft, who owns genes? Even the USPTO has said that you can't own a gene.
There are these big gene patents going on for a while. Essentially, you can't own something that's
found in nature. The idea of gene theft is silly. It's non-existent. It's not happening in the
space. I think the fear is plant theft, which is a particular assemblage of the genes that
everybody has access to. To me, a good analogy or at least a fair analogy is talking about
the painting community or the art community. You can paint a unique painting and you own that
unique painting, but the colors and the paints and everything that went into that painting is common
good. Everybody has access to those things. The idea of stealing plants or stealing genes
to me is bizarre. Truthfully, even these patented plants, like I said last week,
patented germplasm, especially for utility patents, there has to be a deposit that goes somewhere.
For example, say I build a new machine, a new washing machine or something. I have to describe
how that washing machine works. Through my descriptions and my drawings, I demonstrate that
the way that I've come up with this machine is actually truly different than the way that
anybody else has done it before. That's what's patentable. In the plant world, if you're getting
the patent, you have to put the plant or seeds of that plant in a repository so that somebody can
come along and essentially look at your diagram. There is no diagram in the plant world. The way
that you do it is you take the seeds that are put in that voucher system, you grow a sample out,
and you see if the plants in the seed lot deposited by the patent holder actually represent what is
declared in the patent. You're not supposed to, but I know in the Monsanto and Syngenta world of
corn breeding or high-value ag, they actually go in and get the other group's seeds so that they
can start telling them. They can start going through and looking for traits of interest to
add to their own. It's a good understanding and it would be really helpful if the community could
get on board and stop saying, I own this whole section of the gene pool. That's stupid. What you
own is the brand that you create from it. The cement shoes, in this sense, it's formed intellectual
property, but it's not plant genetic IP. What it is is a trademark. It's a brand. They've created a
brand and if they have a disagreement with the cookie screw, they should use the courts to go
after them to protect their trademark. I see them as two things. The plant is one thing,
the brand is a totally separate thing, which is also going to have value in the marketplace.
Hey Ryan, I have a quick question for you. Have you heard of biotagging, like inserting
a specific sequence of DNA into a genome that if it is this specific variety or cultivar,
then it will have this biotag inside of the genome? I know they do it with medicine. They put
the DNA sequence in the ink and then you can PCR the ink. If the ink amplifies, then it is legit.
If it doesn't, then it's a knockoff. Same thing with cosmetics and things like that. I believe
you can do it in a plant. I think they do it with cotton, but I've talked to other people about
potentially doing that as a way to track and protect your specific plants.
Yeah, again, you're talking about genetic individualization. That's just a way to tag
a plant with foreign DNA. You can say, if this DNA tag is there, then it's this plant. Really,
all plants are all genetic individuals. They have their own biotags, i.e. the DNA.
To me, that would be good enough to identify an individual. In the Canadian system, we've had a
couple of genomics companies look at this and actually want to get into this reason. Looking
at it, cannabis is a CPG or consumer packaged goods. Good perspective. A lot of times, the
brand players don't do their own production. For Tide Soap or Sunlight Soap, those guys aren't
contracting out the production of the soap. Really, the brand is its own entity. They don't
own the production facilities. It's kind of like Apple and the iPhones or Nike and the shoes.
Nike owns the swoop and the sales channels. They don't make the shoes themselves.
I don't know how I was going on that. Sorry. Annie, you were talking about the biotagging.
To me, it's like we already got it. Thinking about it, it's not even something realistically
that a backyard breeder could do. Again, you'd have to have a lot of money to be able to do that.
That's again, a big cultivator situation. There are companies who have that technology.
I just want to say there are companies out there that have that technology.
Some of it's a little creepy to me, to be 100% honest. I've seen a few different things where
I'm like, I don't know if I really want that with my plants. They definitely have some
very interesting tracking stuff. Look, it's redundant. We already have DNA
that could satisfy the exact same goal. Who cares if you're putting in a novel gene?
To me, that just adds money to the supply chain in some companies' pocket and doesn't really add
any value. I was saying there's this company in China that was trying to do this DNA checking
for cultivators going through production. Again, I just don't see the value. It's like every batch
that has to be tested. It's essentially just adding a cost structure that doesn't need to
be in the supply chain. I don't really know if it adds that much value.
I think if we were doing it like Anna's talking about, using a cheap assay for microsatellites or
something like VNTR, which is another technique called the variable nucleotide transcribed
regions, I think is what it is. It's essentially, they're little specific DNA tags that you can
amplify with PCR. You've got to remember, when you put in a new biotag or you put in a DNA tag
into an organism, that's essentially a plant with a novel trait. In the Canadian ag, I don't know
how it is in the States, but in Canadian ag, if you want to introduce a GMO or a plant with a
novel trait, you have to go through a whole second set of... It's its own system. It has nothing to
do with cannabis. You have to show that you think it's a good choice for this plant.
I think the US is a little different than the rest of the world, but I don't know exactly what
that looks like. I'm sure it holds true through the EPA. They're going to want to know that
this plant, when you release it into the environment, it's not going to spread or
spread genes into other species. I think it depends what you're inserting. Definitely,
if you're inserting a gene or if you're messing with genes, but if it's a non-coding region and
it's a non... If you're just inserting it in a sequence that in the amino acid spells out Ryan,
that could be enough to show that it's yours and it's silly, but it wouldn't mess with any of the
expression of the plant and it's not a gene. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
I'm just getting crazy with my thoughts.
Yeah. Again, I go back to does it add value? Does it add cost? Does it add value? If it
doesn't add either value, if it adds too much cost and it doesn't add value, I don't understand the
point. But again, I think it's just being able to parse in the context of the title of the room.
You have to be able to parse out how much of this is trademark infringement, how much of
this is actually genetic infringement. Do people really understand in the cannabis space?
Everybody thinks that it's like, oh, those genes are from this guy. It's like we say,
we all stand on the shoulders of giants. We've learned from all of our elders, but we also got
our seeds from all of our elders. None of us was born with a library of seeds tucked under our
shoulder. If you had a couple of seeds from, I don't know, chem dog and crossed it with a
purple cush, and I had a chem dog seed and a purple cush, and we both did a cross and selected
something, do we call them the same thing or do we call them different things? They both have the
same lineage of parents. I don't know. It gets really, really, really complicated. Well, no,
that's not complicated at all. I mean, it's like saying, is every Asian person crossed with an
American person going to be called Tiger Woods? Absolutely not.
Yeah, I suppose you're right. I suppose you're right.
Like, yeah, to me, that's not a difficult one to figure out.
And we need to start acting that way in the cannabis space. What happens is somebody comes
along and says, oh, I'm just going to redo the same thing we got. It's like, hello, these are
out crossing plants with like tons and tons and tons, like millions of unique gametes
intercombining to just say that anything that shares these two parentage. And that's why I was
getting hard on, you know, if they were coming from if they were coming, can I just finish what
I'm saying? You know, that's why what that's why when Trevor and I were talking about category
selection the other day, I was I was kind of poo pooing the idea. Like, I think it's kind of a
silly method to go about about selecting plants based on their their heritage. Right. Like we
need to be selecting plants based on their characteristics. Like who cares what their
brothers and fathers or sisters are? You know, breeding is finding the ultimate
genetic contributor and using that as a donor, not using it because it came from,
you know, a named family that has a that has some kind of provenance. Right. Like to me,
that's just not a good way to do it. And I appreciate you saying that, brother.
And I was going to agree with you, Ryan, I was going to backpedal and say you're you're right.
That is a really stupid way of doing it. And but, you know, that with my background in evolutionary
biology, like I am my brain is trained to think back, you know, ancestral wise.
But if it yes, if the. And then I go back to stabilization, like genetic stabilization as well.
And if you've got two unstable. Or just seeds from crosses. Yeah, I don't know.
It's complicated to me because all of this stuff is not from stable, but you are right.
Like we should be looking at the actual individual and not worrying about where it came from.
And as Ryan mentioned earlier, there's different you know, if you're going for
a variety protections in the states, there's a different set of obligations and the stabilization
and uniformity there does have to do with like the variety and the description and the seedlot
and all of that. But then when you've got an individual cultivar, stability is really just
stability is really just stability in the expression of the traits described for the
single clone, asexually reproduced cultivar. At least that's how I understand it. So it's like
you could have a. Genetically unstable cultivar that you select from a population
like the ones you just described, Anna, I can't remember the specifics, doesn't really matter.
But the whatever those two crosses are, you find something in there that's unique and
commercially viable. Theoretically, and with the state of the art today, like looking at the
patents that are out there, like it's it really doesn't take any more than what Ryan said earlier.
You take you make your cross, you find your selection, you describe it according to the
standards and the different, you know, just look at the existing.
Patents for people in the audience who are interested in this kind of stuff,
and you see the template for how you have to do this and how you can do it for an individual cultivar.
There's so many things to go over on this on this conversation. I think I feel like we can
go a hundred different ways with this one, Trevor, but I mean.
I think it is important to understand for all these systems.
When you're when you're submitting for an application for a PBR or a patent or whatever,
you're submitting it to a note like essentially a known exemplar
with a set of defined characteristics.
And.
Like I said, the system for cannabis is pretty shitty. The form that you have to submit is really
not very good for cannabis because it was designed for hemp. Right. So it's all about like
seed size characteristics and fiber characteristics. It has nothing to do with the flowers.
But the point is, is that you can you know, you can lobby these systems for change. Right.
Typically, what would happen is an industry would get together and decide, OK, look,
these are all the important characteristics that we want to have in the dust test
for specifically for cannabis. And then you can shape the. You can shape the form that needs to
get filled out. Right. Which which really what that form does is like you're describing
the important characteristics for the plant, not only for sorry for the plant type that you're
you're registering, i.e. drug cannabis or medicinal cannabis.
So you want to talk about like obviously like terpenes and cannabinoids and scent molecules
like those are going to be important characteristics, right? For him, those are important
characteristics. Anyway, I think it's just just to raise the idea that people can get get their
head around those systems are valuable. And I think that's the point.
Right. And we can change them and they can be changed to suit.
The needs of the of the industry that are essentially the ones that are propagating
that plant. Right. Like that's who's going to be supporting the PVR system is is the
the plant people that are really the breeders, but also the the growers that are going to
license those varieties. Right. Anyway. Hey, everybody, I got to go. It was nice
chatting with you all. Hopefully I'll see you all in a room again. Thank you.
Happy Monday. Have a good week. Bye. And so on the point of stability,
we how do we all come to an agreement on what stability is when in reality, when we know that
genes can turn on and off, expressions change with environment. When you see one expression
in one room, it may not even express in another room. And now you believe the traits, not
stable. Plants have so many different genetic possibilities to express for you.
Why are we stuck on the stability thing when it's really not about you're not going to
register your whole line like Ryan says here? It's about finding a specific cultivar and then
getting that one registered for it. Usually in a sexual form, like a variety protection,
seeds, tubers, and asexual reproduced plants or specifically just asexual
plants or the genes that are inside of those. They're never looking for whether or not that
plant is going to homophrodite in there specifically if it's not described in the system.
It's supposed to be red if it's a red flower. It's going to have a specific
time it flowers during the season. You can go in and check out the registered hemp varieties.
They'll tell you when you're supposed to harvest the seed stock, when the plant goes into flower.
These are all traits of the plant that it expresses in multiple environments for that.
Instead of just looking for a purple plant that washes well, those are none of the requirements
for your plant to be registered and protected at the moment. None of us are going about trying to
get those protections that we actually need for the plants that we're carrying. Register the
tissues, store them so that you know that you can prove that you had them. Like I mentioned earlier,
show in the breeding rooms. If you can show that you've bred that plant over amount of time instead
of just having one sample in the fridge, you've got different ways to back up how you can prove
that you were the person that created the plant that you want to protect.
Yeah, I just got to say I think if at this point you're not, like if you're an active breeder and
you're not actively working with something to try and document your genetics and your data,
then I think you really need to get with the program essentially. Because whether we like it
or not, this is where we're at and it's here. The time is now, obviously. So there's lots of
different options. There's herbarium. There's plenty of other ways that you can just document
your work and work with. There's some incredible IP lawyers out there and trademark lawyers and
plant patent lawyers that are just like this is their life. This is what they do. They know what
they're not. You know, and I obviously at this point I've come around to the point where it's
like plant patents are here whether we like them or not. And I think that we would be, you know,
we're just missing the point if we realize that other people aren't already doing these things. So
you know, yes, it's complicated. And on the hemp side, it's not perfect. And when it starts,
I think looking at the UPOV and these other, you know, already how we move seeds around in a global
way with hemp or other things, I think it is important because it's going to fit that bill
somewhat when it comes time for type one and type two plants to move in the same way. So
I would prepare and find somebody trustworthy to work with.
I think what we were saying earlier is like as a community, we have the opportunity,
you know, like before everybody was kind of, you know, split up just trying to kind of make it
like as Anthony kind of noted, you know, it was kind of like every, you know, kind of collective
for themselves. But now we have this ability to, you know, sit here in rooms like, you know,
this and talk about kind of everyday issues and kind of set standards for the industry because
or and kind of get ahead of it all really. And that's where I can't remember who earlier,
I apologize, was really talking about the need to and you kind of noted is,
you know, there's multiple sources, but kind of like mentioned earlier was seed banks and
you know, TC of places. But I guess one of the, again, like I like to drag it back to, you know,
again, the title, it's like, as an industry, we haven't had this ability to, you know, sit here
in a room and talk about, you know, things as they're happening. And here it's like you have
the cookies, you know, like industry burners, you know, drop his hit album. And I have it, you know,
like in my PTR, but miss Radley, refer and a couple other like people, Neptune,
seed bank, you know, we're sitting here talking about, hey, we need to get ahead of this. And we
need to support the seed banks. Neptune seed bank tried to say something the other day.
Two days ago, they said, hey, you know, I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure, you know,
cement shoes was bred by Marcus. And then their account started getting fucked with. And at some
point, where do we draw the line and say, like, hey, like, you're literally acting like the people
that we're trying to keep out of this industry. Or we're attempting, you know, to call like not
people that we want in this industry. Like when you're willing to go after seed banks that have
been around for a while. And even if it's your fan base, you need to realize that your fan base is
doing this and take care of it. Because like we're all noting, this is how we get ahead of this
happening. So I mean, it's like, you know, cookies is in a really weird place right now, I think,
because they, you know, we're talking about getting ahead of this. And, and the people that
should be kind of stopping this, like Neptune is getting attacked for it. So as an industry,
we can probably stand up together and really say something about it. I mean, or is why this room
was kind of started, I think. But this also leads into like everything else that we're talking is
how do you say that, you know, like OGKB or, you know, the genetics that went into
cement shoes were Marxist. But anybody that's worked a lot of those lines that went into that
knows that those lines are really hard, like they're shitty. And the cement shoes lines is
commercially viable as fuck. Like amazingly viable. And that's why people buy it. That's
why there's a website named cement shoes, like he is trademarked the name. So I don't know,
I don't know exactly. I guess I was just trying to like cover more of like, why we're,
what we're actually talking about, like the current event of like, you know, this is actually
happening, and it's benefiting cookies while, you know, somebody is getting screwed.
You know, a breeder within our like industry, or maybe not getting screwed, but they're getting
marginally left out.
Well, Matt, this has happened time and time again, though. And for me, I don't really know,
I don't follow Berner that much. I don't really know a lot about the cement shoes line. But I
looked it up. And what I'm personally seeing is I'm just seeing something that is nothing more
than just a polyhybrid that has a bunch of really good pedigrees that's built into it. The only
thing that I'm seeing that's really, truly super unique out of the animal cookies times the OGKB
times wet dream is literally the Williams wonders. The only thing that is really truly unknown
about all of that, but I'm looking at blue dream. I'm looking at blueberry, I'm looking at a haze
in there. I'm looking at skunk number one, I'm looking at all these things that chem dog,
Durban poison, obviously. And, and for me, even, you know, I don't think that
Berner was the first person to cross a Durban poison to an OG Kush. I know that I've crossed
that at one time myself. But you know, I wasn't obviously first to market with that. And nor do
I even want to say that I was anyone close to making Girl Scout cookies, as I'm not trying to
say that at all. But, you know, at the same time, when stuff gets released at the same time,
you know, what happens when two farms are working the exact same genetics, and then it just becomes
a first to market or who markets better. And I think that that's the one thing that we can all
credit to burner is that he was he entered cannabis at a time that it was easier to pick up a lot of
followers on Instagram than it is versus, you know, someone that has 10,000 followers. Now,
I mean, you got to put in a lot of work and create a lot of content to be able to do that.
But the fact of the matter is, when burner got in, it was easier to get a lot of followers. So he was
able to broaden that base. But we all know a breeder that probably still operates in the black
market that doesn't get credit for their gear, because that gear has to go to a legal market
somewhere where someone can grow that and actually express that plant, or else it stays within a
black market circle. Matt, can you just quickly give everyone a background on what Neptune or
what happened with Neptune? I think also just getting back to like, everybody's been fixating
on the patents. But I think I think your main point is it seems like, in the court of public
opinion, forget patents and legality. Did cookies do something shitty to someone else, which in this
case is cement shoes? Yeah, cool. You know, classics and, you know, Marcus border. I mean,
like, Neptune noted that that that token low posted, and I have a screenshot from Miss Rad Reafer
story of the story that, you know, cookies was posting with cement shoes logo, or
or Colt classics logo on the cement shoes as well. So Neptune called it out, you know, they were
questioning why they were using the logo and why, you know, they weren't giving any cred to Marcus,
at least in any way. And their page started getting censored, like almost instantly. And we
should say that he did get an email that says they're going to contact them. And we don't know
the final say of what's going to happen. Totally, totally. Just want to mention that, guys. But
the fact that I think that that now, Miss Miss Rad Reafer, and Neptune seed bank and Marcus
are all getting posts taken down and their pages are getting, you know, like fucked with by somebody
or from an issue within our like industry. It's like this is, you know, yes, it's kind of like
stupid small, but at the same time, like, this is kind of a big deal, because we're sitting here
talking about, hey, we need to be, you know, using the seed banks as our, like our front lines to
you know, you know, protect our, our, our like genetics. And then here,
they're getting censored. I think if I understood correctly, and I could be wrong here, but I think
when I think Tony brought up seed banks, I wasn't under the impression he was referring to them in
the sort of commercial colloquial sense we use them in the cannabis community, like Neptune,
or other sort of like seeds here now seed distributors.
No, I'm talking about being dead serious about the plant putting tissue into some form of a
collected bank. Seed banks aren't anything but a way for two people to profit. That's what we have,
right? Yeah, but I mean, but like you're saying about putting something in the freezer,
if Neptune could say, hey, I've sold this seed for the last five years, or how many years?
The only one that sold that seed is the problem.
Oh, Matt, they don't need to say that. So all of us know, like, we're using as a certification
process. There was point. Yeah. So, um, the fact that Marcus has put these out on the market,
and like, you know, I didn't buy any cult classics, but I had a number of friends who were
buying cult classics year when it was like, first dropping when the Clifton and the cement shoes and
all these things dropped. And so by doing that, he like, it's known it's established it, you can go
back. I mean, like, if, if I had to, I could find the posts, and I could find screenshots. And I'm
sure tons of other people can do it as well. So it's documented, and it's in the public domain.
What we have here is something that's not that like,
all of the history of the cannabis world, as we've known it from like, the 1980s to the present
is basically characterized by an ongoing series of different breeder beefs, you know, from
the earliest in the 80s between Neville and skunk man, Sam to the present, like,
like I said earlier, at what point do we stand up and start actually like, making like standards
within the industry that we, you know, because now we're a little bit less civilized and we're
not like in survival mode, you know, change industry change around you, brother, your friend,
that's doing it, you're not going to change the whole industry can't do it.
Yeah, it's also it's like, I feel like it's totally pointless, I keep having these same
conversations. If you want to have legal protection on your plants, you register trademarks for the
for the brands, and you get plant breeders, right registrations through the plants, like,
that's how you do it. Right. So when I hear people talking about, oh, we're brainstorming ideas to do
you know, whatever, create a system for cannabis. To me, that's fucking pointless. Right? We have
these systems that are globally entrenched. Like the vast majority of countries have signed on to
these international treaties, and then and then gone home to their respective countries,
and implemented legislation that backs up the treaties, right? It's like cannabis needs to
be part of that system. And then all these other problems will go away. Like, that's, that's the
exactly this. Like, not that I'm a fan of the patent and sort of proprietary sort of system,
I'm much more interested in down with the open source, let's all share and share alike. But I
also realized that at the end of the day, like, so many of these beefs have been over a perceived
notion of ownership over plants, genetics, etc. And you can literally go back and just pull up
all the posts and find all the hurt, like animosity between good people, you know, I'm not
casting aspersions on anyone. Sorry. No, no, I mean, I'm cutting you off. So I apologize. But
I'm just saying, you know, the logo is kind of the crux of it all. For me, when it comes to
just this cookies situation specifically, is okay, you're, I totally get that. And when I say
I'm not casting aspersions, I mean to say, like, you know, I'm not gonna take a side on the 20 to
30 year old beefs that you can go and look in the historical record that I was kind of referring to.
And like, it's, it's been intense, like the seed wars and like, you know, people,
the online community has been care, the cannabis community has been characterized by an ongoing
series of these sorts of feuds. And there are legitimate gripes that people have. But I think
that the thing that Ryan's pointing out is that these legitimate gripes that people have get
solved through these sort of legal frameworks that have been developed and already figured out,
already figured out, and we don't have to do that. And if we don't want to operate in those
sorts of frameworks, in terms of like, patents, and that those sort of formalized legalistic IP
protection mechanisms, there's a number of other ones. But they're like bonus said, are all already
figured out like an Appalachia system, which is kind of in its rudimentary forms here in California
is technically a
held by a group of people or sometimes one button California system, a group of
licensees can come together and develop an Appalachian a particular geo specific region.
And there are other forms of these more community formed base IP protection. And there's other
things just like seed savers. And the main thing, though, is to like, if cats want to protect their
shit through IP, like legalistic channels, there's that route. And otherwise, it's a lot of us just
kind of maintaining a 30 year debate about ethics within a community that has kind of been shunted
outside of those sort of protections. But I keep getting sorry, it doesn't work to do it that way.
I mean, we've seen over the last 30 years, it doesn't work. All it ends up being is a bunch
of people gripe. Right. And nothing ever gets done. Nobody gets any real protection to their work.
Why is it? Why do they have what is there two or three pharmaceutical companies that
pretty much monopolize the planet? And they have pretty much patent. If you look at they have
patent, almost every plant there is, and they continue to do that. That's absolutely just not
even true. You can patent anyway. I don't know. I do. You need to like respectfully, you need to
understand a little bit more about plant patents before making claims like that.
You can't patent entire species. You can't patent entire groups of plants. You can patent
single plants and only in the United States of America and Australia and the rest of the world.
It doesn't work that way. So I think the patent that this patent here that we all that exist in
this cannabis community is like pretty ridiculous. Yeah, there's this cannabis community scared of
shit that just ain't reality, man. It's it's fucking odd. And we're going by rules that we
want the rest of the world to try to jump onto. And they're never going to do it because they
already got a system in place that they use for commerce. And now we're taking this plant,
putting it into a system that regulates it under a form of commerce. It's not cannabis anymore.
Starts with a C, but all you try to do is profit off the plant. Now you want to protect something
that it truly is a novel. If you're using somebody's plant that they already had and
you back cross it to something different, the genetics are in there and they don't care about
the genetics. They want it like I said. How does it express itself in its environment? What makes
it novel? Why is freak show something that they could do something with? And skunk one that
everyone's done is something that you're really not going to be able to do anything with unless
you start diving deep in there because of the novel qualities of the plant that it expresses.
That's what something that you could actually protect. You're not going to protect something
that looks just like the last plant that somebody put in just be
bread for times, right? Your selection when you started was so small that you didn't add anything
novel to it. You're just removing shit that could have came out of it that was novel through
breeding. And most of the cannabis community just thinks because they did enough stuff to one plant
a few times that they own some kind of specific genetics. You did something that you loved and
you deserve some respect for all that. But in reality, it's not enough to protect your plant
or your profits in the future. You have to do that legally.
I guess the only way to completely protect your stuff is to when you grow it out, just put it all
in a concentrate form and don't have it available in any other method.
I guess I keep coming back to the court of public opinion, not like Pattinson did some little dude
protect himself in the appropriate ways, just kind of across the board. Do you guys all think that
cookies did something shitty or no?
I don't think that. Sorry, Tony.
Oh, no, go ahead. I didn't know I was. I'm sorry. I was just. I'm sorry.
No, you were. I'm sorry. I saw that you were.
I thought I was on mute. I didn't know I was on mute.
OK, OK, yeah. So. I don't. I don't. Think that.
I think that what they did is something that gets done all the time. I also think that it's
shitty given the position that they're in, not knowing any more details than what I've heard
here tonight. If Berner has a big gaudy project that he's doing, I've seen him doing some media
on it. If he's dropping that album, he's doing it with a release of the cement shoes and he's
not giving any recognition or acknowledgement to Marcus for having read that when we all know that
he bred and released it, then that violates a lot of the norms and ethics within the community
that people have kind of agreed upon that, like, at least give credit to where it's due.
And given the deals that they've made with Compound, I know they've got a joint greater deal.
And I know Berner's talked about that during some of his PR. I don't see why. And granted, I have no
knowledge behind the scenes. It would seem cool for them to have a breeder deal with Marcus.
That said, I'm not privy to any details and don't know how that's all gone down. And I would just
say that, you know, like if they're going to release genetics that have been released by people
that aren't really changes in any way, it would be really cool if they worked with the people
that released the genetics. But aren't they just selling the flower?
Like what's like? Maybe I don't understand. Yeah, so I thought the bag had it looked like a bag of
herb, not a bag of seeds. So like every club's doing that. Like I'm just trying to understand
because it's like so somebody went and bought this dude seeds, went and selected a cut from
the seeds and is selling them. And buddy's pissed off about that. OK, yeah, that's the case. I'm
less inclined to side with it. I was under the impression that there was a release of the
genetics that was going on here, kind of like this logo, which is like I said before, that's a
trademark dispute that genetic side that plant's not been protected in any way, shape or form
legally. So there's nothing that they did with the genetic side. But by using his logo, that's
trademarked. That is something that you can take to court is 100 percent wrong. That's what you
talk to them about if they're willing to talk. That's why I said they sent him an email. We don't
even know if they've already decided to pull what they've done off or whatever. We don't know if a
specific place put that up there, if it's not even from the whole company. That's what I'm saying.
You've got to be very careful about what you're saying about somebody over a dispute that isn't
even been. They haven't even given an answer to it's just something that someone has perceived
over Instagram, which 90 percent of the time is wrong. We all think someone's turning us in while
we share the same fucking hashtags that are all fucking hidden and thinking that some jealous
dude turned us in because he's a hater. And we haven't took the time to do anything with our
plant to make sure that we can do something in court. So I say if it's his trademarked
logo and imaging, that's something that you can 100 percent deal with legally.
The plant side of it does nothing.
Is that logo 100 percent trademarked or is he just putting TM by it and then it's not
trademarked? I don't know. From what I've read, it was trademarked.
David was in here earlier and he's the one that is working middleman. He was the one that
told us earlier that they finally sent him an email tonight and said tomorrow morning
they're willing to talk about compensation. But like I was kind of saying earlier before
we went live, it's like at that point, they're kind of admitting that they were trying to pull one over.
You don't know that. Like I said, it could have been one specific club that had the herb that
was doing this and the entity of Cookies had nothing behind it. They could have put it out
themselves. We don't know this 100 percent yet. That's where them being able to respond to him
is what we should be responding to if it actually happens. And we should be talking about this
without Cookies involved because like Trevor said, Chimera Ryan, this has been happening since the
first dude decided he was going to make some seeds off some shit he found and try to sell
them to the other human. When they started to capitalize off this plant, that's when
Honesty had a 50-50 chance of making it to the next guy. And that's what we're fucking dealing
with. And the way you stop this isn't by talking about one specific entity, but talking about the
elephant in the womb and that this is happening repeatedly over and over. Just in the last year,
there was a massive thing going on with people pretending to be dead people and selling seeds
to people. Right. And you think you're just going to post up an Instagram post that's already
shadow banned so that you can warn the rest of the community, the rest of the community
that bought seeds from that didn't give a shit or they wouldn't have bought seeds from the hustler
in the first place. They would have realized the man's dead. You can't buy seeds from a dead man.
He didn't just pop up with fresh stock. Those people were looking for a cheap hustle to start
with. And they're part of the problem. This is the whole reason our industry is looked at as juvenile
because none of us want to be serious about what's going on, but we want to be treated seriously.
So the reality is, we all know someone out there or we've seen someone that has hustled this
community and it keeps happening and bitching about it over Instagram isn't doing a goddamn
thing. You have to boycott these things. That's how businesses in reality lose money by boycotting
someone and not allowing them to be in the scene. That's how you get rid of them. You don't keep
talking about them because any type of publicity is always good publicity. Right. So you put out
the facts and the truth. You show the breeding of the project. Make sure everybody knows the facts,
just like Trevor said, where everybody knows where cement shoes came from, because it's been
documented, not because it's at cookies. Right. The people at cookies don't give a damn. They
don't know about it, but we all know it's been documented and that's how they get plants into
the system. You document it. You document its novelty. You enter it. It's accepted and it
becomes something that you can claim is yours. And until then, we're not going to have that
ability because we're not taking it seriously. We just want everyone. It's backwards. You can't
demand the respect. You won't give your own self. Sorry, go ahead, London. I just I don't know if
this has been pointed out yet, but I mean, if we're if we're talking about Berner and we're
talking about this specific situation, I mean, the guy is a marketing genius and he really manages
to be able to promote himself in a way. And that's what he is. He's a he's a front guy
and a big personality. So if you look at what it is to me, this is just a big PR campaign. I mean,
it's going to create some notoriety, some turmoil, but it's marketing at its finest.
And it's created a room with 250 people watching it live on YouTube and another 150 that have come
in and out here and doing exactly what probably the decision was that came down when they decided
to use a logo and use that brand exactly how it is without moving forward in the way that they did.
They're intelligent people. And then these type of this just this just smells a whole lot to me
like game plan time. And I'm just going to call it for what it is. Yeah, I'm sorry, Ryan.
No, I was just saying I had the same thought. I mean, really, he's he's timing a album release
with a controversial occurrence. How novel. Right. Like it's like that's exactly the type
of plan that people would do. So maybe we're all just falling into it anyway.
Myself, I mean, if that's listen, if that's going to be the conversation, I'm not really
interested in it. I'm more interested in the conversation of like, what is IP?
Getting the real issues behind. I mean, like Trevor said, this story has played out 150 times
over the last 20 years. And with you change the names out for 100 people.
It's the same story like over and over and over again. And I just like personally, I don't really
care about it. I mean, it sucks if somebody is going to take an advantage of it. But I just I
don't understand why. You know, I'm not I'm not I'm not interested in this game for the gossip.
Exactly. Talking about changes and getting into a point where actually using systems.
So all this garbage and bullshit that we have to put up with goes away.
Like this is not worth 250 people watching on YouTube. I mean, I think it's less about gossip
and more about, you know, there are little guys and big guys emerging in the space and the little
guys don't have budgets and armies. And if we as a community can kind of at least a little bit
police kind of big guys actions, that would be kind of cool.
Well, this is an important spot of I'm sorry, guys, but I just want to throw this in real quick
and I'll be done. But I actually was in the process of going through designing a logo. And what I was
told that especially if you are a brand new company or if you're new to something or if you've just
created something and you're using something that separates you from anybody else that's unique to
you, even if you don't have that trademark to still start putting that TM mark on your logo
somewhere. So that way, at least shows the rest of the world that you are making the conscious
effort to get that trademark. So even if you don't have that trademark, you're still putting that
trademark. So even if you don't have that done at that specific time, it is just showing that you
are making that conscious effort to do that. So that way, whenever you do have the funds to be
able to trademark that logo, that you actually have grounds to stand on in case you run into
a situation where someone's trying to steal your logo or your IP.
Yeah, and I just also wanted to throw in that if Cookies has reached out, then it would seem that
they're, you know, step forward and movement behind the scenes. And given the fact that none of us
are privy to all of the details and the facts, particularly given the fact that, you know,
Cookies is a large corporation and if they've already reached out to somebody with an attorney,
as I understand from what I heard earlier, then like, let's leave any speculation aside and just
count that as a bit of a victory. Because, you know, if they're reaching out and willing to talk
to Marcus and move things forward, that's good. Otherwise, I think London just, you know, spot on
analysis there. Like this is Marketing 101. They're creating synergies here between,
and you know, they're very good at it, where they're hitting the cannabis community and they're
going up and doing a, you know, the whole hip hop scene and, you know, the Breakfast Club and all
that shit. Like they're doing the rounds and they're creating a synergistic media sort of PR
platform for this launch. So I mean, it's not terrible when you think about it. I mean, it'll
be a great ride for Cement Shoes when it comes to the amount of exposure that it would have gotten.
Otherwise, I mean, it could be beneficial for all parties. I mean, it's a great ride for
all parties when it comes down to it. I'm just, you know, I hate to be the cynical guy to call it
what it is, but I think it's useful. Like, I don't know if David the Breeder was on, the one that we
went in was on earlier, but like, I mean, that could be huge exposure for somebody, you know,
you could use it as an upturn and a positivity in the long run, way more than it would be a downturn,
depending on what their blatant decision was or how they went and acted. You never know.
It could be a two-week straight. There could be some back deal signed somewhere, you know.
Hi guys. Go ahead, Benzie, sorry. Oh, I just wanted to say hi, and I've kind of been talking
kind of very slightly about this topic in regards to like, people just complaining over Instagram
about bullshit. I dealt with that shit today, and I've been talking about that on my story all day.
I think the problem is lack of education and a lot of street people entering the community,
which is like ruining it for the rest of us. So that actually really bounces off well with
the question I wanted to ask you, Ryan, is like, so what is the first steps that we can take?
Is it education? Or is it like, do we need a hard shake? Like, what do you think are the first steps
to evolving the community to get past these little treacherous things? Because it is,
there's a lot of torment and issue in the community, and I think there's just a miscommunication point,
and we're all just reading a slightly different book. Like, what do you think would be the first
point, or maybe first point of education that we could get out there to really push forward the
community as a whole? Unfortunately, I don't think there is one. It's kind of like trying to,
how do you change the use of like sativa and indica, right? I mean, these things are, these
beliefs are so ingrained. People have like incredibly strong feelings about like plant
ownership, and they're completely uninformed even what words like cultivar and variety mean,
right? So, it's like, I hate to sound cold in the whole thing, but it's really like a bunch of people
that are completely uninformed in a topic want to have an opinion about it,
and that's not a good recipe for success, right? Like, you want to have like
defined conversations, like, you know, everybody kind of needs to be on the same page,
and when people just want to have their own belief systems based on zero facts,
I mean, those kinds of discussions don't really go well.
Look, I mean, we've legalized here, right? We've legalized here, and it's like,
we still have people saying like, oh, these people, we don't want to keep them in the community,
or we don't want them to be in the community. When something's legal, anybody that wants can
get into the community, whether you like it or not, right? Like, so, you can vote with your
dog. But when we're all supporting each other, and like helping them like get shows and stuff,
like, and then they're turning around, and you know, this is not like some just like
Instagram bullshit, like, you know, like everybody keeps like kind of like trying to like chunk it up,
like this is coming straight, like you can go straight to Marcus's fucking Instagram,
and like, you know, there's no hearsay here. And David was in here earlier, who is the direct,
like contact between Cult Classics and the Cookies organization. So, there's no like secondhand drama
him haul. It's like straight facts. It's like that what's happened, essentially,
to this whole like pushing it aside. Now, it's not just like somebody said something to coming
straight from the horse's fucking mouth that Marcus at one point gave in a gift,
gave them fucking cement shoes. And now they're turning around and not giving him any fucking
credit. It's kind of ridiculous. And Jack in the logo, just saying. And it's really hard for me,
and I'll probably going to get stoned for even saying this, but it's really hard for me to even
believe it's marketing, like, because it seems more like it's kind of like caught red handed,
because this isn't the first time that Cookies has been caught doing something like this. Like,
let's talk about Loud, you know, and you know, in Oregon, they literally took Jesse's flower,
you know, denied it, you know, because of, you know, quality reasons, and then top shelf it
and weren't going to pay him until everybody blasted him on Instagram. Like, it's kind of
ridiculous. Like, it seems like more so like, again, they're coming out, okay, we'll work out
some compensation, because now you got caught. But I could be wrong. Maybe it is marketing.
If it is marketing, it's pretty aggressive, ain't it?
Yeah, they've always been pretty aggressive. I mean, look, I know plenty of people who have
plenty, like literally, every Cookies cut has a story connected to it. So
I could bring up plenty of homies, and they could, you know, talk to the sheep come home,
you know, there's literally the the Cookies phenomena has been around over a decade.
There's many different cuts. There's been plenty of different drama, fallings out and, you know,
beefs around it. If, like, I don't know, I just feel like if there's not actually a seed drop
happening here, and it is just about logos, Marcus should handle that through the courts
with his trademark. And otherwise, take the advantage of the co marketing, and, you know,
bang shit out as best as he can, and make money off of this as well. Because by his own admission,
the genetics of like, he literally gave them the genetics. So at the point where you do that, like,
if I put any genetics out onto the market, they're out there. And you know, it is what it is. And
even if we have ideas of ethics and codes and all that shit, people don't care. It's not gonna,
it's not gonna, people won't listen.
Yeah, I was gonna say the same if he actually gave them the genetics.
I don't understand how there's anything to say other than the logo part. If he didn't give the
logo to them to use, deal with, but the genetics says with his own mouth, how do you go back from
giving it to them to they can't have it?
I mean, I think when you're dropping something as like a number, like literally, you know,
Berners posting two days ago that he's number one on the billboard right now,
you know, like you're dropping something hot and 4042 or 48.
And like 4248 stores with the logo, and you're at the top of the charts. And honestly, this,
this industry sort of like, you know, I got some of it earlier, we're all built on the backs,
you know, giants, it's like, you're not going to give any credit at all. Come on. It's maybe
this is more of a philosophical point, you know, that like, we're not, we're not, you know, we're
not, you know, just like, calling it out, you know, and but like, we're getting to a point where
this industry is becoming real. And it's a very small industry. And there's not many people like
somebody said earlier, you know, there's a couple 100 breeders, really, I don't even think it gets
a couple 100 breeders, I think, total, like, you know, there's maybe like 250 breeders, if that.
And, and then in growers, like you think about, you know, Oregon, you have like 1500,
rec, you know, growers, Washington's a little bit smaller, California, it's, you know, it's not that
many people, we have this ability to kind of, you know, shape this industry to a point where
these things aren't happening anymore. And people aren't getting fucked, like, because it shouldn't
happen, especially when you're about to hit the top of the billboard, or when you are hitting the
top of the billboard. I don't know, but maybe it is just more of a philosophical point.
Well, you're kind of asking a guy not to market his self after, like I said, he gave him something.
Hello, everybody waiting in the chat. I see everybody there.
It's like, it's too late. And once you gave it to him, you kind of told him to do what the hell
you wanted to do with it. Once you give a guy a cut, the next thing you know, he's given another
dude a cut. This is how cannabis has worked forever. If you have a dog and you buy it from
someone, next thing you know, you're trying to make puppies so you can make some money on the
other side. This is the reality of the human nature. Like we're trying to change human nature.
And we're using them as the example instead of pointing at ourselves all the way through on
everything. Because this is how every from candy, to bread, to water, it's the same damn thing over
and over. Like the water has been here for how long? Since water decided to show up. And now
we got how many companies selling water? Nobody's mad. They're the first one that got a drink of
water. We're arguing over our human nature. How do we change that? We can't keep arguing about it.
Got to figure out what we're going to do about it. And I think that's what, sorry.
Hey, I mean, just quickly, I think back to, I think some few couple of minutes ago, what Ryan
had elaborated on. And my belief is this, that in terms of, because Ryan did mention this,
how religiously, right? Some people have all per se, the consumers have basically
have taken a narrative of this whole Indica Sativa thing. And to the belief, to the extent
where, I mean, people go to the extreme to sort of protect whatever narrative it is that they
believe. And I believe that, and I think the reason for bringing this up is that
just being around the vaccine, which in terms in the vaccine, I'm talking about the labs
and watching how just the whole game is playing out. So we have this narratives, right? Where
this Indica Sativa issue has the main, is being like the main marketing for
the vaccine. So we're here discussing about, hey, this specific cultivars or genetics or whatnot.
But I think one of the biggest issues that we seem to really not address is the fact that
this same marketing tactics, right? It's pretty much, it's profitable to one specific model.
And then what it is in turn is doing is that it is making it very difficult for the other,
in terms of the diverse population. That's pretty much what I mean. And the reason I'm
saying this is that the average consumer or grower or breeder, even in the United States
will believe they have access to Sativa or pure equatorial land-raised Sativas.
But to be honest with you, if you really look into it, unless you have access to something
back in the sixties and seventies, or you just happen to go out in the jungles and still meet
up with certain tribes or families that may have had access to like generational inbred cultivars,
it's nearly impossible to come across these true real lines. But I'm speaking from experience
because I have, my family's based out in West Africa and we've been growing, I mean,
for thousands of generations, right? These specific cultivars that we have been growing
are not documented within any narrative that you would read per se, Dr. Robert Clark or any other
well-known author that we are very familiar with. Because I believe they only had access to specific
cultivars. So only those specific cultivars they had access to, they were able to express their
opinions on these. I believe there's a lots of wild structures. I mean, so different
characteristics that is still unknown. I've been working specifically with equatorial
highland sativas, and I mean sativas, for at least over a decade. Right now, if you were to click on
my little tab, it will give you a little bit of the COA. But if you really want to look into what
I'm speaking of, you could go into the Instagram and it'll give you, I have just scrolled down,
there is a COA that gives you, it's pretty much a COA. That was tested, I think, about seven or
six years ago. That gives you a very low concentration, below 5% in terms of total
cannabinoids. But the underlying factor is the interesting factor, which is the terpene profile.
So we're in terms thinking about, hey, how do we get this bigger and stronger? But what we're
really truly missing out is the diverse, the diversity. So when we're speaking in terms of
nobility and coming up with some sort of like, you know, reasons why we truly deserve, you know,
the plant variety protection as breeders, we also have to sort of, you know, be disciplined in the
way that we approach it. So I solely believe that it is out, this having this conversation is very
important. It's crucial to hold every entity responsible. And also, it goes, it plays out
the same thing for us. It is to hold ourselves to responsible for the narrative that we put out
there. So I just wanted to touch on that. Thank you. And reset the room. I mean, any,
anybody want to say, or take the conversation anywhere, or circle it back anywhere?
Yeah, one thing I was going to mention was just kind of like the segue from
the discussion of what's going on with the cookies, Marcus. Like, if people like Marcus
and other folks want IP protection, then we really have to listen to the things that Ryan's been
saying and talking about. And people have to pursue those sort of avenues. And that's like
the most productive way we can stop re, just rehashing a debate that's been going on and sort
of like, unnecessary squabbles that have divided us for the last 30 years, and kind of like,
bring it back to something that has been mentioned that given the circumstances of
commercialization, legalization, regulations, all the things that are happening, corporate interests
and the way that they interact with cannabis genetic or just genetic resources in general.
Now more than ever, and hopefully I can kind of touch on some of what you just mentioned, Hemp.
This is where we need to be coming together. And we need to be understanding these concepts,
figuring out strategies that are for protecting cannabis genetic resources writ large.
There's a very narrow segment of that, which is intellectual property protections,
the whole host of different ways that people can go about that. And then there's the larger
sort of perspective of plant genetic resources. And yeah, a lot of that has to do with
identifying, characterizing, and preserving genetics around the world, and making sure that
we have some sort of way of banking and collecting these. Ideally, seed banks would be the method of
doing this. But as of right now, just that kind of decentralized, everybody going, collecting the
genetics, preserving the genetics, developing connections with communities that have been
cultivating and preserving genetics for millennia. That's probably one of the most
important things that we can be doing on a larger, big, macro scale in terms of plant genetic
resources. That's where we got to go. That's where we're as a community. We all have to start to
agree to do that kind of stuff. Be more serious about what we're doing instead of just trying to
be serious about what we think we own. Because we don't own this plant. We're angry at Big Pharma
for showing up trying to take what we think is ours, while on the same breath, we're calling
something ours. There's no difference between who owns it, other than us saying it's us.
We got to get over that.
I think like mentioned earlier, as things come online, there's only so many breeders and there's
only so many growers. We're leaps and bounds ahead of the corporate realm, which I understand
a lot of the MSOs and MSNs, genetics really take a leap and bound. They'll take over with a lot of
the money and finance that they have to really expand on breeding comparatively to a small
breeder. But until then, a lot of people can get mined pretty quickly and put out a business.
Or have their one lucky strain taken that they've worked hard on and live mediocre while a massive
company makes millions. I understand this is just their way of life, but if we can in some way
mitigate it, it would be mitigate some of the, I know people don't like the term, I guess,
but like genetic theft or the work theft, I guess, or the intellectual property theft.
We can slow some of that down. I feel like that might keep a lot more people in the business.
That might keep a lot more people in the game that have been in, I don't mean the game, but
in the industry for quite some time. Maybe we won't see as big as a washout, which I think most
of us would enjoy to see in the end that the final industry is those that we're seeing around us and
not a bunch of people with mass amounts of money that just come in and take over.
Anyone got anything else to add?
So, yeah, quickly, I guess if I may pose a question to the panel. And that's in terms of
earlier, there were, I guess, specific discussions based on the best way to protect your IP in terms
of your cultivars, right? Is maybe it's not sharing because the moment you let go,
that's pretty much it, right? So, and thinking from that perspective, because this is, to be
honest, something I'm dealing with, I battle with this as well, personally, because it does stall
progress, right? Because I'm looking at the collection, the library, and we have pretty
awesome COAs that gives a very good concentration of THCV. So, there are lots of interest in
research and all interest in research for these specific cultivars, right? But then,
how do you gap or bridge the gap between issuing out or releasing or contracts or having any sort
of plant protection? I mean, I've listened to Ryan speak in terms of, but then at the same time,
within our experience in this industry, knowing that it would only take pretty much an entity
that is determined if they have, which they do have the funds to find a way to navigate around
all sorts of, legally, they will do it. And that has been a main concern. How do we move forward
knowing that we're not stalling progress? At the same time, we're also trying to get
these genetics into the hands of those that need it the most.
From my perspective, I feel like, as somebody who makes seeds and you're selecting for certain
things, if it's new and novel, usually you'll probably want to hang on to it. But generally,
it's not new and novel. I think there's a saying, there's nothing new under the sun.
It's pretty fun. There's plenty of things that aren't new and novel that can be shared with
the medical, the rec community that are standout, that are amazing, that are special. But
they're new and novel as relative to me. I'm still learning. Ryan and Trevor are dropping a
lot of knowledge and Anthony, everybody's dropping knowledge. But from my perspective,
there's so much good stuff out there that doesn't need to be patented, that doesn't need to be
licensed or whatever. You can just give things freely and comfortably without being like,
am I going to get screwed over in the future? Because I'll just say karma's real. Whether you
believe in it or not, there's a higher force in work. There's also groups that do specifically
exactly what you're asking and can help with that process. John, welcome up. Did you have
something to throw in there? Trevor, I just saw you come on mic. You should go. Sorry, my bad.
Oh, no, you're all good, man. I was just going to, like you, welcome Todd and also ask Evian to
finish what you were saying. You were talking about some of the different frameworks or
ways of accomplishing these types of goals. Yeah. And it's something I think I would rather
back channel. People can totally back channel me, but there are groups that do that. It's like,
there are people seeking certain things and then there are channels in order to do that and kind
of protect your work at the same time. And it doesn't all have to necessarily be patents. There
are other ways that you can do that. That is one of the frameworks that is set up if you really do
truly have something new and novel. But there's a lot of different ways that you can get the things
to the people that need what you have and also protect your work and potentially get paid royalties.
You know, there's people already doing this work and it's very efficient. So,
yeah, reach out if people need more information. Yeah, that's a great point. Patents are one form
of IP protection and they're one strategy that are specific to not only what you have, but also
your end goals and objectives and sort of like, you know, corporate strategy to a certain extent.
Like, if you're pursuing that, there's also ways of pursuing patents or IP protection
for different objectives and goals. And there's also ways of pursuing
IP protection that doesn't involve patents that is focused more around, you know, I mean, fuck,
Coca-Cola doesn't have a patent on the formula of Coke. It's a trade secret. And so, a lot of
things are either trade secrets or they're shared through, and Ryan could speak more to this,
material transfers, perhaps heavy and it may not be relevant to the, too relevant to the discussion.
But there are a lot of different legal instruments and mechanisms for kind of doing these protected
transactions in ways that make it so that you're not giving up your intellectual property simply by
providing medicine to somebody or furthering your objectives and goals in terms of breeding.
I guess I'll say thanks for having me on, Trevor. I came really to listen. I like listening to Ryan
talk about cannabis IP because he's really tuned into it, but I didn't hear as much of this
conversation as I would have liked to. But when it comes to it, I kind of fall on both sides of
the fence with it. I believe that there should be some protections so that there's innovation and
that people have the motivation to spend years creating, you know, new varieties that the market
might appreciate, you know, but at the same time, you know, I slink seeds and I'm all about public
domain genetics. And I believe that we need to perpetuate that so that there's, you know, good
genetics shared in the community and people have something to build upon, you know, but I don't
think that somebody writing a song per se takes away the public domain freeness of music, for
instance, if somebody creates a song, it doesn't stop other people from creating songs or writing
their own music. And I think that there's an analogy there with cannabis. Hey, Todd, nice to
see you, man. I agree with you a hundred percent. I mean, as long as seeds are available to everybody
that wants to grow the plant, I don't really see patented. I mean, I'm not pursuing patents,
but I understand why people do. But just because somebody gets a patent on a plant,
it doesn't mean that you still can't grow plants in your garden, right? It doesn't change what you
can do with the plants that you already have. And so I really do. I mean, I believe in intellectual
property rights because I believe that people that do take the time to innovate and create new
things should be able to, you know, recoup on that investment. But I also really do believe that,
you know, cannabis genetics, especially because it's a medicine, but really all plant genetics
are of common heritage of the people and the animals of the earth. Right. I mean, I don't
believe that people should get any kind of or any groups, for example, or corporations should get
any ownership of a segment of plants from the cannabis. If you make individual unique plants,
for sure, you can own those things and gain the commercial rights. But I think,
you know, it's like someone was saying, I can't remember who it was. I'm sorry. But
we were talking about the Coca-Cola secret, right? That's one of the reasons they don't have a patent
patent on the product because or the formulation, because then they'd have to make a disclosure.
Right. Like you have to disclose and describe what it is you're patenting and why it's different or
better. That's part of your duty of what the things you have to provide to get the commercial
right. Right. In exchange. So keeping things as a trade secret, you would you don't necessarily
have to disclose to the rest of the community what you're doing in the cannabis world,
especially when we're talking about flowers, not as much extracts, but flowers specifically.
If you're selling flowers, somebody is going to be able to figure out what the unique
thing is in your plant. Right. So you don't really want to keep it a trade secret. You'd
be better off going and just disclosing what it is that makes it unique and getting a plant
patent. Again, if you are in the States, right, if you're not in the States,
plant bat will go out the window and you can only get a plant variety registrations, which I think
are a little a little more general and probably not quite as specific in terms of being able to
get ownership of one specific genetic type. Anyway, I'm rambling.
No, no, I think what you're saying makes sense, Ryan. I mean, I think in some ways the conversation
becomes much ado about nothing, because I mean, there's only 12 notes in music, 12 major notes
in music. And just because somebody writes a song, it doesn't take away the ability of other
people to make composition with the available notes. And I think that's the same with cannabis.
And I think in some ways there should be some breeders rights because people need motivation
to be able to sit down and write the books or write the songs that inspire us all. And if
somebody wants to take the time to sort through hundreds, if not thousands of plants and come up
with a variety that's exciting and new, I think they should be rewarded for it. Or why would they
spend the time and put the money and into the development? So there should be a reward for
something like that. And I don't think other people should feel entitled to other people's
work. I mean, just because, you know, the Beatles write a let me do song doesn't mean everybody else
should have the right to, you know, take that song and rewrite it and not have to pay them for
their efforts in the first place. And I think cannabis breeding is an art. And I think we need
to start looking at it like that art, because if you take away the reward for the art, there won't
be many artists. Yeah, I think they're sorry, right? Go ahead, Trevor. Okay. Yeah, I was just
going to say there's at the very end of the chapter on hybrid breeding in Robert Allard's
book, or maybe the end of a subsection, he basically says, the reason hybrid breeding was so
such a focus in part was one, obviously, yes, hybrid vigor and increased yields was a
trait improvement that was highly sought after. But it was also a form of intellectual property
protection, because when you have at once, if the farmers are going to just reproduce the population
in the F2, it's going to have trait change and yield loss. And so a lot of focus was given to
creating hybridized corn varieties as a form of intellectual property protection, prior to
the advent of the plant variety patent act, I think, that was in 1970. So basically,
that whole like, type of breeding was done as a way of accomplishing a similar outcome.
And so like, people aren't going to breed and aren't going to do this stuff, unless there's
some form of compensation and remuneration. And either that can happen through
sort of IP protection channels or through commercialization, because
and that's their technique. And so I think that it's just, it's one of those things. If people
really look at the deep history of plant breeding, you'll see how intellectual property protections
have very, very much shaped how the industry is operated.
You know, at the same time, Trevor, I don't think this industry has ever been able to
experience the same rights that breeders of other plants have been able to experience for the last
100 years. Oh, for sure. Yeah, no, no, we definitely cannabis breeders have not been
able to access those types of rights. And it's been very disjointed. And
Ryan's kind of talked about the UPAV system. And yeah, the fact that we are, we have for
years and years and years been completely isolated out of that system. And only now are we getting
integrated. And one of the really cool topics that only got touched on briefly was the idea
of the need to really get organized and unified and start lobbying to help shape and change the
way that the because there isn't a set of patent regulations and forms and things like that with
the Patent Office currently for drug cannabis, and getting out ahead of that in an organized,
concerted effort to try and lobby to get that those regulations and those procedures
developed in a way that's actually conducive to cannabis breeders is something that we should be
talking about and really trying to do on an institutional level.
I think that's really cool. I also think that, you know, and Ryan would be a great person to
describe it, the difference between single plant patents. And you know, these people that want
utility patents on a broad spectrum of cannabis uses for, you know, a variety of cannabinoid
structure. And I'd love to hear Ryan describe a little more about that, because I think a lot of
people fall into the confusion thinking that a single plant patent is going to somehow, you know,
basically lock up a whole group of plants. And I don't think that's the case.
Yeah, they're very different things.
Sorry, I'm just vaping here, Todd. You got me right as I'm hitting the thing.
Plant patents are extremely specific. It's like having an intellectual property protection on
a given clone. Or so you could, you know, take any plant that you selected, and as long as you
described it, and it was different, and was granted unique, you know, it was passed the
dust test, essentially found to be unique, then you can get a plant patent on it in the States.
The utility patents are different in that they are about the use of a plant for a specific
described set of conditions. And so the ones that Todd is really talking about, I think,
are outlined in a series of patents about type 2 cannabis, which is CBD and THC mixed cannabis,
that has a very specific chemical profile. And it was the use of those types of plants
for a long list of conditions. The thing about a patent is, you know, you have to declare everything
on the day that you're filing the patent, essentially. So, you know, if there's another,
if you didn't describe a specific chemical type, or the use of a chemical type, all that stuff
would need to be filed under a separate patent.
Yeah, and so essentially, this set of patents covers like a pretty broad set of not only like
the plants of specific chemical profiles, but the use of those plants in specific medicinal
formulations or for therapeutic purposes. Like, so for example, you might have like,
you know, a specific cannabis plant that you made into an extract for use in epilepsy, for example.
So yeah, I think it's important to understand those two different strategies are like
really different. Utility patents are, although they're very broad, they're harder to get.
And you really have to have something to base your patent on rather than just a grasp at thin air.
I think a lot of these things that are out there, not necessarily in the plant patents, but in the
cannabis formulation, formulation patents are more just like grasps at thin air, somebody wanting to
own something, so they get a patent on something. But, you know, the real value of a patent is,
is that use of that technology better than everything else, right? Because that's really
what gives you the economic or the commercial advantage is to have a better way of doing
something than everybody else. And the patent is just what is essentially like a fence or like a,
you know, a guard tower around your business model is really a way to think about it.
Because otherwise everybody just copies, copies what you do. And really that's where we are in
cannabis right now today, right? It's kind of like, it's hard for brands to differentiate themselves
because everybody's kind of doing the same thing, right? That's like, why would you
choose to go with one big brand over another when they haven't shown you the value out of their
brand, right? So anyway, there's lots of places that we can go with this talk in terms of like
plant registrations and all that kind of stuff, but I'm not really getting the feeling that that's
really the mood of the room. It is all really interesting stuff. And, you know, as the kind of
the nerd, plant nerd in me that loves geeking out on the chemistry and the uniqueness of plants,
I mean, those two things go very well together. So, but, you know, if the mood of the day is to
talk about like Berner and whatever's going on in cannabis, Hollywood, I'm probably not the
best person for that conversation. I think that's an understatement, right?
Yeah. Can I ask what was in the topic? Somebody was talking about gene theft. Could somebody
please elaborate on what the idea was behind that? Kind of the idea that someone took
somebody's plant they believed was theirs and is selling it under their banner. So that's what
kind of the topic was today. It really hasn't been worked out. Like I said, they haven't
responded fully to them. They told them they were going to send in an email, so it shouldn't even be
a topic yet. You should let them respond before we even start talking about it, which is what we
should be doing. But that's kind of what it was about. You know, that's an interesting topic,
because I, for instance, got original haze from skunk man salmon 2012, and I was growing it and
playing with it and breeding with it until the hemp farm bill act passed. And I realized I could
start a seed company. And I asked his express permission if I could combine the seeds together
and sell them as in like an F2 or F whatever at that point, because he's had him for so long.
And of course he said yes. And he guided me how he thought I should do it. But I think a lot of
people don't take that tact and they don't really seek permission. I did the same thing with skunk
one. I did the same thing with Greg McAllister and Northern Lights, or else I would have just
sold them as hybrids of things that I'd outcrossed and made myself. But I think that seeking
permission, it's kind of a respectable way to deal with it, especially considering we all come from,
you know, if you will, an outlaw culture where our word and our actions were our resume,
you know what I mean? Yeah, that was a little bit of a different deal. I mean, you've got a
relationship with David. So, you know, those things were a gift, a personal gift to you. I
think for most people don't acquire seeds in the same way. They kind of buy them. And once you buy
them, they're out there to do with what you want. And I don't really like the idea of people saying,
hey, no, you know, you can't breed with these. That's my stuff. Like,
you might put that thing together. It's like I was saying earlier,
you know, like you might have painted the painting, but you didn't invent the color of the
paint or the type of the paint. The color and the type of paint are kind of the tools that like
everybody, in my opinion, should have access to. I love that. Well, can I add a nuance to this then?
Because, you know, for instance, if we're going to talk about David, for instance, he's always
encouraged outcrossing, but just to take things and knock off somebody else's work and resell
them. I don't think that's necessarily cool. I mean, Trevor was talking about F2 implants
and for instance, serious seeds, Simon Schmidt, who I think is a genius, a great breeder.
You know, we used to talk about IP back at Serious Seeds in 1995, 1996. And the way
he dealt with it was the only three varieties that he released were all solid F1s. And his
attitude was, if somebody takes them home and breeds them together, what they get is not going
to be what they get from him, because he holds the two plants and he makes this combination every
time. And I thought that was a really good way to proceed forward in a world where everybody breeds
together other people's work and then calls it what it is when it's not that anymore. And I do
have an issue with that because, you know, it changes a little bit each time or, you know,
a lot of people make up new stories and that I think is sad. So I just think there should be a
little bit of respect and there should be a differentiate between breeding with somebody's
work, outcrossing it with something you have, and just simply breeding it together, knocking it off.
You know, I'd love to hear what people think about that, because I'm all about outcrossing,
but I'm really hesitant to F2 somebody's work and then sell it as my own.
Well, that's the idea that most of us hope happens, but that's just not the reality of our
industry. I mean, there's people that are literally making seed companies with
names that tell you outright that they're making copies of someone's stuff,
and either an S1 form or an F2 form. And if you really understand some form of breeding,
you know that those are not very good copies. In fact, they're very far and few between
lines that are being offered that you can actually cross, and they're going to continue to produce
offspring that show the homogenous traits into the F2 and F3 progeny, unless you do more breeding
on them. That's just the reality of what's out here. But everyone's outcrossing it again and
thinking it's theirs. It's just another variation of an X guy stuff. And then someone takes that
and makes another variation, and it just keeps getting smaller and smaller. And each version has
less quality of the original gene type. So you just have more narrow representation of a jeepoo.
You know, you just gave a great example of the way
a Spunkman scam described to me that they lost haze during the 70s, because each year it was
outcrossed to something else, and it was outcrossed to something else until it practically didn't
exist in the variety anymore. And then you got a community that they've got something that has
haze in it with only 1 16th of the gene pool, but they believe that's haze. And then everyone
starts thinking those are hazes. And then when you give them a real haze,
they... or it's not doing what they represented. Just miseducation. It's hard to get everybody
on the same page. Well, breeding is very much like the telephone game. You know, the more it moves
through people away from that initial message, the more the message changes, and there's no way
around it. That's a great example. You know, it's interesting. In the silence, I'll say
something. You know, I grew up, obviously reading high times and growing in the 80s and looking up
to Neville, because I got to read about him and it gave me something to focus on. But then years and
years later in my career as like a journalist, and I got to interview Greg McAllister, who supplied
him Northern Lights and Skunkman Sam, who supplied him with skunk and Durban and Afghani and Hindu
Kush and later haze. They were both kind of annoyed with the way that they were treated by him. And
it's an overall meaning that they didn't really like him knocking off the varieties that had been
worked by them for so long and kind of taking credit for others work. And after, you know,
overall review of his career, you know, I don't think now if somebody started reading a Mel Frank
book in like 2001 and started growing in 2003, and then started a seed company in 2004, that we would
think that in two or three years of experience that they had much experience. And that's kind
of what happened with Neville. And he really rose to fame based on the real blood, sweat, tears and
breeding work of many others that had been happening in the 70s with Murphy, Stephen Zyndica
and Sam skunk and you know, geez, Hayes and and Mel Franks Durbin and others, and we didn't even
know better. And I think that now that people are willing to come forward and basically take credit
for the work that they did, we're starting to look at this whole industry a little bit different than
we did through rose colored glasses. I don't know if I'm the only one that thinks that way. But
I think this conversation is really a lot about giving credit where credit's due.
Oh,
yeah, I think why Neville didn't look so great in those is, you know, you know, the story as well.
I mean, he, he gave his word to David that he would, or to Sam that he wouldn't be using those
varieties in any other way other than hybridizing them. And, you know, those people were still
selling seeds in the market. So of course, they saw that as someone cutting their grass, so to
speak. Right. They'd developed brands around these things. And all of a sudden, you know,
skunks on every page, right? We're on everybody's sale list when there is really only one creator.
Yeah, same. Greg had a relationship with Neville only about a year, year and a half and,
you know, cut him off because, you know, same situation. And it's weird because Greg and Sam
didn't know each other up until maybe those last year or so of meeting through the internet. And
when I interviewed them both, they both told me basically the same story, even though that they'd
never met each other. And they'd only dealt with the same person, you know, over the same thing,
genetics. And I thought, wow, that's weird. So I'm gonna all this talk is, you know, make me go
back to think about, you know, something we were talking about earlier in the beginning of the
discussion is some of the problems that come along with naming and, you know, genetics, and
even people being able to change the names of certain genetics so freely and willy nilly,
even on a legal scale, like on in the metric system, you know, I could get, you know, x clone,
that's, you know, certified or whatever, and bring it into the market and grow it. And, you know,
if it's not moving, I can change the name of that to what is moving and have that move. And so,
you know, all this talk is, I think, a really awesome footstep towards, you know, hopefully
removing that ability. Yeah, just thought respect. I think that's a little complicated. Oh, no, go
ahead. Go ahead, Trevor. Oh, no, it's probably I mean, I was just gonna say, it's kind of funny.
You know, I will just say I have a lot of respect for Neville, all of his flaws, fully understood.
Mostly, and I was just talking to Baudelaire, and he made a point to make this exact same
like props to Neville for having the gall and the willingness to do what he did.
Neville also, like, I mean, the whole G13 story of like, a cut being taken from Mississippi,
and a whole number of his different stories and issues with different breeders over the years.
Like, I get it. He's definitely standing on the backs of many giants who really made it possible
for him to just make the elections and crosses that he made. But damn, if I'm not thankful for
the fact that he did it when he did it, and just how insane that whole thing is. You know, I've
been going really deep, Todd, in Green Merchant, like, since we talked, just diving into the
since we talked, just diving, diving stupid deep, I can't help myself. But the fact that he did that
in that moment got all those tens of thousands of seeds out to people. And really kind of,
like, initiated this thing that we've all kind of done in terms of like, putting the tools
in people's hands to then go and grow and do everything.
It's around the world.
I agree with you, Jeff, completely. I mean, I have nothing but reverence. I think I showed it in the
article I wrote about him after he passed away. I call them an artist, you know, just because an
artist doesn't invent the red, the blue, the green doesn't mean the way they use it isn't inspirational
or beautiful or can't be appreciated. I definitely appreciate his courage and what he did at the time.
A lot of people followed suit, and I think it made the world a better place.
And I don't take away from that at all. Yeah, and I think there's also some interesting parallels
in the cookies phenomena, just in terms of, you know, some embellishments.
Like I said, everybody who's worked with him has stories about the different things. Like,
it seems that there are people in this industry who make big moves and have done things and,
you know, yeah, they haven't necessarily had the best, like, business morals or ethics,
but they did some crazy shit. And not saying that Berner's Neville, but I'm saying that Cookies has
done some pretty crazy shit and put a lot of stuff out there. And then marketing geniuses,
I don't think they're breeders, they're marketers, and they do that very well.
And I just think that, you know, Neville's somebody who was also a great marketer, for better and for
worse. And he also had some chops in breeding, at least in terms of, you know, some background.
So props to him on that. You know, what would be interesting is to get more information on this,
that actually started the NL line, because it's really the backbone of a lot of our modern day
indicas, if you want to call it indicas, or broad leaflet drug varieties, as Rob Clark calls it, but
it definitely made a massive influence now that I've done some research and realized where Greg
got his seeds for the NL.
Yeah, and it's also very crazy how almost every one of those cats got swept up in Green Merchant.
Everybody up in the Pacific Northwest who had a indoor shop and was involved in
like breeding those some of those fundamental lines got swept up in that shit too.
Well, it all goes back to Neville and that Coco guy, man. I mean, you've read the documents. And
you know, I used to think that Operation Green Merchant was a bunch of cops doing good cop work
sitting outside of grow shops and following us home and establishing cases. But after I read
the affidavit of the snitch and realized that he handed him over 10s of 1000s of addresses
that he had sent seeds to for Neville for 18 months, it was really obvious that all those
police departments got live addresses of growers and then just, you know, followed him around,
followed him where they went, picked up soil, established a case and raided them. And
Operation Green Merchant, you know, took down 1000s of people. Five months after Neville's
seed distributor turned over the addresses in 1989. So it's hard to miss the nexus.
That's what I was alluding to a lot earlier in the show, that exact point that you just brought up
with how everything got started and what people used to think was someone else was doing the
snitching and it turned out to be someone that we can all research after a specific date very
easily. Well, you know, the information Trevor has now that he's going over that I got some years
ago came to me because I was arguing with somebody I didn't know on Instagram. He was basically
revoicing or parenting Neville's accusations that Skunk Man Sam turned him in. And I was basically
defending saying that he didn't he would never I known him for a long time. It's not that guy.
And he took the time to go to pacer.gov and look up Neville's case and he returned with an apology.
He returned with the 1990 indictment, the 1994 indictment and the 1994 affidavits from the snitch
and the cops involved. And I was blown away. And that was the basis of my article, Legacy of a
Legend that went into Grow magazine. And it changed my view on the whole situation. And I
also had to realize the timeline that poor Neville and I say poor Neville because I think he got
screwed. But he didn't even get this information because it was locked up. It was sealed until I
think 2002 when his case was dismissed and he probably didn't get the documents until 2003
when he got to read that affidavit. So for the entire 1990s, he was with a cloud over his head
wondering what really happened and who had and not only betrayed him but cooperated. And,
you know, a lot of people don't really understand how mentally traumatic it was to go through the
drug war. And unfortunately, a lot of people through a lot of, you know, accusations and
innuendos at otherwise good people who didn't deserve it, namely Skunk Man Sam. And it turns
out being, you know, in this case, Raymond Anthony Kogo of Kogo's Nutrients. And it's all black and
white. So history has a way of revealing itself. But when you're going through that, that time,
you know, I just think it was kind of horrible on a lot of people, if that makes sense.
Let's be honest. I mean, that that hatred towards Sam, that misguided, like,
essentially persecution followed him for years and years and years.
So I know that was like a big deal for him. Which is, you know, you also know, David,
it's like, you know, they couldn't be farther from the truth. The amount of stuff that he's
done for the plant in front of his own pocket is really fucking quite extraordinary.
It is. Even when you pop up, you know, when he went to Holland and he registered a bunch of the
varieties, he did so because he was setting them up for Hortifarm. You know, we all know what he
wanted to do with genetic THC. And, you know, he wanted to be a cannabis pharmaceutical company.
And he had the foresight that a lot of people didn't. And when Ben Dronkers purchased
Scentsy seeds, one of the first thing he did is he put registrations and trademarks on words like
Durban poison or terms like Durban poison and skunk one and haze. And he then sent letters
around in the early 90s telling all the other seed companies, hey, I own these names now. And
if you use them, I'll sue you. And Skunkman, Sam caught wind of this and contacted Ben Dronkers
and said, hey, man, I've already registered all those names as a breeder and I have control of
those names, not you. You can put them on lighters, you can put them on T-shirts. But if you
tell people they can't call their cannabis seeds that, I'll go in and stop you. And that's a way
of expressing how he used those things for good against somebody who was going to use
them to monopolize on something that he never even invented. And I think a lot of people don't
realize the true history of how it all went down because a lot of it happened behind closed doors.
But that's a true story. That story is 100 percent true, too. It's funny. I think a lot
of people don't even know that. But yeah, he did. He defensively registered a bunch of names
just so that nobody else can come along and for him and people are using them. But he never
enforced it on anybody. Yeah, I think the only like you said, the only person that he ever
approached about it was Ben. There's a movie about it. That sounds awesome. That whole story.
I just put a link to Todd's post on Overgrow to the that shows the affidavits.
Well, they're read that. Yeah, those affidavits are worth reading for anybody in this industry
because it's incredible insight as to what it can be like when an employee or a deal goes wrong
because, you know, they started off as friends. Neville and Ray Kogo. Kogo started working for
Neville. They cut a deal that Kogo could have the nutrient recipe that they used at the Cannabis
Castle, that he could bring it back to North America, replicate it and then make nutrients
and sell them. And Neville at a later time would even, you know, basically be like a spokesperson
for it. And the deal went bad and the guy decided to basically turn on Neville. And,
you know, to me, it's tantamount to, you know, treason and terrorism for what he ended up
unleashing upon, you know, flower growers. But, you know, because it ended up being Operation
Green Merchant. But yeah, you know, I think people need to treat people well because things like that
happen. And that's an ugly story of what happens when the relationship goes sour.
Yeah, everyone should read those documents. I have a folder if anybody wants them. Reach out to me.
I have all of them saved off of Pacer. And I put the link in the chat on YouTube.
So like that straight out right now. Yeah. And there the documents are linked in that.
It's like 56 pages. Yeah. And there's if you go through it like not only Neville gave guy
thirty thousand dollars to help with his legal defense and deal with the fact that he had gotten
busted and the guy still decided to flip on Neville over this, you know, like dispute about some
nutrients. And the guy still operates a cannabis nutrient company. Todd's posted this and has
pointed this out. And so it's definitely like there are people in the industry who have created
incredible harm and he's one of them. And if you look at the the impact, it definitely like Todd
was saying, they had tens of thousands of addresses. I think he handed over 11000 specific
addresses for orders that he had fulfilled in the time that he was basically operating as a
fulfillment agent for the seed bank. And every one of the charges that Neville got, he there was
the seed bank and every one of the charges that Neville got, he there was like a 44 charge
indictment. And I think like from eight to about 44 were just the individual people that they found
in the district of or in the eastern district of Louisiana where he was prosecuted. Everybody else
outside of that area was also included their addresses and became targets. And tens of
thousands of leads were created out of this. And it ruined tons of people's lives. And like when
Todd talks about the psychological impacts, like being investigated by the federal government
is incredibly traumatizing. So and to hear about Neville's sort of his arrest in Australia
and then his escape to Amsterdam is it's crazy. And then when he got to Amsterdam, being there
and still sort of in like pseudo hiding, still operating, but that's still, you know, no excuse
to throw around accusations. And that's something that we need to be very, very like there's a
culture in the cannabis community of calling out rats and calling people snitches. And I understand
when it's truthful and there's paperwork and we can say categorically without any doubt that it's
true. But when people fucking throw that shit around and hit people who aren't rats, who haven't
done anything without paperwork, that's what it's the inverse and basically just as bad. You know,
you're bad jacketing people. And if you want to pretend to be part of some outlaw culture,
bad jacketing somebody as a snitch when they're not a snitch is dangerous and irresponsible.
Yeah, definitely. You know, I appreciate you saying that, Trevor. I don't mean to cut you
off. I so appreciate you saying that, Trevor. I'm going to shut up now. I really appreciate
what you just said. I definitely see that as like kind of a manipulation target. There was a guy who
messaged me earlier trying to say bullshit about a guy I was doing promo for. And it was just
because he wanted me to buy his bud, his bud, not the other guys. And he started like this whole
situation out of nowhere for nothing. And I just think a lot of people in the industry are just
kind of getting jealous from other people getting good promo or like good reviews and all that shit.
Yeah, and it was also tactic. So like looking at Green Merchant and looking at a lot of the stuff
in the context of law enforcement, like we're still dealing with the same dynamics. And
historically, there have definitely been people who have come into the online cannabis community
and have acted in ways that have instigated and inflamed and played upon these fears. And
that's why we have to be so much more like resilient and like determined to be truthful.
And only make these kinds of claims when there's hard evidence.
Yeah, and well, the thing for me is that there's a lot of patience in the community and like
going about shit that way is only putting the patients at a disadvantage. And it's so
fucking unfair, especially like with my situation, because it was with all Australian people, like
what the fuck is going on? We're supposed to be teaming together to provide more
fucking information and education to other people. Everyone else getting dinner too?
I've been absolutely loving this, this like recap that Todd's kind of been giving. And Trevor,
this is this gold bar, like just absolute great cannabis history that I think isn't talked about
or not many even know has happened or is like aware of. This is fucking, this is really cool.
Like Todd, like, thank you for sharing so much with everybody. Seriously, it's good shit. Good
shit. Well, thank you, man. I'm only you know, I think it's relevant. And I think we need to know
where we came from. So we can have a better understanding of where we're going. And that's
why I bring some of these things up because they're really relevant today. As the industry
matures in this, you know, on this continent, because in the early 90s, this is what was
already the conversation what was happening here again, things like the Bayside Day, which was the
Dutch coffee shop union, that was a bunch of coffee shop unions getting together trying to
figure out how they could navigate the politics and you had seed companies popping up and you had
things like the cannabis cup starting off at the Pax Party House and award events starting to happen.
And now it's happening here. So a lot of what I hear happening in this
new industry is kind of redundant to what I witnessed happening in the early 90s in Amsterdam
when I was living there. Yeah, that was something we kind of touched on earlier was just how
you know, a lot of this, this dynamic that's happening right here, that like kind of the
name of the room and the title of the show on future cannabis project.
It's just the latest iteration of a dynamic that stretches back to what we're talking about now,
which is, you know, how really the seed bank and all the controversy that arose out of the fact that
there was infighting that emerged out of some less than ethical business practices,
stemming from the very first seed companies, you know.
Trevor, you should be a politician. You speak very well. Like the way that you, you like
dance to like get your point out is very good. And it's very clear when you're done with it.
Like, very politically, I don't wanna say politically correct, but very, very good speaker.
Very, very good speaker.
Thank you. Yeah, I spent a lot of time doing
political speaking, actually. I had to, I was the executive director of our local cannabis
alliance. And so it required a lot of lobbying and trying to talk to the public.
I like to speak here because it's a lot more freewheeling and sometimes I ramble, but I
appreciate the compliment and just the opportunity to share with all of you. It's a great time.
So can I ask the general mood of the room? Are people in this room for or against single plant
patents? I'm not gonna pursue them myself, but I'm not against other people pursuing them at all.
Cause I mean, a single plant patent to me does not,
unless I, like, I don't have your plant. So like, if you want to patent it, have at it,
is my perspective. No loss for me, kind of like you guys have said. I can play music, paint,
do all these different things with intellectual property rights for different artists. So
it's not gonna hurt me if somebody decides to patent a plant.
I agree. I'm the same way. I'm an open source kind of cat. I don't, I'm not looking towards
patenting anything. I don't feel like I need an IP address cause it's just a plant that I'm playing
with and it's been here and it's gonna be for me. It's gonna be here after me. And I kind of hope
people would work with my plant. That's what I'd prefer happen. So I don't want to keep it and
hoard it in my own room. That's just not what I'm looking at. So that's my purpose. I also agree.
I think that if you don't get your plan out there, then the public doesn't have any knowledge
what the true potential of that plan is and what it can actually bring to their lives. So for me,
I know that it also is contingent upon, if you're talking specifically about the black market or the
legal market, because in a black market, obviously I would keep a hold of that in a second. But when
it comes to a legal market, I think it's extremely important to be able to open source everything and
be as transparent as possible with what you're doing, because it's the only way that you're
going to get traction and people that will actually support what you're doing long term
and not just being the next hype or vogue thing. It's not a thing for me. I mean,
I don't have barely even think about black patents because they're just, they're not a reality in my
business. I wouldn't be opposed to getting one, but I have no specific plans to get a patent. I
think we came up with something that was truly unique, though, and exceptional.
That, yeah, having intellectual property protection on it so that you could have all
the commercial rights. I think that makes sense as a business owner. So I'm definitely not opposed
to them. It doesn't make a difference in my world, like I said, because patents aren't a
thing in Canada. So it's kind of neither here nor there for me. I'm personally not opposed to it. I
see it like somebody getting copyright protection on a song or a book or a play or anything else.
And I don't think that it inhibits the market in any way that Paul McCartney has a
copyright protection on a song, Love Me Do. I think somebody else can come along and write
another song. So I'm actually for it. And I think sometimes people seem to confuse the issue. And I
ask that because I'm going to do a panel at the Emerald Cup on Sunday. And I'm not sure how it
goes because I'm never really sure how those panels are going to go. But we're going to talk
about genetics and rights and IP. And I'm interested to see if people really have an opinion or if
their opinion is based on confusion, because I hate to say it, but I think a lot of people's
opinion on this subject is based on confusion of the subject. Great point. I would say that I'm
pro breeders' rights, still trying to understand patents and everything. But you all speak of
music. And that really makes me think of songs like All Along the Watchtower and groups like
Led Zeppelin, who, through my understanding, stole or retook a lot of old blues music and
remade it their own. And I'm sure there's controversy behind that. But it just really
makes me think on a whole new perspective of a community. We as seed makers and cultivators and
selectors and the endless possibilities. And from my understanding, Bob Dylan, when asked about how
he felt about Jimi Hendrix killing it with the watch, they're all on the watchtower. He was like,
that's his song. He took that and made it into something else. So thanks for putting that
perspective in my mind. I appreciate that, everybody. You know, may I say that I think that
that's a great example. But even when you give an example of like All Along the Watchtower,
somebody else can come along and remake that song and republish that song. And at the Experience
Music Project in Seattle, when I was there a zillion years ago, there was a machine that had
one Bob Dylan tune and you could press the button and it was all the different remakes that had been
made of that song. And there was over 100 of them. It was quite incredible. But the truth is, is he
got paid for every one of those things. He was rewarded for all of those, even if he wanted to
give some of that away to charity, it came back to him. And plagiarism is still illegal. Like,
you can't just go and, you know, take a book and reprint the book and then publish the book. You
can take parts of a book and you can put it in and reference it, but you can't just take the whole
thing. And I think that's kind of where a little bit goes with this Breeders' Rights, because,
you know, people feel like, yeah, hey, even with Breeders' Rights, you can take and build upon the
work of others, but you just can't take it and knock it off. You know, like if, you know, we
wanted to make a purple tie dye rose bush and sell it at Home Depot, we wouldn't want somebody else
to be able to take, you know, our years of work to get our perfect, you know, purple tie dye rose
bush, knock it off and go sell it at Lowe's and not have to do any work other than clone our plant
and cash the check. And I think that those rights should be afforded to cannabis breeders, too. And,
you know, I was put in a weird situation where I was approached by, I'm not going to name,
but a cannabis producer and distributor in another state saying, hey, could you make me like a purple
haze? And the answer is, sure, that would be easy. I have the primary colors. But then they're like,
can we get patent protection or something on it? Because if they're worried that if, you know,
their employee cuts a cutting of it and runs down the street and sells it to his competitor,
they can start making that purple haze and call it purple knockoff. And there's no protection at
that point, you know, and it's like another, another distiller taking the Jack Daniels bottle
and being able to reproduce it, you know, a hundred million times. And that's kind of not fair.
And it led me thinking about this whole thing in a more deep way, because now it becomes real,
you know, and people who make movies approach musicians all the time and say, can you write
me a song for my movie? And they say, sure. And then that belongs to that movie. You know,
it's that simple. You know, everybody still owns the 12 notes of music, but now that song is locked.
And for a cannabis breeder, we can't really do that yet. Or if we do, we kind of get a bunch
of people in the cannabis industry that we're trying to lock up the whole cannabis industry,
when in fact, all we're trying to do is make sure somebody doesn't run off with somebody else's IP
in another state who's grown some flower that I made for them. You know what I mean?
What's the right thing to do in a situation like that? How do you protect your work?
I think that has a lot to do with the confusion aspect of it. And it's because we're kind of
two minds. It's like, fuck patents. I own that. You know, people have a sense of ownership
and a feeling as though, and I'm speaking both in terms of individual breeders who have
bred something and commercialized it, and all the different beefs that have emerged out of those
sort of dynamics. And also just as a community, I do think that a lot of the Phylos reaction was
a sense of community ownership and betrayal. And we're all very, very wedded to this plant. And
because we've been so disengaged from legal frameworks and skeptical of legal frameworks, and
also fearful of corporate takeover as things start to open up, it's bred a really unhealthy
relationship to this subject matter. And it's helpful for us to have these discussions and
really tease these out in more of a dispassionate way and try and think about these things
and address some of the confusions. Because I do think that a lot of people have
conflicted feelings about these things, where we have an intuitive sort of sense of like,
yeah, somebody makes something, they breed it, they do the work, they should be able to
have some sort of protection for the thing that they've created. And then we also have this idea
of like, oh, only Monsanto gets patents or something. And so those are just two competing
dynamics in the community. And the more that we can kind of parse these ideas out and help people
understand them, the better. So I'm stoked for the panel you're going to be doing, Todd.
Thank you very much. And you know, what's funny is to speak to what you just said,
I actually some years back when I started seeing LPs organizing in Canada, and like the grab of
genetics going on, and I really did kind of create authentic genetics out of my own feelings that
cannabis companies were going to come along and basically scoop up the OG kushes and,
and grab all the cuttings and never release them and only sell it to you in eighths and basically,
you know, kind of lay claim to things that were circulating in public domain before they ever
incorporated. And that's why I started disseminating genetics and going to the original breeders and
seeing if I could get the building blocks and if I could release them with their permission,
because I felt like it was the best way I could give these new cannabis corporations
some complications. And that was by disseminating the primary colors of the genetics that we are
breeding with today. And I think that's still what's up. I mean, California had a thriving
clone scene for a while under 215. But it's kind of drying up a bit, where now these cannabis
companies are holding on to their best cuts, and they're not selling them. And you got a few clone
companies, but it's not like it used to be. And I think that we need to figure out a way to preserve
these public domain genetics. I use that term. And I stay away from open source because open
source to me is software and somebody had to write the code that they then give away. And with
cannabis, like Ryan was saying, nobody invented cannabis, you know, Mother Nature wrote the code
for cannabis. So we're all, you know, DJs riffing off of her work. And I think when we see it that
way, it kind of changes it in the way that we're interpreting it. And, you know, laying claim to it
the same time. So I think we all need to kind of see this as a public preservation project for the
cannabis genetics that are already in circulation. It sounds maybe a little like, oh, he's, you know,
hysterical, but I don't know, I feel like in 10 or 20 years from now, if we don't have mindfulness
about it, you know, cannabis corporations could scoop up a lot of these genetics, and they just
won't be traded to the same way that they are now. I totally agree. I mean, 10 years ago,
12, 15 years ago, I was able to get all kinds of genetics. And it was a lot. I mean, I can still
source things through personal individual like connections, but like, I can't get genetics and
the average person can't get genetics the way that they could, even just, you know, three years
ago, four years ago, before prop 215 went into effect, there's definitely been a loss of
particularly commercial availability to good genetics. And when I say good genetics, I really
just mean the clone only of varieties that were just ubiquitous and to the point where it was like,
you almost took it for granted, like Blue Dream, Green Crack, Purple Urkel,
Granddaddy Purple, Grape Ape, like there were just things that were readily available.
I was just noting Grape Ape in the background. I brought this up the other night. I was like,
God, I haven't seen Grape Ape in fucking years. And I miss it so bad. So bad.
Man, I lost that girl in 2018. When I had my health issues, I had her in my garden.
She was a beautiful girl. Yeah. And I feel like, you know, Todd's right. Like,
we're potentially, even though those cuttings at one point seemed totally ubiquitous,
at one point skunk seemed totally ubiquitous. Like musky sort of funky was the herb of my childhood.
And that funk isn't the same anymore. There's still funk. And like, I gravitate to the funk
that's out there these days. But it's not the thing that I remember from, you know, the 90s.
And I think that a lot of that has to do with the fact that we've, you know, obviously prohibition,
always going to blame prohibition first and foremost on genetic loss. But
also, I have literally skunk seeds that have only been reproduced twice since 1988,
when Sam handed them to Mel Frank. I have hay seeds that Sam has only reproduced himself. He
literally gave me seeds that he said he saves for himself and doesn't give to anybody else. Those
were the hay seeds he gave me, and his favorite outcrosses with it. And these genetics are not
lost. Even the Northern light seeds I got from Greg. I don't know Greg, like I know David,
but he said they that he found them in his sister's freezer when she passed away. And he
sent them to me, he sent me the purest indica, the NL two and the NL five, the NL two still
smell skunky. The purest indica definitely smells dank as fuck. And it looks like it looks exactly
like the photos in the Murphy Stevens book from 1975. It's these genetics are not gone. It's just
that we as a as a collective community, we bred towards higher THC values and more appealing sense.
And we moved away from the acrid files that were in skunk. And we move towards, you know,
the limonene and the more fragrant terpenes is all we did collectively, we move towards yield,
and we move towards a stoniness because, you know, I think a lot of those more accurate smelling
Afghans did not have as pleasant of a high as, let's say the more tropical equatorials that
they were getting bread with. So collectively, it wasn't just you know, oh, because Sam decided to
select more sweet varieties of skunk one in his years of breeding it. It changed the world. It's
not true. It's just that everybody who was breeding with Afghan varieties that smelled like
poo, just moved away from it and move towards the more floral sets that we're seeing now.
But I don't think these genetics are lost. I mean, I have them and I'll send you some but
they're not gone. You know what I mean? Original haze, it's not gone. Original skunk one is not
gone. Original Northern Lights is not gone. They're definitely not.
Mass super skunk is gone, Todd. I think we talked about this and you know, I,
I spent a couple years trying to hunt it down, you know, and there is some goofy great back from
in the 90s here in Florida. And we talked about, you know, I met Jack in 96, 95 at the Hemp Fest in
Tampa that they used to do. And so, you know, there are some stuff, like you said, that the
Akrit stuff was moved away from, but you, you think that that mass super skunk is not lost?
Well, cutting can be lost, but varieties are still around, for instance, you know, like,
you know, that you, you can lose cuttings. But, but losing entire varieties is a little bit harder.
And, and that's where there's a difference. And sometimes we don't understand that in this
community, because a good cutting will float around, but we don't have the parents to it.
And we don't, we don't, for, for many reasons in the 80s and 90s, we couldn't hold plants the way
we do now. So we lost stuff. So we got one off cuttings of things. And that was that was that.
And, you know, if too many of our friends got busted, and we lost it, we could literally lose
a plant literally gone. Nobody had a cutting. No, that's what I'm saying. It is gone, right?
That's what you said. It's not, it's wrong. No, no, he's referring. Sorry, Todd. I shouldn't talk.
Yeah, no, no, no. But, but, but I think when you, when you're talking about a single variety,
like, like mass super skunk, I know it's weird. As I started growing weed in Rhode Island,
in 1983, 84. And I got my seeds from a Vermont grower that was my mom's friend. And it did smell
like really thick roadkill skunk back then. I'd love to have those seeds. But, you know,
now I think it was Afghan, but I totally think it was around the same time of what you're calling,
you know, basically mass super skunk. And, you know, again, I think it goes back to just
Afghan varieties and we mistaking it, we mistaken it like it was a Budweiser or a brand name,
when in fact it was a whole variety that had a similarity. It's just that we all moved away
from that Afghan similarity. Yeah, I didn't mean also to imply that these things are gone so much
as to imply that what was once ubiquitous, and this has happened throughout the sort of like
evolution of cannabis, where things that are just there, and everybody's like, okay.
Cannabis was very characterized, Afghan sort of like, it was called killer green bud,
it was just generally green nugs that had a musky, funky nature to them. And it wasn't necessarily
like it was not a single thing. It was a whole bunch of different things that were very similar
in their overall profile. And that I characterize as being an Akron sort of Afghan, and I've always
gravitated towards those. And I think that what we've seen is sort of like,
it was once ubiquitous, and then it kind of got stove piped. And certain people kept OG,
certain people kept chem, certain people kept some other funky varieties throughout the years.
And then, of course, there's David Watson's fridge, which is a whole nother world. And
so like, the things that survived there, and the fact like, I've seen,
when grown out the Northern Lights, but just those images look like they're one to one, like,
the pictures you took in 2001, look as if they're just colorized versions of
Bindi's, whenever the Steve Murphy book was actually, you know, the images you were
referencing from that. So I did not mean to imply that these are gone, just that they were once
ubiquitous and like everywhere. And now there's just a few people who over the years maintained
and kept these things that are kind of reminiscent, or just exactly, you know, the real
authentic item. And it's so great now to see that these things are coming back, because I felt
like they were gone. And I hope we don't see that with the sort of like, the Ots clones, you know,
because like the 2000s, and the clone world that emerged in combination with Overgrow and the
online forum community and the trading that happened there, and the medical community and
the expansion across the country, like, that was an incredible time. And so many clone onlys were
selected, maintained, traded, and spread around the country at that time. I just hope we don't
lose those. And, you know, there's a concerted effort to protect those things that are
protected. Those as a public good, as you've kind of indicated.
If I could, if I may just just chime in real quick. I may just have a bit of an idea,
because Todd, you know, basically elaborated, you know, quite briefly on, in terms of the equatorial,
you know, land race or per se, thin leaves, or sativas, right? And the reason I wanted to
basically speak on this subject is, for some reason, it hasn't been so desirable,
not necessarily demonized, even though there's been lots of narratives around the community
that all these old varieties are, you know, it's not gassy as, you know, today's varieties,
right? There is a lots of, you know, information out there, that sort of in a way, who I mean,
speaking from my experience, I've been, I've been fully dedicated to, to, to growing and breeding
with equatorial land race, thin leaves for day, fully dedicated for a whole decade now.
And speaking on that experience, I, every time, you know, you bring that subject up, no one,
it's, it's, it's, it's, it almost immediately gets, you know, gets, you know, backshadowed,
right? Because everyone, it's, it's, it's, it's not the hot, it's, it's, it's not, you know, the,
it's not as very conventional as today's. Everyone thinks of, everyone has this like,
boogie monster sort of, you know, and I'm not speaking in terms of the elders that were around,
like, like Todd spoke on and said that, hey, back then, you know, these equatorial and,
and, and, and Afghani, you know, land race cultivars that were being bred by, you know,
the likes of Mel Frank and others, you know, they, they, they, you know,
the specific terrapin characters that, that the, that, that basically they expressed,
you know, they, I mean, extremely pungent, right? And extremely, a big risk in terms of growth.
And, and, and, and there's so much wealth when it comes to these topics that I solely
believe that since it's not very conventional, since it's not very popular, and for some reason,
there's been, you know, lots of misguided information on, hey, these, these old varieties
are, you know, they look funny, they're thin, they're ugly, it doesn't have a lot of trichome
production on it. So, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's not, it's, you know, it's not as,
I mean, it's, there is, I always, I mean, it's, it's, I'm sorry if, but I'm just trying my very
best to just describe what it's like, you know, working with any sort of cultivars that,
or specific varieties that is total cannabinoids, you know, ranging from, you know,
four to 5%, right? But then it has very interesting terpene profiles. It's, it's,
it's not very exciting, right? It's not very desirable. But all I'm trying to say is that at
least let's give a little bit of portion, let's give a little bit of, you know, space, you know,
for these, for these varieties, let's shine a little light on these varieties and not necessarily
demonize them and then think they may be out of range, they may be out of range for certain people,
but there are still lots of indigenous and let's also keep in mind that, you know, the war on drugs,
even with our personal and domestic experience here, is totally different when it comes to their
experience globally, right? So some, so, so these specific varieties, as we're speaking,
this is December. It's a time that in most of these equatorial regions, there's a lot of,
you know, crop destruction, right? Because it's, it's more for dry season now and dry season is
usually when, you know, law enforcement, you know, make their, makes their way up to, you know,
top of the mountains and trying to destroy as many crops as they possibly can. And, and, and,
and with, and with just with a little bit of aid and understanding, we could, you know,
shine a light to, I guess, these specific cultivars that are somehow being, you know,
not necessarily right now, but it's just not desirable. So I, I just wanted to speak on that.
So thank you. Can I point something out that I think a lot of people seem to confuse? Haze in
itself is a three-way Colombian variety. At least that's how it started its inception. And it's just
a Colombian variety. It's the only variety in my collection that doesn't have any Afghan in it,
which is pretty remarkable. It is a narrow leaf drug variety. And most of the time,
according to Rob Clark, the narrow leaf drug varieties, such as like Haze and the tropical
equatorials usually tests higher in THC than the broad leaf drug varieties like Afghans and various
more like broader leaf drug plants, ironically. And on the other side of it, I think a lot of
people confuse all narrow leaf drug cannabis as being Haze when, you know, Southern India,
Pakistan, you know, Jamaican, you could go around the world, really anywhere near the equator that
has cannabis is going to have narrow leaf drug varieties, unless it comes from Colombia,
unless it's that three-way combination, it's not really Haze. It's just a narrow drug variety. And
I think a lot of people confuse that they see narrow leaf drug variety and they think,
Oh, that must be Haze. And really it's that they're not really there.
I hope he's going to call. And he answered it.
Oh, there, Netwee's back.
You got a phone call.
Something, and I wish Todd wasn't on the phone. Like something that I kind of argue when, when,
when we use the term equatorial, like narrow leaf, from my experience, even seeing wild,
wild and cultivated patches within Afghanistan, this whole idea that the plant gets narrower
as it gets closer to the equator, doesn't really add up into my head because I would see
like walking up these little like ranges, if you will, like you would see
the morphology change mainly kind of like we're thinking, you know, the closer to,
you know, like the, you know, the center or the closer to the sun, the narrower it gets,
but that's like pretty, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like,
the narrow it gets, but that's like pretty like, like the whole equatorial thing
is like short sighted because while walking up these hills, you know, like I would see
quite a variance in like morphology, just depending on where the sun was pointing.
And, you know, the higher you got kind of on these, like mountain ranges in Afghanistan,
the shorter and fatter the plants get, which completely makes sense. Cause the sun's kind
of on the side of it and it can kind of like take up a bit more. But as you got like into
like the lower lands, like towards like, like 42 or like the, you know, like Irene 42 down by like,
like, like South, Southwest Afghanistan, it's all kind of narrowly because it's all kind of flat
deserty area. And those guys are, you know, cultivating taller plants. And it seems like
the plant itself, you know, like we've kind of summed up, I think just by like eyes, like it's
just knowing that it or it knows or has to, you know, like break the sun down to get, or
sorry, I'm, we've been doing this for a minute. I'm tired. So the leaf has to get skinnier so the
sun can get to the bottom. And it's not so much like, I guess, like an equatorial thing as I've
seen just more of like where it's sitting in the exact region, whether it's narrow leaf or it's
broad leaf, but I could be wrong fully, but I mean, just what I saw in like wild patches there.
The whole narrowly thing towards the equator. Yeah. It didn't really make sense.
Yeah. I believe you should take a trip, Matt and you know, and then get the experience
and then you could, you know, make, you know, much better, you know,
I mean, I've been to, I mean, I've been to Afghanistan a couple of times and
I've been walking. I literally have walked and I've sourced some of my seed light collection even
from some of these fields. Like I have seen like what, you know, the natives there deemed
wild plants, if you will, narrow leaf and I saw broad leaf. I mean, so this, I mean,
I'll totally go to, you know, the fucking equator when I have the chance and, you know,
and, you know, check it out more, but I guess just from my experience traveling, I have seen
narrow leaf in, you know, places like Afghanistan. Yeah. And that's also something that
Nikola Vavilov, he was a very famous Russian botanist and really important figure in the,
just in understanding plant diversity and the idea that there were centers of diversity and
centers of origins for plants. And he's one of the people who, he wasn't the first to propose this,
but he did work in the area, but he proposed that cannabis, its point of origin or center of origin
was in Central Asia and the Afghanistan region. And he also, he identified the exact same thing.
And this was, I believe his trip was in 1923 when he went to Afghanistan. And so he traveled
through Afghanistan. He made note of the short stout wide leaf varieties and also wild stands
of narrow leaf tall cannabis varieties. So you're like, there's what you observed.
Well, I think that what you've just described conforms to scientific literature from
nearly a hundred years ago, that we had a characterization that's based off of a kind of
the whole narrow leaf sativa wide leaf indica construction is based off of
Richard Schulte's 1974 taxonomy. It's a deeply flawed taxonomy. And
so that's like, that's where a lot of the confusion lies, but what you described in terms of morphology
in Afghanistan, it conforms to what was described a hundred years ago.
I mean, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I was just going to say, I just posted a link to that,
the Babalov Journal of Genetic Breeding on the YouTube, if anyone wants to check that link and
try to dive into some of that stuff. And by the way, we're going to be talking about Babalov
originally it was going to be last week. I think we'll do it next week just because I got a lot of
stuff to go on this week, but Trevor and a professor from Auburn University will be discussing that.
Yeah. And I look forward to that. It'll be super cool.
Yeah. Sadly, and I know we're live, it's kind of ridiculous to say this, but in a recent breakup,
I lost a hard drive with like two terabytes of like all of my like deployment, like pictures
and everything. And I have a buddy who's slowly taking everything off of this hard drive. And
when I can, I would love to start posting some of the pictures. I posted them on Reddit before
a couple of years ago and I lost that account and I haven't been able to find them. But I want to
start to post them again because this is like something for about two years I've been kind of
like struggling with because from what I've, you know, from what I saw, like you're saying, like
Trevor in person, it was like really, it was really different from what everybody was saying.
So then over time, you know, I really started focusing on it and realizing, well, Sativa is
actually kind of a misused like term. And then, you know, so is Indica. And then, you know,
it all kind of like made sense that we didn't really kind of know what we were talking about.
And it's not that we didn't know what we were talking about. I guess it's just like
misguided literature, like you're noting from the seventies. But as I would, you know, like beyond
these patrols, like walking up the, well, because uniquely we patrolled the whole Western side,
you know, was kind of like up to like our unit, you know, at the time. And, you know, we'd go from
Helmand all the way up to Maza Sharif. And that was kind of like our entire like pounding ground,
like looking for bomb makers. So we'd be kind of, you know, like in the sticks, if you will,
where all these like farmers and everything are at, because they're all the smart, you know,
chemists. And just like, even just like watching out the window as we're driving and seeing,
you know, the different, you know, like patches, there was so much variance that it wasn't just
like, oh, here's just a fat, you know, like Afghani plant with like fat leaves. It, you know,
this whole thing that like, that I'd been told kind of like blew out of my mind. And, but one
thing I want to say, Todd's on the phone, it sucks, but like that like skunky phenol notes is
like definitely something, or like the, like the noble fur kind of like deeper, darker notes. It's
like all, all I would smell for the most part, you know, which is kind of neat. And it, and that
carries through to some of the work, like Mountain Organics has like, you know, the cosmic lotus,
which is Gonzo, which is a Northern Lights and Neville's cross. And that's cross on the one,
two, somewhere in there, which is also like an Afghani in there. And I've grown that out. And
man, like last year, I grew some out and I, it was like putrid death, like, just like the,
you know, the craziest skunkiest, like dead body corpsey smell. And I couldn't, I really couldn't
smell it because it was so fucking kind of like introspective, like heady. It was like a before
bed, I'm going to like knock out or I'm not smoking it at all type thing. But anyways, just wanted to
note that there, like Todd is totally, or it's not that I have anything to like credit to, but
from what I've noted in the like haze, you know, Afghani lines is that's really where that like
skunky phenol is like he was saying is, but I'll stop my little ramble.
Matt, I also can agree to you. I know on my passport that I don't, I don't remember some
of these countries because I was smaller, but on my passport, I've been to 16 other countries
besides the U S and I have experienced broad leaf in equatorial regions. And I've also experienced
thin leaf in your areas like Afghanistan. I haven't been to Afghanistan particularly,
but I have been to the middle East in the same latitude and I have experienced that as well.
So I thought that it was actually attributed to American and Dutch influence on the global scene.
And I didn't really chalk that up to anything more than just stuff moving around just to be
able to shorten flower time. So I know that I've brought that up before in previous conversations,
but I've clarified that as well. Well, I mean, I mean, I mean, Afghanistan is literally a trading
center. If things were leaving, I assume at some point somebody was leaving something there as
well, or it was like importing something at least for a gift or anything. So, you know,
there was the hippie trail that went from London to India through the sixties and early seventies
before the Russians invaded. And even skunk man, Sam and his wife of 51, 52 years, maybe now
they, when they met, they sold all their possessions, like a couple of hippies and
went to Europe and they hitchhiked from London to Morocco, from Morocco to Germany, and then from
Germany across Eurasia through Afghanistan, Hindu Kush mountains, lived in India for almost a year,
if not a little longer and collected genetics the whole time. And he wasn't alone in doing so. I
mean, he's probably one of the most famous to have done so, but there was a lot of hippies
doing that. And it was the hippies bringing back that those Afghan varietals and then mixing it
with a lot of the stuff that was initially coming in, in the sixties and fifties, the Vietnam,
Cambodian, Thai type cannabis because of the conflict in Vietnam. And then that moved towards
the Colombian and the Mexicans and the Jamaican and, and a lot more of these, you know, equatorial
tropical varieties in the sixties and into the seventies, the Acapulco gold, Colombian gold,
things like that. It wasn't really until those hippies started coming home in the mid seventies
that then Rob Clark, who wrote, you know, the botany and ecology of cannabis in 1976, when he
was a student at the University of Santa Cruz said that he first started seeing these Afghan varieties
coming through. And that really had a major impact on the breeding that was happening with
the aforementioned tropical equatorial varieties that had been coming in through the sixties.
And I think we have to really like look at the evolution of cannabis by looking at the
evolution of smuggling and the sources of the smuggling materials that were coming in.
Did any of, was there any made mention in terms of research to, I mean, in terms of Africa,
right? It's, it's a continent, right? And all I look for, even though recently, I think when we
spoke last year, I believe Todd, you made lots of very excellent points and I did read the book.
And so, so Dr. Clark to his credit has, you know, did his very best to, to really update, you know,
I guess this generation on the whole narrative, but all I, I, I guess that I wish to include,
and we're still in work and the progress is that lots of, we kept going back to Afghanistan,
Afghanistan, and we'll mention certain Latin America, Central American countries, but we're
still forgetting about a whole continent that on its own has, I mean, from, from one specific
region, you go from like, you know, like pretty much the like Sub-Saharan region to more of the
tropical region or sub or subtropical region. It's the same variety. It grows completely differently.
And the characters in which it does exhibit, it's this light and day. So I, all I'm trying to say
is that, you know, the lack of access shouldn't be the lack of awareness. Thank you.
Well, don't forget German Poisons, a South African variety became quite famous. And I think that as
things open up and we can start getting genetics that have not necessarily been polluted with,
you know, European seed seller influence, we can get from countries that have still
indigenous cannabis and start working with that. We're going to start seeing in my, in my,
my hopes, cannabis open up, we're going to see a lot more breeding going on with
terpene combinations that, you know, are not common to us today. I think the best years of
cannabis are yet to come when it comes to breeding and, and, and product, if you will.
Amen to that.
You know, I fell in a haze when I was a, when I was younger and I kind of pursued it forever,
but I could only get it in hybrids. And because I first smoked it at the Cannabis
Castle in 1994 with Jack and Ben and, and everybody, and I just fell in love with it. And
because I could only get it in hybrids, it was, you know, kind of like, I don't know, an elusive,
an elusive quest. And it wasn't until I got the seeds from Sam in 2012, that I was able to
actually start playing with it. And, you know, we had the seeds at Positronix in 1996, but by the
time between when, when Wernard had gotten the seeds from Skunk Man Sam in 85, 86, and 10 years
later, unfortunately, they had been remade, remade so many times by people who were just doing it
haphazardly for the sake of making seeds that they weren't really as, in my opinion, as good as they
were. Because I grew original haze in 1996, and it just didn't have the luster. And then when I got
the original genetics from, from Sam, it had a whole different face to it. And, you know, we
can't forget that when we move, you know, genotypes around to different locations, they'll express
different phenotypes. I mean, the environment's going to influence the way that plant grows,
even though it can be the same batch of seeds just grown in a different area, you know. So I think
we're really, you know, part of what I'm trying to bring in education to people is to grow the
right genetics in the right climates, because then you'll see the best expressions of the genetics,
unless you're growing in a greenhouse, then it doesn't matter.
And I highly respect all that you do, Todd, and, you know, and, and, and everybody else
for, you know, for your contribution has been, it's, it's always been a learning experience.
But I just wanted to pose a question, right, because I'm, you know, where, you know, I'm always
thinking, because I'm fascinated, right? I've been working with this equatorial, you know,
whatever it is that, you know, people want to, you know, you know, in terms of labeling, right?
I just call it wild cultivars, because it's, it's, it's pretty wild, right? But then,
and I guess the question I'm trying to pose is that what if Durban poison wasn't initially
an African variety or cultivar, but it was, you know, per se, a Jamaican, you know, land race,
not necessarily an African land race. And also, if it's not, is there a way to prove it?
Well, talking, you know, it's funny, because it was Mel Frank that just called me stoned,
you know, when he got it, he got it, and he was told it was from South Africa. And I have a
collection of centimelia tips from the 80s, all 10 years of them. And I was reading through it,
and there was an interview with Rob Clark in the early 80s. And he doesn't mention Durban poison,
he says that, that they were seeing basically intersex hermaphrodite tendencies in the seeds
they were getting from these Durban poison seeds, or South African seeds is what he mentions in his
article, South African seeds. And, you know, I think he knew where they were coming from
geographically, because, you know, he wouldn't, I don't think he if he if they were Jamaican,
he would have said Jamaican, you know what I mean? Because Rob has been in Jamaica a lot,
you know, Rob's one of the people that told me in the 90s that he felt like, because growers
were chasing the money, they moved away from the indigenous cannabis that was growing in Jamaica,
that grew well, and they were growing a lot of the Dutch seeds that were available. And you couldn't
really find, you know, really original Jamaican cannabis in Jamaica anymore, like you used to.
And when you look at the photos of Jamaican pot fields, a lot of times, it's these plants that
are two, three feet tall with a bud on them, and they look horrible. And it's because they're
putting up relatively northern plants that need some veg time in a equatorial climate where they
go out and they're in a flowering cycle. So they only they grow a little and they pop a flower and
then they pop a flower that ends up being so dense and so big that it causes internal molding.
And they have a lot of problems with that happening. And it's really because they're not
growing the cannabis that, you know, that environmentally and indigenously had been
growing there for God knows how many years before, you know, people started trying to improve it,
you know, with, you know, basically European seed genetics.
So then I would propose that, I guess, a way to maybe sort of prove this, right, is take
some of these conventionally known Durban poison varieties, and let's take it back to these
equatorial regions. Let's grow them next to, you know, other equatorial regions as a representative
of those specific regions. It could be anywhere, whether it's north or south or east or west in
terms of Africa. And because from my understanding, majority of these cultivars grown in
its natural state, I mean, it's it auto flowers, right? Because in tropical regions, you would
naturally have, you know, 12 hours of, you know, sunshine and primarily 12 hours of night as well.
Right. So that could be a turning because hearing that I'm not questioning, you know, Dr. Robert
Clark's, you know, intellect or anything. I'm just thinking broadly, like, what if, what if,
like, what if, right? Because from my experience growing, you know, I'm dealing with lots of wild
equatorial land races. There is a very distinctive difference between those varieties that I have
ever came across on the continent to anything that that pretty much any expression that Durban poison,
you know, pretty much exhibits. So that is my that's what bothers my mind. That's what gives me
that question of what if so it's. Can I hop in real quick? Right on. Because I think one of the
key differences there is Durban poison isn't like traditional land race variety as we know it today.
And the stuff that the Durban poison varieties that Todd sells that as well as a that's like a
highly selected line that was inbred. And at least from my understanding, and Todd can correct me,
but the story kind of goes, Ed Rosenthal went to a coffee house in Amsterdam, got some seeds,
or got some herb with some seeds in it that was Durban, smoked the herb, kept the seeds,
brought the seeds back, gave the seeds to Mel. Mel made bread with the seeds, had multiple
different batches. One was his like his good batch and one was a less desirable batch. Years after
the fact, he realized that he had given skunk man Sam the less desirable batch. Skunk man Sam took
that less desirable batch and said that he had to breed it very intensively to breed away from
hermaphroditic traits and to find good, you know, solid sort of commercial smokable herb.
And worked that line in that way. That's what ended up making it to Holland from his work,
or from the work that he had done with that gene pool. So if that's the story, that's a very, very,
if that story is accurate, I mean to say, that is a very different beast than what you would find
out in sort of like even a cultivated land rice population. Could you say that again, Trevor? I
didn't hear it because you were relating to what went over from with Sam. Yeah, so as I,
you know, I could be wrong. So I believe the story I have tracked down is Ed Rosenthal
picked up the Durban poison seeds from a coffee house in Holland, took those back to the States,
the seeds, gave those to Mel. Mel bred those seeds. He had more than one selection of the Durban
poison and on mistake gave skunkman Sam the less desirable of the selections he had made.
Sam took those, worked the line, improved it, bred it away from hermaphroditic tendencies,
and developed the commercially viable Durban poison line that then was offered through
Sacred Seeds, then seed bank through Neville, where it was just, you know, if you look at the
catalog, it's the exact same thing. Yeah, you got it, you got it. That's what we have now. So I have
the same ones. That's, you're absolutely right. And it, you know, it still has intersex tendencies.
If you sneeze at it, it'll pop, you know, banners. But it does have a really complex flower structure
and it's super fast and I can see what, and it's got great resin. So I can see why it's a desire.
And that's the only reason I would, it's not my favorite variety, but a lot of people like it,
it grows really well, gets super great yields. You know, I can see why it was used as breeding
material with a lot of other plants because it has great elements to it. But that's the story
as I've heard it from Jim, from Mel Frank as well. Yeah, so that's, that explains why it would
be different than what you would find in equatorial or African land race population, because that
population is going to be maintained in a much different sort of genetic structure. It hasn't
gone under the intensive selection pressure and hasn't really been bred for sort of end-use
commercial, you know, modern hybrid sort of purposes. Granted, understanding it's not a hybrid,
it's a maintained population. But like Skunkman Sam and Mel Frank both did work on that line
and Mel's continuing, or excuse me, Todd's continuing that work. So it's a unique beast
that's different from what you would find if you just went there now and sort of like started the
process over. But on that point, I have to hop off. Everyone, thank you. It's been a great night.
Matt, let's try and connect. I'll try and figure out my Instagram issue. Thank you for having this
room. Thank you, Todd, for coming on. Everyone, have a great night. Totally, Trevor. It was awesome, man.
Thank you, Trevor. Good night, Trevor. Thank you. Good night.
Trevor? Yeah, I'm really interested in that work from Skunkman Sam and whatever he's got breeding
coming up. That sounds good.
Very cool. Thank you guys for letting me join. I hope everybody has a really fantastic night
and a real peaceful holiday. Thanks, Todd. I think is that, you gotta think, we should call it,
is that the night? Yeah, that's what I was about to, I feel like, wrap it up. And honestly,
before the live, we were going for a couple hours already. So this has been a long chat.
But a fucking good one, especially Todd. I mean, you dropped a lot of good history,
which you've done before, but maybe not on this platform. So it was pretty awesome. I appreciate
it. I appreciate it. Thank you very much. It's nice hearing you guys sharing the information.
That's what it's really all about, educating each other. We are each other's teacher. And I think
that that's really what the community should focus on is spreading good. Like Trevor says,
try to be as accurate as possible. It's all about a truthful history. And I think that
what will serve the community best. So, yeah. And a line that you use in the beginning that I think
was relevant was give credit where credit's due. It's very necessary.
You know, can I read you guys some? So before we go, I was going to bring it up earlier.
Mishka is a French activist. I met her first in 1994. She's really cool. She got sued by the
French government for basically blasphemy in short. But she and Neville were lovers. And
she did the last interview with Neville before he died. And it appears in her memoir or her
biography. And she gave a copy of it to me. And at the end of her book on page 312,
a few pages earlier, it starts her last interview with really her ex-boyfriend Neville, 2018.
And she asked him this question. And what do you think of the hunt for land race varieties?
And Neville's answer I thought was pretty interesting. Because this is what he says.
It's all bullshit. You know, I've been a bit of a hunter myself looking for strains here and there.
And I would say that the best strains I have ever discovered are ones people have been working on
to selectively breed for properties that they enjoy.
Nature does not selectively breed for properties people enjoy. Nature selectively breeds for plants
that can scare people into not eating those plants anymore. For example, in Nepal,
I've taken some very strong wild Nepali weed and smoked it. And it was strong as shit. But
I felt like jumping off a cliff without a parachute. This is not the effect I want.
Raciness is not something we want in weed, right? So my theory is that nature creates
the psychotropic effects to scare herbivores and such like into not eating their seeds,
because you'll freak out. The ones worth having are the ones that people have been selectively
breeding over the years. The pinnacle of this was probably in the 50s. And I'm not sure if
we'll ever see those days again. But in short, I think it's interesting because it really is
Neville being honest about the fact that he built his entire career off of the backs of what other
people did. Because he never collected varieties and turned them into varieties like Skunkman Sam
did or others. So. Dude, my mouth, it was like dropped, I'm not gonna lie. I did that whole
thing. I was like, damn, I'm maybe not be that big to other people. But I think that like just
goes into the credibility when some people are like, you don't want to land race. You don't
really. Because even like wild ones, I've been to Africa too, like Western Africa, the Liberia area,
like all the wild cannabis that I saw did not look like something I wanted to consume. And not in the
sense that I could look ugly or anything like that. It just, you know, it wasn't this like
bulbous, beautiful flower that that that, you know, like we see idea was like a spindly and
like spindly little kind of like weird morphology, much different than what we see now. And I think
it's kind of I mean, you're like, he's like spot on to something because I feel like we noted even
the stuff that I saw, you know, it like in Afghanistan, that's been cultivated for a long
time. And, you know, by the people there. It's not, it's not necessarily, it's just like, I guess,
massive fields of open pollination, you know, from from farmers throughout years and years.
So, you know, the strains are a lot more like, you know, Neville's kind of saying
a lot more ideal for the human consumption.
Yeah, there is a market and just in case you do not know, in West Africa,
Nigeria is the biggest, obviously, it's the most populated, right. But also in terms,
it's also known for having, you know, you know, the biggest usage in terms of,
you know, the amount of population that smokes cannabis. Okay, down south of Nigeria is the
country that I'm from Ghana, and I'm from a region in Ghana called Volta region. Look it up.
Volta region is known, it's called it is dubbed as the Amsterdam, right of West Africa.
I'm talking in terms of varieties that families have been growing for generations,
over generations, over generations. So, in terms of, you know, making an opinion based on
traveling or, and that's sort of what I meant to say earlier, when I said the problem is that
is being demonized, right? Instead of demonizing something we don't necessarily understand,
why don't we open our hearts to the awareness of something new? Thank you.
Right on to that, man. I wish everybody a really happy holiday and a good night.
Thank you all for joining me today. I hope you have a great day tomorrow.
Take it easy, Todd. Good having you, brother.
All right, cheers, everybody.
Thanks, everybody.
You got a weird echo in there, London.
Yeah, I'm doing the future cannabis project side. So, I'm like doing the projection. So,
it takes me like a minute to mute it and then I got to go back. Yeah, but that was a lot of fun,
guys. I appreciate that. That was really awesome. And I just want to say before
cookie shuts down my YouTube channel, it was awesome having the YouTube channel.
And don't worry because you, I don't know if we're still recording, but
we're like, I got baited into, I'll probably lose my account too. So, I don't have a YouTube
account. We'll all go down together. Yeah, like at least everybody will know what happened.
But, you know, maybe this room saved anybody from getting deleted because they can't,
if they went around and started like deleting everybody, then it'd be obvious. Okay,
cookie's doing some shit. So, luckily like all of us talked on it. So,
maybe they won't do it. I don't know if that even makes sense. I'm fucking tired. We've been
talking for a minute. Yeah, thanks for providing the space. Highly appreciate it. Thank you.
You guys have a good night. I'm going to bed. Peace.
Me too. Respect that, everybody. Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
All right. Well, okay, you guys know.
Hello. I'm sorry. So, hey, where's the brand thing here? Just, is the mic on too? Did I?
Give me a moment. There we go. Yeah, we're good. So, just so everybody knows, that was an impromptu
night and a lot of fun. So, if you didn't catch it, check it before. And as you can see,
I was like, oh, guess we're going on show. So, surprise. I hope you had a lot of fun. I had a
lot of fun. Hopefully, we can do that again and we'll be here next Monday. We actually have a lot
of stuff going on this week. So, I'll take a moment while I have everybody. And while there's
a few people around tomorrow, we do have Growing with Marco tomorrow. We got the photo period. No,
might not be tomorrow. Jim Faust tomorrow morning by the look of it early.
State of Cannabis at 9. Growing with Marco at 11. 4pm we have Cannabis, Ask the Cannabis Nerd. So,
if you have any cannabis questions or anything like that, go ahead and drop that by. You can
also add or send in questions from the link in the description. There's Cannabook Club at 5.30.
I forget what that's about, though, but it is posted. Check that out for sure. And then
there's Seed Collectors Volume 3. So, it should be a long and busy and fun and exciting day.
Thanks, everybody. Thank you, Mr. Toad. Thanks, everyone else that's going on there. That's a
fucking huge plant, man. Like, I've seen some tall plants. That is a fucking tall plant.
That looks really cool. So, I hope everybody had a wonderful time. I sure as hell did. I'm going to
smoke some more weed and go to bed. Chug it. Have my soda. I did see I do.
