All right, welcome everyone. We're gonna have a conversation and set the table on raids
in El Dorado County. A couple people we know have been arrested. Christian Carter has been
in jail for about two weeks. Leo Bailey. When did that happen, Josh?
I think it was Thursday or Friday. I just found out maybe Friday and
kind of learned more about the situation this morning.
Got it. So yeah, go ahead.
So basically I thought it'd be helpful to set the table first and then we'll
try to raise some money at three o'clock. It's two o'clock pacific time right now.
So everybody buckle up. But Rod, you are the executive director of the El Dorado
Growers Alliance. So do you want to kind of give us the big picture of what's...
Because it seems like what's going on in El Dorado is crazy and not really happening in
other counties to the same extent. Yeah, well, thank you for having me.
You know, El Dorado County voted for cannabis licenses in 2018. We had a 60% vote. The public
supported it. And the measures had kind of a balance of licensing and some enforcement.
Certainly the anticipation was when those things passed that the county would work to
give people licenses and make it easier. There are some difficult provisions in there,
some difficult regulations. Welcome to California. California loves regulations. But unfortunately,
last year, in the fall of last year, a sheriff's deputy was killed on illegal cannabis grow.
Probably in all likelihood it was miscommunication, a big, big accident. But the sheriff,
John D. Agostini of El Dorado County has been on a campaign of revenge and retribution. And they've
raided literally 300 households in the county. And they're doing significant damage. They're
ransacking people's houses. They're taking people's cash, destroying their greenhouses.
And with 300 raids, there are a lot of collateral damaged people. In some cases,
they raided people with no plants. They've raided a lot of legal medical people. They've taken
people's children away. I think that's the thing that's, I mean, this is all very upsetting. But
when somebody has their children taken away, and they're trying to do their best to have a legal
medical grow for their family, you know, we've got to do something about it. We've got to
take actions and stand up for these basic rights of cannabis people, which in our county,
we have lots of wineries and people that have a passion for winery. They build
vineyards in their winery. You know, everybody's happy. Everybody loves it. But
for a cannabis operation, you know, they treat it like radioactivity. So, you know, we're in a
struggle for basic rights, basic human rights. And, you know, we'll keep working and keep fighting.
You know, there are people trying to get licensing. And I think a combination of the
Democrats winning in November and people starting to get some licenses, hopefully will improve the
situation. Maybe getting a supervisor elected that at least has some empathy for cannabis
growers, that'll make a big difference. You know, we've got to do our best to fight for these people
that are, have just had their lives torn apart by law enforcement. I mean, you know, all this
time you hear from the flag-waving people about freedom and liberty, and, you know,
they're defenders of liberty. And the worst thing that can happen is when the government and,
you know, in this case, law enforcement just treads on people's rights and liberties.
And yet they're, you know, all in support of the sheriff and encourage him to do more,
raid more, destroy more. It's, you know, we have to stand up for ourselves. Can't hear you, Peter.
Dale, can you talk about that? Chris may just said there's no state level recourse.
Can you kind of talk about, you know, counties and local law enforcement versus what the state
can and cannot do? I'll try. We are stuck in a major change in the social contract over cannabis.
And I know Rod and I have been involved in this wrestling match for years now.
It's clear that this county did not want to do this. We had to push hard. And when the voters
voted, it didn't change the ideology of the county infrastructure. So that's part of the
problem we have here. But if we back up a little bit and pop to 30,000 feet, this is going on in
other jurisdictions. Although as Rod mentioned, we had a deputy murdered here. So it creates
some forces that are different from other places. But from an ideological standpoint,
cannabis is still not a favored subject amongst law enforcement types and conservatives in general.
Until, of course, someone in their family gets sick and cancer and, oh, by the way, I just didn't
know about this. It's an ideological change in the way we look at this plant and how we deal
with it in our social contract. And that includes the laws. Now, our personal social contract is
much far ahead of the laws in the state. There was an appellate decision that just came out of
Mendo County. I think it was Rondon is the name of it. And it demonstrates what we can do.
And it demonstrates what I learned with my family 20 years ago, just about that, when they came in
and held my children and my wife at gunpoint in a federal raid, which is predominated by
Eldorado County Sheriff's officers. When you try to sue them, they have immunity.
And that's the problem that was faced in the Mendo case. It was an absolutely botched raid.
But they had a search warrant and they're basically immune. And in many counties around
the state where they started to open up, they have pulled back quite a bit. And they're still
trying to figure out how to change this from criminal enforcement to more of a civil, a fine,
give people an opportunity to correct so that they don't go to jail. And that's happened in Santa
Barbara and in other places along the coast. Mendo County, Humboldt County, Trinity still being
raided, Tehama also. And Riverside's had its share of raids down there. Even though they're trying to
open up, you're still in a mud wrestling contest with law enforcement and DAs who don't like this
and don't like that Prop 64 took away their ability to prosecute growing cannabis and have much more
than a misdemeanor as a possibility. So with that being said, I'm intimately feeling with the
county and the county because I get calls all the time. I've handled some, I've referred others on.
I can't tell you who my clients are, but we were contacted by Leo, actually by his significant
other. And we started some things in motion late last week. And he falls into a category that
was left a felony under state law. It's manufacturing. So he faces an additional
burden. Last I was told it's a million dollar bond, which to get out is a hundred thousand dollars.
And that's just to not be in jail. That doesn't fix your problems. So that's the bigger picture
for him. I'm not specifically familiar with what happened to Christian because I wasn't contacted
and it went to other law firms and I can't keep up on everything, but I think there's
manufacturing involved there. And when there's manufacturing and there's a felony without going
very far, you're going to get a lot of attention. This is Leo's case. And I think those are a
brother and a dad that are also in with him. And they had BHO labs, that's manufacturing,
that's a felony. Now, one of the concerns I have, which is what happened to me, is that
just the local cops and the DA figured out that I was following the law. So they called the feds in.
And if you don't understand, there's a federal task force working out of Tahoe down into the
foothills here that involves not just cannabis, but heroin, coke, meth. There's still a lot of
issues going on. What concerns me is the feds, if they pick this up, it's probably a minimum of
a 10 piece, if not more. So there are still some very draconian enforcement problems.
And I'm not trying to justify any of them. But from the standpoint of practicing law,
if they have a search warrant, they get away with almost anything they want to because they're
immune. And that's just the reality. I don't like it because my family went through it.
Okay, my house was raided, people were held at gunpoint, my children. Okay. And so I know that
horror. I actually went to federal prison for five years. So it's like, I don't get this. But
the bigger question is, how do we get from where we are now to a place where I know Rod and I would
like to be? You can do this as a matter of right. Cannabis is not heroin. Okay. But ideologically,
that's where it fits. I talked to supervisors multiple times about this, that it's like
Vicodin or Oxycontin growing on a bush. You got to count every pill and owe the children. And
that's just not scientifically valid. But that's the headwinds we still face.
So within all of that, I'd like to say that there was a clear path from here
to where I would ideologically like to get, but that's a struggle we're in.
So in terms of kind of strategies, I mean, we're talking two cases here, but obviously there are
more people like, I talked to Omar earlier today and he was talking about, tactically,
motion for bail reduction. And then like character reference letters,
hopefully from people in the local community. And then there's the COVID angle.
Just the fact that we don't need to put people who are nonviolent
in right now and increase the risk. So what kind of general tactics
are kind of at a lawyer's disposal or someone in jail's disposal?
Well, the COVID has brought a spotlight to the, just the absurdity of throwing people in jail
for weed. It's just absolutely absurd. And when they were letting them go because they couldn't,
you know, with a straight face, justify keeping a weed prisoner in jail where they might die from
COVID, it pointed out the absurdity of putting people in custody at all for this. Okay. That's
like the glaring reality we face. So when you pick a case like this up, you want to get your
client out of jail. A million dollars bond is, it's, I don't know where they came up with that
number. They took everything they could through against the wall. So getting Leo out would be the
first place to be. But I can remember being in a courtroom in South Lake Tahoe when a client I was
there for got a quarter of a million dollar bail for growing some weed and a suspected chomo was
out with $10,000. So the absurdity of all this plays into it and you have to be prepared to
talk to the judge about that. But these are, these are motions that are made to get them out.
The strategy to attack this, well, there's a lot of things. I'm going to assume this was,
this was done by way of a criminal complaint. So you're going to get a preliminary hearing.
So you have a chance to challenge before you have to go try this. But because they left this a felony,
it takes away some of the arrows in your quiver. So you can attack the evidence, you can attack the
search warrants, the validity and things like that. Those are all pretrial motions. They're costly too.
So beyond getting them out, you have to have a defense fund so that you can have lawyers draft
motions and be prepared to go into court and argue those motions. Now I'm a pretty aggressive
litigator and the people that I refer these clients to are also. It's a street fight when you go in.
But that costs a lot of money and I'm yet to figure out what the feeling is in the judiciary
in El Dorado County about all this because the cases I'm familiar with, they're all sitting on
the DA's desk for the most part waiting for them to do something. Now not all of them. Some people
have been charged. But a lot of these are stacked up because there are problems with the search
warrant. It looks stupid in front of the judge that you did things that had nothing to do with
the warrant. So it takes away the value of going after people. So this is, this is going to be
long and it's going to be expensive. Getting caught cooking hash oil, BHO, just creates some
significant problems here. Can the two of you talk about kind of, you know, someone mentioned
earlier the good old boys club. Like what's kind of the relationship between the sheriff,
the DA, the judges, the kind of powers that be that run the county?
Wow, you want to go ahead, Rod? Because I've got my opinions from inside.
So Rod, you got to unmute yourself. Yep, there you go.
There is some good old boy, definitely between obviously the judges and the DA that work with
each other on a daily basis, whereas they're not as familiar with, you know, the kind of more in
the political realm that we're in. That's why, I mean, for the alliance, you know, what we're
going to try to do, and you know, Dale really highlighted the problem with holding law
enforcement accountable for the damages that they do. But nevertheless, you know, we're going to
probably have to take that tact as a collect kind of the worst abuses of law enforcement and find
some avenue of local redress, whether it's a grand jury or a court. I mean, there are some
attorneys that say there is some cause of action for people that didn't have plants at all,
you know, or people that legitimately were medical growers. I mean, the medical rules
don't completely change until December this year. The sheriff went around saying people can only
grow six plants. Well, that's not true because board supervisors grandfathered people into their
200, 600, 400 feet until December, and those people were growing those. And you know, some
of those people had their children taken away. They were charged with child endangerment because
they had a joint on the table. And so those kind of cases, you know, I think we pursue some of those,
and there is already a case filed in federal court that's for a raid that was on a hemp garden
last summer. That case is moving forward. So utilizing some forum to get local redress, I mean,
we've had conversations with the attorney general's office, and they've said to us, well,
you know, we can't intervene until there's some local redress, local process for people to
right their wrongs. And so that's, you know, that's doing this. I mean, we really appreciate
your effort, Peter, to draw some, put some light on it because, I mean, it is a gross injustice.
And the politicians, I mean, in this area, these are, cannabis growing was legal in this county
in January, you know, end of January of 2019. You know, a year and a half ago,
growing commercial cannabis in the hills was legal in El Dorado County, and that's why there's
there are 500 growers. And the sheriff is raiding, I mean, literally he's raiding 10% of the household
in some of these supervisors districts, but yet they're
the fearful people rather than the majority of their community. So, I mean, we have to work at
that. Well, the politicians are afraid to stand up for cannabis. It's just, you know, the bias
that we're facing, you know, it's a bias that many communities have, have fixed, whether it's women
trying to get the vote or, you know, Black Lives Matter. Unfortunately, we're kinship with those
folks because it's just basic rights that we're, we've got to, got to get.
Tammy, I'm going to introduce you in a second, but I just wanted Dale on this topic to
give his thoughts. Well, I have represented police officers, CHP, sheriffs, corrections officers
have been in on discussions inside law enforcement circles. So, I have a decent understanding of
how they like the world to work. And if you're a prosecuting attorney, you have to work with the
law enforcement officers that arrest people and they can torpedo your case and make it. So,
not that there's a clear conflict of interest there, but at least makes you wonder,
there's, there's some handholding on that side. Judges realize that they want cases to come before
them that are well done and protracted battles. Some judges will tip their hand that they'll,
you know, find things against the prosecutors and prosecutors do what they can not to be there.
You know, I was a trial attorney. If I got a judge that doesn't like me, I'm going to try my best not
to be in front of them. So, that exists in reality. And if you're a defense attorney and you've got to
be in a courtroom, especially if you're a public defender where you don't get to go charge somebody
for individual assignments, you just get a stack. It's been my experience that out of fatigue,
if nothing else, you try to get some cases settled so that you can fight over the things you want to
fight about. And if your client's agenda doesn't fit your agenda, you may not get the best attention
you could. So, that's the real situation inside the law enforcement, judicial, DA, defense attorney
world. And that's, you can go to any jurisdiction in the state and find some of that. Now, in this
jurisdiction, the Aaron O'Neill and the Kelly Chisano cases literally blew up in their face.
The sheriff and the DA were not happy with the result of that. Somebody made a decision to
execute warrants. Somebody made a decision to charge. And, you know, they screwed the pooch.
So, some of this is because they made charging and warrant decisions that the county and the
citizens were just not going to have. So, I'm not saying the sheriff and DA always got along.
At this point, some of the things we're hearing is that the DAs are having stuff dumped on them.
And, you know, the execution of warrants are not really good. So, going forward to prosecute them
is going to create problems for them. So, I don't know inside the beltway if they're arguing and
fighting. Because I've heard John D. Iverson be very critical of Vern. He didn't want to prosecute
stuff. Well, when you get your ass kicked, yeah, you're reluctant to go prosecute. And there wasn't
a lot of communication. What's happening right now is that they're changing from criminal
enforcement to civil enforcement. And you can't tell me there isn't a bit of anger on the part of
law enforcement. They don't have those tools they used to have, which were felonies for everything.
And then you get people to cop to all sorts of things. Okay? They don't have it anymore. These
are misdemeanors soaking wet. And I've been called by people who I thought were legitimate medical
patients. I've gone to their property. I've looked around. I thought they were legit. And we've gone
to bat for some of them. Others just had their place cleaned out. And now you've got to deal with it.
Okay? It's not an easy thing to just say, oh, they're all dirty. Because I don't think they are.
But ideologically, the county did not want to have happen what Rod and my daughter Heather and I and
some other people pushed to have happen in this county. And we're in the middle of some of that
right now. And how much is going to be actionable beyond the immunity that's afforded for doing this?
And up in the federal courts, I would not hold my breath to go to federal court.
Because growing cannabis violates federal law. Growing hemp doesn't. But growing cannabis does.
So you may not even be able to get in the door. So it's complicated.
Can you, Dale, can you just quickly talk about how you'd compare Eldorado County to kind of,
I mean, you see kind of stuff going on elsewhere in California. Is it, like, statistically,
is stuff out of control in Eldorado County? What other municipalities are at the same level?
Well, I think Humboldt and Mendo were where we are now a year ago. That's why we've got a case that just came out that said you can't sue them for basically coming and trashing your place.
Down in Riverside County, we're seeing some of this happening. Santa Barbara and the areas along the
coast that opened up very quickly have started to pull back, not just because they got cold feet on
the city councils and boards of supervisors, but because neighbors started suing.
And what we found out in this county is that the county was not going to spend any money to do a
countywide EIR for us. We got stuck with individual EIRs for each project. And not every jurisdiction
was doing that. So that's been a problem from the gate here. But what I've seen in other places over
the environmental issues is that some places ran off and just let you attach to their EIR, get a
declaration for everything, and then the state said, hang on for a second, we're going to
reevaluate this. And under the provisional license now, they're making people keep their doors open
but spend tons of money to do more of what we're forced to do here in Eldorado County.
So as much as I don't like to have to spend the money for the projects I have on the environmental
consequences here, I'd prefer to have my people do it now and be defensible in court than to get up
and running and have somebody pull the rug out from underneath you and make you spend hundreds
of thousands of dollars on chasing your environmental tail. Let's say that. Okay.
And these are some of the issues floating around these jurisdictions that we thought
were opening up that are now having problems. So we can't get started because of our problems.
Other places that got up and running are now having problems being sustainable because
California is just the toughest place in the entire planet to do this. Taxation, regulation,
local control, ideologically people don't like it. It's a mess.
Right. Okay. Well, Tammy, I want to introduce you. So about a month ago, we had a conversation
with BAM in Santa Cruz and some growers like Jackson, who's up in Mendocino and Dan Pomerantz
and Humboldt and Omar Figaro about raids going on all over the place. And from that,
Christian Carter reached out to me to say, hey, this is also happening in El Dorado County.
And so I brought him on so he could tell everybody what was going on. And then literally a week
later, I found out that he was in jail. And so I've been in communication with his girlfriend,
who's in El Dorado, and then his mother, Tammy, who is trying to figure out what's going on from
Kansas. Correct. And so and you're just getting over coronavirus, correct? So you're dealing with.
I'm still dealing with it. Yes. Okay. And can you just talk about
you got a call one day, right? And what was the call?
That he had been went to court for his initial stuff, and they added more charges and arrested
him in the courtroom and tossed him in jail. And I got a phone call finally from the jail
that he was in jail again, and that they had added more charges.
Sorry. No problem. And what's kind of because he went back to the court today, correct? Do you
have any update or is he? I don't yet. No. Okay. I'm just waiting to hear.
And do we know because I had reached out to Dane Weiner, but do we know who his lawyer is,
his court appointed lawyer? That's what his girlfriend Katrina says is his lawyer is Dane.
And I'm waiting to hear from Christian to verify that information since your email that you were
requesting that. So I'm just waiting for him to call. Got it. Yeah, this is insane. So we're
going to just for everybody watching, I mean, we're pulling this all together last minute,
but we have a whole bunch of breeders coming on to try to raise some money. That'll happen in about
20, 30 minutes. Josh Rutherford in the background is dealing with all the breeders. So I thought,
you know, we'd have this conversation to kind of just let everyone know what's
generally going on. So you know what we're talking about, but there are currently
five people. I mean, there are more people in jail, but to me, the crazy one is, it seems like
Leo's family was pulled in and they had nothing to do with anything. Would that be kind of
Rotterdale affair? I'm not sure I can confirm or deny that.
I've represented Leo in the past with some issues and I don't know that I know his brother or his
dad is, or they were ever involved in my discussions with them. My daughter tells me that that's who
they are. So I accept that. I do not know the particulars of what they were doing,
whether it's a residence, whether there's any other issues involved besides having closed loop
systems inside. If it's in a house, it's concerning. It creates some health and safety issues
above and beyond manufacturing. So these are complicating factors. And as I said,
the feds are up there snooping around and the South Lake Tahoe police,
he's been on their radar for a minute. So this has been going on for a while. And I had some
involvement 20 years ago with some people that were doing things in South Lake Tahoe and the
police up there watch, they have operations ongoing and they'll roll in on you and then
they'll just go where it goes. So people are aware that if you were working with Leo,
just make sure that you've got someone standing by to represent you because you really don't know
how far this is going to go. And I don't ever want to be just a beater of the scared from,
I can tell you from personal experience, the tentacles from an enforcement action can go a
long ways, state and federal. And these days, what we're seeing right now from my perspective
is toned down from when I started doing this. And it doesn't mean that today is any worse
for someone who gets arrested, but they have backed away a lot. But you still get caught up
when you get a criminal charge against you, it doesn't matter anything else. That's you
personally, that's your freedom, that's your ability to support yourself, your family structures
are involved and you've lost control of your life. So I really empathize with anybody who's
caught up in this because I have, I've been taken away in handcuffs, I've been charged, I've been
tried, convicted and thrown in jail and had my life ruined. So whatever I can do to get people
to pay attention that this is real and if people need money, do what you can. This is a community
up here. I wish we weren't seeing this because from the standpoint of public health and safety
and science, this is all ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous. But that doesn't change the nature of
someone showing up with a search warrant and taking you under arrest and taking you away.
So we still, even though the numbers might be down from 20 years ago, each one of these has
an impact. And we had thought that with SB 420 and the traditional market flourishing,
that we would have less trouble getting those people on board in the new industry. And as Rod
can tell you, it's been an absolute failure. Every mountain has been made as steep as they can make
it. Every cost has been as costly as they can make it. And we're still facing criminal search warrants
and arrests. I was thinking we're going to be dealing with code enforcement officers telling
that your chicken coop is unpermitted. And by the way, you got to hook that septic tank up
or something. And we have some of that. But that's really not the big problem. Hell,
I tell these people, go tear that building down. Fix the problem. No one lives there anyway.
But your problem is your kid got snatched because you had weed there. And I've had people call me
and I've dealt with those where their kid was taken away, charged with child endangerment
for like 30 plants. Yeah, it was against the law. I get it. But children are traumatized.
My granddaughter was traumatized. They told my daughter that because they found a little piece
of a weed leaf on my carpet, that we were endangering her and that if my daughter Heather
didn't get out of our house, they were going to take her child away. So I've been there too. And
it irritates me. Children, this is not child molesting. This is not bank robbing. It's not
murder. Okay. It's a weed that as far as I know, has never killed anybody. And it doesn't have the
public health and safety hysteria that we're seeing here. Or it doesn't warrant it. That's
for damn sure. What Rod, hold on. All right, go for it. Yeah, there's a lot that can be done.
There's a lot that needs to be fixed in California. I mean, certainly fundamentally,
asset getting rid of that forfeiture, getting rid of this indemnity. In other words,
law enforcement can't be sued for damages. We need leadership. There's an incentive for law
enforcement to go in and harass us. We're seeing them take their jaws of life on people safe,
take the cash. The stories we're hearing, they give the accused an inventory of what was taken,
and it says $1,700 when they took $17,000. We're hearing those stories over and over.
We have video of ransacked houses. It's just the imbalance between what they're doing,
what they're spending on enforcement. They're spending millions of dollars and disrupting
hundreds and hundreds of families versus doing absolutely nothing to help people get licenses.
They haven't had one workshop in our county to say, hey, here's how you fill out an application
form. The imbalance is just unacceptable. Hopefully we'll have at least one supervisor elected that
is sympathetic to reducing the harm that's caused by our government out in our community.
Things have to change. Again, thank you, Peter. You're one of the folks that's
helping to bring light to this. It's unfortunate that some of the other media outlets are lost.
But- Yeah, actually, on that front, can you talk, because one of the things I'm big on is
a lot of this stuff happens in the shadows and the local media is oblivious to it. What I try to do
is reach out and connect with, before these conversations, I didn't know the local papers
of record in El Dorado County or South Lake Tahoe or whatever, but then I started reaching
out to journalists who had at least written stuff on cannabis. What's the local newspapers and
radio stations coverage of stuff that's going on with cannabis vis-a-vis law enforcement?
We've gotten virtually nothing. The local, we did press releases. We talked to the reporters. We had
a local TV station come out and spend three days to create a whole report and then never run it.
I don't get it. Our local paper got bought and they were running cannabis stories. Anytime
the word cannabis came up anywhere, they were running a story on it. Now, they have run one
story on these raids. It included our point of view, so it had some level of balance to it.
But we have a regional paper, Sacramento Bee's done nothing. The
local public radio has done nothing. Nothing. We've talked to them, sent press releases,
but we'll keep doing it. This is what we have to do. We'll bring the people that have had their
children taken. It's just completely unacceptable. Someone gets charged with child endangerment,
have their child taken away. We'll bring them forward. Those people are stepping up.
And the problem is that they kind of have, and Dale can comment on this, they kind of have
something hanging over their heads because they don't get charged. There's no charge.
It's not saying that they won't be charged in the future. So,
even though we know they've been wrong, they had 600 square feet of plants and their kids were
taken away. They had the three medical licenses, two that lived there, they had the fence,
they were far enough from the property line. I mean, medical grow and they had their kids taken
away. So, but they're afraid that if they talk to the press, that maybe the DA will come back and
charge them. I know that right now that they're trying to force a plea of nine years in prison
on Christian. That's their plea offer for him.
It just doesn't make any sense because, I mean, they're a part of Prop 64, the legalization,
they're eliminating people through convictions. In fact, our county is one of the ones where
there's a Department of Justice identified a thousand convictions that are supposed to be
eliminated. And the DA was supposed to answer whether he had any objections to eliminating
those convictions July 1. And we heard nothing. We asked him, asked him what he's going to do,
and no response. So, maybe if we file a complaint with the grand jury, maybe they'll look into it.
Tommy, do you have, I mean, you have a lawyer and an advocate who's plugged in the Eldorado.
Do you have any questions for them that would be helpful to you?
I'm sorry, what?
Well, so Dale's a lawyer and very well versed in criminal defense and cannabis. And Rod is
a executive director of the Eldorado Growers Alliance, which is obviously,
where all this is happening. So do you, while we have them here, do you have any specific questions
for them? Or requests? I mean, what we did, like, for example, Rod posted something in the Eldorado
County Facebook group about Christian and with a link to his GoFundMe. Rod, I believe you made
a donation as well, right? So, what's like a team game plan for someone like Christian? I mean,
for me, the logical first thing was just simply identifying who his lawyer was. And that was
difficult. Like I reached out to Dane, and he was like, I'm not his lawyer. Let me check with my
brother. And I was like, okay. Okay. And it's hard for me being in Kansas. So I'm,
and I don't get to hear from him very often from the jail. So when you,
I haven't heard from him since you asked me the question. So in the email, and I did reach out to
Katrina, and she gave me Dane, Dane's name again. So I'm twiddling my thumbs here. So when I hear
from him next, I'll like, ask him again. And as soon as I verify exactly who his attorney is,
I will email you. But I would assume Katrina would know. You know, but that's, that's,
so I'm sitting here just twiddling my thumbs in Kansas. But so what, what can work? I mean,
there's nothing. A defense attorney is still working for the court system.
So they're not really going to be working in his best interest, is my viewpoint.
You're, you're, you're talking about either a public defender or, okay, Dale, what, what are
your thoughts on kind of a public defender's loyalties? Where, where do they lie?
Well, I, it depends on how the public defenders are secured, because some places have a real
robust public defender's office and others hire attorneys to come in and get paid a set fee to
handle a case. The ones that are not part of an organization, that all they do is public
defending work, in my view, have more opportunity to be at arm's length with law enforcement,
because they don't have to cut as many deals as somebody who's got 20 cases in front of them to
figure today. And I got to do something with them. That's sort of a reality I have seen
in and around the courthouse and specifically with heavy criminal caseloads. And this is about money.
And this is just another layer of how neo-prohibitionism works. If they don't fund
the public defender programs the way they fund the DA programs, then just from the starting point,
you're a step behind because it costs money to prosecute someone. It costs money to defend them.
And I'm not trying to be too mercenary here, but I went to prison and lost everything.
And so coming back, my, how I make money is with my time and my experience. And I do give a lot of
my time away, but I can't pay my bills that way. So it's a practical business reality. And if
realistically a DA walks in with 20 cases in front of them, they got to deal with that day.
They're playing poker to a certain extent. And if the public defender has the same issue,
then they are figuring how can we cut a deal here? And then it's, can I put a big enough gun
to your head to get you to cut a deal? And how does that work? And I've never done that high
volume criminal defense work before. So I don't want to say I've been inside of it. I've certainly
been outside looking at it and just shake my head because that's not how I represent people when I've
got litigation cases. So I think that in Eldorado County, if they're bringing in Dane
and maybe Roland Tiemann and Dane's brother, and there's a few other people that pick up these
cases, they are quality defense, criminal defense attorneys. You may have personal likes or dislikes
for some of them. I'd try not to get into that. They're solid defense attorneys. And I think they
can keep a better arm's length than someone that all they do all day long is refer cases that,
and they're underpaid and overworked. Yeah. And I've been in touch with,
I've actually been on the phone with Roland or Dane as well. And I think Roland's on standby
in case we need him, but he does have, I think he reduced his fees, but it's not free. So that's
the purpose of raising money so we can hire what people say is one of the best and that's Roland.
I'm just coming in a little bit late. That's what I was trying to clarify too. I've been texting with
Leo's lady and they had another gentleman that was looking to represent him during the hearing
that's happening today at 3.30 at about bail, I believe. And that gentleman decided he wasn't
interested in doing it unless he had a 25 grand retainer. So they're kind of SOL for this hearing
today, which is unfortunate because we were going to raise the money to get him a retainer
to dock tonight. So the question was, I think you guys were to say it,
is there a good recommendation for Leo specifically?
Well, I can tell you the people that I work with, Roland is one of them. Dane, I've known Dane and
his family for decades now. We were working clear back 20 years ago when I ran for district attorney
in the county and was trying to work with them. I also work with an attorney out of Sacramento,
his name is Noah Phillips. He was a DA in Sacramento for 20 years. He ran against the
sitting Republican DA as a Democrat and he lost and he's now in private practice. But he's not
only a quality guy, he understands the industry a bit because he's been working with me on some
other issues. So those are the people that when I get called, this is who I talk to. I talked to
Roland not long ago about, you got room for another one. It came in and we try to make sure
that no one's getting inundated with these cases. And I'm trying my best to spread them around to
people I know are competent. And I'm happy to try to stay involved in that because myself and
my daughter get called all the time because it's maybe sometimes the first call they make.
I know that Leo's family reached out to us immediately and some of the other medical
growers in the county, they contacted us and we've been trying our best to get them in touch with
who I believe are capable, competent attorneys, but they're expensive. We all try to do what we
can to give our time away, but at the end of the day, we have bills to pay too. So that's something
that's why I'm here. I want to encourage people, if you can raise some money, because what I'm
seeing here is the social contract between human beings has basically accepted cannabis as part of
our community. The law enforcement and the written rules have not caught up. And so what's happening
is that Christian and Leo got caught up in the lag between all of us thinking, well, why is this such
a problem? Because people smoke weed and no one's dying, it isn't causing problems and oh,
ho, the children just doesn't fly anymore, but someone's facing felony charges nine years in
prison. What is that all about? You just have to take a moment and go, this is just fundamentally
not right. So right now, these two are looking at serious prison time. Okay? Serious prison time.
So as much money as we can raise to have a fund, not just to pay the attorneys, but there's private
investigators. When they came after me, I had to hire private investigators to talk to people.
Fortunately for me, I had attorneys volunteering to help me, but I don't see that we're going to
get that for these two. So to the extent that I can be involved or other attorneys that work with
to help, then we will. But at the bottom line, this country operates on the greenback
and we need to have some right now so that we can all be assured that they're going to get
good representation. What, what, go ahead, John. Were you saying earlier that,
is the, I was going to ask, I think I heard you say it earlier. I was half listening
and I apologize again. But there's also the part of getting them out and how, you know,
if we have to pick and choose and triage, you know, I hate to say it like that, you know,
where do we put the funds? Do we put it to get a lawyer secured or do we put,
start putting funds to get them on bail, you know, first? Well, I did five years. So an extra couple
of weeks to me has a different perspective than someone who's got family that they're just in this
process and they want to get them out quickly. But from my experience of going through this,
you want the best representation you can get as the place you start. And if you've got to cook
inside the jail for, you know, a few more weeks or whatever it is, if you've got a million dollar
bail, you've got to write a check for a hundred thousand dollars to get someone to put up that
bail. And this is not shits and giggles. This is big time money. And so if you can go in with a
quality attorney who knows your case and set it for a bail reduction, okay, and then don't wait
till the county forces it on you, you got to do this tomorrow. Find someone that knows what they're
doing, put together a case to show that these people are not threats to the community. So you
can get this hysteria to back off a little bit and drop this down from a million dollar bail or
whatever Christian's got to something a bit more manageable. Okay. That would be my advice. And
that's what I try to do. I try to get the attorney who can go in and pick a jury and try that case
and do it well. And oh, by the way, they can do a goddamn bail reduction motion for you too.
But if they're going to have it the day or so after you're arrested, you're arraigned and here's
your hearing and you ain't prepared, you know what? Unless you're in jeopardy of being stabbed
while you're in jail, which I don't think any of these guys are, then as much as I hate to tell
you to eat your top ramen and watch CNN for a minute, get a high quality attorney and have them
with some cash so they can send the investigators out. They can get a hold of every piece of paper
cops may have presented big into their backgrounds. There's a thing called a pitchous motion where you
can find out if some cops got problems in their background where they're lying. That's where,
money really needs to be spent.
Absolutely.
So for someone who, in Christian's case, Tammy, what day was he arrested?
This last time?
We're now October, it was two Thursdays ago or something. We're October 19th today.
Well, it was, well, I remember it was before my birthday and I remember that because my
birthday was the fourth. So I want to say it was around the first part of October.
So I guess my question, Dale, is like for someone who can't afford bail, like do they just,
you just basically sit in jail and then you go to trial. So you could just be sitting in jail
and then you go to trial and you get a nine year sentence and you've basically been in jail for,
I mean, that could take like, what's the process of that case appearing before a judge? Is that
going to happen? Like if just the current course plays out, is that like next month,
six months from now? Like how long does this stuff typically take to go before a judge?
Well, you get arraigned fairly quickly. And let me just back up a second. If you're charged with
a criminal complaint, you get a preliminary hearing. If they take it to a grand jury
and present evidence, you don't get a preliminary hearing. But before the prelim, you want to be
arraigned to the charges to have the judge say that they have probable cause to hold you.
Okay. And then you get an opportunity to ask for, to be released. And if they start from a million
dollars, okay, you need to have evidence to bring before a judge to show that a million dollars is
absolutely crazy. You know, they're not flying with Jeffrey Epstein and molesting kids. Why do
we have a million dollars? Now, to be fair, if you're running just, let's say a closed loop butane
facility, I help build those. We have fire marshals involved, contractors involved.
It's scary in a neighborhood. And there's been some explosions recently that make this
concerning for people having these kinds of explosive volatile chemicals close to residents.
So, you know, that sort of mitigates against just saying, oh, turn them loose. They got
no question about these folks. Well, you know, that may make you pause a little bit.
But there are counter arguments to that. So, the fight would be trying to get him out. You get a
chance to talk to a judge. But beyond that, you can file a motion to attack the warrant and have
evidence thrown out. You typically get within a couple of days you're in front of the judge for an
arraignment to see if they have probable cause to hold you. And that's basically all you get to talk
about there. Is there enough evidence to hold you? And then the bail reduction, you get a few more
issues to talk about, but not a lot. So, it's not just to get to see a judge. It's, well, what can
the judge actually do for me today? And it's a process. And it can take years. That's why if they
as the longer it goes and the more torturous it is and the more broke you get and the more you see
your world falling apart and you're facing all these years in prison, there's pressure to cut a
deal and have certainty. And I think we're going to you're going to all watch this publicly happen
to both these guys. They did it to me. And, you know, it's hard to sit there and have them
offer to give you this if you give up that. They wanted Molly's medical license and they'd give me,
I don't know, 18 months and a year tail. And she told them what they could do with that. So, it
made it easier for me. But these situations are brutal when you're looking at your family falling
apart and you're sitting in jail. And is it better to cop a plea? And oh, by the way, just to remind
you, this is something that people of color face all the time. And a lot more than I did or any of
us do. So, it's enlightening to all of us that this criminal justice system will eat you up and
spit you out and really doesn't care what it does to you. It just wants to run the gristmill,
cut their deals, and it takes money to sidetrack that and good lawyers.
I would like to also mention that Ashley with Joseph Tully's office has really helped a bunch
of people. And, you know, Dale has been with us. I mean, Dale was at the first organizing meeting
of the alliance. He's, you know, along with a number of folks just fought day to day. So,
his work has really been for the growers and for the community from, you know,
before this fight even started.
Well, and Joe Tully's a good lawyer, Doron, as you know. He got Aaron out of trouble and he knows
his stuff. So, I'm sorry I didn't mention him, but yeah, he's in that pool of referral attorneys
that know what they're doing. Yeah, and, you know, we have so much work to do. I mean, just
obviously the justice system is whacked to be so dependent on money. And it's so difficult
and time consuming for somebody to get justice. The inequity between somebody losing their
children and losing their property and being destitute just because they don't have access
to good legal representation. There's so many things to fix. I mean, just with the state
cannabis licensing, I mean, there is solventless extraction. You know, you can do extraction
without all the hazards. And so, you know, why do we need, you know, heavy duty industrial zoning
and all the ridiculous rigs for somebody that's just using it to do extraction? I mean,
we have a long way to go and, you know, we've got to be willing. You know, part of the problem here
is that, you know, politically the cannabis community has been afraid to get out and
understandably so that makes themselves targets. But, you know, if we don't get out and go to the
meetings, go to all the Rotary clubs and all those groups and be a portion, a component of
the community, then they don't think we have political power and we just get run over. And
this is a situation where that's happening. The supervisors are not backing us up. Well, you know,
a couple of them are, but we need three. Two is not good enough. We need three supervisors.
That's my, pull out my little violin there.
Well, but we're seeing this statewide Rod. One of the frustrations is that the industry,
and I don't want naive to be a pejorative here, but they're a bit naive to how
politics plays at the local and especially the state level. And people have power locally and
at the state level. And you have to go to them, which costs money and time. You have to find out
the things that they're interested in and work with them on those projects and call it curry
favor if you want. But it's the long-term game because Eldorado County still at a policymaking
level does not want to do this. Okay. What we haven't yet had is the pissing match between the
tax people and the board about how much money this is costing. Okay. Because criminal enforcement,
in my view, is the very worst way to accomplish what they're trying to accomplish here, which is
to, you know, tamp down the black market and bring the white market on board. Because this is,
you know, the knee jerk, you kill one of my guys, I'm going to go slash and burn.
And to a certain extent, we have to just, you know, let this play because when you kill a cop,
and as hard as it is for me to say that, they're going to do some things to you. And I tried to
warn people that this is going to be coming. Now, at what point did they decide, okay,
at what point did they decide, okay, enough is enough, and then we can ask for the cost.
And the grand jury can take a look at this, and the tax folks can take a look at this
when the majority of the actions are a misdemeanor soaking wet. And you really have to try to charge
as much as you can to get a misdemeanor. Okay. So, if we're wasting money on chasing a nonviolent
misdemeanor and causing the collateral damage we're causing, at what point do you lay that out
in a straight-faced way and ask the people who actually pay the bills, is this a reasonable and
responsible way for us to spend our dollars when there really are dangerous people out there?
Okay. And I know that when I went to prison, what I learned is we lock way too many people up
because we're mad at them. And what's happening right now is the sheriff's mad, and, you know,
he's doing some things that are predicted, but some of the other stuff, it was foreseeable,
but it's the damage. I mean, when I watch my granddaughter get caught up and being threatened
to be taken away, every time I hear that, it just, I want to cry, and I want to get angry,
because kids should not be treated that way. Okay. So, if anything else, that really bugs me,
but the taxpayers in this county are footing the bill for this. And in the final analysis,
I'd like to see what was accomplished by this and how much was spent and start right there,
because COVID has clarified for people that locking people up with this was stupid.
The way we did enforcement was stupid, that these are now essential businesses, okay,
and you can't just take that back now. So, I think we have some new paradigms of looking at this.
I don't know that we're going to get a lot accomplished before December 1st when
we have no more options for medical gardens. We have an ad hoc committee coming up for him
in a week or so, if I understand, Rod. I'm not certain we're going to get any way in those
discussions on the cannabis front, but it's the same plant. And so, to have a cohesive strategy
that's not driven by enforcement, but driven by public input and reasonable solutions for neighbors
to complain and have somebody work it out without having the cops come take you away, threaten your
kids. I'm just, there's got to be more to this than just reacting to what the cops are doing.
The sheriff is asking for a million dollars reimbursement from the state through Prop 64 tax
funds, but one of the provisions or one of the conditions for getting that million dollars is
that there has to be a legal licensing program for cultivation in the county. And so far, they
haven't issued a license. There's a couple of them about ready to go to the planning commission.
They're stuck. They can't get their background checks done.
I know. So, we are prepared if we have to, to challenge the legality of that million dollar
grant if there's no licensing in El Dorado County on that grant's issue. It's clear that there has
to be actual licensing in the county, not just nice words on a paper, but they have to actually
be issuing licenses in order for the sheriff to be eligible for that million dollars.
Well, I don't think the attorney general is going to be real supportive of these conservative
jurisdictions doing what they're doing and have their hand out. So, you probably got to
an ear at the attorney general's office for that. But all of these take time resources.
It helps to have attorneys involved and it's costly. It really is. And it's hard to have to
reduce this to dollars and cents, but that's, you know, really where it is, whether it's to try to
fight against it or go to the people who pay the bills and remind them how much you're wasting
time on this. This is the definition of insanity, doing the same thing over and over again,
expecting a different result. It's just, it's crazy. So, you know, going forward, we have a
lot of work still. And I think we're still three to five years away from this county actually having
operating farms. Because I know the ones I'm working on, we're still spinning our
wheels quite a bit and it's very, very expensive and time consuming.
All right. Well, I think that was a good kind of overview of what's going on in California and
specifically Eldorado County. Tammy, I know you're under the weather. We'll let you go. And I
appreciate your time. And call me tomorrow and let me know what the update is and what,
specifically, it's confirming that for me, that Dane's a lawyer and that we can have
approval to talk to him or just who his lawyer is right now. I'll see what I can find out for you.
Thank you for having me on. All right. Thank you, Tammy. Bye-bye. Bye.
All right. Josh, you there? Can you hear me? You hiding? I can hear you. There you are.
I'm having an internet issue. So. So Rod and Dale, you guys, you're free to stay, free to go.
We're going to run some seed auctions and get some fire genetics into the hands of
growers globally. It's probably better if I take an exit stage left, but let me give a shout out
to everybody who's going to participate in this. Thank you. We need your support and do all you
can because I've been there, done that. And I don't think anybody should be under these
circumstances for this plant. So there we go. Thank you very much, guys. And
holler at me again, Peter, if I can help. Okay. Thanks for helping in all your info,
Dale. That was really fucking awesome. No problem. You guys have the number for my
office. Call us because we'll do what we can to hook people up and stay in touch. Okay.
Okay. All right, everybody. Have a good day. And thank you, Rod. And I'll check in with you
tomorrow and we'll figure some of this stuff out. But yeah, if you could post that YouTube link into
the Eldorado growers group, they can see that we're doing this and maybe jump in and.
Yeah, I will. And thank you so much for your leadership. I mean, it's
need leaders. I mean, growers need to be leaders and, you know, that's,
it's a, you don't get your rights. They don't give into you have to fight for them.
I really appreciate your work. All right. Thanks, Rod. Thank you.
All right. It's just the two of us.
You muted yourself, so I can't hear anything you're saying.
You're still muted. I'm still muted. Sorry. I was.
I've said we got a bunch of donations. I've been emailing and texting with folks that are all,
you know, getting information last second and wanting to help. And it's really cool. You know,
thanks to all the dudes that were talking earlier for kind of giving the background and all that.
And I guess my, you know, the reason I called and kind of organized this because Leo's a cool
fucking dude. And we got to meet at the end of Expo this year and hang out a little bit. And then
he's just does a lot of auctions and a lot of helping for folks. And so when I saw, you know,
the Dark Horse had posted, you know, a phone conversation with him and the situation.
And at least kind of bring some awareness because he has helped so many other people
and just kind of kick the ball rolling, you know. So thanks again, Peter, for being the host of
Hostess. This is a great platform. And thanks for everyone that continues to come and watch
this platform and make it a reality, you know. And then folks donating, folks buying, auctioning,
all around, you know, cheers to the team. So.
So and basically, so just background. We've been trying to figure out fundraisers for a while.
And we've been having weekly meetings literally every week trying to figure out how to accept
money on behalf of initially it was the fires. And then it's kind of like just for generally
causes in general. So, you know, the short term is kind of like, here's the Venmo, here's the PayPal
of a specific person. Ultimately, I think the idea would be to, you know, creating a non-profit
is a mental headache that I don't think, you know, I don't think anybody jumps at the offer to be like
executive director of a non-profit. And so that's what we're grappling with.
Now it's Leo from Blockchain Novelties. Yes, sir.
I'll post his Instagram in a second. So anyway, with this specific one, we're gonna post.
Was it the Venmo? Can you also check and see if she'll, I think Shelby's watching, right?
She's watching and we're texting. So she's going to be able to verify live text me.
Perfect. So that's for Venmo. I know the other issue we deal with sometimes is some people don't
have Venmo and they're like, do they have a PayPal? And it's like, oh, so if she has a PayPal,
or she can text that to you and we'll just put both options up. So what we were thinking was,
you know, it's two things. One, not everybody can afford a 200, 300, $500,000 pack.
So we have the $50 Regenerative Seed Co. Mystery Surprise Pack, where you'll basically get way over
$50 worth of value. We just don't know specifically what we're going to put in it, but
it'll be good stuff. You'll be happy. And that's for a $50 donation. We're going to
collect that through e-commerce just so we can... Oh, there's Nick. Oh my God, there he is.
What's up, man? I'm trying to figure out how to get this onto my Apple computer here. I'm
talking to you through my iPhone. So it's been a tricky challenge.
Do you want me to email you the link to your email?
Did you do that, Shannon? Yeah, if you don't mind.
I don't know if I have your email. You might have to text it to me, but I will.
Yeah.
Buddha Boy, did you do the $50 or the donation? He's saying, any update on seeds from last
fundraiser? Yeah, stuff's getting out. I mean, people who had seeds were dealing with such
things as fires. Yeah, and all the $50 packs we did for the last one, they've all gone out with
the exception of about four or five international ones that are going out tomorrow. So it has been
slow, but they went out like a week ago and they were unmarked in the seed pack, but it said,
you guys should be able to figure it out. You know what I mean?
So basically what I was saying is for the auction stuff, we'll post a link to
essentially Leo's Venmo and or hopefully PayPal as well. And then just for the smaller donations,
I'll put the link up where you can buy those and we'll, it just makes it logistically less
of a nightmare where we can see the name and the address of who bought it and
just make shit happen. I mean, all these past ones, once we end, I'm just getting started.
I'm just getting started with what's that?
I can't even just Nick he's goofing with me. I'm not going to show you guys what it is, but
Greg, we're working to see if they have a PayPal too.
So anyway,
let me
post the, so this is where you can make,
so that there are currently two items there. One is my, my Robert Parrish t-shirt. People from
Boston will get that joke when they actually see what's there. But the other one is just the seed
pack. We just lost. I had to go let someone in the gate here. I'll be right back. All right.
Yeah. So let me, if you give me one second,
a banner, boom, there it is. What? Yeah. Let me, let me edit that.
Save. All right.
Let's show that one. Oh, wait, look at that. How are you? Good. How are you guys doing?
I'm good. Everyone left me. So it's just you and me. So, so this is one of our donors.
He's, he's a seed donor of sorts.
Tell us what this stud, what, what kind of genetics is your husband donating?
Oh man, I got like, so I got, I mean, a few bags that I just pulled out of my stash.
Kind of my breeding material stuff from multiple breeders. But I mean, I grabbed a lot of stuff
out, some rare packs. I got some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some,
I mean, I grabbed a lot of stuff out, some rare packs. I got some Russian Kush from Dying Breed.
It's super rare. Just a lot of stuff that I kind of planned on popping eventually. But I mean,
you know, that eventually it's not now and Leo could use our help right now, man.
I'm kind of broken up over this. Just, I think we all are for the most part, but
I grabbed a lot of good stuff. Just stuff that I've had through the past, I think four or five
years from multiple breeders. I got some Secret Society, Soul Fire seeds.
I'm not sure, are there? I would ask somebody else. I'm not too sure on that.
So no, we don't have a nonprofit, so they are tax deductible. I'm going to pass out some of my new
gear as well. I got some Danky Dankster, some rare gear from Red Scare too. My homie Nathan.
I just got a lot of stuff that, like I said, I was going to eventually pop, but I mean, it's rare.
We got some Mephisto Forgotten Cookies and I'll pull some stuff out from my little seal bag as
well. It's like my private stash that I kind of hide away. So I'm going to dig deep and offer up
pretty much what I can so we can get this money started. I mean, I really hope we can meet this
goal and get them out, man. It seems so memorable, we need more. So lessons learned, let's just get
to it quickly. And just to toss in, we don't have a PayPal. PayPal is fucking on us, man.
I know they've got on me about a year ago and they lock your money up for six months and then
you're just done. So most people are having a hard time with it. Basically Venmo is the best thing we
have. And so the other thing is for people who win stuff, who don't have Venmo, as long as we
have your contact info, we can try to figure something out tomorrow. But I think it's night
times of the essence to just crank through a bunch of packs and raise some money. Peter,
Kenny, Gip, who's he? Lencho, sorry. So what do you guys want to start with, Josh?
Where's Cascadian? No, I think let Rob just go for it. He knows the drill and has it down. So
I'm here with pen and paper. And Dark Horse, I thought you were supposed to come on with us.
Yeah, Dark Horse is going to come on here in a little bit. He's got some stuff.
And I'm going to start digging deep. So let me look through a few things. I mean, any requests.
I got CBD, CBG. I got tons of old stuff. I mean, old exotic gear. What are we going to get into?
I think let's start with a Russian Kush, honestly. I mean, this pack retailed for about 500 and it's
extremely rare. Died and breed seeds, rescue fish, sealed up. I mean, let's start at it.
Who wants to call it? Man, you got to name out. I hate calling them out because when, you know.
I'll go half on it. 250. Let's start at 250. There you go, 250.
And we do need Cascadian to monitor the chat because I don't have technology to monitor chat
here. Where did you go, Peter? I don't have any view of it whatsoever. So
I'm kind of flying blind. I'm here. Good God. Yeah, let me text him to see if he's.
Whatever you do. I'm reading. We're already at 400.
400 right now. Okay. So what are we going to keep this going once, going twice so we can go once?
We usually do like, we've been doing a five minutes, but we might need to move a little
bit faster. I don't know. I think so. Two minutes, one minute.
Yeah, I think two minutes is fine. I think we're good.
Two minutes, one minute. Yeah, I think two minutes. Let's do two minutes first. Let's
just get stuff cranking out. Yeah. Cause usually it's the, it always ends up being a bitter war
at the end. Like it bumps up to where it's going to be. And then there's a bidding war
after you've already ended it. So I think two minutes we'll start it now.
I'll just, I'll run timer until we get some help. We're fucking professionals here.
It's always like this though. Go fly by the seat of your pants. Shit.
So good. It's good. I think this is how we kind of live our life for the most part.
Yeah. And so just while we're, while we're doing this one, just to remind people,
cause someone was asking who came in late, basically the $50 a pack is a mystery pack.
Josh will put it together from the regenerative seed co, which has a bunch of regenerative
breeders. It'll be worth more than you'll, you'll get way more than $50 worth of value, but
just wanted to get something going. And
do you have a link for that? Yeah. And, but let me just, so Kyle is currently, can everybody in the
chat help me? Oh wait, we got Jamie Clifton at 500.
It's worth it for sure. We have one minute left.
So that's where to go. You can ignore the, the Celtics,
the shamrock shirt. Actually I can show everybody.
All right. We're at 30 seconds. Where's the bid at?
500 so far, I think was the last one.
Oh, sorry. I'm the only one looking at the, yeah.
You're the only one that can see it.
Here comes Nick again.
Yeah. We're still with Jamie Clifton at 500.
Five seconds.
Someone, just quickly, someone asked for background on Russian Cush.
Two.
There's no information on it that I can find. Honestly, I've done some digging. You got to
contact them specifically because I sent him a few messages and got no reply, but I wasn't able to
dig up any of the lineage on it. Unfortunately, it's, it's super hard to find. So I'm not sure
and got no reply, but I wasn't able to dig up any of the lineage on it. Unfortunately,
it's, it's super limited and it's just something that they didn't put a lot on.
I would suggest maybe Neptune. They might have it. Or like I said, I've tried to send
Dying Breed a few messages, but I haven't heard anything from them.
Yeah. And Evan said Dying Breed is fire genetics. All right. So we had our winner was
where the hell did you go? Jamie Clifton, right? Does everybody agree that?
500. Yep.
Okay. So yeah, still 500 Jamie Clifton. So Jamie, if you can, good God.
Jamie Clifton.
That's Jamie. And where are you?
Can you post up the link to the Venmo again for folks?
Yeah. Let me just, so Jamie, can you email me? I just posted my email address and then
Shelby, you can confirm that this is
the right Venmo.
Does that look right?
Josh, let me double check.
I'm verifying.
Josh, Shelby dash shy and a N N E. That looks correct. And I believe Shelby was in the chat.
That's tough. So that doesn't mean anything.
He said, yes, messages. They're going to try to make a PayPal.
A friend or something. So,
Okay. All right. So two things, one, sorry. And that was who, who won that again?
Jamie Clifton.
Yep. I got the wife taking notes. She got the name.
Nice.
Nice.
Good God. You are
Between three of us, if we, we all be able to decipher it, hopefully.
It'll happen. You'll get your stuff. We promise.
All right, well, let's get it moving to the next one then.
Okay. So just quickly. So Jamie email me Peter at future cannabis project.org. So we have your
contact info Venmo, Shelby dash Diane, and let's get onto the next one.
Okay. So Jamie, you can confirm that this is the right Venmo.
Shelby dash Diane, and let's get onto the next item.
All right. So I'm going to do up two packs of soul fire seeds. He's a local breeder up here
in the Northwest. He produces insanely terp stuff. Mine player. We'll start with number one.
It's going to be double tap cross of why you jelly heavy yields, tall bush. I believe it's a
six pack sealed. And then we have a, another one of a 12 regular seeds, black banana F2.
And so this one's the number 28 that he handed to me personally. So I believe the other ones
are actually fem seeds. So we're going to do a pack of mine player fems and then black banana eggs.
So we'll start these at a hundred two packs. So again, black banana F2.
I can get it. So these come as a, as a pair, right?
Yes. Correct. Yep.
Okay. Got it. So it's one auction item in my spreadsheet.
And what do you want to start it at? Or did you already say that?
$100.
That's so cheap.
Well, just bring out the money. We got a lot to go through. So I'm going to say,
I'm going to have some lower ones and then I'll also have some higher bids as well from some
rare stuff. All right. The bids are coming in. Whoops. Junkies going $5 higher than the last
bid. At least go in $10 increments. 156. Yeah. We got to keep it up higher. Keep it moving.
All right. Bubble Boy currently in the lead.
We've got mine flare, which is double tap across the why you jelly
60 day flower time. Fragrance is bubble gum gelato.
He basically calls it an immensely mine altering strain with unique bubble gum gelato flavor.
You can expect a fair amount of stretch on it, but it's still a good stretch.
Fair amount of stretch on it, but it's absolutely icy.
Evan said he saw some local guys watching the soul fire and it dumps.
So if you're a hash maker, this is for you.
Jamie, Peter at future cannabis projects.org.
Yeah. Good point. 15 smoke away. I think mine always defaults to top chat and then I don't
know why I don't see. There we go. That was a helpful pro tip from 15 smoke away.
Jamison Welburn at 170.
Jamison.
And then Black Banana Clinic is going to be a Blackberry Kush Crossed with Banana Fire Cookies.
So expect very grape undertones with banana cookie turps as well.
What do we have so far for the beds?
We got Jamison Welburn at 170.
Okay. Jamison is in the lead.
I'm sorry.
Welburn. I think it's going to take a bit.
I'm sorry.
I'll let you do your thing and I'll do mine.
Those two right there.
I'll do those.
Yep. That's correct.
For 170?
Yep. That's what's at so far.
Now we got some rare stuff in here.
Man.
So how are we going to do this after this one? Just like alternate options or
I've got a couple of stuff people have messaged me to put up and then I've got a bunch of my
own personal stuff I'd like to throw up.
Yeah. Let's do that, man.
I got to kind of sort through some things and I'll get some packages set up.
All right. So we got Jamison Welburn at 190.
Right on. Go, Jamison.
I'll do those next.
After next turn.
We could go for Day's Office.
That's super rare.
Man.
There's just some old stuff in here.
I know. I haven't even looked in my stuff. I'm just going to grab stuff.
That's kind of what I'm doing right now is I'm like looking through and being like,
damn, I actually have that.
Yeah. I hope people appreciate that this is all with like no preparation.
Oh, yeah. Literally just grabbing my seeds and sitting down and here I am.
If anyone has any requests.
I think we're at 190 with Jamison Welburn.
All right. Sold.
All right. Jamison, that was a steal.
So that's the first one.
That looks like Jamison.
What?
That's Jamison. So we're calling that one, right?
Yes. That one is done.
That was 190.
So Jamison.
Let me. Good God.
All right. There is the Venmo.
And then my email is Peter at future cannabis project dot o r g.
A bubble boy asked, will there be any cuts available?
I don't think so tonight, right?
Yeah, I don't think in this platform, that's probably not the best option.
We've done it before, but.
If somebody allegedly I'm not going to say no, but I myself know I will know.
Someone asked about cash app. I don't think we have a cash.
I don't even know what that is.
But PayPal is in the works.
OK, so I was I had to step out.
What was the last bid?
The so far stuff.
What did that go for?
One ninety one eighty one ninety one ninety.
Yes.
Interesting.
She said she had a deposit for one fifty.
So that matches with neither of the two.
Well, at first I thought it was one seventy.
No, it said it was one Jamison.
If you are the depositor of the one fifty, please make yourself known.
Yeah, please do.
Or is that just a random donation?
Maybe it's a random donation.
But that's cool, too.
So Dark Horse just got home.
Right.
You know, you want me on sitting by with a pile of beans.
We're just going to rotate.
We'll switch it.
Oh, yeah.
So I'm going to throw a pack of Capulet's gas and a pack of his granny Mac.
So that would be
a two separate seed packs.
Capulet's gas and granny Mac.
So just quick, so these will be two different auction items.
No, this is together, one auction.
Okay, alright.
Start to stop at 300 seed packs or 200 a piece, I believe retail.
I don't believe you can find these.
I don't think any retailers are still selling these.
Um, but the uh Capulet's gas and granny Mac.
What are y'all doing at five minutes?
Sure, two minutes.
We're a loose a couple minutes.
Couple minutes.
You think I should do this together?
You think I should break them apart?
Y'all tell me.
Which one do you just throw them up together?
We got a lot of **** to go through.
Yeah, that's what I was kind of.
That's all I'm doing multiples.
Alright, so what do you want to start it at?
$300.
Okay.
I got $300 on that.
Do you? Say it.
Yeah, you can bid bro.
I'm bidding on one of the auctions I was in before so.
Well $300 for me if somebody wants to put it down.
Well Tommy Tricombs matched you at $300.
Welcome Tommy.
Hemp in Ireland at $500.
I'll say $600.
I missed on the introductions.
When they point out to Leo.
Regardless of the situation here,
Leo is the first person to help when they get trouble.
I got love in my heart for this guy, man.
I mean just a genuine good dude.
So that's what this is all about.
So it's not only just asking people to give.
We're trying to throw seeds back for people helping.
But really we just.
I mean it's all about trying to help somebody in any situation
that everybody else would help out in.
So yeah.
Yeah and I see people offering to donate packs.
If you just want to email me peter at future cannabis project dot org
because we probably won't get to him tonight.
But for future stuff that's kind of also the idea of creating
like a platform where you can just put stuff up.
Instead of having the one by one auction items.
It may require forming a non-profit.
That'd be horrible.
I mean it'd be great to have a non-profit.
I mean that's a bitch to set up.
Yes.
That's what that's that's exactly.
I don't think anybody does anything different.
I did this rescue dogs.
This was a nightmare.
You had to get lawyers and everything involved.
I've got I mean it was a nightmare just just to rescue dogs.
So.
Where we at on the.
What what did what did you bid?
Seattle chronic.
Where we at six.
Why don't know.
I think what did you verbally bid six.
Yep.
Okay so you're bidding six.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yep.
Okay so you're at 600.
So yeah somebody has to beat the 600.
And this is the Capulator.
Nick tell us what it is again.
It is Capulators of gas and his Granny Mac.
Two separate packs.
I don't recall what the what the lineage is on on the gas.
It's just all fire.
I mean everything Capulator test amazing.
I mean everybody that knows this at this point.
Okay so so anyone want these you got to beat the the $600 bid from.
If one of the auctioneers is bidding $600 you know it's it's worth more.
And it's for a good cause.
I mean we got to find together and get Leo out.
So.
Good.
Do we have a picture of Leo that I can anyone have a picture that I can pop up.
Send over.
I'm texting with Shelby and she's on the phone with him right now.
I just sent him sent over a picture of you guys all on the thing.
I guess you won't be able to see that.
You don't have probably don't have iPhones in f*****g jail on dumbass.
The s**t people smuggle in right.
So it looks like you may be winning it at six unless someone steps up.
I mean it's a donation for it.
I can send it over.
Yeah.
Is somebody anybody send a-
Oh we got it $650.
I appreciate it.
It's always that weird feeling when you're in an auction when somebody out bid you.
It's like damn it and then like yay at the same time like yeah it's kind of back and forth.
Like I didn't want to spend that much but also don't know.
It's not me it's the wife.
I'm like somebody else.
Yeah she's sitting here saying yeah.
No it's for a good cause.
Yeah.
I miss Seattle, New York City.
I got much love for you homie.
Okay and just quickly this is...
That's him with your dad right?
That's him with my dad just less than two weeks ago.
Leo we had an issue out here and I needed help.
I was having medical problems everything else.
He jumped on a plane flew out here instantly and that's him with my dad out there.
Both rocking their Swamp Boys hats and it was an extremely...
I don't know how to even say this that when you need help and a guy
1,300 miles away jumps on a plane and instantly flies there to help you.
It's a very humbling situation and that's who Leo is and that's the reason we're doing this.
Okay so should we call it at 650 for...
The guy who is currently leading is telling me to call it.
Yeah we'll go ahead and end it and call it for him.
All right we'll give five seconds anyone want to top 650?
Okay let's see.
Three, two, one.
All right 650.
If I wasn't sitting beside you you'd have been like 675.
I can see it all over your face.
All right so hemp northern Ireland.
Shoot me an email peter at futurecannabisproject.org and then Venmo.
Shelby who's on standby.
Waiting for your payments.
All right so I got another one I can throw up real quick.
Okay.
This is a donated from a homie here in Michigan.
Hot Rod F2 and we'll do this all together one single lot group whatever.
Hot Rod F2 from Dungeon Vault Genetics.
Driz Nipper from Exotic Genetics and Summer Breeze from Swamp Boys.
So three different fire ass breeders.
We'll start that off at $300 and kind of go from there.
So we've got a Hot Rod F2.
Exotic Genetics, Driz Nipper which was a mother was Sherb, father Cookies and Cream
and then Swamp Boys Summer Breeze which lineage is a mother was McFly, father was Orange Blossom Trail.
And then the Hot Rod F2 is Motor Breath number 15, the Grandpa's Breath.
I'm pretty sure I saw a dude from DDG who's a great breeder say that he wasn't doing the
Hot Rod anymore.
I may be wrong on that but I'm pretty sure he already made that last drop of seed so.
Get them while you can.
So if we start, what I say like $300.
Alright so $555 Genetics is at $300.
$555 Dutch or Peter, Blockchain carries his gear.
That's a fire breeder from Maine.
He wanted to jump on here, throw a bunch of seed packs on for the auction.
Let's send him a link.
Yeah, Noddy got lost on the auction.
He's got a bunch of seed packs.
He's got a bunch of seed packs.
He's got a bunch of seed packs.
He's got a bunch of seed packs.
He's got a bunch of seed packs.
He's got a bunch of seed packs.
Noddy got lost in translation and I apologize there and we got to get a link to Dark Horse too.
Why?
I sent.
Got you and I was supposed to get one out to $555 and I forgot all about it.
Can you just forward the one I sent you?
You can just forward the link you have.
Okay.
Yep.
I don't have his phone number.
He's here.
Okay, so we're currently we're at $300.
And this is for how many packs?
This is for three packs for a Hot Rod F2 from Dungeon Vault Genetics,
a pack of Drizz Nipper from Exotic Genetics, and a pack of Summer Breeze from Swamp Boys.
Mr Toad said, Nick, I sent you a DM.
I had to take moms to the doctor.
So check your.
I got like 356 unread DMs.
You're pending follow request on Instagram that I have actual followers.
It's just crazy.
What was the last pack?
The two packs you put up?
What was the last pack?
What was the last pack the two packs you put up? What did they go for?
And what were they Nick the last two packs?
I put up calculators gas and grain Mac and they went for 650 to him Northern Island
Ireland
this is a
Swamp boys summer breeze
Exotics drizz nipper and
DVGs hot rod at two and I'm a avid swamp boys
Grow and didn't know this summer breeze when this guy sent to me. I
Cannot bid on any seeds though
You're just saying to Leo's Leah was she was on the phone with Leo and he just
Said thanks. Thank you to everyone and hello, and you know
Big love that deal you right back man holding strong
Constantly
Well, we need that we need the high rollers to come in
And we're still stuck at a so Alex yes, and that is
Go there for the
$50 mystery pack that Josh gave us
Mystery pack that Josh is gonna lovingly put together starting tomorrow
Man, I got a ton of stuff like that. I can put up man. I mean all kinds of stuff
I'm there
I mean, I've got so much shit that I can't never go through all of it in a lifetime let alone the stuff
I mean right so if you make a $50 donation you will be a part of the
Right now that's the best my point some of it will be like
Other people
Yeah, I have tons of packs I can throw it for donation, too
So I mean if we get to a point where we're getting a bunch of $50 donations
I mean, I'm more than willing to throw up my own
Shaking out the bottom of my bag
That I didn't
This is and I mean for good causes like this is what this is all about so yeah
We still at three on this a pack of hot rod f2 drizz nipper and summer breeze
I believe so
Yeah
Yeah, that someone said that retails for more than 300 that is true, you know
That's the Howard I'm yeah, I got those right here
Here we go, we got all right starting to move
320
murder breath 15 cross grandpa's breath I
Remember I got a bunch of stuff from him
Bobby two shoes
There we go
Yeah, no, basically we slap this together last minute and whatever it is it'll be
You're donating to something good and you will get more than $50 worth of value. So
Sometime when I'm looking through this stuff, I'm just like jeez. I wish I had more time
I wish I could take a break from doing my own shit. I know
350
Welcome home. We got some basketball players in the house now that the season's over
All right, we got 10 more seconds
And Nick, why don't you tell us? Can you tell everyone what the three up Bobby Bobby two shoes? Can you just round it up?
It's a for dungeon vault genetics hot rod f2
for exotic genetics drizz nipper and
for summer breeze from swamble
I
Don't know anything about it. Yeah exotic genetic stuff. But as far as DVDs on boys
I mean, I consider DVD a personal friend
Love swamp boys. I mean all
Bobby is outbidding
Yeah
Yeah
Bobby does shit like me. I'll buy the same pack of seeds already have but not even realize it, you know
Can you post the link up Peter to both there's a PayPal now and an event mo yeah
That so let's should we call it
Bobby got it
So that's Bobby two shoes unless someone else
Speaks now or forever holds their peace
Okay, and that was for 380, right
All right, so Bobby if you can email me Peter at future cannabis project
And I'll put the links up
All right, so first we have the Venmo and let me create one for the
PayPal but why don't why don't you guys get the next pack up going and all
I'll be right back you guys. I
Will front load the pack that I'm gonna do later on
They're like the guys that go to the bathroom when the check comes to the table. Look at both of them right now. I
got us
It's not a pack. I've got a
Luminar Scott a luminar lighting donated a
ILW LED 60 watt cone light
retails for 145
Retails for 145
nice LED cone lights from a luminar Scott
we start that off at like a hundred bucks and throw in a
seed pack with that
I'll throw in a pack. Well, you need to ship that all together. Yeah, which I guess he would ship that
I
Just quickly Josh the I tell packs what were those someone's asking
TK
M10
the m10 TK
cross with
Platinum pie f2
TK m10 cross bottom bias
All
Right, Johnny, I don't know what your issue is but you're
Yeah, Johnny what's
You're all aggro
Who is this? I don't know. It's a guy in the chat who?
Okay, so sorry what what's the current so there's the PayPal
There is the Venmo and
If you just want to donate 50 bucks and get a seed pack go there
Yeah, Johnny will be back
account I
Can't believe people get that much time
I can't believe people get that much time baked beans canna seeds asked if we can bid with cash
Maybe next time I
Alright so Nick what what's um
So we're throwing up from a luminar lighting from a luminar Scott. He hit me up. He's got a
LED company light company
Is a LED company light company
ILW LED 60 watt cone light they retail 145. So it'd be one of these lights plus I'm throwing a pack of a
Mean jeans a ghost OG Sky Jaro
From 2019 into this so we'll start this off at a
$150 for LED clone light or and a pack of
These
Seeds I bought at the regenerative seed company or at the regenerative seed seminar
Whatever, you know what? I'm trying to say out in Humboldt back in uh, I guess that was February
When they had the conference out there, so I'll throw these in on this a luminar LED 60 watt clone light
And we've already got Greg H at 160 there so
170
And a luminar Scott he'll ship the light out directly. Oh, sorry Ryan Hanke
And I'll ship out the seeds but it'll be responsible for the light I'll be responsible for the seeds
Like it we have Richard Rubio 250
Dark horse now the popcorn is starting to pop
So a pack of ghost OG Scott Jarro's from
from freeborn
and a luminar
LED 60 watt clone light with a
retail 145 150
60 watt clone light so
You know, we'll let that run for like two minutes and call that yeah Andre Foster you're going backwards we're already at 250
So currently
What's up dark horse
What's good? Can you guys hear me? Yeah
beautiful
The Spanish glove is in the lead at 250. What packs are up right now. Sorry to me minute to get logged in here
I've got a
luminar Scott threw up a 60 watt clone light and I threw a pack of a
Freeborn selections ghost OG Scott Jarro from this year on to on top of the light
So it's sitting at a what'd you say 250 right now? Yeah
Greg went up to 260 I
Hear BK roller in the house BK rollers downstairs. I bet he'll make his way up here. Yeah
It's weather already dropped for you all in Colorado is it cold as hell out there right now it's a
hot and cold
Yeah, some days are warm. Some days are freezing fucking cold
But yeah, BK roller just walked in the building. So my bill to come he's got a case in his hands
My man is carrying a case which can only mean one thing. There's a fuck ton of seeds in there
He's about to get real in here
I talk what up everybody. There's a BK
What's up, homie? Oh
I got some more minging gear. I'll throw up. Don't you worry. This is a big tab to get him lawyers
I'm making sure it's met so
What's up BK roller
He's not quite plugged into headphones yet Nick, but I'll as soon as he is
I'll let you know do the technology or you know, he's not much of a technology man, but
Once he gets unpacked, he's got a dab rigs kits. You know kind of shit. He's got a setup for
There any Pam going up today
Family tree seeds I heard him reach out to
To Dutch blooms I can't talk on that. Yeah. No he said
Yeah, he's still wrapping up at work, but he
Yes, there is some Pam a
10 pack of nympho f1 multi male pollination regular seeds hot sister Pam s1 crossed with Munson stud
Pam stud never released but currently working stock
Run
Indians are allowed to bid
so we are
out on time
Yeah, we should be calling this isn't for a thing of ghost. Oh, you can call Scott Jaro and for
an Illuminar
LED 60 watt clone light
with a retail of 145 150 so
On the light the seeds were different so they go together
So I don't know who's the top bidder there. Well, we have Richard Rubio
If I correct if I'm wrong, but he's at 275
Let's give that like
Seconds frame by the counter. Let's call it there with him. Can I drop a big dick on him after this? No, I'm not
I'm not gonna do that. I'm not gonna do that
Let's call it there with him. Can I drop a big dick on him after this Nick?
Brother
All right
Much love to you guys man, and that's what I love about this community
I first met met, you know dog course through Leo and I mean, it's just people helping out people
So we gonna call that with a Richard Rubio in the lead yeah
Ricky Richard, where are you?
Yeah, 275
Alright, I'm gonna drop a big dick on him real quick Nick. Is that cool? Yep, you do it
I take my heads off headphones off for this one
I'm giving away this whole fucking thing of seeds. I don't even know how many seeds are in this bitch
We're gonna do it all one lot. I don't it doesn't need to be thousands of fucking dollars. Let's just go
I'm looking at you in the chat green machine
CG Benjamin Dennis Richard
Urban site Rob Roberts. Mr. McGoo. What's in here? I don't even fucking know tons of fucking shit
We gotta put this on a longer time frame because I'm gonna get on
I
Everybody should post this on Instagram
Okay, so Wow like thousands of dollars with this shit here's some fucking
Gray school, I don't even know what's in this bitch
Let's see
Rados
Rod genetics shit. I've never even released super quiet shit
Man, what else we got here some dying breeds and dark horses. There's legit fucking I
Don't know. This is stuffed under my bed for a good six
Almost a going on six years. This is a fucking massive collection. I have another suitcase full of other fucking shit
I'm never gonna get to this shit. So let's fucking give it all away
All right, let's get the guys going I don't even give a shit
Pop on and say you guys hear me. Yeah
I was just I hopped on the phone with Leo. They did that we did a three-way and
Yeah, he just sends all his love to everybody and
He just you know kind of was furthered to like, you know
Do everything we can to get out the get out the word because it's a big fucking haul
He's a he's he's in like solitary confinement right now and kept away from everybody and there can't even
They're only allowing him to make calls at 10 p.m. Type shit like last night
So he can't line anything up and it's they're just kind of being bastards about the whole fucking thing
and so he was he was kind of feeling like
You know like it's on you guys, thank you so much team, you know type thing and I just kind of reassured him that you
know, we got his back and
We'll do what we can to raise some money and you know, and keep keep it together emotionally in there. So
Just want to share that with you guys
Okay, so
This is a big drop. So I'll post it on Instagram right now
Just reiterated to followers like hey get on future cannabis project now
you know like like with all this because that is a
Lot of seeds
Are you saying you're bidding in 2000 are you saying there was a bid for 2000 get it going
Can you verify?
Whether you're bidding in 2000, that'd be a good bid. No, so yeah, I just keep listening
Secret Society van Helsing
Okay
Two packs ocean run ninja smash. It's a dark horse Hulk smash
Bunch of shit, you know what this is
Fuck is this Wilson to something blue. Oh, that's a Masonic. Okay ghost genetics vulture instinct
Purple Nepalese that just people give me shit it shows
They walk up and give me shit because I work the booth or whatever they're like, yeah
I really want you have these seeds and I always come back with a pocket full of just shit in a vial
I have no fucking idea
What I really who wear what how purple Nepalese this shit's probably fucking amazing. I
Travel all over the world. So those these seeds could be anything can errado genetics here some Nigerian
next red tie oxygen in mint cookies femmes
This is just the first auction lot that we're doing. I got other seeds here. There's special shit should I've never fucking released. So
Yeah, but this is just get it. We're fired up. Let's fucking go. Let's get it going up increments of a hundred
I don't give a shit. But yeah, we're currently at
1300 13 is not bad. We could do a little bit better. I agree
I'd say there's probably around
five grand
Maybe more there. I say I don't want to tap the whole room out. So it's cool
I say we got more shit to go. I just want to come in drop a big dick on him real quick
Let's get this going
Likes to big dick
Yeah, the purple bush that's true but we got a lot of stuff to go through right now I
Don't know if you guys get my sound effects, but
Just the video. All right. Is that OBS?
No, I'm running some action you cam live
But I have multi five six cameras and I can we can switch around and do some shit
But why we're we'll give this a few more minutes because I want to move on to the next show
I'll keep it going on a carrot
So in 1300 let's keep it rolling for new exciting shit
But I got a moment on here on my fireside chats. I would like to say one thing about this deal with
Leo I know Leo I've known him for a long time
He slept on my couch many a times
Leo is one of the few good dudes that I can count on one hand in this fucking industry
Maybe two hands now, but Leo's a solid dude and there's a couple things. I want to point out again
I'm not I don't know all the facts
I don't I know very little but I think this case is potentially really important and there's some things I want to like again mentioned
Is I know the for a fact that Leo has been trying to do a legal license farm for a while
This dude wasn't hiding anything he was literally asking to do a license farm
You're talking you're looking at a guy who started a dispensary in Denver, Colorado with 2,000 bucks and three lights
And I was as mom-and-pop as it gets and Leo is mom-and-pop
He really is a genuine mom-and-pop and he was trying to do a mom-and-pop in this area
And I know that for a fact so I
Also know for a fact that just recently he was essentially after a two-year long process if not longer
Changing a couple addresses everything else. They had to go through all the bullshit that takes out there
He essentially was denied his license just recently and then they red tape the grow or the red tape some shit up and
Essentially told them no, I think he was appealing it
But the way I understand and Bill you might be able to speak to this a little bit
But I understand Cali was working was really fucked up because your regulations aren't aren't there yet
So a lot of these farms are being told I know it wasn't this way at NorCal where oh
You're okay this year as long as you have your permits in place or your you know, you're gonna be legal
We're gonna allow you to have the gray area and the gray space of this year to do your thing
But as long as you have your paperwork in, you know, I don't leave I had all this fucking paperwork in
he was trying and what this looks to me like is a bit of
Big fucking cannabis because if you look at this the people who actually got this merit-based bullshit licenses out here in Southern, California
It's gonna be big fucking money dick fucks and I'm sick of that shit. It shouldn't be big money dick fuck
It's like what the fuck's going on should be mom and pops and if Leo would merit-based doesn't get him fucking through
And then I'm calling bullshit on this and another thing that I want to call bullshit on again
I don't know the fucking facts, but I
started MIP lab in Denver, Colorado and
I bought it took me over two years to get my license similar to what this guy was going through
I bought my my MIP lab equipment well ahead of time before I had my fucking license. I had a MIP lab
I had a closed loop at all that shit sitting in the garage in my house for years waiting for the license to come now
I don't know where this closed loop was. I don't know if it was used. I don't know if it was dirty
I don't know if it was saran wrapped in a fucking crate in the backyard
I don't know shit about it
But for the guy to have a closed loop with aspirations of doing a fucking legal operation in the future
It's not shocking to me and when it was talked about the the weight that was you know publicized in this media
This fucking weights ridiculous. I don't know what he had
He might had a couple hundred pounds or whatever the fuck they were saying
But how often does the police come in cut everything down throw it on a fucking scale?
Soil fucking stocks wet as fuck three-quarter times the fucking weight that it is way maybe that soil
200 pounds was only fucking 10 or 20 after you fucking actually dried it down this and lose 75% of its water weight
I don't know. Maybe it was packaged up and I'm talking out of my fucking ass and they got him
But at the same time, you know
This the news stories were sensationalized to me and it's bullshit and we will talk briefly about the shipping shit
Also, like what the fuck is this? You're gonna say this dude was shipping carts all around the out of the country internationally
I'm gonna call bullshit on that because if it was an international case there would be
Feds there be postal inspectors
There'd be all this bullshit what they more than likely found was evidence of a fucking seed bank and a seed bank is legal in
This fucking country it is hemp seed has no THC
Therefore by definition this seed has no THC you can sell this motherfucking shit anywhere
I'll stand by that you can also you know, like here's the deal is
They're gonna try to sensationalize it into some big-ass fucking thing and play FBI in your local PD jurisdiction
I call bullshit if you had that evidence, this would be a fucking international federal case
It's not an international federal case to my understanding at this point. So I call bullshit on
International drug smuggling fucking ring bull fucking shit
This is a fucking seed bank that sells seeds online
Just like Walmart does and Amazon does I could pull up a link right now to Amazon seeds and or Amazon hemp seeds for sale
Nutritional supplement. There's absolutely no distinguishable difference between that seed and the seed that's in this fucking package
We got it like a gremlin when you fucking get this seed wet all of a sudden now
It may be illegal depending on your jurisdiction and what you're doing in your plant counts and everything else
But you can't call this fucking illegal because it ain't so with that rant over
In the
Hearing today they did reduce the bail from what was publicized like 2.3 or whatever
It was to down to a 1 million and his hope was that he that with a good lawyer by Friday
He get a new hearing get it down to something reasonable that we can get around. Absolutely reasonable
Yeah, that's at a million is still a hundred thousand or a hundred thousand just to get out right does
Leo was he offered bail because I know he was the one that was stuck in there and we can also talk just real briefly
What the fuck do they rest his family for has absolutely fucking nothing to do with this shit
Anybody that was sleeping on this dude's couch is now a co-conspirator
Because I'm his friend was a skateboarder couch surfer. What the fuck is he doing in fucking jail right now his father
He his father wasn't running that shit. Give me a fucking break. His father didn't have a ton of money
He was fucking living there, you know
Again, uh, you know, I'm not gonna say and go out on an entire limb and say that you know
I don't know all the evidence. I haven't seen the discovery. I don't know fucking anything really yet
But I know Leo's a good fucking dude
I know the drug war isn't over and I know what's going on all over California right now is a bunch of fucking bullshit
We need to raise a little bit of money and stand up
What would piss off this fucking bullshit?
Prosecutor more than us raising this fucking money and shoving this shit down his throat with a fucking excellent legal team
Challenging all of his fucking witnesses challenging his fucking Oh search warrants challenging all the fucking evidence
Let's figure out who these fucking people are. What's what P eyes on top of all these fucking investigators?
We know these guys rob every girl they go to let's get this shit documented and turn this shit around because it's fucking ridiculous
I've had enough
There's a shit ton of seeds
Make a couple bids. Let's move on the next one
Dude you said everything that I feel in my heart. So I'll just thank you for saying that. Yeah. Yeah. Well said dude
You went with nothing and I went with everything yeah, yeah to the extreme bro
Man, I haven't had a place to go get my hair cut during this covid shit. Like I mean so you can come up here
And trim it up, baby
Let's move it on next one boys, I don't keep selling slinging some seeds here where we at right now on this one
I've already done it to you. I'll do another one. I get extra hundred for that passionate speech
Maybe we might have lost track of the bid. Yeah, you know where the bids at does anybody got this bid?
I
Think I think it's at 1300 13. Well, let's fucking wrap it and move on to some special one-off shits
Want me to keep going?
You just got a seal
long
Alright, so goat I'll deal with you if you can email me Peter at future cannabis project org. I'll post that in the chat
Let's move on to the next and neck just quickly. What was the
Thing went for what
Rubio
Richard Rubio, I just got the name. I didn't get the price man. I shit. I'm sorry
Richard
Okay, so everybody in the chat Richard. Can you remind us what you did?
Goat farmer. All right
Dark or back to dark horse. What's the next one? I do another pack real quick
This is actually I'm kind of amazed I'm doing this one, but hopefully this brings some fucking hype
But this is it doesn't even have a seed pack because I just how you just store my shit. See if I can
This is fins. This is
Six Juliet times GG one and GG one was when I was in working with gorilla glue strains and GG one has never been released
to the public
So I'm gonna do this one
So
Yeah, this is a chance at something literally you can't get fucking anywhere else
Juliet is a Cindy 99 times NYC diesel from John Lee Pettymore off the overgrow days a legend
He was sort of like Johnny Appleseed
So it's fitting that he's attached to this giveaway and the GG one is something that you've never been able to get
RIP long wadi and Josie Wales, but yeah, let's fucking bid these up
Start at 50 bucks go up 50 bucks at a time or whatever. I guess you guys are already ahead of me go for it
What was a nice start
Yeah, I've been on with cat and she's got some packs to put up later and
she wanted me just to remind everybody that Leo and Josie were like pretty pretty tight and they you know,
Yeah, one thing I want to mention to
Regarding this case as I think it's important because I think this case will potentially
set precedent as far as seed banks in
even potentially America because if this turns into a seed bank case as far as
legalities of seeds in them in shipping and stuff like that
I just I really think that this case could be potentially extremely important if it goes the wrong way
This could be the end of seed banks as some people know as you know
Literally, this could be the end of seed banks as we know it in the States if this goes the wrong way
If this goes the right way
You could set precedent where this shit is now fucking done deal
We can do whatever the fuck we need to do as far as selling seats
So I think it could potentially be a landmark fucking case
I think people should pay attention to it and support it if you give a fuck about you know
Buying seats because I think it's important
All right, let me see where I think we're still at 300
Jerry below at three
To the chat, I think there's a difference between the mark Emory situation in this situation being as
Mark Emory was in Canada and kind of openly
Advertised in a magazine in the back eight pages for seed sales
Although I think mark Emory was completely fucked in a railroaded but that was a federal deal if this were to go to federal court
It would be the exact same precedent as mark Emory. You're exactly right. This has already been precedented in federal court
but we're not in federal court and
Local precedents mean something in states last local jurisdictions
I lost my lighter amongst all of this
My wife has I'm sticking to her legs when she gets up
I
Think he's looking pretty sex you guys want to move on
I'm gonna speed raising money unless you want a bid war. I'm down for that
So should we just call this at 350
Give like 30 seconds for somebody to top that unless you want to speak now forever. Hold your peace
That was 30 seconds looks like Sunnyland Rose got that
All right, so Sunnyland row
I'll post
Damn I forgot all about these
You want to give away some BK BK up?
BK is up
What do y'all want
Dude I got shit that's never been released say between all of our collections
We probably have a little bit of everything if you do want something specific, maybe check shout it out in the chat
We'll see if we can't find it for you. Throw it up. Yeah, you better man. You want fans you want regs?
You want autos? What do you want? What flavors do you like turps?
Let's start off with something killer
God is as fast as dark horse mood moves in as slow as BK moves
That's like two opposite ends of the spectrum right now
Balances me
Mikey mr. Colin in life motherfucker
Got some scum packs, that's what make sure the ones trades
Pain management autos
Someone wins or CBD dominant. I have CBG autos CBD
Hey, I've been doing CBR
And that is a conjunction with my THC are
I think it is really
That's an alien star dog
What you got BK yellow if you and your slow ass skip me and my slow ass I ain't even got
Quit
Well, I don't think you can get these anymore but it's not a full pack it's
There's only four left in the vile click this but they're Tony Clifton's you put on smoking
Yeah, we have a couple hash requests so stuff that yields well
And then I think we have everything we have reg, you know feminized autos regular
Along with that Tony Clifton we're gonna in honor of I don't know if everybody got to see that that ass whooping that mr
so took but
in honor of that we'll throw in a
pack of killer Queen
from Brothers Grimm
Sorry, so
Right now we're
What what's up right now because people are bidding and I totally miss a Tony Clifton
And killer Queen. Yeah Brothers Grimm and cult classic the Clifton's only a partial pack though
for seeds
Very rare seeds. Yeah, they're rare. You can't get them shits anymore. No, I
Think that's mostly what people like on these auctions and shit. You can't get anymore
It's mostly what I have. I grabbed the wrong fucking case
I've got three cases and I just grabbed the one that was on top without looking and this is my personal case
This is like out of all my seed collection. These are the ones I don't want to get rid of
I'm on that call. I'm doing my bed sing
I think you kind of put up two very unpopular people's packs the checks gonna
Are they?
That was kind of intentional, but you know, I can't just give away the stuff you don't want
Let's go with the goods
Package all that up together for a camera who won that but that's like a pound of seeds coming your way
That is a
And for those who can't afford the auction items
What's the website again for the $50 donation, yeah
Scrolling across the bottom look at those skills
Crossed it's the hazen impact out there as well
I
Crossed to the cube
From beyond top show
Rest in peace
Rest in peace brother
You absolutely cannot get this fucking pack
And this is one pack that I really really wanted to fucking pop myself, but this is what I'll put up next
I
It's just a light over in the right corner not on the left side it's like we're the other
Back corner
All right, so what's up right now
I'll add that to this next this next pack will combo it
Yeah, this is a kitchen sink number one you want to talk about plant that washes
Kitchen sink number one to Thanos, which is my new shit
Read that very well, but I promise it says soldier serum
Someone was just asking about that. I saw that so there you go
Where we had it where we had on this bid or this auction are we wrapping her up?
Unless the chat tells me that I missed someone who
25 deal that's 125 going once
130 we're back alive
Now 139 130 now. Hey 139 139. Hey, come on now. Yeah, and can we do $10 increments?
Not $5 if you want to top that not 135 140 as you said there's a lot of people that are
135 140 as you say, there's 135
We'll count that we'll count that got it in for I will still take it
All right, Tyler
Should we give it to our man a city what so just quickly what was this again?
This was Tony Clifton for seeds in a in a Brothers Grimm killer Queen
10 pack. All right, let's give it to
Tyler all right Tyler you got it. So
Just got blasted by Bill's torch
You got the ASM headphones on or something
All right, your next pack was what was your pack, okay
Yeah beyond top shelf beyond top shelf skittles to the cube skittles to the cube
Super soldier serum comboed up
scope
skills do it
Watching this and watching in the comments
Just to let everybody know that this is going on
Get the viewers up get people in there that can bid on this is all for a good cause
It's all going directly to Leo and to his family and to Mike
And
Someone was asking how many packs in the in the $50 donation
We'll throw two back
in the
impacts
you know
Acts in the 50 pack donation
$50
Okay, so what what's up right now
Beyond top shelf
Skittles to the cube and
Super soldier serum two packs in this it's on the auction block right now
This is a 12 pack from the dark horse
and
Not sure how many seeds are in here. Hey BK. You know me Caesar in here
It's a 612 10. Let me see. I think it's a 10 or 12, but it's not listed on here
But it is fun open pack plus
10 plus is my guess my best guess. All right, we got a
$250 opening bid
Again you won't find that beyond top shelf because Jimmy passed away
Daz Mephisto just walked in and decided to drop a shit ton of packs on the desk
I don't know how long we're going but we got fuck tons of packs here guys
As Mephisto just walked in if you end up a festo genetics
It's like 10 or 15 of them just plopped on the desk. Let me grab those shits
Yep
So this is what you were just talking about right this this could set a precedent
Yeah, this comment. Do you think seed banks can run safely after this or do you think they're a point of interest?
My lawyers and as far as legality, I mean they wrote the fucking farm bill
They did this and that pretty much wrote it wide open for seed banks. I mean there is no THC in the shale of
Marijuana seed as long as it is shut down out of the calyx
So that should be legal
as far as
like dark horse touched on this this is
This is a very important case for that matter because I don't believe this is about Leo's growth situation
I believe it's more about after them going in and seeing all the seed things of that nature
So, uh, do I think seed banks are safe right now, I don't know man, I think they should be by law
I mean they wrote the law
with the hemp bill, so
I
Think we're gonna gonna get a lot clearer definition very soon as to whether or not, you know
How they want to proceed with this and I do believe this
That's the only way I can answer this this point
That touch on it a little bit. I think I
Think seed banks are operating more scared than they've ever been at the moment only because
It's interesting
Not overseas. There's been a recent development with Dynafim who was a giant distributor overseas
operates out of Spain where seeds are legal and
It was probably the biggest seed distributor in the world and this is just a few weeks ago where they have now been
Placed in some legal hot water for some reason or the other which I still haven't able to determine why but that was significant hit to
international if not worldwide seed distribution and
Shortly after that we run into this why I think they're entirely unrelated situations. I think that I
think that
we
Ironically in a lot of times are more educated than some of these people who are trying to bring these cases
Because we're cannabis experts we travel the world selling seeds I go through TSA
Every time I fucking go anywhere with seeds in it and the TSA puts a little card in there and they don't give a flying
Fuck because it's not illegal and you know, we we traffic
Yeah, we we work in seed at such an extent that
It's very common to us
We're used to it
And when we go to a trade show or we talk to an official or even sometimes the police a lot of times
We're much more of an expert on the actual law than them
And I think that they might have been twisted here
Or like I say, I think this situation was tried to sensationalize for headlines when they saw shipping packages and they were like
Oh this guy's this guy's trap star and I think it's quite the opposite in what's actually happening here
And but no just to answer the question and after that long worded answer
I do think seed banks are a little bit leery
but as Nick said, I think that they have the rights on their side or the law on their side, but
We shall see there seem to be trying to challenge this shit and that's what's going on right now
It's what's kind of like the medical day
It's like there's a little bit of this thing and we figured a loop, you know
And they just haven't figured out what we're doing and it's unregulated
Essentially in there. They're gonna want to regulate it. Hopefully they just
Do like they should have done with the weed in the fucking first place and just
Regulated the people that were doing it instead of making this crazy other program
You know
So we're we're currently at a
300 from Luna Herman
Should we anyone you got 10 seconds?
And you want to tell them what this is again? This is beyond top shelf
skittles
Skittles of the cube. Yeah, it's called Z starfighter
Starfighter
Super soldier serum kitchen sink to number one to the Thanos from Dark Horse sounds like some Nazi shit. Yeah
Is this our fighter and Z super soldier serum? Yes
All right
Let's call it at 300 Luna. Hit me up Peter at future cannabis project org and then
if you either want to Venmo or
PayPal all post both of those in the chat. So, all right, what's next?
Let's go next
Rare exotic stuff. So I found a pack of meltdown. It's from and I don't even know how long ago
Orange crop is starfighter f2
It's been in a climate controlled storage for quite a few years
And then we got some Miami Heat burners a freebie on this one
But essentially it's going to be for the orange or super exotic pack that you can't find anywhere
So I think we'll start this one off at 300
Everybody got quiet
I'm still trying to breathe
Man this packs worth at least 500 bucks, bro
Big deep everybody come on 300 two packs
Gasoline zest from compound genetics
It's half a pack half
300 there we go. Homie. Thank you. I appreciate that
So we got the orange cross with starfighter f2. It's an old pack from like
2017 I think maybe
Miami Heat another older Miami Hayes cross with triple og sativa dominant
and
Then we're gonna do a half pack of
Gasoline zest from compound genetics
That's thrown in as the freebie
Damn
So Christopher Robin 350
If anyone else is talking I muted you guys because we're getting some echo. But if you want to talk just unmute yourselves
Christopher you look like a deserving dude. I
Think compound just dropped back to 800. So yeah, I mean
That's crazy we need a hype man we need next a game on the
Hey, you should grow this shit man, I guarantee you get weed
If you don't know what the fuck you're doing it may not earn if you know what you're doing, you know
So if you grow it though, you will get weed, you know, some of it will taste great
Some of it will not taste as great, but it will all taste better than the Mexican brick
we smoked in the 1990s in early 2000 so
And that is definitely worth some money, you know and in the back when you go to sleep at night you'll think hey
I help some dude get the fuck out of jail while COVID is running rampant through jails and
Everything else and I helped out the whole industry because like dark horse touched on I believe this is gonna be a precedent case
And it's not just Donovan. You had some issues with the other
banks in America speakeasy
Only situation right see company situation karma situation. I'm gonna touch on it. I'm not gonna act like it didn't happen
You got a lot of shit going on right now and in the seed game. So
Making sure that Leo is protected in everyone's interest outside of being a good fucking decent human being so
Buy some seeds at great deals right here. You're not buying this on any seed bank at this
Price and most of the shit that's put up right now. You cannot find anywhere
so
Where is the link for the $50 donation? I don't know but I got tons of free on the bottom
Dagga, I got that love
We just reminded
The firefighters it's a super old stream that you're not gonna find anywhere else
I mean the orange is something that been long killed off
He doesn't even work with it and then starfighter f2. I mean, we all know that screens pretty fucking legendary. So I
Haven't ran it myself. It's been in my collection for a few years. Whoever gets it gets to run it man. It's gonna be
fired
Thank we're at three
Yeah, I don't have a keyboard so I can't type it in 500 dark horse, all right, so gasoline
Jet-fueled gelato
So
Josh some of this the second time someone asked how many seeds are we gonna put in the $50 pack?
There'll be two packs to 10 10 seed packs to 12 piece seed packs
It's gonna be a mix-up
You know, it could be a bunch of stuff for me
Could be a bunch of whatever I'm just gonna dig through and pull stuff out Nick's gonna donate some stuff
Sunny Lang grow who was on here one a bit. He's gonna donate some stuff. He's been doing some cool work
I've got a bunch of people DM and me that they're gonna donate so I'm just gonna put some put together
You know some good seeds and get some stuff out
So so basically anybody who does the $50 is gonna get two packs
Two packs
Correct, okay
To ten 11 or 12 packs whoops
That's the mystery packet
Someone's
Where we at?
Hold on, I'm just...
Nobody's trying to mess with my 500?
Yeah, you're at 500.
Let's do this, Jack.
Come on, I'm looking at you, Jack.
Come on, what the fuck?
Let's go.
Tasty Worm, I'm looking at you.
Fair Dinkum Australia, I'm looking at you.
Bill, Sid.
Nicholas Russell.
Actually, Josh, the other question that people keep asking is, Josh is going to be super
diligent and meticulous about labeling each pack that gets sent out.
You motherfuckers.
Well, yes.
Go to...
I'll make sure...
If you're getting two packs...
Obviously, if you're getting two packs, we're going to know what they are.
Before I was able to just send out one pack because everybody knew what it was, and I
just did a fucking...
I'm not going to have two packs today.
I can't go fucking figure it out, dude.
Maybe I will.
Just joking.
They'll be labeled.
Look, I even got myself a cute little fucking label maker.
Oh, fuck yeah.
You're going pro.
Alright, so should we call it at 500 a Dark Horse win?
And again...
Can I go with the next one?
and
Yeah, 500 sounds good.
Let's keep it moving.
Is everybody else getting that like delayed?
Yeah.
And it's repeating.
All right, let me.
All right.
Okay.
I don't know what's going on there.
Yeah, somebody speaker does have feedback.
I have no idea.
All right.
So let's so who wanted to go next?
I want to go next.
All right.
I got an exciting.
I'm going to.
Do we deal with the feedback?
Sounds like we did.
I got a freeborn selection packs to put out that are really exciting.
It's the root beer, the root beers.
It's not the root beer, but it's probably as close to the root beers you're going to get.
All right.
Sounds like it's going now.
I dig in my text here.
And I think it was Seattle chronic who is doing the feedback on that one.
So, yeah, I got.
And it's a, it's a GMO cross root beer back cross crossed onto a root beer.
There's a lot of root beer in there.
And if I was someone that was dying for root beer, I definitely want at least two of those packs.
And I'll repeat it again.
It's GMO cross root beer back cross cross a BX to a back cross to.
All right.
I was going to start it at five.
I'm at five.
Started off.
All right.
Thank you, bro.
I 50 on that one for sure.
I was going to start it at five.
I'm at five.
I'm at five.
I'm at five.
I'm at five.
I'm at five.
I'm at five.
I'm at five.
I 50 on that one for sure.
Yeah, I have a couple more packs, but I think we need to do at least two together, you know.
Thanks.
Green Machine 600.
Your wife is awesome.
Seattle chronic.
She's over here.
I can hear you whispering in the background, which makes me keep looking to see if my, my, if my wife is doing a good job.
She's over here.
I can hear you whispering in the background, which makes me keep looking to see if my, my, if Shannon saying something to me, but then she going to put on YouTube.
I love you, Seattle chronic.
That's awesome.
So, don't be junkies.
The address that's on the ticker at the bottom of the screen is where you go for the $50 packs.
All right.
So, we're at 600, right?
You should go up for sure.
It's not like I have a lot of these packs.
So, I have 10 total.
So, this is two of them.
And I might have to just get a few of my own.
Yeah, I don't know why the feedback is so low.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
Yeah.
No, I would appreciate that.
I'm not sure why the feedback started to kick in.
Hold on, let me check, check, one, two.
All right.
I can hear myself.
All right, we got 650.
All right, Nick, you want to hype this one up?
Yeah, let me see.
Do I want to hype this one up?
How do I hype this one up as Tupac is gloriously behind me in the background?
I don't have this much money as T.
I'm gonna hype this one up as
Tupac is uh gloriously behind
me in the background. Um I
don't have this root beer. I
have been chasing this root
beer for 3 years. So, no, I'm
not gonna hype this up.
Whoever gets this **** pack is
gonna have something that I've
been chasing for an extremely
long time. So, um I hope you
get it. I hope you enjoy it. I
hope you share it with
everybody. Um two packs. Two.
$20. Yeah, dude. How much is
Simon's chemo treatment this
month? I'm about to cut the dog
out of chemo treatment right
now. Like it's not no, I'm not
bidding on no uh no hype but
this the root beer to me, I
smoked it one time and it was
um it was everything I want in
marijuana. It's like Coca-Cola
in marijuana. Um so, I I don't
know what the profile actually
is but um the root beer is
beautiful. Um crossed into one
of my favorite strains. Um I
would figure would put uh a
little bit of uh you know, a
stringent turps into that root
beer which will be more, you
know, me and Jack or me and
Gina talked about um you know,
finding bourbon turps in in
marijuana and I think putting
a stringent into something that
um the root beer turps will
kind of go more bourbon. Um so
it's an exciting pack for me
from from that development um
because I do hunt that bourbon
profile in marijuana. Um the
root beer is going to be about
this will be about 10 weeks
too. You know, yeah. How long?
Ten.
I'm going to go. It's like
someone might have been a
thousand in check. Might be off
a little bit. There we go.
Scott Martin at $1000. Um All I
know is that that it's not
hype. That's a whole different
like direction that like, oh,
sorry. I didn't mean to cut
you off. No, you're fine, man.
It's just not hype. **** when
it comes to the root beer and
uh the the the just beautifully
done strains in in the Turk
Department. Um it's in the top
three best marijuana terpene
profiles I've ever had. So, um
whoever gets this is going to
be really tickled and that may
be Scott Martin Scott Martin at
$1000. We should give it 30
seconds and you should call it
Dutch.
Let's call it $1000. Just
quickly. The cross again is a
GMO cross uh BX root beer onto
a BX two root beer. Okay. And
of course I lost uh Scott
posted this thing like 800
messages ago. Uh what was it?
Scott? What? Scott Martin.
Scott Martin. There you are.
Alright. Anyone want to do
1020? Or is it going to Scott?
Going once, going twice. No,
Tommy, you can't go backwards.
Tommy is at 700. Alright, Scott
Martin, it's yours. Uh at
1000. Send me an email and I'll
post the uh Venmo and PayPal
and what's next? I don't know
but when the Dazma Festo stuff
pops on there, I'm the hype boy
for that **** right now because
yeah, let's do that. I got
stories from this summer. Um and
I am uh wait. We have are we
going to let that one go? Green
machine. We had a sniper. We got
to snipe. We got a sniper
action. I don't know. We call
that. We might have to let that
one go. We got 50 bucks.
Brilliant. Snipe in a 50 bucks.
I mean, maybe if you could come
in at like 1500, maybe you
better use a typo. Should we
give him 20 seconds to adjust?
Well, well, well, well, let's
move on. We'll move on on that
one because we gave that too
much time after we called it.
Um just the ethical thing there
but um if they want, if they do
the Misfesto thing, I I want to
get on there and hype boy the
**** out of that stuff. So, uh
you guys want to do it. You
want to do it? You want to do?
I don't hear you. Yeah, we're
on. You want to do um like a
whole lot or do you want to
break it into two or three, you
know, to help. I mean, some
people can't throw up huge,
crazy money and I know um so
you break out into three lots
at 2 minutes a piece and just
fire that off. Let's do that
in. Alright, Sam's Ranch OG
seven feminized seeds. Uh
Grape Walker Kush seven
feminized seeds. Uh uh uh uh
seven feminized seeds. First
lot going up. Otto's Otto's.
It's huge. These **** are so
hard to get. You get on like
especially seven. You don't
read it and see how **** like
crazy these guys go over these
**** things. I grew that this
summer. I have always talked
**** about autos about 15 years
years ago, I ran autos. I said
never again and then about 8
years ago, I ran autos and I
said never again and then when
I got sick with all this Lyme
disease tick **** and I
actually met uh Daz Mephisto at
uh Dark Horse's House with Leo
um back in the day and he sent
me a bunch of autos and I still
thought this is a **** joke and
I uh watch videos on how to
crack them like because I know
autos are different. I want to
crack them and I actually did
it the opposite way. I started
them. I started them in solo
cups for seven 8 days that way
because I wanted to use them as
cover crop outdoors for my big
plants. Oh, the joke was I mean
uh I posted pictures on uh IG
any of the guys that followed
me. We killed it on these. What
was it? 1213 auto plants we had
outdoors that we pulled three
and a half pounds off of 1213
and a half pounds off of like
autos that were three foot tall
um and the turp do what? Yeah.
Shannon said they weren't even
that tall. Um the turp on these
things. Um my favorite was the
uh Wizards Apprentice uh the
Zama Express and the Kim
Delicatum. Um there was gas on
that one and that that how do
you say that? Zama Delics
Jack Heritage. I'm a fan of
Jack Heritage. So, uh I like
that. Um I was stupidly
impressed with that. So, then I
ran them again outdoors and I
let them get big. I didn't give
them no no space. I pulled uh
thirteen ounces off one Daz
Mephisto plant outdoors and I
did it in 71 **** days from the
seed cracking. Um it looks no
different than my anything else
anything else smokes. No, I
always hear those. Well, how's
it smoke? How's it smell? It's
**** fire. That's how it smokes.
That's how it smells. I don't
know what you **** terpene
review profile that fire ****
reefer. That's how it smokes.
So, it tastes good. Smoke's
good and if I put it in a bag,
you ain't gonna know it's
anything different than
anything else. So, um we
probably had 2 minutes on that
first story where we had on
investors had some beautiful
seeds. Six 75. My damn. Yes,
sir. That's all I talk. Like
yeah. Once again, for the last
minute bidders, this is
Mephistogenetics, Auto Flowers,
Sam Squanch OG, Seven Feminized
Seeds. Uh cream day like him
seven feminized seeds. Grape
Walker Kush seven Feminized
Seeds Mephistogenetics. There
might be more seasons ****
because methi, you know, if you
know what meth math is, that's
shit to all their seed packs so there's probably more seeds in here than seven
but yeah that's the first lot of first lot of them a festo genetics we got
another lot coming up right behind it 675 looking good you guys want to call
it let's call it twice ghost farms up next on the Mephisto drop this will be
four packs Walter white seven feminized seeds tooth decay seven feminized seeds
Kim doggin dog is that right Kim dog you know Kim do GG ing Kim doggin and hubba
bubba smell a scope come on now gotta want that shit but second lot Mephisto
genetics Otto flowers and I concur with everything that just said I thought
Otto's were complete router Alice 12-inch doofus dumb shit and asthma
festo single-handedly fucking changed my mind after I saw his genetic saws plants
you would never even know that you're smoking Otto's or looking at Otto's when
you look at his plants they're three four-foot monsters this shit I assume
everybody on here watching knows what an auto is but you don't need to change a
photo period this will auto flower and finish no matter what you have going on
in free light cycle outdoors great stuff check out Otto's how does it come
a long fucking way yeah that Walter white is what I pulled the 13 ounces
off of outdoor was the Walter what yes sir and that does also has a side
project or isn't maybe call it his main project now which is night owl genetics
which just did a drop I don't know two weeks ago and that dude is literally
buried under a mountain of orders right now and took the time to come over and
drop some packs on the desk so shout out to Daz because he literally hasn't even
I haven't seen the dude in a week because he's stuck under a pile of
orders but night owl seeds are fucking hot hot hot I snagged them I snagged
some from the drop I'm not gonna lie hey shout out to Daz cuz I know he supports
people and I mean that's just that everybody's got their own different kick
that's my kick the the real medical aspect of this situation and I know Daz
truly supports that stuff so actually everybody on this panel right now
supports true medical and supports helping people so shout out to everyone
that's involved in this everyone that's been involved in and this is personally
helped me through all my medical situations through the tick journey and
everything I go through but it but it's tons of people and and that's the type I
hope that everybody even the YouTube comments stops and realizes that these
are the type of people you should support when you buy seeds from any seed
bank whoever that is that the guys that they give back and help in this
community because seed breeders are a dime a dozen
hype game is a dime a dozen and everything else but genuine true people
that help people and realize that and even see the bigger picture hell and I'm
just keeping it real right now somebody may not like Leo out there it doesn't
fucking matter this this case probably directly involves so much more I mean
Dark Horse touched on it on this is this is going to involve seed games it is
going to you need to be pro everybody I mean like be proactive look I want to
make sure that dude walks in with the best legal representation that he can
have and just to bury this shit and I understand what that is I got popped in
2003 shit 17 years ago I had gateway Galbraith has an attorney in Kentucky
when the judges step down to shake your lawyers hand before you even step up on
the case that stuff matters I mean it really matters you know the proper
representation you know I went from facing 40 years to 15 to pleading guilty
on five and that's just based off lawyer representation then so please remember
while we're doing this stuff and in the type of breeders that are putting this
stuff up and we're not hat in hand like hey just help these people out with
nothing all these options like we give you something for helping it if people
are throwing up seed packs people are doing this stuff I'm just begging people
man this shit hurts my soul right now this dude is sitting in fucking jail
with COVID running rampant with poor circulation and ventilation in
there got this dude locked up in solitary confinement locked up his daddy
and his fucking brother man and Mike he sleeps on his couch I'm just saying guys
like uh this ain't even about buying fucking seed remember while we're doing
this shit and I'm emotional over his shit Leo is a good human being so I
don't know I'm sorry I got sidetracked there I don't know where we're at on
this auction but um you know man I you know people that follow me understand
what happened a couple weeks ago that people broke into are legal completely
legal cannabis grow and robbed a good portion of it Leo called me like yo I'm
coming out to help I didn't respond to him so we just messaged Shannon like I'm
on my way that's the type of human being this is so you know I'm gonna call
that uh whatever the numbers is on this auction we need to throw up more seeds
because I'm gonna let everything I got go whatever I can do in this situation
we probably have to do this multiple times this week so this isn't it tonight
if I've got tons of messages from breeders wanting to donate shit we just
got to get through it all so man I'm sorry I got off on a tangent there
because we are throwing up see no good but we got a fucking remember what I
was gonna say I think you're good Nick I was gonna say that dark horse said he
was gonna throw up on his Wednesday night show I'll let him speak for
himself but he mentioned being down to throw some support Wednesday night on
his show let's wrap this auction up which I think we're at for hundo so go
go ahead and your last minute bid well you want to get this good yeah I don't
know if that guy was saying he was asking if he could do cash but we're not
doing cash right now so can people the people who bid earlier just put their
bids up quickly because I didn't realize that though or Robert Roberts if
you can do PayPal or Venmo then let's see sorry what what are people bidding
on right now yeah sorry this this lot was tooth decay Walter White Kim doggin
hubba bubba smell a scope each pack with seven seeds which has more seeds
with meth math in it throw your bids up real quick and move on again Otto's
really hot packs are really hard to get so hot right now and as to what you guys
were talking about as far as doing this again last thing I want to do is come on
here and promote fucking anything but every Wednesday we do a live show and
twitch YouTube IG live and we will do a telethon type thing on our show this
week to try to raise some more money you know beyond just the legal
representation there's a lot more at stake here you know we need money for
this commissary commissary is everything in jail especially that fucking jail
that jail ain't no picnic down there going to jail in Southern California is
not fucking an easy deal so we need certainly any money for commissary
there's absolutely no one to make any money to pay any bills for this house
you know that is their family home so there's a lot a lot more writing on it
than hey let's just see if we got a good lawyer this is going to be a many year
journey that these guys are entering into and one other thing I want to say a
little bit off topic but Nick got a little emotional they're talking about
Leo one thing I would say is they got these guys solitary confinement and I
don't think anyone's touched on it that Leo's brothers on the spectrum and I can
only imagine how difficult it is to be in that environment you know on the
spectrum we need to get that guy out you know he has jack shit to do with
this shit so let's get that dude out as fast as we can yeah yeah so what I got
back in late January from spending some time in Humboldt running a farm out
there and my my neighbor Sean shout out bro he's got a thousand that he wants
to give up to help support so Sean you're free to you free to bid on seeds
man or you can go direct to the go fund me either way like you know we all
appreciate the support everybody's putting up great shit you know seeds
lights those luminar lights that that was put up like that those are the
lights that we use to grow so you know they're they're not bullshit lights and
commercial wise so somebody got a steal there or yeah they did they got a pack
of fire seeds and a badass girl like to crack those seeds a luminar Scott is a
good dude if you want to support a good company alumnus a very very good company
somebody gives back to the community I have Lyme disease and multiple other
tick-borne infections and you know he knows about that stuff he's dealt with
Lyme disease and every show anything this dude walks up he don't want a
handshake he wants a hug that's what I'm talking about when I talk about
community we build community here this is about community you know the people
all all everybody on this panel are breeders there's not ego here there's
not nothing it is I saw mr. toad on here from boneyard seeds one of my favorite
people on the planet you know lost his leg he's a medical warrior he's on here
bidding seeds when he himself is trying to get money for a prosthetic leg Tony
talk about you know that's community this dude needs a prosthetic leg he's on
here trying to bid seeds to help somebody get out of jail I get off on
tangents on this shit man I mean I'm very emotional towards it everything you
know the drug war the war we're in with police thank you baby you know the
medical aspect the fact that Leo's brother is on the spectrum in sitting in
jail to me right now is a raging to me in every aspect the fact that Leo's
father is there the fact that they've got them all in you know isolation is
only because they're trying to get in every one of those heads individually
make them break on each other and everything else I mean Mike just sleeps
on this dude's couch the whole situation is is not okay and as a
commuter pro skater man yeah Mike is a professional skateboarder you see videos
of him doing crazy-ass shit on a skateboarder all the time it's just not
about seeds guys I mean it you know we it should just be hey go fund me and
everybody just taking care of this shit but the community is trying to rally
around it so it's an important shout out to everybody doing this that that's
the the companies and businesses you should support and there's a lot behind
the scenes doing things and done things with the other auctions I know dragonfly
earth medicine was sharing this stuff a lot of people have got at me in the DMZ
and we will get to that this week like it will take multiple options but uh
just remember while we're doing this shit so somebody else throw some seeds
up please I think we can call it a sue Macias at 300 so sue I'll put the the
PayPal and Venmo those are your two options so for people offering cash
right now I think at a future one we can do cash but I think just for simplicity
tonight just if you can do PayPal and Venmo you can bid so what's next I have
a little bit more autos if you want to wrap the autos all up so Daz who I know
is listening obviously was moved to come back up here and drop off more fucking
shit so I'm gonna compile this into a mega fucking auto drop real quick it's
okay if it doesn't go for fuck ton of money but let's he say just brought a
bunch of night owls up here so now I have a fucking handful of night owls in
my hand I got a night owl beanie that he came up with so let's get the beanie
going with some Royal stomper zam Delco Express that Nick just told you the
fucking shit miracle berry now check out these packs there's nothing written on
the back they're white right well you got to use the super secret decoder pin
this is a light flashlight but it'll come with a decoder pin you shine it on
there you can't see it for shit but trust me it's revealing a secret message
on this pack it says word-of-mouth trade bait gumball wizard white stomper v3 all
that shit together with to wrap it up a little bit more Mephistos sour stomper
orange diesel three bears og and double grape this is ridiculous amount of seeds
thank you guys this is probably worth two three thousand bucks and you
couldn't buy them anywhere if you try so shout out let's kick this off let's kick
off the auto or let's wrap up the auto portion of the giveaway 750 I'll turn it
off at 740 all right I'm emotional game for a minute and back on my hype boy
shit here to any outdoor growers I rock these this dad's Mephisto gear as cover
crop for my regular Fino's outdoor this year and I got the idea from the
regenerative cannabis project one of the seminars when a dragonfly earth medicine
was talking about doing hemp as a cover crop for their marijuana plants and so
I put them out this year not thinking anything about autos and stupidly
fucking impressed and the Zemdelka Express and the Walter White were my two
favorite but you can I mean even if you don't do this indoor and you did this
outdoor I'll touch on this is the perfect plant in the world for gorilla
situations this is a this is just an overall perfect a lot of seeds to pull a
lot of different weight and you don't have to do much work I posted the
pictures out of our beds we watered them once we never fertilized them in the
outdoor beds and I think the first ones were done in 67 days the longest were 72
and that was the Zemdelka Express however you say that shit with my
hillbilly accent but this stuff produces I mean you'll see it so anybody who gets
this is getting a steal of a deal I don't know what we're at right now if
it's still 700 that's ridiculous 820 820 hell yeah let's get it
yellow hammer I love yellow hammer genetics dude sent a lot of salves and
medical products for me while I was fighting surgeries man I would run this
stuff in a gorilla situation like a like crazy I'm just saying in my gorilla
situation that means legal legal to anybody listening you know I would I
mean it just it does its thing it's done so fast 71 days outdoors what you're
avoiding there is you're avoiding more time you're avoiding more pest issues
because it's done quicker more molds mildews we didn't have I only had one of
his plants have any mold issues and that was bud rot on the lowest branch that
was touching the ground because like I said I use it as cover crop plants so it
was it done amazing I posted pictures gauge green group up here in Michigan
had an event I went to organic cup and I gave away four ounces of that shit to
everybody that was just walked around passing out the auto flyers because I
was so stupid stupidly impressed with it that I wanted guys to experience it to
not to quit talking shit about autos just like myself because it was a
humbling experience I talked shit about auto we all did about auto flowers until
I ran his gear low rider do you ever grow low rider I mean I haven't grown
the low rider he sent me more and we ran him out second term but I've got to get
some to run indoor after the situation that we had after the full-term harvest
but it was just easy I ran two of them indoors in the bedroom with the
mother plants and left them to fuck alone and in 70 days they were gone one
was four ounces one was six ounces and that was literally not even even mess
with so I don't think people know the work that these guys put into to truly
put these type of lines up and pull off something without the type of work you've
got to do on all the scrogging and bending and all you need to just put
them in ten gallons and leave them the fuck alone and you know reap the rewards
in 70 days for you lazy ass people out there this is perfect for you bid now
get a bunch of weed back later 70 fucking days after you crack the seed so
real quick I'll run down the packs real quick if anyone interested in bidding
one more time so this is a mega mega night owl Mephisto auction block bid
or upper bids here we've got let's see sour stomper one pack orange diesel two
packs three Barrow G three pack double grape fourth pack white stomper v3 fifth
pack Sam Delica Express six pack royal stomper seventh pack miracle berry and
secret packs gumball wizard and trade I already lost count how many fucking 11
10 something like that and a hoodie or a beanie a night owl seeds beanie so I get
in on this mega drop you couldn't like I said you couldn't buy these anywhere if
you tried right now nope shout out to death all right so I think yellow hammer
genetics has been steady with the top bit at 820 so let's call it at 820
yellow hammer genetics I'll post the PayPal and the Venmo and what's next I
got a few of you guys don't mind go for it yeah so get some some top dog here
some star dog and I'll do that with the ghost OG lime pop and then a couple of
live vine crosses to a tangy lime vine and a doctor who I don't know what
started off like maybe 150 so that doctor who is a great strain for
washing oh yeah that's well many times a lot of it recently it came out so purple
is really cool looking at homegrown natural wonders yeah you got it
od that's or not od a sunny no OD my bad god my brain shit at the moment but uh
yeah that's probably his most signature strain most famous strain very well
known no it's awesome yeah the ghost OG lime pop to is no joke that's outdoor
rock star with that one and it should be pretty high test that's a freeborn
selection those ones go for pretty high anyways and just quickly for people who
can't or don't want to bid in the 200 300 500 thousands you can go make a $50
donation at the link below that's scrolling across your screen and you'll
get two packs hand-selected by this man right here and diligently labeled so you
know what you're getting we do get some some pop luck seeds from top dogs table
on there too who knows what those are but I'm sure they're pretty good at
stardog f2 should be nice $5 packs again never cheap no crosses oh shit ready to
go all right it keeps coming in
luminaire mm-hmm they they want to throw in another 600 750 watt HPS or metal
high-volume lamp of their choice you want to tag it on in this auction or do
it separate do it separate news shout out to Scott would you another like come
on up next yeah yeah he's in the chat right is he I believe so all right well
why don't we should we go rapid-fire should we just call this one at 320 or
do we want to oh we give this a minute I was just reading a text as it came in
sorry so this is the killer deal like right now what did you say it was at 320
that's like the PR the retail price of that one pack the the lime pop so we got
a lime pop times ghost OG we got a star dog f2 from top dog and then we get two
lime vine crosses dr. who and tangy all of these bids only at 320 come on it's a
steal yes he on to still 350 in there okay chef Alex are you does that mean
he's bidding a thousand there we go if he is chef Alex can you confirm that
that means you're bidding $1,000 that's more appropriate I mean I think we might
be approaching retail for what's there but you know it's not about retail
you know put yourself in that's in that cell we can imagine a little bit with
all this bullshit that's been going on there's been a lot more isolation for
all of us but okay damn yeah Tommy try come sitting at 360 if that's not a
legit bit there snakeskin salad 375 so continuing oh yeah no sorry that that is
higher than the last one all right well chef Alex if you're not
bidding it's just confusing when you throw a number and we have to spend time
figuring out of your action so just please don't throw numbers out of your
not bidding it's confusing love to see it keep them coming for hundo a little
bidding war action here we got a we got a bidding war that's Tommy try comes
really wants it 420 but chatter Bob is not gonna let him have it let's see
mono we mono here he's like 420 bro that's a number that you know so I can't
read that far away 430 he's coming to he's come to play to this shit's getting
real now we got three bidders fighting and they each have their fan club cheer
your horse for your favorite horse there is gonna be some most wives
tonight 100% I'm calling it there's gonna be some hidden bank statements
next month they'll be pissed off so pissed off it's worth it guys finding
that unicorn don't worry about a mad wife my wife is leaving me tonight
chatter Bob I pity for pity I had to put headphones on this snakeskin salad yeah
we know we know how you guys are I'm just like you just like you 550 and
still climbing who wants it who wants it I think Tommy try comes might a big
dick them all and that's it who needs a wife when you can grow fire
fuck I didn't see that 900 900 there we go now we're talking it's equivalent to
three hours of legal work let's get it going guys that's like no I think that's
nowadays it's like up to three emails all right should we call it should we
call it at 900 Luna give the other two bidders like one minute to respond think
about it you know do they really need to pay that rent do they really want this
back because you know you want the seeds that's what I'm screaming like you know
900 that covers like the like three packs way to show up Luna appreciate
that love definitely all right should we call it
no one's going twice sold yeah all right Luna as a previous winner you know the
drill so what's next who wants to go who wants it oh we're gonna do that
light actually yeah let's let's throw up that light that Scotty just so graciously
informed me of you know I mean BK
luminar Scott he messaged you or is that you talking about the one I already put
up earlier no he just he messaged me you put up a like a 60 watt right oh yeah
yeah yeah he wants to throw in a 600 750 watt HBS or metal highlight lamp of the
winning bidders choice sponsored by luminar they're putting that shit up and
Scott he's making it happen which he's real good at doing as well you know
what's the yeah what's the light luminar 700 or 600 750 watt HBS or metal
highlight lamp of their choice let's just get a visual there's a expensive
light yeah what's the retail value on that Scotty he's pulling it up on the
internet for us here I believe so a question is it is this one just for us
or because people are all over the world I would imagine this is gonna be a US
only because I doubt he has all the cords and sockets and for all the
country and all the different countries in in play so is this a fair
representation of one of the lighting options yeah that looks to be I think
there's a 315 yeah so he said it was a 630 bill 670 it was a newer lights 600
750 600 and 750 600 slash 750 that's what I guess it's switchable okay that's
news to me news to me tell me wrong Scotty you can feel free to correct me
I'm just reading 600 to 750 possibly yeah 600 to 750 okay and we have hate
and rage at 375 35 get her going I use these lights I use the 630s in the
warehouse Luminor sponsored us for a room and gave us on a 30-something
lights I also sponsored my one of my breeding rooms and I love these lights
the 630s are right as fuck yeah they I will say the resin production on a 630
is the CMH is insane like if you're going for extra acts you should really
use in 315s or 630s yeah ceramic metal halides is definitely the way to go for
producing hash how does everyone feel about a we got 440 hate and rage I feel
like you're I don't think anyone else is bidding but I like that you're I've made
plenty of seed under Luminor lights so two thumbs up for breeding purposes
yeah Luminor is a great company Scott's a great rep he's worked for every
lighting company there ever was it seems like you know is all the players in the
game and yeah if you didn't know almost all grow lights are made in China from
the same factory with a different stamp and it's kind of a bullshit market but
there's a few leading people in the light business okay I can't hate and
rage are you actually doing these bids or are you trolling right now because
you're the only really a fucked up thing to come on here guys and start fucking
with an auction that we're doing for charity so if it's not your thing you
know we kindly ask you to exit but if you are serious with these numbers we
appreciate it but yeah you know this we're not we're taking time out of our
days to do this we're all busy people so if you know if this is some bullshit
we don't we don't appreciate I'll speak for everybody but if these are real
business and let's keep it rolling guys but I hate and rage can you confirm that
your 460 is a real bid can I jump on here real quick and just add some seeds
to this light because you need seeds for a light so and I got some extremely
fire ones here that I have permission to release and they're extremely special
they're bred by Mandelbrot's widow so I talked to her I can this is the royal
sour f4 that I'll throw in with a luminars light if you don't know
Mandelbrot you can check out the legend of him on on on here on YouTube the GW
smoke break did but I will throw in some of these are roll sour f4s that his is a
widow did and she kept it uh she kept it going so I'll they'll be 13 in that
pack and I will add to this this particular light in this light is a like
I said I got love for a for Scott he's a good human being and good person so get
some some real bids in there and get to get you know make sure that it's not a
troll and we'll kind of just go from there I just substantially changed the
game on this auction are you kidding me seeds from a living or a legend that has
passed on I mean this is ridiculous this is something that you should be your
mouth should be salivating for this shit right now and that's been took into the
f4 I want to point that out that those are the been taken to that for so if a
light and seeds I mean there are certain times I'd have broke my leg over this
deal so many to start the bidding over on this one we can't get confirmations
but throw them out let's get it going again guys this is a crazy deal so you
got a light plus the seeds and this comes from the Nicosio family reserve I
don't know if you all can and see the packaging produces handed to me
personally so roll sour f4 this is a there is legacy behind these seeds there
is heartbreak and hurt behind these seeds when Mandelbrot passed on Ariel
was that's completely game-changing to her and she kept this a this line going
so you know I only have 17 of these seeds and for me to give up a 13 of them
and a pack is a it is one of the most valued possessions I have you know
several that she's she's handed me out of that she's personally kept going but
uh it's the roll sour f4 from the Nicosio family reserve and I got a
stoppie right there Nick real quick when a guy that has grown as long as Nick
has he has as much experience as Nick has said it makes a statement like this
is one of the most prized possessions I have your ears should perk the fuck up
and go what is this dude talking about because he just basically told us he's
putting up one of his most prized possessions to tag along with this light
so yeah I'd get her I get her fired up in the chat let's go and that rule sour
should be uh you know some uh that good chemical terpene profile rule cush
sourness that I'm more tend to we pull up the strawberry phenol out a lot but I
like that chemical sour smelling phenol of it did any of you 80s babies if your
mom or your aunts ever did those home perms that chemical fucking perm smell
is what I get as soon as I smell roll cush with a kick of a little bit of
grape in there but it's a very different type of gas fuel a stringent chemical
smell it leans towards a mix of I would maybe say a sour diesel done under
thousand watt HPS you know because that changes up with LED and different things
you know the sour smell but that sour smell just just more chemical like I
remember my mom doing these fake home perms every three weeks on the whole
fucking house when I was in the third fourth fifth grade and that's when I
smell the jar even when it's growing on the plant that's that's instantly I mean
the nose from all the time I trained all the all the different dogs and all
the law enforcement out there watching this video like I trained the tons real
quick Nick I just saw Scott in the chat and it said he's saying anywhere Scott
from Illuminar lighting is saying anywhere so let's open this up to all
our brothers in Canada huh let's go a them bids in yeah I said anywhere I
don't have a cross upon Antarctica get them bids in let's go so between the
light and the seeds there I mean rule saw our work to the f4 I mean that
chemical profile there that is for me personally I go more towards that that
chemical jar that gas jar here lately or a Skittles lean type of situation the
other it's it's nothing in between so if you want something that's got a kick
that this should be all right there on that rule sour and then getting a light
package I don't know what else you could ask for in that situation but where we
at on bids 585 585 on a pack of rules our f4s and a Illuminar lighting what
type of light you say okay one more time bill can we get there can we get
the light one more time or Scott in the chat Wow all right he's also gonna add
packs from his collection for the winners Scott's hug another tea
collector out there look at all the love going on right fucking now he's also
gonna add some packs I want to see a bidding war I came for a bidding war a
real serious shitty bidding war a big one you can talk shit to each other as
long as you fucking the price goes up yeah that sounds good now we're getting
close to just the value of the packs maybe maybe the value of the packs if
you can even put a pack on value on a priceless pack of breeders who have
passed this earth I mean what the fuck and now you get lights anywhere oh and
by the way there's more Scotty's throwing in his own fucking personal
collection of seed shit so I mean surprises on surprises on surprises also
guys if if you could do us a favor share the shit out of this because there's
deals to be had on this motherfucker we need some more people on this thing
watching we need more bidders we need get on your own IG lives get on your own
Instagrams make a post for me please and bring them over here don't be that guy
trying to sit in your quietly sneak out all these like super awesome deals for
a cheap this is for the community help us all out attention let me get this one
tell everybody to get the fuck in here and let's get some deals if there's
other breeders you want to call out get them in here let's get some more packs
800 and we'll have we'll be posting more stuff up on the daggo dot love site you
know as the next couple days go on so just quickly while we do this I gotta go
throw the chicken on the grill so we could either all take like an hour and a
half dinner time out or if you guys want to keep going I'll I'll be back in a
little bit I'm down to keep going down to leave us on your platform I
appreciate the platform appreciate everything yeah I need some grub man
we'll just keep slaying and hopefully we can keep track of the bids we'll take
over keeping track of who's winning what but if with your blessing I think we'll
keep keep going yeah no 100% if let me just kill okay so all right I'll be back
what was the bid at I don't even remember so you guys can all see the
YouTube chat right or some of you I can yeah okay 800 I'm at 800 for it and who
who is that yeah we're crying oh you're bidding 800 yep last one I saw was 760
so I'm gonna bring it up a little higher sitting there watching like a hawk like
800 who wants it come on that packs worth like I mean you can't put a price
on what Nick's saying I mean you really can't keep it all real I mean themselves
are worth over a thousand twelve hundred easy I mean I stuff like that I can
barely separate so the fact that he's letting that go you all need to realize
that's a very special thing thanks Peter Peter Lee Peter just walked out the door
but I'll say it for everybody thanks Peter for hosting us on this stream and
your platform is bigger than any one of ours so you got us more viewers and we
probably could have got collectively together I appreciate it and I know all
of us appreciate know Leo and all involved situation appreciate it keep
the bids rolling I think we're at 800 or for a light we're gonna have to wrap
this fucker up but this is a crazy deal though we're at a light a luminar light
600 to 750 I believe was the selection go anywhere in the world
Nick you want to chime in one more time with the what the packs were wrap this
sucker up 13 pack 13 seeds from the Nicosio family reserve it's from they
weren't technically on paper ever married but Mandelbrot's baby's mama
continued the line after he passed and took it to the f4 she personally
handled handed these to me and humble last year and she gave me permission to
put these up so it's a 13 pack of f4 royal sours that are extremely personal
to me this is this is something that will not be on a seed bank this is not
something you're usually going to be able to get a hold of and it is it's
very special so that and a little more Scott threw up his light we're sitting
what is that right now 800 seeds so we can call that in like 45 seconds last
chance get your bids in which there's a little lags for some people so we're
caught we're calling this fucker go ahead and get your last chance in at a
incredible fucking deal I know some exceeds doesn't want you to do it he
does but he also sort of doesn't because he wants you know we need to do
it like I need to confirm I need to see a picture of Seattle chronic seeds wife
going yes this is okay before she's in the background sharpening like a knife or
something like Shannon one time I bit it off and I just hear screaming the
background no like okay you know no she'll be okay with it I got a few bids
that I can I mean it's for Leo man I wish they could give my fucking life
savings to just pull him out I would do anything I could
sure terrible knowing that he's sitting there you know while we're all sitting
here being able to raise money for him but man I just my heart goes out to him
and his brother and like you said I mean my son has autism so it hits my
heart pretty deeply to know what his brother's going through his father and
Mike as well that's true easy in for the grill you're hired you're the new helper
of bids don't fuck it up super important yeah I see you there you're hired so the
bid is at 800 I think we're gonna have to call it everyone agree let me know
all right we were gonna call it so shit boys yeah we could just sell each other
our shit all night long who's got the hot fire on deck unfortunately I don't
get to bid on stuff all these particular guys on this particular chat help raise
money for the port in my chest and all the medicine that goes into the port in
my chest so much love to all of you all just send me clones or whatever you buy
appreciate it so we should yeah people seem to know real quick a little two
minute or fire one on started out at 150 bucks that's a fucking deal
I can't follow the chat if you guys can follow the chat we'll have you know is
that for one pack or is that for two like previous one pack of root beer
back cross a bx2 and the kicker on that is GMO so 300 350 yeah it's a GMO craft
across the roof your back cross on to a root beer bx2 Jeff Davis for hundo it is
at 400 Jeff Davis
I believe is from who was it skunk house or skunk text no this is from freeborn
selection oh my bad freeborn freeborn selections freeborn selections changing
tremendously no 420 each at about I got a chance to smoke the root beer to at
the regen conference a couple years ago he was he was pretty sweet he walked in
and gave me a couple nugs and root beer he's like that's like all I got man or
something and I went out and rolled it up and it was it was like the way you
know it's sticky as fucking shit like so sticky you're just like fuck man I'm
trying to roll this paper on top of this goddamn thing you know and just peeling
it off a little bit but it was fucking delicious dude and it was everything you
wanted to be you know from by the time I got it rolled up and lit it up it was
fucking root beer dude you're smoking a fucking soda pop let's go Luna I see
you Luna so that GMO on there so just quickly we wrapped up the luminaire and
the the Nick pack who won that 800 to Seattle chronic seeds here I took it
it's mine and the flowering time comes down to it's on it's a 10 week on this
one around 10 weeks you know the GMO is I haven't run the GMO but it's what is
it 13 weeks who's run I know most people have I know it's a long
finisher 77 74 generally is what I take it I really want to run it anybody want
to anybody want to top 700 I feel like Luna came to play it's gonna be tough to
beat can you post the Venmo and the yeah yeah let's let's call it at 700
Luna thank you appreciate it Luna coming in big money a couple times now who
wants to very much next guess anybody any takers you do a dark horse pack real
quick you guys want to pack a Bruce Banner these are sold out just a 10 pack
nothing crazy here I don't expect to see any crazy numbers well let's go 50 bucks
doing $10 increment so let's go Bruce Banner 10 pack sold out so can't buy
that shit right now that's my strain Bruce Banner dark horse 75 80 100 win
City Gardens 160 clash 800 Luna you coming to play I honestly don't think
I've smoking Bruce Banner proper I mean I've smoking some some poorly done
versions but you scribe it yeah Bruce Banner is OG Kush strawberry diesel
sort of my holy grail from back in the day I made it probably 16 years ago at
this point but I use a reservoir strawberry diesel male to the original
OG Kush I call it that because there wasn't 100 OG Kush's at the time and I
was just the only one and yeah it came out really there was two Finos there's
one that was number five really strawberry little golf ball chunks and
then there was a number three which had that OG Kush and the potency and the
number three is the most popular one it's the one that one strongest strand
on earth routinely hits 28 to 30 percent THC it's the one that got me on the
cover of high times it's the strain that got me an investor made me everything
that I am Bruce Banner is my girl so yeah as far as flavor though Kush on the
inhale and the strawberry on the exhale it can sit you down on the couch give
you a lot of creativity a lot of pain management on Bruce Banner's so yeah
yeah sorry yeah do we have any confirmation on Luna I was gonna huge
numbers and I don't want you to fuck this whole thing up it's not real like
are we getting confirmation on some payments on this stuff or yeah so I I
did I just emailed Luna Luna did email me Luna been in the game forever 20 Luna
no one's asking yeah just we're Luna did email me and I just asked Josh to
confirm payments but Luna if you if this if this is you and you are paying this
amount we love you yeah I really appreciate I'm not calling into question
here at the same time you just super big dick and everyone's bids here and why we
why we love it and appreciate it we don't want to fuck this whole action up
if this are not authentic bids and we were you know we got to have authentic
bids yeah and if we can get if you can take a second to make some payments and
you know do them in the increment of the of the bids that you want so that we can
track them you know that would be really helpful to just for us you know
and sorry to get into I have to question it but we've all every one of us has
done this thing and people have lost out on you know thousands and thousands of
dollars because so you know what I mean so it's nothing personal we just want to
make sure that no one else misses misses out on this and and you know big respect
for doing it and so much love and hope you don't know be feel feel that from
so sure I believe we'll have the ability to describe to the people if
people don't pay like they're supposed to hopefully we can scroll through the
chat after the fact I hope and maybe determine the secondary winners but we
really want to play that game no one has time for that stuff if you make a bid
this is a serious this is serious business here guys you got to pay for
your bid and yeah I would say we'll hold that bid at 800 but to where was the
where was the second highest bid just in case so we can move on I'd like to mark
who the second highest bid is just in case Luna's fucking with everybody but
Luna and I don't mean to disrespect you if you're coming with your wallet we'd
love you my man the second highest bid where was it so we can kind of market
move on that is a good question didn't wait a check go ahead and fill it in
because I don't know that we can scroll all the way back but or if we need to we
can restart the auction real fast and Luna will hold it unless we'll just mark
the next highest let's restart it at 160 here clash and we'll just go up from
there and again if it goes over 800 that's where we are but if not we'll
give Luna the first option if it's a legit bid I imagine if Luna if you're
upset about this you'd be in the chat screaming what the fuck this bit is very
real so I'm gonna go ahead and continue the auction and we'll take a secondary
bid on this 475 is a great bit appreciate that I never understood the
concept of trolling or doing this shit happens every auction just quickly Luna
did email me so I got you I'm even talking in general every auction to
people out there if you really can't pay for something if you can't do it if you
can't bid on something it's absolutely okay just don't bid on it and it's got
to the point I mean a couple auctions ago we were all on good faith and the
main reason we can't take cash is most people 80% I would say don't you end up
sending it in so it just something up when you're trying to desperately raise
money for somebody in a situation that needs it it ties it up to so hell I I
would rather get 400 true dollars than 900 fake dollars all day long so I just
saw Luna in the chat there so I just want to address it Luna I mean 100% bro
if you got a real bid well I appreciate it we'll give it to you you're the man
I just emailed the PayPal info
general for multiple auctions where we as guys have all seen this multiple
times that's Alice I don't want to scare up our big money client in the room and
like we love you Luna at the same time I'm just a little nervous you coming in
coming in big bit and everybody why we love you we're just a little nervous but
go ahead and get a little payment over there and we'll know everything's super
real and we'll keep it rolling otherwise Luna has won this bid with the
secondary winner was a 375 or 475 yeah and we have who that was is it cheddar
Bob 375 475 sorry 475 cheddar Bob I believe you had the secondary bid but
we'll go ahead and move on to the next auction again Luna we appreciate it go
ahead and send us a payment so we know that you are the man of your word that
you say you are I do not mean to insult you and let's move it on all right next
pack who wants anybody have any anybody have any suggestions I can go again it's
just us where'd everyone go oh everyone's out I'm here yeah let me let
me go again real quick on see what else we got about Moscow seeds cherry Hulk
six seeds this is a Bruce Banner cross I'm not sure 100% the cross but he
hooked these up to me because he made them so cherry Hulk femme succeeds let's
get him going started like 50 bucks what was it 800 for the light is a
luminar light I believe from Seattle chronic seeds yeah in the one the last
one Bruce Banner oh the Bruce Banner that was Bruce Banner 10-pack I'm sorry
for Luna yes I mean no disrespect to you my good man we just trying to take
precaution that you know these are authentic bids and yeah I say all we
need to do is see a little payments and we're moving forward you're my favorite
person of the month do with the money you're spending with the money you're
spending tonight if that's real money I'll give you a fucking yeah no tour of
my my warehouse I don't know where the fuck you're at you want to come out for
a personal fucking tour of my warehouse anything you need dude I'm your man but
yeah make a couple of payments and good faith payments here and we're loving it
certainly don't want to run you up my man yeah we'd all probably throw in an
extra pack or you know on a good faith on all the ones you know what I mean
each one of us probably will we're at 80 here on the Moscow or 90 let's go 90 on
the Moscow cherry Hulk 100 200 200 looking good six-pack cherry Hulk
them and I seeds if you're in Denver Colorado Chino I will give you that tour
for 250 oh I can't be giving you a the banner sorry breaking official rules
there but I will give you that tour you want to bid on this if you're in Denver
you got to come to me that's no it's not prices right it's not airfare included
then prices right flies you out to sitting at 200 just a which is a strong
price 200 is strong Ricky Bobby 300 with that tour if you're in Denver Jeff you
got that 300 with tour that's a deal I got to disclose my warehouse is only
4,000 square feet it's only four flower rooms with 16 lights in it it's not that
spectacular but I'm more than happy to show it to you it's got a myth lab in
the back yeah honor in a month or so what's up man all right can you guys
hold down the fort yeah we got to eat dinner whatever you need I think we're
at 200 at the moment I need confirmation in the chat 200 was the was
the highest bid no snow in Colorado still make it here for your tour no
worries that could change the we are bidding on cherry Hulk 300 was yours
Jeff Davis okay Jeff Davis is in the lead I think we're gonna call it with a
tour if you're in Denver or come to Denver I Jeff Davis I'm gonna give it to
you going once going twice Jeff Davis is the winner
okay you got anything you want to throw out yeah you know I guess I can throw up
if y'all y'all need to take a break it's up to y'all you know I got something
that go for it you bring it up the straight fire bring in the real money I
can throw up a pack of a another pack of ghost OG sky Jarl my absolutely last
among mean gene gear a pack of lime pop kush f3 number three from 2018 that I've
set back if you like lime turps you go through this I mean as far as the back
into that whole pop and root beer and cola situation this lime pop just
stupid shit in there so the ghost OG Scott Jarl the lime pop kush f3 number
three and I am a packet in the mountains of 707 truth man so that is three packs
of stupid fire I don't know for are available pretty much anywhere and I
gotta start that off at like $300 so ghost OG Scott Jarl lime pop kush f3
number three and 707 truth band from Emerald Mountain so which I believe is
headband rule crush so damn ridiculous heat 500 so now 500 at the moment
bloody bloody rain music I gotta write this one down we gotta ship this 500
Matthew Holiskey appreciate that bid Polinsky 530 Bucket Whip 550 550 is the
bid ridiculous fire here guys each pack is probably worth 550 570 Bucket Whip
appreciate the bid yeah we should get to a G on this one minimum guys I
really should 625 Matthew Polinsky this is this is real fire real heat one more
time that is lime pop kush f3 number three selection you want to find some
lime and sprite zesty type terpene profiles this is the pack to go into
707 truth band that's a rule push into headband go so G Scott Jarl 2019 I may
be butchering all these names with my hip bully accent and I may be butchering
the lineages with the fact I took a bunch of RSO this evening so but these
three alone should fill out somebody's role for the year
looking at 710 Bucket Whip it's going up ridiculous ridiculous heat in these
packs 710 Bucket Whip Scott the bid after this auction I either need to get
off camera and hook a needle into my chest and do all my medical things or I
can do that live and freak everybody up and make them lose their dinner so I'll
have to take like a 10-minute break at least yeah take whatever you need man
it's amazing you've been able to come on for three hours strong already so if you
need to take a break take a break I'll try to keep it rolling you're working on
this thing look at this shit bill sticking out where I'm gaining weight
the more weight I gain is actually pushing out so Shannon actually said
something earlier you know worried about this whole situation with Leo you know
he just flew out to help me with my medical situation you know I went down
with a bunch of seizures over stress and situations and me giving up these seeds
like our financial situation is jack over all the medical stuff we pay for
so that's how much I love this dude this guy flying out and shit I was worried
about the ramifications I'm like hell at this point they want to come take me and
pay for my medicine at this point I'm like you know it might be a better
situation so it is a worrisome and I understand that people have fears with
the whole situation I don't know what to say on that other than you know we chose
this and the drug war is not over as much as they in certain states even
called us a central business during the COVID epidemic when everything was shut
down but but you know here in Michigan cannabis was still a central business
that the laws are changing the laws are gonna change but we are still in a drug
war and we didn't ask for this war they asked that they did this war we try to
play right in the rules and Leo tries to play right in the rules and that that
that is what this is all about people were just given up rare and prized seeds
to help out their friend here but essentially nobody should have to be
doing this over a plant and I'll get on a roll because I got about three three
four grams of RSO and me at this point of the day and I'm even after my drink
actually caffeine right now to try to wake up and Bill I bet you haven't seen
one of these since she was back in Kentucky hard to get these now that we
live in Michigan because they don't sell them anywhere at the Cracker Barrel two
dollars for one of like one so when I drink it it has to be like a special
occasion when in Kentucky there are 60 cents and they're in every gas station
but they don't ship them anywhere it's just ginger ale for all you non
Kentuckians out there but it is the most wonderful ginger ale that was ever made
but just to stay awake with you guys at this point in the evening but it's a
testament to Leo's character Leo is a good good guy my dogs are barking in the
background I apologize but um you know to touch on what Dark Horse said earlier
which me and me and Shannon have spoke on me and friends have spoke on for days
this is a big situation for all seed banks and it's not just this Dynafim
different situations have all happened that that people should pay attention to
this and should try to help out this is a community and I keep getting off on
these tangents man cuz I get emotional on it and and my dogs are going nuts in
the background but um giving up seeds we shouldn't even have to do this um we
should just shouldn't have to fucking do this a people do this because they care
but but it's a crime what's happening to Leo not not vice versa it's a crime
what's happening to his brother I don't know what else to say other than that
man it's just bullshit every term and soon this will all be a joke our
grandkids our kids will not raise up with this situation but right now it's
still very real and and $75,000 to pay for lawyers to even enter the arena to
battle this and that's not crazy expensive that's just what it costs this
isn't even you know a tip of the iceberg what we've done a night we were gonna
have to do this multiple nights so guys I really hope that everybody's just
remembering what we're doing about it and even to Luna out there like nobody
was talking shit it was just to verify that hey we're trying to make sure that
that all this is legit we're trying to get this taken care of because timing is
of the essence right now when somebody's sitting in jail let me remind
everybody where we are in this bid real quick I think we are 810 810 is the bid
Tommy try comb I believe is the is the got the bid at the moment just real
quick so we can wrap this one up Nick you want to list the packs and I'll give
you a minute to go do anything you need to do for your medical yeah and we'll
move on to the next one but right now
2019 ghost OG Scott jar so there's a lot more gas in that situation 707 truth
man from Emerald Mountain legacy and lime pop kush f3 from 2018 which you'll
get a lot more lime and sprite zesty type folks in that pack so that's the
three and we can call it what's it what's loose we're 810 right now I mean
that's how many trikes all right Tommy trikes so I will officially Tommy try
it comes we're gonna call it yeah let's there was some interest though there I
mean I will get let's give it 10 15 20 seconds here because there was some
interest that 800 then 810 this is a close one you officially out can we can
we call you officially out no we give it 30 45 seconds hey Jeff Davis that'll
work just we'll figure it out as far as those hit me up I'll make sure you get
taken care of give me a screenshot of that or something 810 is the bid I think
we're gonna have to wrap her up going once
yeah that's that's a wrap Luna we saw you in the chat there also appreciate
you trying to get that figured out Peters eating dinner so I appreciate you
hanging in here being a man your word and we'll get that squared we're gonna
get those all out to you so as soon as Luna comes back from dinner I'm sorry
Peter comes back from dinner I'm sure he'll get your answer there we hijacked
your stream so I'm not gonna bother the man let's move on to the next to the next
winner do we have an official or the next auction do we have an official link
to pay or a way to pay I'm not sure that I have that information you have it I
don't have it currently I actually would like it myself so there is Nick
do you know the official Venmo chicken wing in hand we got him working I'm one
handed all right let me post that in the chat okay so here comes the Venmo and
the PayPal okay if somebody in the chat could also screenshot that and
constantly sort of repeated every I don't know a few minutes for the folks
so that we can have Peter eats his nice dinner and we don't to disturb him but
yeah Venmo constant in the chat for us and for those of you who just want the
you know $50 packs and to make a donation go to the dagga dot love and
it's right there Venmo and the PayPal is for also Peter Luna's trying to get a
total I'm not sure if we have written down totals on Luna you gotta help us
out asking us to tally up your totals but oh yeah I'm emailing back and forth
with Luna okay no worries I'm sure Luna's a man of his word and gonna take
care of it we will figure out the totals you know we can't watch the stream back
if we absolutely need to so we'll figure it out and we'll get you what you
got appreciate Luna hanging out here trying to trying to get it paid up just
quickly did Luna win anything while I was gone no not at this point yeah I
guess trying to get you paid the what was it the Bruce Banner 10 pack for 800
yeah there's a hundred on the Bruce Banner 10 pack 800 Dutch bloom freeborn
for 700 and then dark horse 2-pack for 300 and that was it so Luna was three
times dark horse 2-pack for 300 I know sorry 555 genetics for 900 and then the
freeborn for 700 and the Bruce Banner for 800 so Luna hopefully you can add
that up yourself or I can put my chicken wing down and it's basically
800 plus 700 1500 plus 900 2400 plus 300 2700 I believe it's 2700 in total so
far looking like 27 there Luna if you can pay 2700 you got the PayPal you got
the amount I gotta get back to dinner so I don't get my head chewed off and I'll
be back in about 15 minutes so keep on keeping on everyone thanks again Peter
next pack Luna King of the night man after hanging out and taking care of that balance it's me again so Nick I'm gonna mute you just when you're not talking mute yourself because the echo is coming from your mic perfect okay see you guys thanks Peter all right so I'm gonna do I think I got a set of some
landrace stuff to throw down and some MTF from my friend up in Alaska Jaime Chiva
so we're gonna do two packs it's gonna be looks like Kerala gold from the Indian
landrace exchange we got a five pack of Nanda Debbie and then uh looks like a 12
pack of MTF I'll start that one off I think probably 150 start low 150 is the
bid anybody got any fucked up Leo stories for two minutes while we run
this auction 200 is the bid
so far 250 from Jacob Caesar wants to know how to get into the stream Caesar
wants on the stream when Peter comes back we'll ask him to send you a link
and yeah we can't get you in here he's the gatekeeper so sunny land goes at
300 300 beautiful stuff let's keep it rolling let me think of a fucked up
fucking Leo story so one time we all went to Universal Studios he was with us
at that one right yeah he was with us so is Michael yeah some for some reason we
all went to Universal Studios and we had a whole crew a debaucherous crew of just
characters Leo was with us we decided to do a massive session the parking lot
which if you're listening don't ever fucking smoke weed at Universal Studios
I had more cameras than fucking jungle boys warehouse like is legit the cameras
all over the place by the time we broke our circle yeah there was a million
rent-a-cops a couple of real cops surrounding us and they wanted to know
why we're smoking a dube in Universal Studios parking lot eventually after a
little bit of bullshit they let us in and Leo and I went straight to Duff's bar
sip fucking beers the Simpsons world yeah it was a fucking character man yeah
that was good shit where's the bid 170 300 300 who's holding the bid
Sunnyland grows at 300 hey y'all want dogs eat no it's three packs of somebody
asked again it's so it's a pack of Corolla gold from India and then we have
a five pack of non de Debbie and a 12 pack of MTF somebody said we froze I
appear to be live on the feet I'm watching yeah I'm gonna refresh them
may need to refresh any action at 300 I think that's good man I don't think
anyone else has been let's move let's call it going once going twice sold
grows at 300 and then grows if somebody could throw up the in the chat the Venmo
and please go ahead and send your payment right away
we'll move on to the next one
correct that's correct
it's done
orange tree f2 green line seed company I enjoyed these actually is some story to
this but green line seed company orange tree f2 and we can see that or not so
small but uh yeah I believe it's 10 pack well let's start the bid at 50 bucks
let's get it going itty-bitty from that orange tree son actually let's make it a
doubler because this is about Olympic seeds duck web IBL 11 regular seats on
top of this orange tree f2 150 urban site 200 clear berserker I think it is
the ducks foot but I don't I mean again these were given to me so I'm not sure
it's beautiful yeah that's why I was really interested in having other pack
I'm not giving up is that was mine but this one I will throw it up here guys it
is duck web is exactly it's just a duck foot I mean it's something I apparently
he's been working on to enough six around this region but he sent me a few
packs as well and I grew up to a moment all of them had another duck foot
feature on it so I can verify that their official beautiful
I think I might have lost track of the bid
let's go back and see 200 so far
comedians out in the comments there
200 200 200 200 with a smile shake your hand if it wasn't run a time
who is the winner let's call it
go back and see who that was
clash berserker clash berserker you won at 200 go ahead if somebody could throw
up again in the chat the Venmo that we need make a payment and clash berserker
I appreciate you taking that home my man
anybody else want to step up who else got something they want to throw in the
pile
I got more stuff sitting here I've been kind of looking through let's do some
red-eye genetics I think I got a few packs of red-eye so I got a pack of
lock tight
let's do some lock tight if I can get that in there
so I got that will do a pack of sours on by sin city and then another pack by
red-eye lake of fire which is a GG for cross with Kobe and Kush
nice to red-eye packs this one I believe the lake of fire is long sold out it's
from like 2018 I believe you can still get locked type of these are from last
year and then the sour design from since it have not read but it's a I think it's
a jack cross our alien with sour jack so sour jack turps to start off it
and say 150 on this again
well just started up there how do you at 200 200 foot I'm gonna shoot myself
200 bloody bloody music
well good Canada for those who don't know I use lock tight and quite a few of
my older crosses to I found some phenomenal work from it it's a lot to
do with like GG for with the mountain rainier man I don't I can't say anything
but great things about red-eye honestly I found a lot of killer stuff from all
his genetics and if you don't know it's just that it's another local breeder
he's been around for quite some time back in the med days even and I mean I
really respect him he puts out some fire gear so for those that don't know please
on this and get to know
yes sir does anybody have it locked down to ship seeds to when a payment goes
out
well let me know unfortunately I gotta I gotta hop off I don't want to have to
hold it down for you we got you man
I appreciate it guys and I know we're going to do is multiple times this week
if any of you all got my number
just just let me know what I gotta do and what I can do and multiple people I
mean including TRH seeds and a bunch of guys have sent me messages about
donating so so we can make a list posted 24 hours in advance even then give
people a chance maybe even give all those a chance to be organized because
this really I mean everybody's busy right now
I get that but you know just let me know what needs to be done and I will
definitely get on it
I appreciate it guys sir take care of yourself
brother I think the bed was 210 210 yep I got 210 from dope beat junkies
alright let's see
there we go then most backup for those that need to know
Shelby shy and 210 the bid
any action on 210 think that's it we're going to make these ones quickly got a
bunch to go through
sure we'll keep it rolling it's all money
I make these payments guys so money
yeah be dope if we can get the payment info pin that I think that's up to
Peter though he's right now
fortunately we're not control of the stream but we are on the stream so we're
just have to keep repeating it in the chat as best we can
let Peter eat a nice dinner alright on to the next pack
oh wait we got 220 from Fred Miller so it's gonna let you hang around at 220
why not let's do it money keep it coming y'all
a little bit of a red eye back to you
you snipe right there
anything else I can throw in the office if we can have it to all throw in a pack
from nacho el sapo apricot macross of white privilege is called white apricot
so we'll throw a pack of these into we can get above 250
there we go let's get this above 250 make it another pack to V
270
and that 2 20 Fred Miller with the option for another back if we get up to
250
250 three by my man Boeing my music
coming in strong
they have a reality that is in play I you're gonna take that
school and they'll do you like that man
Loona Peter may not be reading this right now I think he's eating but Loona says 27.78
was paid.
Atta boy Loona.
Thank you Loona we appreciate you.
Fred came back with a 260.
Look at that.
Again never meant to question the deftness of your wallet my friend.
Star of the night man.
Three cheers for fucking Luna who came in here big dick and dropping huge numbers.
Cheers.
260 Fred Miller.
Yeah, he's not going to take that.
He's back in the game.
What the fuck just happened?
260 no problem.
To you good sir?
I'm good.
Let's move on to the next one.
I think nobody's got anything to say to it.
260.
Going once.
Going twice.
Was that a gavel?
Legit like something to hammer.
Something official yeah.
Alright this is going to go.
And she's sold.
Sold.
It's done.
Fred Miller.
Fred Miller I believe.
Yep.
Fred Miller for 260.
Fred Miller 260.
You got a Venmo to the Venmo that's going to be someone kind.
We'll throw in the chat for us real quick.
Make sure you Venmo that immediately if you could and we'll move on to the next pack.
Okay I'm looking at you.
What do you got in your bag of goodies?
Let's do an original pack of Ghost Train Hayes number one.
Air Dank.
Yeah.
This was the this was the first time he bred it like when he won with the shit so it's
not like the ones you can get now I don't believe.
Yes sir.
Rare Dank.
Cannabis Cup winner on that one.
Ghost Train Hayes.
Start the bidding at you want to do what?
I don't care.
Let's just start it at $100.
100 bucks.
Although I think Blood Rain Music just pushed it to 222.
Yeah I was going to say it's probably going to be a little crazy.
250 2x Trey.
Man Ghost Train is one of my favorites.
Blood Rain Music 300.
Old stock too.
Oh yeah.
This is that's an important part of this equation.
300.
300.
Yeah that's what I was going to say.
It's probably get a little ridiculous over this pack.
I've definitely fought and sought for it.
Yeah the Venmo should be Shelby something.
I don't want to even posting the wrong fucking Venmo being a complete dick.
No but it is in the chat.
He keeps posting it I think in somewhere.
We're at 300 I believe.
Okay the Venmo Shelby-Cheyenne.
There it is.
Cascade's got the official Venmo and the official PayPal.
I'll put it.
Sorry I had to drop out guys.
All good.
You're fine.
Good homie.
We are getting that 300 on a pack of Ghost Train Hayes.
Did you bring your wallet?
Just play it.
Ghost Train Hayes fuck.
350.
Right.
Oh la la.
It's a great screen name.
Looks cold up there.
It is.
I'm in my office here.
I keep the door open.
I'm rolling tough sleeping outside in my shop with the dog.
Right.
I finished my harvest so I'm just like you know.
Bad time of the year.
That's right.
350.
Oh la la.
Anybody want to take a stab at that?
Ghost Train Hayes.
Old stock.
Got it once.
Old seed.
Rare Dane.
Cannabis Cup winners.
Hayes's.
When do you see Hayes's anymore?
Hayes for days.
I think we have to call it.
All right.
Going once.
Going twice.
It is so.
There's your Venmo.
300.
Oh la la.
Or sorry.
350.
Oh la la.
With the best screen name in chat so far tonight.
All right.
Daz Mefesto keeps walking in here throwing more shit on this table.
He's making it rain.
If Daz Mefesto walks in here it's fucking ridiculous shit.
So let's start with.
Are those all bags?
It's got some in-house.
It's still going.
In-house Southern Skunk Fort.
Roadkill skunk which you asked for in the chat.
Sweet cherry pie regs.
It's in-house.
Going to combine it with exotic genetics.
Hazelnut cream.
Shout out Daz.
Daz Mefesto is lurking off camera but has a bag of legendary tricks.
Fucking legendary tricks.
Let's get it going at least 200 to start.
Each one of these worth 100 and a smack in the face.
250.
Roadkill skunk.
Pull them wallets out.
Dig deep.
What?
Roadkill skunk times sweet cherry pie.
Come on now.
In Skunk Fort.
You know, comfort, skunk fort.
Skunk fort.
250.
And the bonus, hazelnut cream which is Miami Hayes mother, father's cookies and cream.
It's a regular seed.
Either one of these would be like.
You leave a cannabis cup or a trade show with both of these in your pocket.
You'd be like, my pocket's on fire right now.
My pocket's on fire.
I won the trade show today.
But now you can get them both right now for a steal.
250.
It's a fucking amazing deal.
250's got the bid.
See if we can't beat it a little bit.
Pump it up.
Show Daz a little love.
Daz is just coming in here dropping straight heat.
Yeah, that's so cool.
Caesar's getting straight chafed.
Buck 75.
Current bid.
We're 250.
Hippie spinach.
Oh, okay.
250.
250.
And someone bid 300, he said.
I'm missing a 300.
There's a 300 speak up.
Oh, yep.
Johnny HB, 300.
And 3G Beans before him at 300.
So I guess 3G, 3 Green Beans has got the high bid of 300.
I think my chat didn't start updating.
I need to do a nice refresh.
So I'm waiting to get confirmation on the memo stuff.
I texted Shelby, so I should.
She might have just gone out to dinner or something.
It's been a long day for her, you know.
She probably been like, I need to fucking just eat some shit.
So I sent a couple texts out.
Just so Luna knows, we appreciate your bid.
We're trying to figure it out.
A thousand percent.
We're going to have to wrap this up.
Where are we at?
300?
300?
300.
300.
Going once for the Exotic Genetics Hazelnut Cream and in-house Southern Skunkfort, which
is roadkill skunk time, sweet cherry pie, regular seeds.
Speak now.
3 Green Beans.
Never be salty about not buying them.
Not scooping them.
Scoop them.
All right, going once, going twice.
We done.
Who is the winner?
If we could get the winner in.
3 Green Beans.
3 Green Beans.
Once again, you got to email.
I'm sorry.
You got to Venmo in the chat there.
Shelby Cheyenne or the PayPal there.
And immediately if you could.
And these are yours.
Luna wants that tour.
Luna wants that tour.
Bring it, Luna.
With pleasure, my friend.
With motherfucking pleasure.
Come on down.
Might as well just do this real fast too because Daz just walked in, says, I didn't want to
do it, but he's going to do it.
This is Gage Green Genetics Cornerstone.
Head wrecker to Joseph OG.
10 seeds.
10 seeds.
The Cornerstone.
Gage Green.
Started off at a hundy.
About to steal.
200.
Looking good.
Appreciate all that action out there.
Keep the bids coming.
Raising a lot of money.
I know Shelby is sitting there with her phone vibrating every few fucking seconds appreciating
every one of these bids.
Best thing we can do is blow that fucking phone up so it's just vibrating nonstop.
Even if you don't want to make a bid on a pack, go ahead and send a little Venmo over
to this Shelby there.
I don't give a fuck, $1.
She's got a video visit with Leo at 7.
So that's why she's not responding right this moment.
Got you.
Yeah, I just got a text from her showing me the both accounts and I don't see a $2,700
deposit.
We'll have Peter and Luna sorted out.
I'm gonna take Luna as a man of his word.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm not trying to try to say anything like that.
I'm just updating what I'm seeing.
Once again, Cornerstone is the pack up for bids.
Head record to Joseph OG.
It's an old pack.
And I think the bid...
$130.
$130 I think is where we are.
It appears.
Daz didn't even want to do this.
$130.
That's a lot more.
If you would have come over and asked Daz, like, hey man, can I get that for $130?
He'd be like, no fucking way.
You might get it.
And I appreciate that bid.
Not dragging you.
But Daz really did not want to come off of this.
So, yeah, okay.
We're at $200.
I did see that, Matty.
I fucked you up.
You were $200.
Matty had $200.
I'm traveling here.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
Yeah, I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
I'm throwing $400 on that bet.
Daz just came in and threw $400.
He's not giving it up.
Yeah, Daz put $400 on it.
Yeah.
He just came in the room and was like, $400.
Fuck that noise.
He ain't giving it away.
He's like, no.
No.
Either way, that Venmo's going over.
But $400 to Daz.
Step up.
That means he has future plans for this shit.
That's right.
He has future plans for this shit.
Well, that's kind of like just about every pack I brought.
He's at $400.
Huh?
No one can touch Daz's action.
Daz came in too strong.
Scared you all away.
He big dicked them all.
That's okay.
Leo appreciates a big dick.
Somebody come in and just tell Daz, nah, you ain't getting it today, son.
That's my pack.
You thought it was your pack?
You fucked up.
You brought it up to this table.
Now he's scared.
Yeah.
He's scared.
He has instant regret of bringing this up here.
Make him pay, folks.
Make Daz pay.
It's worth more than $400 to him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, it's clearly.
Obviously, like, yeah.
Now's your chance to make him sweat.
He'll probably come running in here and have a bidding war with you because I know he has
instant regret for putting this up.
Yeah.
Cornerstone.
Gage Green Group.
Head wrecker to Joseph OG.
I think we may have to call it because Daz really wants to hold on to it, but we appreciate
that 400 from fucking from Daz and saving his own pack.
He's like, no, not going to happen.
I want it.
So going once, going once, going twice.
$400.
And it's gone.
Daz, winner.
All right.
Anybody else got anything that's burning a hole in their pocket they want to throw up?
Yeah, I'll throw some stuff up.
See what you got.
All right.
So let's do some cult classic stuff.
I got a pack of animals value, which is TK cross with OG KB and what dream is an older
classics.
We're going to throw in a pack of fresh maker, which is another newer cult classics, and
that is going to be fruit snacks crossed with freshies.
So animal cookies times.
Oh, DKB times.
KB times ultraviolet OG and then a pack of Calyx Bros lemon Fizz F3 number nine.
Nice grab bag.
Grab pack three packs and we'll start at 200.
200.
Let's see who's got that.
Caesar's trying to dump all this.
Caesar's exotic collection on Wednesday night.
Nick mentioned we're going to have to do a few of these, I believe, to reach the goal.
Friday I'm sure is going to be a little more.
If I had the power Caesar, I'd bring you in, but I don't have the power, my man.
We got 250 from Richard Rubio.
250.
250.
300.
300.
Going 300.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
300 to Fubar.
Three packs up for grabs.
All right, let me type it in the chat for you all.
250.
Is it 300?
Is that 300 Fubar or is it 250?
250.
Oh, it's 300.
My bad.
You are right, Fubar.
Trying to go backwards here, man.
We ain't going backwards.
Only up.
Up, up, up.
300.
300 is a decent bid.
Might be able to get a little bit more here.
Anyone have a bidding war real quick?
Who's in the mood for a bidding war?
It's a pretty big deal in the Animas Valley itself, man.
That's a rare pack.
Fubar said it's sold, boys.
He will not be denied.
Oh, 325.
Richard Rubio.
Rubio comes in to sell.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Fubar.
Rubio comes in to say wait a minute, son.
He said, run it back, player.
We're not done.
Wait a minute, son.
350.
Green Machine says, well, I don't know what you guys are talking about, but let me tell
you about 350.
I think Rubio is starting to know what they're bidding on, finally.
That Anima, I'm telling you, it's fire.
Green Machine just sort of snuck right in and big dicked the whole thing.
He's like yeah?
Yeah?
That's right.
Tree pity.
Rusty's got a good idea.
Yeah, you're looking way more organized than we've ever been in our entire lives here,
Rust.
But I like what I'm seeing there.
It's a good thought, but yeah, we just kind of fly by the seat of our pants and get shit
done.
We do definitely need that, though.
Tree pity, going once.
I think that's going to be it.
Tree pity going twice.
That's a deal right there.
Oh, 375.
Oh, Richard Rubio said na, na, na.
Because of the lag, I'm going to give it to you, Rubio.
I almost smacked my gavel, but the gavel was like this close, so we're pulling it back
up.
You're back in the game.
375.
Richard Rubio.
Richard Rubio.
Great job, guys.
Keep it going.
I love the action.
You guys want to wink at each other?
You got emojies in there?
Wink at each other while you outbid each other.
everyone. from for.
about it on it on. on it is
the rent paying the power bill
I'm taking this **** tonight.
so I'll I'll grow it all back
tomorrow or next year. 2021 is
Nobody gonna fucking out bid you today, right?
Let's see it.
Rubio, are you gonna take that Rubio?
Rubio.
You gonna take that $25 middle finger, bro?
I'm very gonna wait.
Fuck your 375.
425, Richard Rubio.
Oh my God.
Not to be denied.
My man Rubio.
Oh, we have players in the house.
425, Rubio.
Players in the house.
Oh my God.
Players in the house.
Question is, are you gonna take that?
Is 425 gonna be where we just,
where you call the line?
Hmm?
This chat's got me going on.
Foo Bear.
425.
Foo Bear, I'm looking at you, Foo Bear.
Oh, he's calling you out.
Oh, he'll be here all night.
Woo.
Foo Bear.
I'm giving you a chance.
Giving you a chance.
Phone a friend.
Phone a friend.
Go give plasma.
Take it alone.
Take it alone.
Beg, borrow.
Foo Bear, I'm giving you all the chance in the world.
Woo.
Oh God.
All right, I think we're gonna call it.
I think it's gonna be.
You gotta call it.
Juices.
Juices are running for Foo Bear, so.
Oh.
Scared him off.
You did it.
Yeah.
Did it.
It's getting dangerous.
Getting ready to put the title of the house down.
Rubio.
425, was it?
425.
Rubio, excellent.
Excellent bid work, my friend.
Real strategist shows the true nature of how to bid.
How to not be fucking bullied around.
How to not be big-bid.
How to come back and say, I don't give a shit.
I'm taking this shit.
That's how you bid.
That's how you bid, guys.
Shout out to Rubio.
Rubio, please make a payment to Venmo.
Show up in the chat here.
Somebody please repost it.
And yeah, may please go ahead and pay right away.
We'll get those out to you.
Congratulations.
Kick-ass fucking kick-ass auction there.
I hope it is some mad corona relief money.
How about Oni Seed Co.
Trop Paya.
Trop Paya.
12 regular seeds.
Trop Paya.
Oni.
Nimshits were hot as fuck.
I'll even bundle it with another fucking Brothers Grimm.
What's this?
Mr. Soul, Duke, Diamond, Kim Dog.
Grim Dog.
Grim Dog.
There you go.
This is when Duke was still on Soul Team.
Or Brothers Grim side.
So this is quality work right here.
This is quality shit.
You want this.
Grim Dog matched with Oni Trop Paya.
Let's go.
You should have put the Grim Dog up by itself.
Damn, that's kind of epic, especially for that going up
for this relief.
Early Duke work.
Yeah.
Duke's still behind bars.
Leo's behind bars.
So this kind of hits different levels.
This kind of means Duke is fundraising for somebody else
behind bars while he's behind bars.
Which is like Tommy.
Which Tommy would do.
Exactly.
If I could get Tommy on the phone right now,
he'd be putting up packs in the vault and shit.
This is Tommy from a cell.
Shout out somewhere in some solitary shit right now.
We're thinking about you, Duke.
But yeah, you are officially, through proxy,
a part of this auction.
From your jail cell to help this brother in his jail cell.
Love it.
We got $500 bet.
$500?
$500.
Who's holding it at $500?
Paul Hale.
All hail Paul Hale.
All hail Paul Hale.
$500.
Do I sense a bidding war?
Do I sense another bidding war?
Can I coax you into it?
I will.
Yes, man.
People are going backwards, forward, backwards.
Auctions only work one way.
You got to go up, guys.
We're at $500 Paul Hale.
$500 is a strong bid.
But I feel somebody in there chomping.
They want to snipe, but you might as well not snipe.
I'm moist.
Don't snipe.
Come in here like a man.
Face your enemy like a man, and we will duel it out.
$500.
Take 10 paces.
$500.
Let's do this shit.
All right, let's get some more stuff.
Let's do it.
$500 so far.
Somebody else got a bid on it.
True bear, so that's big.
Once again, it's Oni Tropicana Cookies to Papaya.
It's a 63-70 day regular seed hybrid Grim Dog,
which comes from Brothers Grim, which is pre, I guess,
Duke Diamond Leaving Brothers Grim.
This is Duke Diamond work called Grim Dog.
And yeah, you want this shit.
It's number 34 out of 91.
Only 91 packs of this shit exist.
This is number 34.
So drive it up.
Is it worth more than $500 to you?
Tommy Tricombs, be safe, bro.
Shouldn't be trying to bid and drive.
We appreciate the love, but don't need
to be doing a fundraiser for you.
A lot more.
$500.
I want to call out somebody in there to come get it.
Come get it.
All right.
All right, I'll accept it.
I'll take it.
I'm happy to take it.
This is actually proper credit where credit is due.
This is another Das Mofesto pack, or donation,
I should say.
This was a Das Mofesto donation.
Dude just keeps strolling in the door,
throwing incredible heat on the desk.
It's like Santa Claus.
Yeah, the Santa Claus of this stream
has been Das Mofesto, who just shows up with amazing shit.
Yeah, $500.
I can't remember who the winner was.
He keeps making it rain.
You guys like Santa Claus.
Nah, he's got me feeling like fucking a stripper.
He just keeps throwing it on the table.
Who's my $500 winner?
Paul Hale.
Paul Hale.
Paul Hale, Paul Hale.
Paul Hale.
Appreciate that bid.
Paul, that's a strong bid.
That's a man that also knows how to not fuck around
with a good hand in poker.
You just come in and be like, fuck this.
No one's going to fucking get a good hand on me.
I'm just going to come by this pot early and tell everyone,
you're not getting it.
It's fucking mine.
Fuck off.
It's a good, strong strategy, Paul Hale.
And I appreciate that bid.
Go ahead and Venmo the Shelby Venmo
that's going to be posted in the chat or the PayPal.
But please do it right away.
And be listed in the chat.
And moving on to the next bet.
Do I have any takers?
I got these two sour D packs from the Lorax.
96 East Coast sour D.
Yeah, he's doing some pretty good shit, if you guys are.
Oh, and him, XtremeIG.
I actually ran about.
Go ahead.
Are they S1s?
This is all I got, man.
This is all I got.
I imagine they're S1s.
I know.
You look through a mountain of seeds that people give you,
and it's just got limited information.
You're like, oh, fuck.
I don't know.
Thought you were rolling at 250.
All the stuff I have popped up that he's done
has been pretty cool.
He did a GG4 mat cross that I ran through a couple hundred
that I just fucking drool over.
I pulled like three females and a couple males.
OK, yeah, yeah.
I was just curious because there's several cuts of sour D.
That East Coast one is probably the one that I like the most.
My computer just got a.
Yeah, my computer died also, so I pulled it up on my phone
to try to track what's going on a little bit.
We've gone the length of our laptop batteries.
Oh, yeah, is that what happened?
50s.
Nice.
250, that's where we're at.
250, Steven.
250, Steven, what was the pack one more time?
Two packs, East Coast, our day six East Coast sour D.
Lorax three 15.
You got a lot of stuff he's out.
I want to say he's like in fucking Maine or something like that.
But he's he runs with like his uncle and some guys that were running back in the day.
He's got some blueberries and stuff from him.
It's got a lot of stuff.
It's really cool.
He he sent me out some stuff to the region conference in Humboldt.
I'd like had a whole fucking table, you know, stuff.
And I pulled three of these and I was like, I don't need so.
Two fifties, the biz.
That's where it's staying.
That's right. Let's let's close it at 250.
Go on ahead and call it what we got going on.
Mountain Man, Mountain Man genetics.
Let's go back and see, there's a few 250s, a few two.
Oh, shit.
You might need to have a bit off.
We need to have a 250.
Even. I got Steve.
Do we got Mountain Man genetics?
Oh, wait. No, he was just informing.
Yeah, I think it's Stephen took him.
Stephen took it.
Stephen, you are the winner.
Appreciate that shit, Stephen.
Very much, sir.
Go ahead and send a Venmo or PayPal to the address
that will appear in your chat from some friendly, friendly streamer
that will post it up for us.
Hello. And he's back.
Please make that payment right away.
Peter's back. You're full.
I am full.
We're only five hours into our 24 hour telethon.
We got all the all the or all the South Africans are waking up the Dutch.
And just think when we get the glass blowers coming in to make donations,
this is a little sour silicate.
What's what's the next pack up for auction, boys?
I'll throw some stuff up.
I got some.
Let's do Denki gangster wherever this is.
So a pack of Denki gangster radioactive Kush, which is a napalm
OG cross with Stardog, and it comes in this fancy little box with a slap.
I'm going to throw in a pack of
Hayes Men's Seeds Roadkill skunk cross with Neville's skunk.
And then I also have a pack from my friend Jaime Chiba,
who the MTF came from, and he's got some roadkill
crosses skunk number one crosses super skunk 86.
So for all you skunk heads out there.
And what's going off at 150?
180 current bid, Spencer, 200.
Yes, add the account.
We're going to go with 10 seeds in the radioactive Kush.
It is a 12 seed pack in the Hayes Men.
Looks like somewhere around there.
And then the other one's a five seed count in the roadkill skunk super skunk
to 50 Lawrence Popper.
Now we got to 60 Chad Westport.
Two 62 times, Trey, he was just slightly behind.
And if it keeps getting up, I'll start throwing more stuff in.
I got a pack here of some Johnny Blaze's Blueberry
Blast that I get back in 2016,
and I crossed it with plush very male that I had.
So it's I'll throw those in if it gets to about three feet.
OK, we're at 275 Mendo Kev.
300 David Logston.
Yeah, the blueberry blast, it's an old, old cut, too.
I got it first back in like 2015, I think.
And so it's Johnny Blaze's cut blueberry blast.
It's not actually straight blueberry.
It was the most.
Blueberry dominant smell I had at the time around,
and then I crossed that with a plush very male that was super fast flowering.
I mean, it brought down the flowering times into the 40, 50 day range.
So it's a very fast flowering plant that produces huge colors.
I mean, very thick blueberry plush, very smells pink.
Use some dark.
But it's primarily a dark green plant with some pink ampoules.
310 from Mendo Kev.
350. All right.
Get her by.
Three feet.
That's 400 from Fubar.
Sure. If it keeps going and we get to 500, I'll throw in a pack.
Seats taken from the best coast genetics.
It's a banana cross with a five haze times GT seven to keep it coming.
And I'll keep it going up.
Yeah. Rest in peace, Neville.
And again, if you can't afford the auction packs, you can always pick up the
the fifty dollar two packs on the website that's scrolling across the screen below.
What's being offered now?
We got some more people asking.
So we got a little care package.
Denki Gangsters Radioactive Kush, which is Napalm OD crosses Stardog.
We have from my friend up north in Alaska, Roadkill Skunk Skunk number one
cross a super skunk 86 and then Neville's
crop will roadkill cross with Neville's by his name.
And then I'm throwing in some blueberry blast cross with plush berry.
And then if we get to 500, some seats taken from best coast genetics.
Looks like food bears at 400.
I don't see much action.
I think we can call it 400 if nobody's objecting to food bears bids.
I can do international on anything.
Yep, that's for sure.
I can do stealth.
Just tell me what country and what candy.
He said two packs of seeds, I believe.
Right, Josh?
I think two 10 pounds.
For the $50.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Two 10 packs.
Yep, you know, that is a gold mine.
400 dollars.
Anybody going to say anything about it?
I think it's sold.
I think to take this one for 400.
Yep, I'm calling it.
All right, food bear, you got these.
So go ahead and settle up.
We're going to go ahead and post up the information down at the bottom for you.
Let me know when you're settled up and I'll get you the stuff.
All right, who's up next?
I can keep going.
Million dollars for my dog.
One million.
I do it.
Sorry, dude, I would.
He's in rough condition.
He's a good dog.
One mil.
Who's got it?
Get out of here.
I get away a pack.
Let's go.
How about this really rare King's Banner?
I haven't sold this in like three, four years.
This is my personal stash.
King's Banner.
Can't read it, but that's what it says.
King's Banner.
It's a 10 pack, I believe.
So the bids at 100 bucks.
Caesar's bid 150.
Caesar wants it.
Yeah.
Caesar knows.
One 55 dope beats junkie.
King's banner is a Joseph OG, which has a key gluey to OG in it.
And I use the mail of the King Louie Dom and uh, yeah, obviously the Bruce banner
number three, one of my favorite strains of all time.
Super sold out long been sold out.
I saved myself.
I don't know.
I mean, 10 packs, five, 10 packs.
Here's one of them.
You probably want to buy them.
Shits.
Caesar knows 200 THC is there in the lead 200.
He knows
220 urban insight.
220 urban insight.
Get them.
Get them.
Don't you dare let anyone overbid you matter of pride right now.
Two 20 and a kissy face emoji.
It's what you're going to do about it.
Two 20, huh?
That's a matter of being broke.
Yeah.
If you guys are too broke, by the way, that the bottom of your screen scrolling
bag of love that you can get a couple of packs for $50, um, $50 Venmo.
Uh, you go ahead and get, uh, two packs and the man in your corner, Dutch
blooms, um, his selections.
So that's not all about super high bids.
See Rubio coming in to 35, my man, two 35, Richard Rubio.
And I have so many bags of seeds with, um, magic marker.
It's just rubbing off.
Yeah.
If you ever come up to a trade show and give us seeds in a baggie,
put a piece of paper in the bag that says what the cross is, because there's
even if you use a Sharpie, like it's going to rub off by the time we get to it.
And it's just a mystery bag of seeds at that point.
And it's still, this is some sheet a wild tie.
Like, Whoa, she'd a wild tie.
You got a request for Nido.
Oh, is it, is it in stock?
I think he's stores closed or it's closing soon.
Possibly.
I'll take it.
I'll take the two 35 Rubio.
Happy to do it, my man.
Get some super rare elite shit.
Uh, King's banner, one of them is trains.
I'm most proud of enjoy it.
You're the winner going once, going twice.
Two 30 to 35 or two 30, either one.
Uh, Rubio Rubio is the man.
Go ahead and send that Venmo to Shelby, which again, will be in the chat here.
Please do it right away.
And we'll get them out.
Let me go.
Uh, let me go, uh, another pack here real quick.
Skunk house, skunk house, candied lemons.
Wedding pie to Larry OG.
I didn't really want to give these out.
Yeah.
I instantly regretted just saying that out loud.
Cause now it's a, yeah, I had to stop what I was doing to hear that shit.
Yeah.
I kind of instantly regret that, but it's official.
I just said it.
I'm showing it on the screen.
So I was going to hold that for me, but a wedding pie to Larry OG.
It's going to couch genetics.
So I've got skunk house.
Next thing I wake up from is RSO delirium.
I'm like, I need lemons.
Let's go.
I want to see some movement.
Shout out to my boy, Brett.
He used a, my cut of a wedding pie in that cross and they've got a, you know,
how tests go, but they do have a test, uh, on a Fino that hit 40%.
We've started is rolling.
Margaret's thrown two 80.
Now, GH Caesar's got the bed.
He knows, knows the fire.
See, if you see THC aggressively bidding, that means something.
And he knows something.
Three hundo green machine says, step off my shit.
Blown up Caesar spot.
He says, don't fucking tell everybody.
I know what I'm talking about.
You see Caesar bidding.
He's the dumbest guy in the chat.
He doesn't know anything.
So you don't want to bid on anything.
Caesar bids on three 50, three 50 chatter, Bob wedding pie to Larry OG
skunk house.
Janet, it's called candied lemons.
At a boy cheddar, Bob, they had a boy.
Rubio will not be denied.
He says, fuck you.
Cheddar Bob.
I got three 75 on it.
What about that?
Boom.
Boom says I'm out.
I'm sorry.
I came to play, but you boys are dipping into rent money and I can't do it right
now.
So let's go.
Cheddar Bob three, three 75.
Actually.
Rubio is back saying three 50 is not strong enough today, bro.
Three 75 at Rubio.
Appreciate the bids guys.
Keep the biz rolling.
One more time.
Skunk house.
Um, candied lemons, wedding pie to Larry.
Oh gee, you want this pack?
Cause I didn't want to give it up.
Trust me.
It's back right here.
It is worth 500 by itself.
Okay.
See grows knows what's up.
It's the middle of the month.
You got time to get on that grind and get that rent money back.
So this is a killer pack guys.
Fucking a dozen of festivals keeps coming up here with more and more shit.
You guys ready for more auto shit?
Jesus.
We got to keep all this shit separated.
Yeah.
It's all on the table.
It's going to be a bit of a mess, but I'm going to need a spreadsheet of winners
and where stuff's going.
And this might take me a minute to get organized, but you will get your shit.
Good thing we have a spreadsheet.
Good thing.
We all have our secretaries.
You've been back to this shit.
We're at four hundo cheddar Bob, four hundo cheddar Bob says enough with the
chitter chatter.
I came to fucking play.
Who came to play in cheddar Bob sandbox.
They want to piss in that sandbox.
So we got them up.
Cheddar Bob's going to push you out of his sandbox.
Cause you don't give a fuck.
He has taken this skunk house pack.
Candy lemons, wedding pie to Larry.
Oh gee, somebody say something to
cheddar Bob for hundo.
Oh, hundo.
See, we're gonna have to do it.
We'll have to call it going once, one, once a sexy pack, candy lemons going twice.
One twice.
All right.
Cheddar Bob, you know what to do.
You've been with us all night.
Appreciate all the support.
Uh, go ahead and send that Venmo right on over to a Shelby and, uh, keep this thing
moving, moving.
I promised you some more dads.
Dad showed up with more shit.
What's the call for the night?
No more.
Damn Rubio trying to snipe with four 25.
Uh, Ruby, I'm going to have to call it closed.
I know there's a lag, but trust me, we got more fire shit.
You got four 25 in the room.
I'm going to stay on here giving shit away.
Cause I'm gonna get that four 25 out of you.
There's something in this mix.
Okay.
Just wait.
There's more fucking amazing shit coming up.
Starting right now.
Let's go with this night owl pack.
Pink Panama to cosmic queen.
This appears to be the newest drop.
Uh, hubba bubba.
Hayes to cosmic queen.
Foxy perps to cosmic queen.
Wow.
Grape crinkle cosmic queen.
White stomper V one sour hound to cosmic queen.
One, two, three, four packs along with more swag.
This guy's the king of swag.
This is a key chain.
You already know he won't just come with seeds.
It's gotta have more shit on top of it.
It's probably send you chocolates and all kinds of other shit, just
cause you didn't ask for it.
Be prepared.
If you get this night owl shit, dad's is probably going to send you 437
stickers, four candy bars, three fucking key chains, 12 ashtray, 12
hoodies.
Like that's what he does.
So let's get this shit a roll in folks.
Well, we've got 50 bids in here already.
We haven't started at three 25.
Okie blown smoke to three.
Okie is not blowing smoke right now at three 25.
He came out with a serious bid right out the gate.
He is going to lace up the stickers.
You are correct about that, my friend.
Three 50.
Lot of OGs are sensitive to nitrogen, bro.
Known to be like three 60 chingo bling.
Three 75 or 25 Rubio.
Rubio.
Co is he come back to that?
Four 20.
I told you Rubio four 25.
I'll have something for you, but I don't see shit.
I'm sorry.
Come forth.
That was me.
I'm sorry.
Three 70.
Sitting at three 75 looking sexy.
Two bids at three 75.
I got the purple brush in two X tray.
So you guys got to battle it out at some point here.
Peter's back, yes?
I am.
He's back.
Can you add Caesar?
Yeah I'm going to add someone to this.
If there's any way you can send a link.
Another guy has some seeds he'd like to throw up.
Yeah what
I can probably email you.
Or here, why don't you
In our private chat send me the email.
I can do that.
I will type it in our private chat.
Real quick, Daz came up with a chocolate
because he heard me talking about chocolates.
Look at this fucking chocolate.
Night Owl 2020 Halloween chocolate.
There's a pretty good fucking chance it's going to arrive to you not melted
as long as you don't live in the desert.
But this dude goes all out.
Chocolate's coming with the fucking shit along with stickers,
along with
I couldn't even begin to list the amount of shit.
You want the chocolate?
Is that what you
That's kind of like
This chocolate's going out to the peoples.
I'm sure there's pounds of this shit downstairs.
But yeah, get your chocolate in.
Chocolate game is strong with Daz.
Belgian and shit.
Rubio did do 425.
I was
Rubio is back with 425
as the man knows.
So you're just a psychic.
I told you Rubio, you're going to win this at 425.
I told you the very next thing, 425, it's all you.
You're taking it home with you.
And you get the chocolate.
And you get the chocolate.
And the key chain.
The chocolate did it.
Chocolate got Rubio over the top.
425, who wants to big dick Rubio?
Anybody want to piss in that sandbox?
Somebody want to piss this man off right now?
We are stacking some coin here tonight, folks.
Just a quick refresher.
This is all going for legal defenses,
for blockchain novelties and family.
We're raising money to help a friend of all of ours
who needs some help right now.
And it's, in my opinion, a very important case,
a very important situation.
Even if you don't want to buy any packs
or you can't afford any packs or can't bid,
you just want to throw a few dollars,
I'll take your dollars.
I'll take your pennies.
I'll take your cents.
I'll take, if you have no financial income,
just positive vibes.
Send my man positive vibes.
He's sitting in a jail cell
along with his autistic brother
who doesn't deserve to be there,
along with his father who doesn't deserve to be there,
and along with his skateboarder, pro skateboarder friend
who has absolutely nothing to do with this operation,
as far as I can tell.
Shout out, Michael.
So, yeah.
Rubio, 425.
Much love to you.
You know what to do.
Venmo, Shelby.
It's on your chat right there.
Richard Rubio, you are the man.
I appreciate the bids.
Once again, thanks to Daz
for dropping all this shit off here.
I guess Daz is probably throwing 30, 40 packs up here tonight, guys.
So, shout out, Daz.
Give Daz a follow on IG or Instagram or whatever.
Daz Nightowl, find him.
Daz Mephesto, find him.
Give him a follow.
Say thank you.
Anybody else got anything they want to fire off?
I got another pack.
Should I keep it right here with me?
Canerato, you guys want Canerato?
What's combo with you and I both?
And just frankly, don't forget to send me the email.
Oh, Caesar.
Oh, yeah. My bad.
Somebody else go. I got to send an email.
I was doing shit.
Let's do another pack of the root beer.
I mentioned to get those.
They're out on the table.
They got to go.
Let's start another one off at 200.
It's the GMO cross BX root beer cross BX root beer 2.
And I don't have the chat again.
I keep trying to pull it up and I keep losing it.
They are made for made by mean gene for Mendocino freeboard selections.
It's at 350.
Three.
Yeah, they're about 10 weekers.
And I've done a couple packs tonight, but a 400 green machine.
These are pretty sought after shit.
You know, the root beer people are always asking every time the dudes on fucking I.G.
You know, even with the meme gene, the last the last.
Mean thing up is unless there's root beer or something like that.
No more root beer, no more memes.
Beautiful Caesar.
Check your email and you should have an email here shortly that may get you on here.
Hopefully, if that works out for you, just to be just.
I mean, I want to go all night, guys, because I want to keep raising money.
But I am going to have to stop and eat food, actually, at some point.
So I think I'll go another 30 minutes.
We're on shifts.
Yeah, we're on shifts.
So I got another minute.
I were the first shift.
The telephone continues.
But I'll hang with you guys another 30 minutes and drop off the rest of what I have.
And then I've got to stuff my belly.
But yeah, let's keep rolling.
Looks like bids are 400 green machine.
People are wanting to know what the pack is again.
It's GMO.
Cross.
So be.
To be X to root beer.
So say that one more time.
GMO cross BX root beer onto BX root beer to.
Oh, Philly.
A great enrage.
I love and rage you.
I love and appreciate you right now for Philly, but not to be underdone by Timothy because he says not so fast, motherfucker for 70.
Here we go.
Here we go.
It's getting real for 70.
He rage.
You're going to take that.
500 green machine says you forgot about me.
I'm the big dick in the room.
Five hundred fucking dollars.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Come on, hate and rage.
I know you're not going to take that from green machine.
Contesting that.
What do you want to fuck with?
Green machine.
I don't blame him.
You don't spit on Superman's cape and you don't spit into the wind and you don't fuck around with big green fucking machine.
I know that for a fact.
500 all you, sir.
Oh, he can have it.
He's saying he can have it.
He's calling it.
Oh, I got something special for you coming up.
Hate and rage.
Don't you worry.
All right, we call it a 500.
500 going once.
No, I got more to do twice.
Oh, 520 with Jonathan Moore.
So you got to, you got to give it, you got to give a pause.
Green machine.
You are not the biggest dick.
How does that feel right now?
I will coax it out of you, dude.
I will coax it out of you.
I am not scared to not make friends tonight.
I will insult everybody in this fucking chat room for money.
No, no.
See, that's how you were.
You were headed down the right angle, but you know, how does that make you feel?
You know, just that it's not very comforting.
You probably want to bid is what he's really saying.
550.
Green machine said 550.
He said, no, not 530.
You already know I am the big dick in the room.
530.
Don't even fuck with me.
Jonathan.
Jonathan, dude.
Oh, no, Jonathan.
This is awesome.
Can we do it?
Oh, Timothy.
Timothy jumps in.
Ain't no thing.
What is this?
The minor leagues, he says.
This is the minor leagues we're in.
This Bush League night.
570.
What the fuck's going on here?
Huh?
You gave a fuck about your sandbox.
Take a shit in it right now.
Very fucking cat.
And strut off.
And strut off.
Yeah.
Back all arched up in the air.
570.
Oh, God.
600 motherfucking dollars.
Jonathan Moore.
Oh, my goodness.
Caesar's in the backstage room.
I'm looking for a picture of the big green machine that I rode in the 70s.
Right.
That's immediately what I thought of.
600 is the bid.
Green machine.
Green machine, where are you at, bro?
I know you're angry.
Yeah, he got sniped.
But it's you.
It's you.
It's meant to be.
It was always meant to be you.
I thought I had it.
You just had to go to war for it, but it was meant to be for you.
You had to regroup.
I call this silent period.
The time you got to go check in with your wife.
Yeah, that's what I was going to say.
You got to check your account, you know, make sure everything's cool.
Or whoever else, but somebody who calls the shots.
Oh, he says, all right.
We talked him into the motherfucking 650 motherfucking dollars.
I'm getting cyber screaming in your ear.
I'm just getting hype.
Green machine.
You're going to get that root beer, aren't you?
Do it on the table.
He's determined.
Green machine says not.
I'm going to give a shit.
Not today.
Don't give a shit.
Oh, shit.
Here comes Daz again.
God damn it.
Daz is back with more goodies.
Daz, I need chocolate.
Ninja packs are in the front.
So Caesar, I muted you.
He done gave it away.
Yeah, turn off your fucking speaker though.
Diff shit.
There we go.
Rocking and rolling.
Ready?
You got to turn off your fucking speaker though.
Diff shit.
There we go.
Wow.
Rocking and rolling
We invited John you just hijacked the shit and fucked it all up Caesar
Yeah, that's all you
Alright
Six 50 Green Machine will not be denied. Yeah, shall we call it should dare I say going once dare I fucking say
670 I better not fucking say cuz god damn it Timothy Lampard
Big dick Timmy
Coming in. Yeah. We agree machine. I know you don't check your accounts at this point. You just add to the drama
You're gonna you're gonna let him big dick you like that cuz that was that was like a medium dick
That was like a half job somewhere right now
Green machine just is punching a hole in wall
Yeah
Talking all this stupid shit, you know, he's like fuck dark horse. Why you gotta be coaxing everybody talking shit everybody
Fuck it. Sorry green machine, bro. I got something for you, bro. I promise
670 is the limit. We will find something else. It'll make you happy. Yeah
There I say
Going motherfucking once to this
scenes from now on by the way
One strain at a time
We're gonna have to call it with an epic
most entertaining auction of the evening to this point
Well, this is what this is what started this last little spree though. Yeah, I say dare I say you gotta go once
Going twice. Yeah, we are going twice now and going
Somewhere Timmy's got a tight but he is nervous
Oh
Timothy you know what to do
Immediately Venmo Shelby, please
I mean, do you prefer Venmo or PayPal?
I
Let me look through some stuff
Canerado sweaty haze you guys into some regs
Dude, yeah, those are some old regs. Those are those are very valuable
Canerado
Timmy with a curse. What a haze
Shweaty
Yes, sir getting sweaty, what do you know about this ease you're the man with the
I'm straight. I just got busted re gifting right now. This was a gift from THC's or to me and I'm re gifting to you
How do you feel about that Caesar? Are you angry right now?
That I have to bid on the pack to get it back that I gifted you. Yeah
Yeah, let's make him pay let's make him fucking pay all right
Sweaty haze. Well, let's fucking start the bidding. I don't know 50. I actually call it a hundred bucks on her box
Let's get Caesar pissed off right now. He wants it back. He gifted to me. I'm re gifting it
One fitty one fitty one fitty blowing smoke in the game
He's waiting this night I could tell he's not he's not even waiting he's a man of his word
He comes in heavy with the big dick 250
What is the lineage of the sweaty haze Caesar, do you know
I don't want to know I don't want to tell nobody how special is
Really know what it is
It's a haze I gotta have a haze I think it's a no 5 haze is it not
Now you pretend that you're muted now you pretend you're muted
Yeah
Is it no 5 haze
What was it I think it's an off I've is yeah, yes, I thought 300 oaky blowing smoke tree hundo
Money money money money
For commissary
And stuff and loyalty
And stuff and lawyers let's go canerado packs
Looking at a 300 steady
Nobody wants to fight on this one
Since you're putting up the canerado pack i'm gonna probably do the same
You got the exact same one. Not the exact same one
Yeah dark king canerado
You want to show off your sneak collection why this shit runs this dude has all his seeds in a fucking three binder like it's
Fleer baseball cards from 1987, but it's actually a pretty dope idea. Check it out
Give me all that canerado right there and what flexing on y'all
Give me flexing on y'all. Oh, yeah, as a matter of fact, I got all this all this is i'm getting ready right now
I don't want any of that cookie name. So I got a bunch of uh, what's his name?
Cole classic stuff that i'm doing uh better off as well, but let me get off the canerado back and see which one
We're gonna go through this entire trading card, yeah, I got some masonic packs flexing on them
2000 for the binder chingo says I don't even think you're close
This is a half a million rd in that bitch
Yeah, this is uh, you know, I could buy a town and fucking you know somewhere around the country
Look at his retirement pack. That is 401k right there
I'm, definitely not letting that kitchen sink go
Where we at on the bid the pack is sweaty haze upper bid canerado, I think we're 300
300 okie blowing smoke anyone challenging I can bring a call in calling it once pull up a seat junkie pack
I'm calling it twice
Sold okie blowing smoke canerado pack
sweaty haze
for you
please uh venmo
Or paypal the link that'll either be on your screen or in the chat
Yeah, let's do it immediately
For venmo or paypal
I wonder what these are worth for people
Who's that
Dog pugs, you know, he's retiring. You ain't making nothing, you know retired genetics
You trying to fucking break the internet that's what i'm saying is like get me on here i'll break the internet right now break this
Caesar came to drop some real real shit
We might have emptied the cash in the room
But y'all need to go take a second mortgage out because caesar's about to fucking
Piss your wife off like she's never been pissed off before
Say goodbye to that college fund. Stay. Goodbye
That stimulus check you just fucking tried to put away
Shit is gone
Uh, what are we giving away? I don't know we got i'm seeing 400 500
I don't know if that's official yet officially see what is up for auction because he got to go a little crazy
Yeah, I didn't say which one was going up yet. But uh, let's see
I think i'll put up this one right here
Monkey
Monkey business monkey business
The chingo comes right out with 550. Is that accurate bid 550?
Chingo, is that old when he thought it was multiples because this is a single pack a stupid fire from a retired breeder
You know, he ain't making no more
My bid is out 550 is a valid bid my man chingo
All right, 550 out the gate. Oh, your bid is out as in like you're pulling your bid
Please clarify chingo, please please clarify chingo on your 550 bid
Yeah, so what's the bid
What's the highest bid on the monkey business so far? He's pulling his bid back
So chingo the bid is at nothing what started at 100 bucks. All right started at 100 bucks
Genetics that you can't get chingo was looking for that wedding cake shit
Which if you actually do drop that this might fucking melt the internet got a bug 50 from cow. You had a bid
You had a dollar 50 150 for the monkey
Greek gamer appreciate that
$50
So do that 500 before appreciate that sir. You got 500 before let's scroll back and see what it was
Because if that's the case, then you have five before you I think that was also wedding cake shit
Yeah, I think so. I think everyone
wedding cake freak out
Yeah
We're sitting at 150 tommy trikes tommy trikes wins the sea junkie
Growing up. I mean I got it right here
Are you teasing are you teasing people?
And i'd like for it to you know
Go past a thousand for me to put it up
But it's not like i'm collecting them. We could do a minimum reserve because that shit is legit worth fucking coin
Thousand dollar pack right there thousand percent, but we could do a minimum reserve if we don't go don't go that's all right
If you want to if you want to tempt fate with it
But we're at 150 right now, all right, let's keep it going 155
160 160
Can we get 165
Coming in five dollar increments. I don't I think it's funny but go ahead and yeah jump them jump them each chip away at it
160
Pack you'll never be able to buy again because it'll never be remade again
It is 300 plus
Right now it's at 200 though to blurple turps
See what was the name of the pack again monkey pack
Monkey business do you know lineage? Oh, I will google it for you real quick. I know it's a gg4 cross. Hold up
200 200 blurple turps
Times steve stiffer
Sophie's breath to stevie stiflo what?
He'd be having the weirdest names
Yeah, yeah, that's what it says. Sophie's breath to stevie stiflo. Whatever the fuck stevie stiflo is
Oh sophisticated lady, there we go
So
Like a gangster or shall we say mobster a gangster in the night 225
It's an easy 300 pack should be should be hold them shekels out guys pull them shekels out
225
Anybody want to fight about it? You just gonna let mobster just walk with it
Just laugh at you all
You laugh at you all you go
Snake that
So you're gonna let him just snake that everybody. Okay
Okay, i'm happy for you mobster
I am happy for you mobster because you definitely mobbed it
Make sure you add extra money for shipping and handling so, you know, we don't gotta eat that cause
All right, I think we may have to call her all right going once twice three times
four four
Got it mobster you the winner congrats, bro
All right, i'll put that to the side make sure i take it out of my collection
Please uh mobster go ahead and send either the venmo or paypal link which will be provided to you here shortly
And uh, if you could do it immediately
And we'll get there we'll get that out to you
What else you got next to break the internet sees I mean if somebody you know
The drops like starts the bid at like
900 right now i'll make this available. I'll put it out right now right now right now right now. This is real shit right now
Build a whole goddamn fucking breeding company off of this shit. You could start your whole fucking career of 26 million dollars
All right, this is serious what you want to do a reserve of 900 if it doesn't get above 900 it ain't happening
Why not
900 is where the starting bid is on this shit and uh
Good luck finding one of these anywhere. This is like action comics number one
This is like
fucking
Hulk incredible hulk 181 first appearance of wolverine like this is shit where like
You might just frame it and not even want to fucking start its value
I'll throw something else in there too. If they started off see that 900 bit. Let me
Let me see that and then i'll throw some else in
I'd tell you what if we get to the 900 there's gonna be a special bonus. He's throwing out some special bonuses
You may have depleted this room of cash so much before you got here. They don't have it and that's all right
But if they don't have it they don't have it we still love all of y'all but yeah who's big digging in the room
Somebody can find a way to write that shit off
Who's going together who's teaming up together to get this done splitting the pack up i've seen it done before high grade I hear you
Gac's are digging in the crates right now, new york city stand up
sir
It's not like i'm gonna start these anytime soon. Anyway
It's the alliances. Let's get a three-man alliance to purchase this pack. Yeah, they can pull off the calculator stuff
Ha ha ha
Your third would be alex is in for six hundo
We want to match them at six make this a 1200 pack real quick and just fucking party time
nah
Definitely keep it for that. Yeah. Good luck trying to get it on the the new c junkie drop that's dropping
Well that already happened all those packs like six seven hundred dollars
Anyway, so I think we may have I think we may have pulled out the hope diamond in a room full of
zails shoppers
Talk about can we get some seed off that I got that louis vuitton quality and y'all trying to pay reebok price. Nah get out of here
We may need to move on this appears to be a zails diamond store market, all right, let me look
Other stuff
You'll kick yourself yesterday or yesterday jesus tomorrow or if you're time travel yesterday
You'll kick yourself tomorrow for not doing that that was just put in front of your face and you're like damn it
Could have been that could have been
Cheddar bob you with us all night. I understand the pain. I only got one bug. Oh, hey
He's right in the arse all night
Well, you got more reasonably priced for these fine folksies i'm looking i'm looking
I mean, let's see. I don't want to give away that. I'll look i'll keep looking. Hold on. There's a lot to look
Let's do so let's do a couple value packs. Yeah
All right, so you know what hold on I know what to do
Here
Let me throw out a few secret society packs while he's looking for stuff. Uh, they're half packs of uh,
France so it's uh, oscars cross with purple punch
We have
canis majoris star killer cross with i-95 star dog
And then monkey punch which is rafiki cross with purple punch 2.0
We'll start that off at uh 50 bucks
50 bucks for those packs. Yep, which goes to both of them
three
Should put my bet in right now
It's so long
Let's see where we're at we got 180 half packs. Yep
Throw in a pack of uh full moons genetics
Cheese wiz as well, which is queso pedro cross with oscars back cross one
So i'm gonna toss those in and these are unopened as well. So it's going to be
canis majoris
monkey punch and print from secret society, which are half packs and then an unopened pack of full moon genetics
He said the queso
Prince's fire
All right, uh, it's a pair of spires too so the cheese was i've grown out and it's it's super cheesy kush
What do we got two 10s so far
Yeah
I'm down with that man. This was just a quick 50 big
Mark no, this is uh, this is to help uh, leo bailey
All right, I got my next uh
Right now I got it ready as soon as this one's done
Now we don't got cash up right now, it's just uh benmo and
Still 210. I think that's gonna be it
210 all right twice
Mendo cab
It's a mendo cab at 210
All right, we're just gonna call that one quickly mendo cab caesar. I think you've gotten his stuff
You got seas
Uh, let's see exceed microbreeding plum dog pie. Tony clifton. Tony clifton is ogkbbx1 plum dog pie is
Chem four four and grape pie
jilly 13 peach oz
to tony clifton
And cookies and cream to tony clifton
So i'll start this one off at 100 for all three
Let's do it
Shipping everywhere. Yes, I believe we're shipping everywhere
All right
Jilly 13 peach oz to the tony clifton plum dog pie. Tony clifton and cookies and cream. Tony clifton
pretty fire packaging
Not too bad their idea is about to get fucking swagger jack
Yeah, thank you for the clarification dope beats junkie
two grand
He wrote it down if you write it in the chat, that's official bid I want that money son
I'm sitting bk roller to collect
Thanks for clarifying you're at 120 but that's still not enough because we are at 160 chingo, I believe
Yeah, come on. It's tony fucking clifton. We need more money. Tony fucking clifton
170 170. All right, there's only one hand which is an interesting name
Hello
I wasn't gonna say nothing. That was like a walking setup of a joke, but
I appreciate the bid so i'm just gonna shut the fuck up and thank you for your 170
Sometimes I use as only one hand too
Yeah
All right, one step. Yep, tony creep, uh, ogkb ogkb wet dream that is tony clifton 170
170 for three packs so far
The steel
There's a couple of other strains
I use two hands
180 chingo comes in two hands
He's coming in two-handed it's like fuck that shit
180
We have 180. Yeah
Chingo chingo bling because he uses two hands
Cry
Fuck it. I'll throw on another one right now four packs. This one would be cherry breath cherry
One hand says you only need one hand. That's why it's 190 right now
You don't need two why use two you only need one my man uses one hand and it's 190 is the bid
Caesar just upgraded the fucking auction
With an additional pack cherry breath to what tony clifton again. Yep
200 green machine reveals himself
And 220 from use only one hand to fit it. Oh
Too fit a green machine came to play
Hey
Cherry breath is the what is it? Cherry ak to the mentor brother
Strong bid strong bid. Let's the guys know he's not fucking around
Yeah, I should do this
Uh, didn't that too fitty it would be fun. I'm not even gonna coach shit green machine if you want
I'm gonna shut up because I feel like every time you get in I start talking my shit. Oh, sorry uses only one hand 260
He's there
You gotta give him time
Might as well just add another one. I just shut up. I don't want you to blame me green machine. It's between you
Great trade of tony great trade m3 300 green machine
Five packs five packs you gotta give him time. He's only using one hand. God damn it
Oh
Hippy spinach, oh, yeah, there you go. Three ten three ten
Got five packs a little more a little more going. I love it
Got the grape tray
The cookies and cream tony clifton
Green machine we appreciate you too, bro. Tony. Oh shit 350 350
Julie
13 pcho z to tony this jillie 13 pcho z came from uh, green dot labs
Yeah before he got all stingy and you know didn't let out any his genetics, but uh, I got some of this before he
Sees us gonna get changed pretty fitty at green machine
Green machines letting me off the hook for all my bullshit. I appreciate that green machine
I got more here, but I just uh, I like I choose
One of each a few strings right here
There's a couple of them
Decent amount of late action on this auction. So
a little bit longer
Dare we say going once there is a plum dog pie cross. Yes, this is long dog pie
Plum dog pie is the
chem
Hold your horses hold your horse
Sherry breath, that's a thug bug cross to the tony clifton
That a boy sue
Maybe a lady maybe a boy named sue either way
Thank you. Sue. I feel like this one's gonna be a freak
She sounds like a freak
400
We got a motivated and pissed off I love to see him talking shit to each other 400 bitch
What do you say about that 400 bitch
Maybe 500
Get it to five it's easier to throw in more get it to five. Come on, sue
Bring it up to five and add some more fucking value to your love tk91 pjoe
Oh
That might persuade some people to get her to five
That's biatch
So right now I got six packs get it to five i'll throw this one in
It's under a hundred per pack pretty much
Hell of a steal still great value
Still great value. Let's see. I mean and you can talk shit to the green machine right now
Perfect opportunity to counter some shit talk 12 seeds per pack
So get it over 500 i'll throw in this one right here
Get it over 600, let's see what I can put in
I'll throw in the fat. So fat soda. Tony the fat tony
the fat
Get it over to 600 and i'll put in this one and this one
He just keeps adding more he's like billy mays and guess what there's more
Guess what? There's more
Did we tell you about our introductory bonus double special where you're going to get another one if you just buy
30 more
Yeah, i'm gonna let y'all leave. I'm gonna let y'all leave like that
Back for the package what
Green machine, I think has it where we at or who has the bid? Oh, let's see. It is
I do believe it's green machine. Yeah at 400
400 green machine. Come on 500 and i'll throw in this pack
Tk91 pjoe z
Come on punk now with egg and yon
egg and yon
Come on, you could find out a way to write this off in taxes somehow. Come on
Yeah, five packs two times 12 that would be
Just drop the packs
What's peter's email 420 in your mouth chingo blame
Starting to get filthy in here. I don't know if peter even wants to put this filth on his screen
But as long as you're giving me more money
Say whatever you want 420 i'm your daddy
Dream machine. Are you gonna swallow that?
Are you gonna take a green machine anymore? No, no, no because
Is
My fucking badass intro belinda fucking i'm taking it right back
Green machine in the lead right now 450 will not be denied
This belinda, where you at
I'd like to see that
We're only 50 away from the bonus. Yeah
50 away from the bonus. Cesar's trying to throw away from the extra pack
That's it
50 gets you 90 490
Uh
Belinda ain't scared. Oh 10 more get to this pack. We gotta get 10 more on it. Come on green machine
You know, you're good for 10 more
I was baiting
This is a pro bidder right here
We're looking at a pro bidder because when you see a 490 bid
He knows he's gonna go to five and now he's gonna come back and counter on top of that
This dude knows what the fuck he's doing green machine. Do you know what you're getting into some shit right now?
left field
You know 500 that's what you're getting right now so for 600 600 gets you this though
Hold on. Hold on. He's adding more
The billy mays is going back to the well
The sham
540 belinda won't be fucking denied. I love it. Belinda. So 600 gets you this
That's so tony
found a way
60 away from the extra
Oh, no fatso
Just do it
Uh-huh
Or another pack we get to six. We have 540
Extra 60 gets this pack belinda has you hot and bothered
Oh no
Anything fucking gmo you definitely won if you want something that's going to yield big test high
Give you a lot of fucking return to your hash. Come on
I know everybody's already tired of me fucking talking about gmo, but
Green machine says what's another 60?
600 this man
This man, he's actually he got it. He got it. We had six packs right now. What six packs we there
No, we got seven dudes confidence. He's just like that's another 60
you think i'm scared of another 60 because he's not scared of another 60 green machine is like
Come on, give me that
If we get to 700
Oh my god, he's still talking another one
It was still going we'll get you the tony bx1
tony stardog to tony
600
Seven packs that so is growers gold. This is facts. Yeah fatso is gmo to legend og canerado
I mean who the fuck don't like
640 40. Ah, oh man. Come on. It's 40. We doing it
I love it belinda
This is straight a showdown between belinda
and the green machine
Oh
Extra extra what we need 60 more fatso saying 30 all over. Yeah, somebody has seen fucking get like 40 cannabinoids
Fucking overall cannabinoids on their fucking fatso
Not no fucking paid, you know test results to test high type shit
Nothing about that like 30 percenters. Yep. Damn, right
Come on extra
What is the 60 we need to get this what is that 540
40 right now
700 what's another 60 green machine said belinda baited you with it
He was if you already said what's another 60?
Well, then he just hit it up with uh, yeah 640 so he could say what's another 60 to you put it at 700
Finest hit 39 tt 45 overall cannibalism. I might just pull this pack back. Fuck. Yeah, I want this muscle
Yeah
Come on we got one two, three, four five six seven packs right now
This would be the eighth
Make it 700 you get eight packs
700 bitch
So that's a big 700 that's a bit you're there you did it
All my shit out of your fucking bag
You gotta fucking you got a bag like mary poppins what else is in there but for 800 though
Right now one two, three, four five six seven eight packs
There's eight packs if you get it to 800 you get nine packs and i'll throw this one in
This is just getting really real in here the blood pressure just went up a little bit in the room I could feel it
Oh
Yes, there is 800 nine packs you get this one i'll throw in
I want to see I want to see this shit reach a thousand. I'll just keep throwing in more packs. My hands are sweating
High drama
Right now this is what we got so far
That's what you better know all these
And then I do 10 packs for 800
740 I could do that do that
740 doing it. Let me see
Doing it and doing it and doing it. Well, there you go
740 right now 740 to you green machine
This is a battle between two, uh, determined folks
Did a one hand bow out
Yeah, one hand bowed out about the 500 mark I believe well you got to remember he's only using one hand so
All right, so right now the bid 740 you got this 800 throw in this extra pack
It goes past that you know
Green machine says oh you're bad. Beach. Nope. I'm the bad bitch
One two, three, four five six seven eight nine packs big bag into that mary poppins bag of shit
Oh tony clinton f2 is making appearance
This shit just keeps getting sweeter and sweeter
800 so far. All right, we get it to a thousand. Hold on. We get it to a thousand you get all these
I'll throw in more. I'll throw in more. Hold on. Hold on
As the as you get more brooklyn as this auction gets more fucking up there in price
All right
I think that might be for the different varieties, but i'll just you know, double it up. Let's see
I will throw in
three extra plus this
So what is the auction at right now? We got one two, three, four, five six seven eight nine packs
If you get it to a thousand
Get it to a thousand at least
More yeah
We should probably try to wrap her up because it's I mean I want to keep going up
But uh, this is only between two people. We got plenty of money in the room
Let's go to the next one, but let's keep it rolling. We're at 8 40 right now belinda
So let's let's make this a thousand dollar fucking deal. You guys need to seriously hash it out right now
so the rest of us can get to our business of small fucking
Clfucking deals while you two super big fucking ballers sort it out. But uh, yeah, let's get this bidding. We're going let's see it
8 40 belinda
Come on come on
I mentioned to give away this hoodie
160 more and i'll throw in four extra packs the hoodlum
We want to move on to the hoodlum, but you guys are just over here big digging it left and right
Yeah, I might as well get the extra packs for 160 more i'll throw in four packs
Chinga chingas, uh on the clock count 30 seconds. Yeah wants to put a clock to it
He wants the hoodlum. He's ready to go to the next one
Don't blame you
So let's get this one done right now. We got one two
Seven eight nine
We do take paypal
Yep, i'll put up the link right now
You got nine packs at what's the highest bid 840 160 more make it a thousand i'm gonna throw in extra four
another cherry breath
Another cookies and cream tony clifton another cookies and cream tony clifton
So that'd be three and then the f2 if you want to go to f3 and beyond if you could do it
That was in
New bidder comes in with a thousand dollars
Got it all
Is anybody like I'm gonna let you i'm gonna give you 30 seconds to counter
But we're trying to move on. Otherwise, caesars mary poppins bag will never end
Do we have counters
Thousand dollars got all this right now
Slaying it. Nolan 13 packs going once. Where are you at green machine?
Well, linda you guys you guys bidding adieu respectfully backing out
All right, so thousand it is going twice
Speak up speak up speak up
All right
Nolan you're the winner
Uh, the way you're gonna do this is there's gonna be a paypal or venmo. It looks like you asked for paypal and
Peter our illustrious host will get you that link information and yeah
And i'm gonna throw in one of my packs, too
He's throwing in more shit. He just can't stop himself. He can't stop himself
Yeah, although I haven't eaten a fucking thing all day
I'm going to uh give away this hoodie and get the fuck out of here for a little bit
I'm, not sure how late you guys go
But if you continue to go I may be able to come back on at some point later
I don't know but it's been a long
Chipped in and uh
It's easier if you want to keep going you're more than welcome to as long
Just look at it this way as long as this train's been going we've been collecting money
virtually every few minutes and shelby's phone is binging blowing up, you know, and uh
This is the start of the right direction. This is what we need to do
so, um, i'm gonna throw up my final auction of the night, which is going to be a pretty dope one, I guess and
I gotta go find something to eat. But uh, i'm not sure if bk is sticking around or say caesar the seattle colonic siege
But um, i'll do one more after this. Oh, yeah, I do one more as well. I think
Cool, let me uh, let me kick her off with this hoodlum
I decided to get the ladies small because it's the only the last one I have left
But this is a hoodlum which is a company that doesn't even exist anymore. You can't get hoodlums
It's embroidered up with dark horse stuff. It's ladies small. I'm not sure if it's a good idea
Somebody has a petite lady in their life who is angry as shit at them right now
And this is how you're gonna get back in out of the doghouse. You're gonna get into this super dope
It's actually not real furs made out of like recycled plastic bottles. So
No, no bad juju there softest shit warmest hoodie you've ever fucking put on in your life brand fucking new hoodlum
Last time I saw it, it was like a little bit of a stink. I don't know if it's because it's a little bit of a
Stinky, but it's a little bit of a smelly thing. So I'm gonna throw on top of that
Um, even if you don't the size isn't for you
You can still bet on this and just give it to uh, some super awesome petite lady in your life
Strawberry shortcake, which is one of our signature strains and throw that one in there
And then we have a little bit of a
You know, a little bit of a
You know, a little bit of a
Strawberry shortcake, which is one of our signature strains and throw that one in there and then
I was gifted a bunch of
Dojo or stoned ninja packs. So i've got a dark forest right here. Shout out stone ninja
Dark forest pack a purple pie pack
a sinister rogue pack
And a royal rogue pack. So you're looking at one two, three four
Five packs and a hoodlum
Uh petite small ladies hoodlum, but uh, let's do this shit. And once again, I'd like to say thanks everybody for uh,
being a part of this tonight. Thanks for allowing me to come on and uh,
do this shit and uh
I think this is a
Drop in the bucket. This is a start of what we need to do
And we need to virtually pass the hat. I would ask everybody to virtually pass the hat to the next person
and um it affects
Everybody I think because as we said
Could be uh, it could be a potentially a serious groundbreaking case for precedent setting as far as seed banks
um, we don't know the details yet, but we do know that
Millions of dollars bail is ridiculous. This is um
Something that we should uh try to support because I think uh, whether or not, you know
Maybe mistakes were made and we've all made mistakes out there
But uh, this is a non-violent dude who's done a lot for a lot of us. Um,
And if it was me, I would hope someone would try to do the same for me
And again, I appreciate everybody for supporting this auction
And i'm gonna leave it to my guys
Uh to continue it. But uh, yeah, where are we at on the bids?
We're at 250 right now 250. I love it
Anybody want to fight and drag this out? I don't really want to keep going and go I got more and there's more
But uh, no, he wants to fight it out at 250
He wants to fight it out at 250 250 is a great bid. I appreciate that
shout out stone ninja
Stone ninja with all these packs chipping in
It's really cool that we decided to do this very impromptu
And look at all the kind of breeders that just sort of showed up and started throwing shit high value shit, too
Um shit, you can't buy usually or old collector stuff. Next one
We're sitting uh, we're sitting at 250
You know what's inside this
Sorry, I didn't hear that
It's the kids talking, oh I got you
250 gets you out of the doghouse with the with the ladies with our lady your lady your petite lady
So if anybody wants that hoodie this hoodie i'm telling you these are the dankest hoodies i've ever owned I literally I saved like four of them
She wants nobody's getting it. I don't care if you're gonna bid against me. It's gonna go somewhere crazy. Okay
Do you want to model that
I mean
It's certainly not going to fit me, but i'm more than happy to show you a little bit wider screen
So, you know i'm nothing but a runway model
So
There you go tight the tight t the youth medium
Yeah, notice
you know like
impeccable stitch work
Oh, yeah, that was the features the logo of one dark horse genetics notice the tag
So this is actually brand new shit. Not fucking some old shit. I just pulled out of laundry
notice the embroidery down here the colorado sort of
Styling of the horse
That's not all
On the hood in case you wear your hood up like me like you're some sort of hoodlum
You get the dark horse on the side
You know
On the back a little bit more love
Come on now
Couldn't look any hotter than wearing one of these tell your girl. She's ugly if you don't
Know
There's only one left in existence you want it right now and you got a bid to get it so yeah, uh
Make your girl way sexier tonight
Deep girl small lady small
I don't know. So am I taking it?
How's that
Like you're taking it
Yeah, I think that was rock
Yeah, it's seattle, yeah, it's me I just bit under it
All right, you got stone ninja packs you got this hoodie happy to send it to you
I'm happy to know that you guys will be rocking it too. That's really cool. Yeah
As soon as it comes. Thank you so much. Yeah, totally. Thanks guys
Um, once again i'm gonna sign this fucker up I think caesar has a little bit more for you guys
Maybe see how chronic has on one more drop for you guys
And uh, i'm not gonna do much promotion at all
But uh, I think we're gonna do another auction, uh, wednesday night on dark horse live which you can find on
Youtube or ig tv or ig or whatever
but I do want to really
Um take a moment to thank peter. I've never even met you peter
Um, but I think that it was really cool of you to host this
A lot of people were kind of leery of the situation because we don't really know what the fuck's going on
But um, I appreciate the platform the future cannabis project platform for hosting this whole, you know fundraiser
Bringing on the guests you had on earlier in the day, which were really cool guests
You brought on some attorneys family members that sort of explained you can see it in their faces the turmoil
That they're going through and um, I think you're a really stand-up dude
I hope to meet you one day in person, but uh, I really appreciate the future cannabis project
Thanks to everybody that attended there was a part of this
and um, yeah, I think i'm gonna sign this sucker off
What I am just posting that but uh, no, I appreciate it we're uh,
six hours and 20 minutes in
They're like 300 people still
That's awesome
Yeah, I love it. I mean if somehow this thing you keep going keep going because you're just doing nothing but generating money
I gotta feed my stomach. So if you guys are still on later i'll come on
it's like, you know tag team wrestling like if new people can tag in and like
Josh disappeared by the way, where'd he go?
Yeah, right
He's probably eating too or his phone died. I've already killed my laptop once so it's hard to do a five six hour stream
Right, so now that was awesome. I appreciate it and uh
Also
As far as communication I have your email I believe but yeah
We're gonna have to communicate a little bit to make sure all this gets sorted out order wise
but um
Hopefully if I need to i'll watch the entire stream back and do it one by one
But we gotta figure out who's you know, who's going where what how to get people's info
but um, I don't know how to organize that the best but i'm sure between myself and you and the other
Participants we can figure out a you know a halfway decent smooth way of getting this done. So hang with us
I don't think any of this shit's gonna happen real quick you guys
But you we certainly will get it to you. We have a track record of not being
Rip-off artists everybody on this show so it will arrive. It just might take a minute
Yeah, and by the way, this is the less fun part for all of us
And it takes for fucking ever so like
Mapping youtube usernames to real people to whether they pay because like we don't have any insight into whether you've paid or not
so we're relying on like
timing
Yeah to be like
Someone named bill smith paid and bill smith is really, you know, youtube username goat farm
And then it's connecting the breeder, you know, whoever's donating to whoever's receiving and then what's your address and
anyway, it's it's
a
nightmare
And that's why kind of the concept of a non-profit where we could just have like
an e-commerce
Bank account and no exact like right now. I don't know who paid what?
Sure
But uh, anyway, I appreciate you. Uh, you rocked the m scene tonight
I love when I can
I can just kick back and let someone else take over
I love this in their uh chat. They're like next pack. We got to get this man some money
Everybody's loving helping. Uh, that's awesome. Keep it rolling guys
My screen's gonna go dark, but I keep going guys. I'm just gonna go feed my belly one love appreciate everybody
Thanks guys
So, what do we have up
so I got a pack of
captain's connection glue cocky
Interesting name i'm assuming there's glue
Let's start this one off at 50
Glue cocky glue cocky from the cap
I was just looking through my uh bag because uh, I just pulled open. Uh,
I haven't really sorted through everything. But the way I have this bag sorted
This was everything I got from indo expo and I was just looking through this and like oh shit. Yeah
I got some of your uh
It was in a couple of like the the semi-auto and a couple of other stuff. I was just remembering
Not auctioning off these I was just looking through my bag and uh, I just happened to stumble upon these
This one's the lip smackers I it I can't really read the handwriting
Yep, it's um suckles cross the garlic punch
Oh suckles, okay garlic punch, okay, cool. Yeah looking forward to that one. No, that's not for auction people. It's my personal
Yeah
All right, so hey
While we're doing this cascadian and mountain men genetics how much energy do you guys have you guys want to you guys want to tag in
And by the way, what what was the opening?
50 yeah opening was 15. We got an $80 bid so far baby with uh mjd
All right, cast and cascading in the mountain. I'm uh
Good god
Maybe I can go to bed and they can
Hold it down till
About 4 a.m. When I wake up
uh
All right mountain men and cascading i'm gonna send you guys an email
The glue cocky I believe this one is the gg4 to the blissful wizard because he's got uh, what he
Uh gave me a bunch of seats. He all gave me seats across with a blissful wizard
So i'm assuming this is gg4 blissful wizard. That's just me assuming
So
Raiders need to you know put the lineage on the packs for situations like this
It's like oh well, it's almost like having somebody give you seeds like
In a ziploc with sharpie like you were saying earlier. It's just like it'll rub off eventually. So yeah
Yeah, the lineage is very important more important than the straight name
81 uh, can we take it?
Ten dollar increments five at least at least five dollar increments. Yeah, come on people
90
90 there we go. Joel. You got a 90. All right, let's get it to at least 100
Ten dollars away
Ten dollars away and I can go eat
Help this man eat some dinner. Yeah
Ten more gets this pack. It's yours. I'll instantly just you know, there we go
Are you from the east coast? Yes, sir. I'm from new york
Nah, I moved out. Uh, like seven years ago, but i'm always back and forth between here
uh here in colorado and in new york, but uh, that's him out there like three months out of the year at least still
but uh
Said I mean covid prevented that so
I'd like to go back
Wow
We gotta hunt it we gotta hunt it blurpy tears turp blurpy turps, there we go gotta hunt it for this so far
All right
I think that's gonna call at 100. All right go on once
Going twice
All right
Blurple turps got it
Venmo paypal send that hunt it. All right, so let's
Paste in the
Venmo and paypal for purple
Blurple turps
Uh, let's see so flow grow if i'm any if i'm auctioning off any kitchen sink, I mean
I don't have any seeds. That's all clones. So that'll be a separate stream, I guess separate day
Because I don't know how you know auction off clones would be good. I did
Clones maybe on a different day or a different platform if possible
One of my thoughts blurple turps. I just posted the paypal
uh
But I can post it a second time
The kitchen sink dumps
Word. All right. Well, I appreciate everybody letting me hang out here and auction all the stuff off
And I hope everybody pays like I said they were
Yeah, I guess just let me know where to send these
And i'll get them out as soon as possible
Appreciate it
No problem. Good night
Peace all right good one you as well. Have a good one everybody
All right
All right, so I think i'm going to donate a few more things before I hop off
I know I got a few donations rolled in
from a few friends of leo's
First one i'm going to start off is going to be
two
Rosetta stone packs two cindy 99 femmes
and then a pack of ninja fruit from dojo c company and a pack of bruce's ball sack from
Ninja seed co
And the ninja fruit itself has been sold out for quite some time
Um, so I mean it's it's kind of more of a rare thing. Uh, will's offering it up I think himself so
we got a few um
Yeah grim packs. So the rosetta stones from brothers grim
Cindy 99s from brothers grim and those are femmes and then we got ninja fruit and bruce's ball sack. So
Quite a few packs on this one
Uh, we'll start this one off at uh 200
Can you guys hear me all right? Yeah
cool
Sorry for the weirdness when I hopped in here, yeah, we do take them though under the canopy
Everything kind of gets put up
200 there we go. Thank you. Don't be junky
Just to say the ninja fruit pack itself is worth, you know, 150 200 so
You guys are getting quite a deal on a few packs
And so the latter gonna be ninja fruit and bruce's ball sack
And I believe that's a collaborative between dark horse and ninja in the cindy 99 femmes and rosetta stone
270 so far we're carrying it
Um
Should we go with 280?
280 right on let's keep it up fellas
uh
Have some more land races. I think I mean I can do some if you're willing to throw up on them. I have
Uh quite a few but I just didn't see too much interest in it 300 from lawrence
No one had 300 first so
Oh, okay. No one. Yep, and then one two three, but they both got topped by one two the one two punch
Uh blurple turps i'll let you know when shelby lets us know, uh, which will probably be in the morning
330
Mnp you outbid yourself last time you want to do it again?
Can we get a 340 from you
We want it all yeah, I know someone's got 350 for these it's quite a few packs
I got a few more to go through. I got some gg4 stuff
And then uh some myself and then i'm out
Should this be the rapid fire round?
I think so. Yeah, I think we're kind of just all right. We got 10 seconds. We're at
350 all right. Here we go. Now it's popping
There we go. 350
Uh, they are the new
What's up dave's not here
So we're still at 350
Truth
I think no one's gonna walk with this one
Ninja, pretty sure
I'm gonna walk with this one
I'm gonna walk with this one
I'm gonna walk with this one
No one's gonna walk with this one ninja freak's worth it alone, I would I would just
I know man
I gotta go put my kid to bed in a minute
So cascading do you want to do these do you know what he's talking about?
I don't I don't have any insight on the genetics, but um
I don't know. I don't know
Yeah, I think we need to have them come on and we can always do it next time yep, yeah, we'll have many more
The punch
With 360
I'll be around earlier next time for sure you literally caught me sleeping. So
You obviously don't have kids
And mephisto man, you missed out on a ton of mephisto packs, I mean literally dads came by and dropped out a ton of stuff so
Gotta come earlier next time king. Mullah. Okay, 10 seconds one two currently with 360
Nine
Seven
Four
One
And one two with the win
All right, 360 on those. Okay, and for the people who win mine
I just want to say if they want to email seattlechronicseeds at gmail.com. I'm just throwing it out there
Um, it's something I've always had. Okay, we got a sniper
We want to honor it
Yeah, yeah, let's give it to one two for stepping up with a 380 sniping back
All right, so 381 to uh, can you post the venmo
Paypal there it is
Nolan
And uh
No, it doesn't want to give up
No
Nolan you can get you can go after the next one
But we appreciate it
Appreciate it. He said he had lag on it. That's why
Do you have two
So, why don't we see between nolan and
The last bidder and just see who will like the highest bid
Like throw it out
All right. So nolan and one
All right, so nolan's
No, then we're at nolan's at 390
So, yeah, we're at 390
So you guys got one more chance each throughout your highest bid
So is there a delay for everyone
I think there's a delay between us and the stream
But they should all be at the same
Delay, right?
Yeah, it's fair. It's not like one of them has a 10 second delay and the other has a zero second
I like this
One more chance just a little lag nolan's at 425. Is there a counter bid
One two
All right
Seven
Three two
One
One
And nolan picks it up for a cool 425
Right on nolan tufts. So that's the ninja fruit pack ninja fruit. Yep
Appreciate you nolan 425 for the ninja fruit pack
All right, so I think I got another one to do as well, let me pull the tip joel marquez
All right, so nolan let's get you the venmo and paypal
Oh, wow, nolan you are on top of your shit
I like people who don't need any instruction. All right, uh
Yeah blurple we're we're all right behind you
Uh
All right, so i'm gonna do this
All right, so i'm gonna do this, uh donation
It's a pretty big one
I think i'm gonna we probably end on this one because it's one of the bigger ones
I'll see if anyone will start but it's going to be four packs of gg4 s1
Uh six beans per a pack. So that's going to be 24 total seeds
Uh five packs of flash glue, which is six regs and that's going to be 30 seeds
And then uh to the highest bidder it looks like a t-shirt as well. So
That's quite a few packs looks like that's going on nine packs and a t-shirt. So I think if we start that off at like
400
It's a very fair starting price
Oh already
Let's see if one two
Nice
It's the bundle of the night so
Um, what's that flash blue all about, you know, i'm not sure it was donated directly from um,
That pool I mean from
Mills and his last collection or whatever it was passed on and so
Uh, they donated a few packs of each and then the t-shirt
Nolan was 800
And so by the way for oh, wow, we already get to 800. Oh, yeah right there
Good job nolan, um
For those who can't
afford 850, uh, you can get the 50 two packs at the address that's
Ticker taping across the screen
Coming back
Between nolan and mmp right now
Oh, wow, okay
Still about 30 second delay. Yeah, i'm seeing that
But is that is it for everyone or just some people that's
I'm getting on on my uh on the back screen. Like i'm starting to see about 30 seconds behind
Yeah, I got closer to probably a 10 second delay
We need our uh musical guest for the evening
I actually emailed uh
Adam levine from maroon 5 to see if it's like do you want to play like a couple songs on the guitar?
Uh, he's one of the dads at my daughter's preschool
That's amazing
But I didn't get a response
Uh, so the 50 all right, so
This is basically you got to trust. Uh, josh and nick's judgment
of um
They have so many seeds and all different kinds of seeds that they're just going to put some cool stuff
that's worth well more than 50 bucks, so
um
We just wanted to you know for people who just want to help out we wanted to have something um
specifically, I don't know what it's going to be but uh,
it'll be worth more than 50 bucks and you're
donating 50 bucks to a good cause and
And josh promised that he'd use his new label maker to
Label them so you know what you're getting
Uh who asked that nolan asked did he win the last one for yeah, he did
Yes, he did
Yes, no one you are the winner
425 for ninja freak park
Still working on it
Still on 900. I don't think anybody's contesting it. So I think that's probably going to end up taking the cake
Wait, so for this one, it's also at 900
The last one was 425. This one's the gorilla glue one. So this one's at 900 so far
So when nolan says did I win the last one for 900? He's really talking about this one
Correct. Oh, all right
So he's did we just call it
I think so. I don't see anyone else responding. We're gonna do going once it's the last one. I i'm doing tonight
I think I have quite a few more things, but I think we'll hold off for another night when we get some more traction
unless
Yeah, I gotta go put my kid to bed
All right, yeah
I'm gonna put my multiple packs with the t-shirt ggs ones and the flash blue for 900
Going twice ezekiel what uh for the cpacks
Okay, so no, all right nolan won
This one for 900
Yep looks like that's it and who won the last one
Nolan, all right. Nolan's
Nolan's on a streak. He's on a roll
Ones like mookie bets the last one
Gorilla glue. Yeah
So six hours and 44 minutes in do we want to call it a night
Cascading cascading. Do you want to do you want us to leave you alone to monologue for?
We can we can call it because I don't I don't have anything to auction off right now. Sorry
So so this was a question from earlier
Oh purple jolly rancher, hold on let me pull up my files real quick
I
Have had seeds of that it's been a long time since i've heard that since the medical days
Nolan wants
Uh, wait, all right now no one's totally confusing me so nolan just won this one for 900 and the previous one for 400
425
So nolan you do not owe 1800 you owe 900 plus 425 which is 1325
Correct. All three semester tax, bro
Yeah, if you do 18, yeah, you can round it up to 1800
uh
Nolan jesus
What was a thousand one
One that was his
From a while ago
Yeah
Okay
And then he just won the last two for 425 and for 900. Okay. So yes nolan
We're relying on you to remember what you won and I
Because I really don't feel like
Right, yeah, he says he
He said he sent the 425 right after that one finished. I watched it. So now he just owes the 900
Cool as long as he's really
Email me at
Seattle chronic seeds at gmail.com for any of the ones that you've won from me, um, and I will square them away immediately
All right, raise your hand if you want to go to bed
Uh
All right, uh
Well, thank you everyone, uh, so what's today monday
I believe so I lost track after we started it. So
All right
Well, uh
It's a good it was a good six hour and 40 minute run
I have no idea how much we raised. Um
But it was
Yeah, it's tuesday and nine minutes on the east coast. It's already tuesday in a lot of places in the world
um
What is it
Well, I can't I was trying to get a total of what we did so far
But I think it's up in the three range maybe like four four. Yeah
Just just for your stuff. Yeah, just what we did so i'm
Between everyone and I think I donated probably a thousand on my half as well towards two items
Peace hippie. We have no idea. But if next time you want to be our uh,
Numbers person and keep diligent track of numbers, uh, that would be greatly appreciated. So if you're volunteering
I was actually keeping a spreadsheet until I had to go, uh deal with dinner, but
Well, i'm sure once we talk to shelby too
She can kind of give us a breakdown of what she's received and then we'll kind of report back to everybody as well
I got a kid screaming at me to read a bedtime story. So I gotta take off you guys
i'm coming
All right, well let's wrap it on that thank you everyone and uh
We'll probably be doing more of this very soon. I also want to throw out. Um
christian's go fund me page because we didn't this was mostly for uh,
Leo, but uh christian who has been in jail for about two weeks. Uh,
There's his go fund me
Um, you can make like a five dollar donation
Actually
the power move
Uh, that's to be determined
Uh, we didn't even know we were doing this one until today so
Uh, oh shit, thank you shelby I forgot you're still watching
Um, yeah and shelby there are a couple people who uh, yeah there's gonna be more money pouring in um
But that's uh kind of fucking awesome
um
And uh, yeah, we'll do it again soon let me just quickly throw up because I want to
um
This was
Yeah, let me stop that one from scrolling but uh
So this is christian and christian is in jail also in eldorado county
Which is just fucked up. Um
Um, so there's christian let's uh, make him full screen and uh
I want to do an auction for him as well. Um
But in the meantime anybody who wants to chip in a couple bucks, uh towards his go fund me that would be amazing
um
and i'll post it again in the chat so you can just click on the link instead of having to retell this but
So let me just go into the
Nolan you're killing me. Uh
Nolan you should definitely know which ones you won. Um
I have no idea but uh
For sure the gorilla glue and the ninja fruit pack for 900 and 425
But I don't know what the thousand one was we'll have to go back and scroll. So
Yeah, nolan you could actually why don't we make it your responsibility to re-watch this 6 hour and 50 minute broadcast
What the fuck you won
Everybody else who's confused about what they won and for what amount and how they have to pay
uh
You could if you could do your job for yourself, uh
Nolan you're killing me
Nolan he won the 13 packs from thc thc zero. Okay. Nolan send me an email
Peter at future
cannabis
project
Okay
And tomorrow morning we will sort out
your winnings
And who you pay if you have not yet figured out
But every time you've won we have displayed on the screen
the venmo and the paypal
Yeah spot check news that is correct that is although
Nolan yes, it's the same paypal
There's only been one paypal for every item won tonight
Shelby said eight thousand so far over eight thousand. Yeah, I saw that's amazing. Uh, so let me also
Just paste in the paypal
Nolan you have
180 something people all trying to help you out right now
So I just posted the paypal again nolan
And what is nolan o and grand total?
13 25 plus 1000 for caesars, so that should be 23 25
Yeah, okay
That was off the top of my head. So
Cascading is that right?
2300
300
Via his words. He should have already paid the 1000 and the 425. So if he's going to the bank, it's for the 900
But the grand total is
2325 yeah
So paypal got put on hold
Yeah, so, uh, so here, uh, uh, jeff, uh, i've been talking to eddie's
Uh venmo she said I just got a message from shelby saying that paypal got locked already so to do venmo
Oh
I I wonder if it's because they just set it up and suddenly money is flooding in
Yeah
Rather than paypal being like this is for weed
related
souvenirs
Verify it
So
Nolan i'm going to also post the venmo
And if you can do venmo that would be appreciated
Okay, that's fine no one however you get to the end point, uh
Yes the bird seed, um, but anyway somebody uh, sorry jeff, uh
So eddie, uh, i've been talking to his girlfriend
um
And yeah, i'd love to cue something up like
Tomorrow or the next day. Um
And for anybody who doesn't know basically eddie is
Probably in his 70s. He's uh been an advocate for decades. He's been
In jail harassed by the police. He was kind of
Supplying free medicine to lots of patients for lots of years
Um
and he has cancer and I think he lives in grass valley and then his uh,
the hospital he's going to is like in the bay area and it's like an hour and a half and
Anyway, he he has health issues. He's old and he's someone who's uh back we all stand on
um
so
He could use some help and we should be doing something similar for him
Um as we did tonight, thank you nolan
Appreciated appreciate bro
Yeah, here we go. Yeah, he needs an rb. He needs somewhere to sleep so he doesn't have to go back and forth. Uh
from like grass valley and the the bay area
all the time
um
So with that
Let's get the kids to bed
Cascadian get yourself to bed
And uh
Okay, nolan we hear you
No one paid
um
and we will confirm that in the morning when I wake up and deal with all the
back-end administrative tasks related to the
Almost seven hour
Uh telethon we just uh put on so anyway with that everybody have a good night and uh, okay
All right, man, thank you again for hosting and I appreciate it. Thanks guys
Till next time
