We're tuned into a morning breakfast briefing.
The title of this conversation,
but we will cover a variety of topics, is essential.
And on the brink of collapse, a weighty start to your day,
take it away, Mr. Tom Himes.
So I guess the genesis for this discussion
was anecdotal conversations that we've all been having
with business owners, people in the industry,
and also a series of three very recent articles,
one in the Sacramento Bee, one in MJ Biz,
and then a Forbes article.
Basically, the same thing, that California cannabis,
even though it's deemed essential, is in crisis.
And I think what we wanna do is kind of dig down
into that kind of talk about why it's happening,
what's the result of the pandemic,
what issues were percolating already
and were aggravated by the current situation,
and what people are doing about it.
So I think maybe the best thing to do to start
is to have everyone one at a time
kind of talk about within the perspective of this subject,
what they're doing right now in the industry,
and they can sort of weigh in if they want
with their general perspective right now.
And we'd also like to get from people,
because everyone here is deeply involved in policy,
in the overview and the nuances of the industry,
to talk about what's really going on from your perspective.
So give us an overview and an underview,
and I think that would be very helpful
for whoever's listening.
Who do we wanna start with?
Why don't we start lower left with Jackie,
and then we'll, at least on my screen,
and kind of just introduce yourself first.
Jackie, tell us what you're doing.
And you were one of the people quoted
in one of these articles, so give us your perspective.
Sure, thanks, Tom.
My name is Jackie McGowan,
and I have a consulting company
called Green Street Consulting,
and a Facebook group called
California City and County Regulation Watch,
where I set up 540 Google email alerts
to every city and county in the state
four and a half years ago,
to capture all of the movement at the local level.
And I've been manning those Google email alerts
for the past four and a half years,
and reading every article that's come out
in every jurisdiction in the state.
And so the actual quote that I gave to the Sacramento Bee,
who I view as a very biased publication,
which is unfortunate,
considering that it's the state capitol's newspaper.
But the editors of the SACB, the editorial board,
came out in opposition of Proposition 64.
And if you look back at the last year to two years'
worth of articles in the SACB,
they love to harp on any negative stories.
They do not like to tell anything positive about cannabis.
And my actual quote was that the industry
was on the verge of collapse prior to
the coronavirus pandemic.
And that part got edited out,
and I had a few words with the journalist,
that it wasn't acceptable
that they're not telling the entire story.
I think that the media did the industry
an extreme disservice by publishing article after article,
talking about how there was a significant increase in sales
and everybody was stocking up.
Because that just made everyone view,
or continue to view the industry as a cash cow,
which it is not.
And it's not because there's so many different people
and agencies with their hands out,
and it all does add up.
So I think that the industry was in
some deep trouble prior to this.
And given that they've had to,
especially if you come at it from a retail perspective,
retail has had to come up with
an entirely new business model.
And the reason that I believe that the industry
is on the brink of failing
is because that business model,
it worked for existing retail
when people were visiting retail stores.
There's one store in San Jose that prior to the pandemic
was seeing 1500 people a day.
And I don't know how you replicate servicing 1500 people
a day and be profitable if you have to do curbside delivery
and or curbside pickup and shifting to a delivery model.
I don't think that the numbers pan out
to pay expensive leases for real estate,
as well as running a delivery business.
It would make a lot more sense
if they were in industrial areas.
And that would bring the cost of leasing down,
but that's not something that you can just change
in the midst of a pandemic.
And so I think that distributors have become
sort of the credit master in this game.
And a lot of retailers have pushed off
their credit onto the distributors.
And when they blow out a distributor,
they just switch to another one.
And so we're seeing those accounts receivables
get larger and larger with many distributors
if it doesn't blow them out.
And so a distributor didn't get a license
to then become the financier of the cannabis industry.
And that's what's happened.
And so I don't know,
I hope that there's some other brains on this panel today
that can come up with some out of the box solutions
because we're in some serious, terrible territory.
That's my perspective.
Shannon, do you want to weigh in?
Sure, I'm Shannon Hatton.
I am co-founder and CEO of Fiddler's Greens
and High Type Distro.
We've been in the industry in California
for about 10 years coming out of the Prop 215 market.
We were one of the earlier adopters
of getting our Prop 64 license.
So it's kind of a running joke
at our organization of,
ask Shannon, she's the first one to ever do it.
We've spent a lot of time helping regulators
figure out how to implement some of their rules
at the local and at the state level.
And yeah, it's been a battle.
We started this as cultivators and tincture makers,
and I never imagined we'd be in the distribution business,
but we were having such a hard time finding a distributor
that could represent us and meet the needs of our clients.
Most of our products are non-psychoactive.
So that was a tough sale in the early days
that we were selling weed that didn't get you high.
So we started our own sales team
and in the last few months with COVID
and just some of the extinction going on
in the distribution space,
we've taken on a lot more at the last mile fulfillment.
And we're actually onboarding other small brands right now
that are getting pushed out by the distributors
and really just trying to build that portfolio
of boutique heritage products
and keep the people that built this industry viable
through this next transition.
Amanda.
Good morning.
Had to unmute myself.
So it's good to see everyone.
I hope everyone's doing well this morning.
So I'm Amanda Ryman,
and I'm currently the vice president
of community development at FloCana.
We are also distribution.
I resonate a lot with what Jackie was saying.
So we are based up here in Mendocino County,
and we work with a network of independently owned
small farms that are sun grown.
So that's kind of our brand is sun grown product.
And we distribute around the state.
And I think, in addition to what's already been said,
as Jackie was saying,
this isn't like COVID caused these issues.
And prior to this pandemic happening,
there were some policy issues
that we were working very hard on
that we felt were necessary
in order to move the industry forward.
One of them being tax reform,
one of them being market expansion,
and the fact that cannabis is banned
in most of the state of California,
even though they overwhelmingly voted for legalization.
And then banking at the federal level.
And I think it's interesting that after COVID happened,
these issues did not go away.
In fact, they became even more necessary.
And I think COVID actually started
to give us some talking points around these issues
that we hadn't had before.
And it's interesting,
I've been working in cannabis for over 20 years
as an activist first,
and then moving more into the industry.
But as activists,
we were never in a landscape that was friendly.
And we were never in a landscape that wasn't in crisis mode.
We had dispensaries getting raided every day.
We had patients going to jail.
We had people losing their freedom.
So the idea of having to operate in a crisis scenario,
honestly, feels a little bit more comfortable to me
than operating in a business as usual scenario.
And so I think we as activists,
and as those who really tried to push this movement forward,
we have an opportunity to think about what used to work
and what we used to do
before we just tried to go about it as business as usual.
And how do we change hearts and minds?
And how do we ignite passion?
And how do we help everyone understand
And this is giving us opportunities
we haven't had in actually quite some time.
So I'm interested to take advantage of them
and also kind of use this as a pivot point
to see where we wanna go moving forward.
And I've got more thoughts on that
in terms of how the state of California
is handling cannabis,
how the federal government is handling cannabis.
And what we can do as businesses and activists
to try to make sure that we're not just
pushing cannabis to the side.
And what we can do as businesses and activists
to try to impact change, even in a time of COVID.
I kind of think of this as like getting the carpet out
and like shaking it out real good for society.
And when that happens,
you have an opportunity to slough off a lot of the crap
that's been hanging on for a long time
and to breathe some fresh air into that.
And I think that that's an amazing opportunity.
So I look forward to having this conversation
with this group today.
Thanks.
Wow, it's like a panel of real activists.
So Adam, weigh in.
Hey, thank you for having me.
So Adam Spiker, I'm the Executive Director
of Southern California Coalition,
which has been in existence for about five years now,
four and a half, predominantly initially to try
and fix LA's situation,
shall we call it, previously and currently.
I also run a lobbying firm that has been in existence
in the state for three generations.
Definitely concur with some of the things
that I'm hearing from the rest of your panelists.
I would say it's a shame that it isn't hyperbole
how you titled your conversation today.
It's just flat out not hyperbole
that the industry is failing.
And I would almost argue that the legal industry
just about has failed.
I mean, we're two and a half years in just about,
we still have 70 to 80% of the industry illegal.
And there's absolutely, I would challenge anyone
to give me an example of another regulated industry
anywhere in the state or country
that has that type of environment they're dealing with,
where they're getting taxed and you're dealing
with the over-regulation and the costs associated
with that and meanwhile, 70 to 80% of their competition
is still in existence dominating their market.
So what we try to do is,
we try to think outside the box continuously,
understanding politicians, whether local, state, federal,
there's certainly tactics involved
in how to create consensus.
And a lot of times it means getting creative.
I mean, we've been in our RMO from day one
and it still is, as some of the focal points about,
I don't have an answer for more licenses
because the state really can't,
they can't force that issue
because of our two tiered structure.
On taxation, I'll just kind of start off a conversation
and Greg and others can chime in.
Our challenge on taxation has been for three years,
since this even became a concept of 64,
the folks that were trying to do it right
and do it legally were facing an unfair competition.
And each year the industry would get behind,
typically, assembly member Bonta or others
proposing ways to try and make them more competitive.
And it's just hasn't even begun to got traction
in the legislature.
And unfortunately, a lot of the reasoning behind that
is branding, it's been deemed corporate tax relief.
The example I would give is it's basically having
Med Men, Harvest, CureLeaf and Acreage
telling the state we need help.
Meanwhile, the state was seeing them
be evaluated over a billion dollars.
And so it was a universal no.
So one of our big pushes is to change the narrative
rightfully to this being a social responsibility
of the state.
We're all working hard in our different local communities
to try and correct some of the wrongs
over the last 60 years as it relates to the war on drugs,
social equity programs.
And our argument and our challenge to the state
is that it's a social responsibility to them
to make this industry more competitive,
at least for those programs,
let alone the general legal industry
or else they're set up to fail.
And so that's where we're trying to change the narrative
and also trying to build more consensus within the industry
because a lot of times it gets really fractured
and different groups and different segments
go at policy advocacy in their own way.
And sometimes it does more harm than good
when you're not singing the same song.
And so that's kind of our argument.
So we've spent a lot of time
because we had our hands full just dealing with LA.
We still do, but we felt it important to kind of try
and take a second line of battle
with the state of California
as it relates to just the competitive landscape
for the legal operators and the social equity applicants
and operators that are gonna enter this market
that unless something changed,
the statistics are not gonna lie.
They're going to fail at an alarming rate
and it won't be their fault.
Greg, you wanna sort of pick up this?
Sure, why not?
So, I mean, what everybody's saying is correct.
And you don't have to look into the future
to see that most of the businesses that are coming in,
half are gonna fail.
All you have to do is look at LA cities.
Oh, let me, I just jumped right into it.
For those that don't know me,
I'm Greg, CEO of Refinery Inc.
We're licensed in both phase one, phase two
and phase three in LA.
And been involved, a local LA boy born and raised,
been involved in the cannabis politics
since the beginning from GLACA.
Now I'm also on the board of the SEC since the beginning.
And that's just a quick brief one.
I'm also a Marine combat veteran.
And so to get into that, right?
You don't have to look,
but to LA's phase two social equity licensees
to see that it's failing.
You had 800 something different people awarded licenses.
Half of those are already abandoned, canceled, gone.
They didn't have the funds.
They didn't have the means, they're gone.
Those were 400 licenses that were issued
by local and state that are now dead.
It's gonna be hard in my opinion
to convince the state to give more when they gave more
and then they just went to nothing.
So the focus should be, I believe,
more than giving more licenses to help people succeed
and not lose those licenses
because that is what's happening.
And in my opinion, I mean, the taxes are high.
Everything is high.
You're gonna keep the taxes high.
Then you need to subsidize cannabis.
And what I mean by that is subsidize the price difference
between legal and illegal cannabis
so that we can be competitive against the illegal market.
And part of the reason why, and it's not an excuse
because people need to pay their bills, right?
Just like anything else.
And this is a touching,
because I think I heard briefly
what Jacqueline was saying about retailers
bouncing from distro to distro
and basically bouncing on their bills, right?
So these retailers are used to this different situation
where they just get an item and they double the price
or they put an 80% markup on it.
And they think, oh, I'm gonna make all my costs.
And then here we are two years later
and a lot of the retailers are like,
I'm gonna go bankrupt.
So not only do they not have enough money
to pay their taxes, which are overpriced.
And then on top of that, when they're paying their taxes,
the state has this ridiculous tax
where you get hit with 50%
if you're even late on your excise tax.
I've never heard of any industry that gets 50% penalty.
You have a hundred thousand dollar bill.
Now all of a sudden it's 150.
You couldn't pay the hundred.
How are you gonna pay the 150?
So it's all connected.
It's not just one issue, one problem.
It's a bunch of issues.
It's a bunch of problems that have to all get solved
pretty much at the same time or else it's not gonna work.
Greg, can you talk for a second about,
you had told me that the taxes are so fucked up
that you're disincentivized
from selling your own homegrown product in retail.
You're incentivized to sell it bulk.
Yeah, so the tax liability on distribution
is a lot less, right?
And my situation is maybe a little different
because we're a micro business, right?
And so I have to remit my excise tax at the end,
not at the beginning.
So what happens is I don't end up paying an excise tax
on an 80% markup because I've done the math
and 80% markup means bankruptcy.
So I have payroll taxes.
I have all these other taxes that we haven't even got into
as a normal retail would.
And so, God, I just went off track.
And anyone else can weigh in
if you have something to say about this,
but you were talking about the bulk as opposed to-
Yeah, so for me, it just, I pay less on taxes
and end up profiting more money
when I just sell my cultivation in bulk
instead of spending the time to package it,
lab test it, put it through the retail
and then pay full excise tax at the point of sale,
which sometimes I'm doing it 225% markup.
So the whole system is wrong
because you have some people paying less taxes than others.
And then there are people that are working the system,
saying, oh yeah, I'm gonna remit my own taxes.
And then they never remit any excise taxes
because they're doing distro to distro
and the state and the city have not caught up to it yet.
And so there's people out there that are avoiding taxes
on the excise side and claiming that they paid
when they didn't pay.
And eventually that's gonna come back
onto the distributor as well.
And then there'll be a dispute of who paid, who didn't pay.
So there's even more problems coming down the line.
And that's gonna be huge
because that one you're talking about
millions and millions of dollars.
I mean, just in excise tax alone,
we pay over two and a half million a year.
I mean, excise and sales tax, not just excise to the state.
So that's a lot of money that people are
you know, basically frauding the state of.
I think we're in the tax war story section,
part of our discussion.
Anyone else wanna weigh in on this?
No.
Hey Tom, this is Adam.
This is definitely a pet peeve of mine.
And I think it's a pet peeve of the,
you know, the legal industries in general.
I think maybe for your viewers or listeners,
maybe an analogy might be appropriate.
And while I totally appreciate that
and can understand the legal cannabis industry
doesn't like, you know, comparisons to legal alcohol.
What I do think is an interesting, you know,
perception of what happened, you know,
post prohibition of alcohol.
In 1932, we lifted prohibition and, you know,
because of supply and demand,
alcohol was this robust industry,
all underground, unregulated, unprotected.
So we lift prohibition in 1932.
And the first federal tax in 1933 on alcohol was 2%.
Because they were trying to transition
that robust legal industry into regulated means.
And it worked, obviously it took some time
and they staggered the tax rate.
I think they went from two to six to 13
to probably 3000 right now, who the hell knows.
But the point is, it doesn't matter
what the tax rate now is on legal alcohol.
They eradicated the illicit competition.
They staged up the taxation
and made sure that they were capturing
this new legal market of legal alcohol again,
you know, through, you know, regulated means and channels.
We've not done that in cannabis, you know,
and in California, and a lot of, you know,
I know Jackie was bringing up, you know,
reporters out there that are trying to capture the story
and the essence of what's going on.
There's no other example that exists in the world
like California, where we had a 20 plus year history
under compassionate use to create collective models
and medical protections for patients and consumers
and co-ops that turned into a multi-billion dollar industry.
And so in California, like it's basically,
the analogy I like to use is that, you know, Colorado,
you know, Illinois, some of these other states or Canada,
in a large sense, they got to play with a blank chess board
and figure out what to do with legal cannabis.
And they still had their challenges.
California, we passed Prop 64, you know, predating that,
the MCRSA and then Malcursa eventually.
And we started with a chess board
where pieces were all over the goddamn place
and no one can figure out what to do.
And our argument was always,
and Greg was part of this from the beginning,
you just need to incentivize the illicit folks
to come out of that gray area and into legal
in whatever way possible.
We proposed registries, you know,
checks and balances within those registries,
but just get people to come out of the shadows
and start being on the right side of legal.
And we've never done that.
And now we're two and a half years in,
we've created this price point disparagement
that's so severe that, and Greg can speak to this,
I'm sure others, they all had friends
that were playing in that gray market,
you know, in the collective model.
And a lot of their friends said, good luck to you,
but I'm not going there because what's in it for me?
You know, I'm gonna lose money.
I don't think I'm ever gonna get caught
doing what I'm doing, which is now completely illegal.
They just take their chances.
And a part of this discussion
definitely has to be enforcement.
And in particular deterrence for, you know,
for illicit activity.
Right now we have none.
Most of any sort of felony charges or prosecution
were taken away under Prop 64.
And I think at that time, you know,
certainly, you know, giving sympathy to the war on drugs,
you could understand the logic,
but now post Prop 64 and licensing for the legal industry,
we're making clear distinction between legal and illegal,
yet we have no deterrence for the illicit operator
to think twice about starting a illegal cannabis business.
And basically it's become a,
it's a line item in their budget.
You know, in LA we're playing whack-a-mole every day.
And to bring up LA, you know,
obviously, you know, you have a broader audience in that,
but LA sets the tone for the whole state's market
because of how big it is.
And in LA, Greg and others like him can't compete
because, you know, while the city's trying their best
to enforce and shut down a lot of illegal stores
and they just finalized a padlocking order in the city
to be able to close down illegal stores,
they still find a way to open back up.
Sometimes they'll open back up in the same strip mall,
you know, in a new address, but 40 feet away.
And you got to start the whole process over again.
And I think it's just got to be critical to the discussion
that there's no deterrence for illegal operators.
They're not afraid to keep doing what they're doing
because the clientele's there
and it's a risk reward thing.
The risk is very minimal for them.
And that's a problem.
Anyone want to just weigh in?
What's the best way to right this imbalance?
Is it enforcement, which is the stick or carrots,
reducing taxes, incentivizing patients and consumers
to come back to the legal market?
What, and how do we get there?
What's happening in Sacramento?
Are they just simply not listening?
So anyone?
Yeah, so I mean, honestly,
I don't think enforcement ever really is gonna work.
We have way too many hidden places in Los Angeles
and way too many people for them to find everyone.
And beyond the Whack-A-Mole, I had an illegal retailer,
maybe a thousand feet from me.
It took gangs and narcotics seven times raiding him.
And then finally the last time,
the idiot decided to run up the street
with a bag full of cash.
So they got him on some other charges, not even cannabis.
And then that's what finally closed him.
But yeah, and I have friends.
You know, I have a lot of friends
that are still in the illegal market
because there's no more gray area now.
And they have no intention of coming in
and they call me the idiot
for paying all this money in taxes.
And while I'm suffering.
I think they're right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If we knew then what we know now.
You know, I mean,
I probably would have invested in real estate.
Yeah, exactly.
Hey, Tom, I would just say this
and I'd definitely turn it over to the others.
I don't think there's a silver bullet in my opinion,
just fixing taxes,
especially understanding the landscape
of how difficult it's been to get any sort of tax relief
the last couple of years at the state
is gonna change the problem.
I do certainly sympathize with Greg
and understand where he's talking about
from an actual enforcement standpoint.
You know, illegal operators have been pretty damn good
at hiding for 20 plus years, if not more.
And they have a lot of confidence that they won't get caught.
I do think more deterrence is key.
I mean, going after the landlords
that safe harbor these folks,
you know, doing things like that
and having more administrative enforcement
rather than boots on the ground enforcement,
you know, is a help.
You know, like the, you know, Reggie Jones Sawyer
and Assembly Member Rubio,
both have bills in the legislature
that may not go anywhere this year
because of COVID-19.
And Reggie's bill is to go after landlords
to the tune of $50,000 a day.
If they're having an illegal cannabis operator
in one of their premises.
Rubio's bill is to go after the operator
to the tune of $30,000 a day.
And Greg was there, you know, from the beginning.
In LA, we tried to fight for as much enforcement
under Prop M as possible.
And we settled on trying to do $20,000 a day fines
attached to the landlord and the operator
if they were caught,
thinking it was more of an administrative action
and that we can send letters
and the city attorney can start,
you know, enforcing and adjudicating.
And then we come to find out they can't enforce it.
You know, they don't think,
the city attorney doesn't think we can win
those battles in court to charge people 20,000 a day.
And, you know, we're sitting there looking back at it,
you know, now saying, well,
why the fuck did you write it into the ordinance,
you know, and into the initiative
if you didn't think you can enforce it?
But I do think enforcement's key.
I do think more licensing's key.
And I agree with Greg, you know,
there's, you know, there's a lot of licenses out there.
I think there's an overabundance of cultivation licenses.
But when it comes to a safe access standpoint,
you can get into pockets of the state
where you might have to go 75 miles
just to get to a licensed retailer.
And so it does matter in that regard
because the illicit market will follow
where the clientele's gonna be.
And so I'll just leave it at that.
Just quickly, I'm a big fan of concrete examples.
So Greg touched on kind of the craziness
that is taxes from the retailer perspective.
Shannon, you wear two hats, distributor and brand.
I'm sure Flo Kanna has a distribution license too
and is also a brand.
So can you guys just talk about some of the crazy stuff
of how you're taxed from a brand and distributor perspective
and then Jackie, you're in Sacramento.
So can you talk about the tax conversations
you're having with the Lori Ajaxes,
Nicole Elliott's Fiona Mazza of the world
and kind of where their heads are at?
That's actually not my lane.
I spent time at K Street
where K Street had dedicated lobbyists
working on those issues and I'm no longer with K Street.
But I did wanna touch on enforcement
and then I'll let Shannon and Amanda talk about the taxes
at those levels that they're experiencing.
I can't stand when we have any conversation
about enforcement where operators are asking
for increased law enforcement presence
because that didn't work for 20 years under Prop 215
when commercial activity was illegal and it was a felony.
And so now it's a misdemeanor
and we're expecting a lesser offense to work
to prohibit the illegal market from existing and flourishing
and I think that's the wrong approach.
I know that in the Prop 215 days
that dispensaries were paying sales tax
and I don't believe that that ever stopped.
And so if the old BOE, which is now the CDTFA
is knocking on illegal dispensaries doors
and demanding tax payment,
is that not the definition of taxation
without representation?
And if they're paying those taxes still currently
and they're illegal, why can't we tax them more
and even the playing field?
It is the only way that the legal market will ever thrive
is if we can bring these two into alignment
and then let the consumer decide.
I love to, I'm in Florida right now
and I love getting into a new area.
Typically I do this in California, but I'm in Florida,
so I did it here.
And I went to a city council meeting two days ago
where a ban was on the agenda
and I just wanted to see like another state
how they were having this conversation.
But I have been asking about the illicit market
to anybody that will talk to me here
and whether or not they purchase in the illicit market
and if they purchase in the legal market as well.
And the illicit market here is even bigger
than I had ever dreamed because I talked to one girl
and she loves the dispensaries here,
but even without taxes,
those dispensaries are charging $55 an eighth
and the girl that I had asked about her purchases
in the illegal market,
she said she gets hers directly from a licensed operator
out of Washington State, mails it directly to her
and she can get an ounce for $200.
And so if our legal market has their paws
all up in the illicit market
and is now going direct to consumer across the country,
like we're in trouble.
And so we need to be thinking along those lines.
What is the illicit market doing?
How are consumers purchasing their product?
What are they getting?
What are they getting it for?
And how can we compete?
And that's the conversation that has to be had.
That is the only way the legal market across the country
is ever going to thrive.
Is if we're actually having the honest conversation
about what a consumer is getting for their dollar.
We've never had that conversation.
And it boggles my mind
how we never took a consumer into the picture.
So this is Greg and I just want to touch on what Jackie said
some things I agree, some things I don't.
So, but as far as for the taxes,
majority, super majority,
I'm not gonna say all
cause there might despise some people that are paying,
but I could say 99% of retailers,
illegal retailers here are paying zero tax, sale tax, zero.
And I believe that the CDTFA should go after them
for tax evasion, just like any other business.
And just like they did to Al Capone,
you cannot, you have no defense against tax evasion.
And if you're not paying the state
and our government taxes, then I hope you're out in jail.
That's my feelings.
Cause I pay lots of taxes.
And if that's how you want to be,
whether legal or illegal, you should go to jail.
Not for cannabis, cause I have my own,
I got charged with triple felony in 2007
for just 55 grams of cannabis.
So I really don't like seeing anybody going to jail
just because of cannabis,
but if you're not paying your taxes
and you're doing other things wrong,
then yeah, you should.
And that's an easy case.
And I don't know why they haven't done more of that.
Cause there is no defense for that.
And then as far as legal people going direct
to market in another state,
I would not believe the consumer in what she's saying
because there's so many fraudulent products out there
where they're making counterfeits of other people.
And I could be an illegal person
and Washington is very, and Oregon,
they are probably, well, Washington, Oregon, California,
we are the worst.
They send so much stuff out of state, it's ridiculous.
And anyone could say, oh yeah, it's a legal product.
I ordered some, I could order,
well, I don't know about now during COVID,
but I could have ordered brass knuckles packaging in parts
and filled it up and said, yeah, it's brass knuckles
and send it across the country.
A lot of brands are having serious issues with that.
And that gets into the point of where you said, Jackie,
what is the consumer getting for their dollar?
Well, in the illegal market,
they're getting illegal products that are not lab tested
and could be severely bad for their health,
especially during the time of COVID
where we know that people with breathing problems
are more susceptible and can die.
And pesticides, I don't know, people don't realize,
pesticide is a nerve agent
and it actually lowers your white blood cell count,
which makes it, hello, you're gonna die even easier now.
So that's a very important point,
but that gets into the educating.
And I believe we need the state and not the states,
all the states that are legal to do an education program,
to educate, to do more to educate the consumer.
Like, look, you might be saving a couple of bucks
getting it from the street, but is your life worth it?
Is it worth it to risk your health and wellbeing
just to save a few bucks?
But that's where that difference has to come in.
If it's a $50 difference where you're paying double the price
the consumer is gonna definitely risk it.
But if we could get that to be very close
to where it's only a few dollar difference,
then they probably wouldn't risk it.
Well, and a lot of consumers,
they don't even know they're going into illegal shops.
I mean, we talk about it in the industry
and we can all list the legal,
the unregulated shops around us,
but your average consumer,
all they know is they drove by a building
with a green cross in the window
and they went and got a great deal on product.
The BCC sent out those QR codes for people to scan.
I don't know anyone that's ever walked in
and looked for the QR code to verify
that they're in a legal shop.
So we've got to get that conversation
outside of the industry and to the average consumer
so that they know that they have the choice
of purchasing regulated or unregulated.
But the bottom line is we've got to simplify
the amount of compliance in this industry
and we've got to simplify taxes.
As a distributor, I'm playing tax man
for retailers and cultivators.
I'm not responsible for taxes,
but I'm responsible for collecting taxes and then remitting.
And that's just, that's absurd.
There's no other industry where someone's paying taxes
on behalf of someone else's business.
I just want to say something to that
real important before I forget,
because, and if you're, only distributors know this,
they tax us on the excise tax.
They count the excise tax that we're collecting
from the retailer, they tax that tax.
So it's really not in the benefit of the distributor
to collect and remit because we're getting on a tax
that we're not even making money off of.
We're doing a service, right?
By collecting-
We're not even having to pay for the accounting
and the bookkeeping and all of the things.
It's insane.
Yeah, and then, I mean, just the compliance side of it
is the other reason the regulated market's
really struggling.
If you think about the old days, you were a cultivator,
you had a few plants in your backyard or in your basement,
you trimmed them at your kitchen table,
you put them in a backpack and you went to the retailer.
You know, it was one set of hands touching it
throughout the process on one piece of property.
Now we've got, you know, all of the regulations
for setting up a farm, getting permitted,
staying compliant with cultivation.
You've got to have vans, you've got to have someone
that knows metric on the cultivation side,
someone that knows metric on the distribution side.
We're inventorying the stuff twice a month.
So, you know, we're paying that overhead.
Then we've got to have somebody that knows metric
and pulling it out, putting it on another van,
trying to schedule to get into retailers.
And with COVID coming on, retailers have limited hours now.
So, you know, we were doing deliveries five days a week.
Now most shops are taking deliveries
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.
And so we're having to put more vehicles,
more people on the road to get there
between 10 and four or three days a week,
where previously it was, you know,
eight to six, five days a week.
There's a lot of things in the supply chain
that were already on the brink
that are getting constricted even further.
And we're going to see a next round of extinction,
I think, happen in the next couple of months.
Mandy, you want to weigh in?
Sure.
I can't really speak to the specifics
of taxation on distribution
because that's not my role at the company.
I'm in community development.
So I do a lot of policy work
and that policy is my background and not business.
So I will talk more about policy.
So we did have the LAO report that came out last year,
which is the Legislative Analyst's Office
that basically looks at how the system is working
and then makes recommendations about how they feel
we can change the regulations
in order to bring what we're seeing more in line
with what the goals of legalization were.
And one of the big goals of legalization
was to eliminate the unregulated marketplace.
So the LAO looks and sees how well are we doing that?
We're doing terrible at that,
as has already been discussed by other panelists.
One out of every $4 spent on cannabis
is being spent in the regulated market.
Three out of every $4 spent on cannabis in California
is being spent on the unregulated market.
So obviously there's a huge disconnect.
As was mentioned, part of this issue
is that we had a very robust gray market for 20 years,
to the point where in many ways,
it mimicked what the regulated market ended up looking like.
So unlike other states,
even states that had medical prior to legalization,
which they all did,
they didn't have these gray market scenarios.
Even Colorado had a very regulated medical cannabis program
when they legalized.
So they already had a licensing structure in place.
They were licensing the entire supply chain.
Folks may forget prior to legalization,
the only people in the state that had a license
to do anything were a handful of dispensaries.
And even they risked federal interference
and risk getting shut down.
So it was really not a stable environment for anyone.
Now we're trying to bring some stability into it.
And I think with that, we're constricting it.
So what the LAO's office recommended
was that we eliminate the cultivation tax.
So that's something that absolutely impacts
the folks that we work with.
No other crop has a separate tax
associated with just the fact that you're growing the crop.
So that's a huge issue.
The second issue is the way that tax is collected.
So the cultivation tax, as was mentioned,
is collected by the distributor.
But we have to collect that before we have any idea
how that product is gonna perform in the marketplace.
So individuals are paying cultivation tax based on weight
prior to the product actually getting into the marketplace
to where we know whether that's gonna sell well,
whether it's not gonna sell well.
And that is completely unpredictable right now
as to what's gonna go on dispensary shelves,
what's gonna sell, what's not gonna sell.
So it makes it really difficult,
especially for smaller cultivators
to be able to have any kind of assurance of their economics
and how things are gonna work
and how much they need to grow in order to pay the tax,
in order to sell this much.
It just doesn't make sense.
So I think eliminating the cultivation tax
is a really good first step.
And then the second issue is about the excise tax.
So excise tax is syntax.
It's a tax that we put on products
that we think are gonna cause some kind of public health
or safety harm to the community.
And we feel that that tax money is there
in order to make up for that.
So for example, tobacco tax, alcohol tax,
the idea is that if you drink for 50 years
and end up in the hospital with cirrhosis of the liver
and the society has to pay for those medical bills,
that that's supported by the excise tax
that people pay on alcohol.
So of course, when we were legalizing cannabis,
there was a lot of comparisons being made to alcohol.
And unlike alcohol prohibition, when it ended,
it hadn't been that long since we'd had legal alcohol.
So people getting back into legal alcohol
after alcohol prohibition wasn't as jarring.
With cannabis, we've had decades and decades
and decades of prohibition.
So when we came and said,
all right, now it's time to legalize,
folks were like, well, you gotta have a syntax
because legalization is gonna cause all of this harm,
health harm and safety harm,
and bus drivers are gonna be smoking weed
and your pilot's gonna be smoking weed
and your teenager's gonna be smoking weed.
And we need a hefty excise tax to make sure
that society doesn't end up footing the bill
for all of these harms.
Of course, those of us who study cannabis
knew that was all bullshit.
We knew there weren't gonna be these harms
that we see with other substances,
but that was the thinking of folks
who were making the rules.
I mean, they felt cannabis needed an excise tax.
So last thing I'll say.
So here we are with this excise tax.
The excise tax is being levied on the consumer,
the consumer that is currently spending
three out of $4 in the unregulated marketplace.
Now, the theory is that if you reduce taxes,
you make less revenue.
And that has been one of the reasons that the state
has been very reticent to touch the excise tax,
especially right now,
given that we've pushed back tax filing
in California till July.
So they're like, we don't even know
how much money we're gonna have.
How are we gonna cut excise tax
when we don't even know how much money we're gonna have?
You see, here's the rub.
And this is because we have this unregulated marketplace.
Cutting excise tax may reduce temporarily
and in a very specific way,
the amount of tax that dispensaries remit
because of that excise amount.
However, what it also does is have people buy more product
because it's cheaper and they're paying less for it.
People are going into regulated stores
instead of unregulated stores
because the price differential is more similar.
So in the end, you actually end up making more money
if you just reduce that tax
and bring more people into the regulated marketplace.
So I think from a taxation perspective,
what we're really advocating for
is the elimination of the cultivation tax
and a hefty reduction of the excise tax,
at least for the next few years.
And then the other whole side of this
is the fact that consumers
don't have a lot of money right now.
And so that's pushing them even more
into the unregulated market,
which is even bigger reason for us to reduce the excise tax
because on top of all the other public safety issues,
we had e-volley.
And I know that like, that's all old news
and people are like, e-volley, what's that?
But that's the vaping illness, right?
And so we know that a lot of those situations
are tied to people buying unregulated products.
So now that we have this lung illness of COVID
going through the country,
are we really gonna keep prices so high
in the regulated marketplace of an essential business
that we're pushing people to buy unregulated vape carts,
which is just gonna increase
the likelihood of lung disease?
And people listening to this are like,
God, that makes no sense.
And this is what the impact of propaganda is.
This is the impact of 50 years
of trying to convince people that cannabis is evil,
that people that use cannabis are evil
because this is what it does.
It makes people completely reject logic.
It makes them not think about business models.
It makes them react to how they feel.
So one of the things we should be doing as an industry
is going back to our activism days
when we were really, really good
at changing hearts and minds.
And we were really, really good
at making people feel a certain way about our mission.
And I feel like we've gotten away from that a little bit
because we're trying to go about it legitimately
and we're trying to lobby our legislators
and we're trying to form these relationships.
But we're not going into city council meetings anymore.
We're not going and talking about the fact
that it's 75 miles to a licensed dispensary
and how is grandma gonna get her meds?
We don't talk about that anymore.
And I feel like it's done us a disservice
in moving things forward as an industry.
So just quickly,
Nicole Elliott just joined the conversation.
Nicole, we will gently ease you in.
So just listen for a minute
and then you can get up to speed.
Amanda, I love everything you were just talking about.
In 2015, at the State of Marijuana,
Tony Oliveira, an economist, speak.
And he was talking all about price.
Like when you have a comparable product,
which is the traditional market product,
you can only tax people so much before...
It's basic economics.
And I thought, from my perspective,
common sense would prevail
when you have a competing product,
and obviously it didn't.
So I'm gonna send everybody that link
because I think it's like,
everything he was talking about in 2015
of what not to do has since happened.
And he could do a mic drop.
With the cultivation tax,
which I think every grower would agree with you,
just out of curiosity,
like which agencies or who in the government
do you approach to say,
hey, this is crazy?
Like, is it Richard Parrott, the CDFA?
Is it Newsom's office?
Is it, who do you talk to and start that conversation?
Who are the threats?
Well, I think a lot of it is thinking
about where your options lie at any given moment.
So if there's a vehicle that is in the legislature
to do some of these things,
it's really about supporting that vehicle.
This past year, we had AB 1948
that was introduced by Assembly Member Bonta
that would have eliminated the cultivation tax.
And reduced the excise tax.
That made it to the Finance and Tax Committee.
Unfortunately, it's not gonna make it
out of that committee this session,
primarily just because of what's happening with COVID.
However, and Nicole can definitely speak more to this,
but we're gonna have the governor's trailer bill
and budget, which are gonna be coming out here
a little bit later in the summer.
And so there's a lot of opportunity
to think about what we need to do for this industry
to help us get through these next few years.
And I think that there are some sweeping steps
that we're gonna need to take
to make sure that this industry stays afloat.
And this isn't just for the sake of us.
I think that you're right,
that the industry sometimes sounds like
we're like big tobacco coming
and asking for corporate tax breaks.
And I understand that, which is why I'm like,
let's start getting the public back involved
and get them to start talking about this as well.
But I think for the state of California,
I can't imagine a world where
having a struggling cannabis industry
is helpful to the economic recovery
of the state of California post COVID.
I cannot imagine a scenario
where we are not looking to the cannabis industry
to be robust and to be and fulfill its promise
and fulfill what it can be
when the state so badly needs new jobs,
when the state so badly needs opportunities
for people who have been displaced from other industries.
It really is a time for us to come together
and kind of get over the fact that it's cannabis
and start talking about it as an economic driver,
which is honestly what it's always been,
even when it was illegal.
And we can talk about the illegal economy
and how much that has supported California over the years
because it absolutely has.
And now we have the opportunity
to bring that industry above board
and to allow it to really shine,
I mean, to really come into its own.
And we just need folks to get out of our way.
The analogy I like to use is that,
if cannabis is a lifeboat
and we're telling the state of California,
look, we can bring some folks into this lifeboat,
you don't have to shoulder this alone,
but this lifeboat is full of holes and it's not seaworthy
and we can barely use it to sustain ourselves.
Help us patch this boat and we will bring people into it.
And so that is what I'm really looking for
is a way for the cannabis industry
to be what it needs to be for the state of California.
So, Nicole, let me cue you up.
A thriving industry generates lots of jobs and taxes.
Currently, the cannabis industry
has a whole bunch of diseases
and is very sick.
So can you talk about kind of what the governor's office
is thinking as it looks at this sick patient
and how to get it healthy and contributing economically
and financially to the state,
the great state of California?
Apologies, I'm sort of in and out of this conversation
because I'm working on a couple of other things
and have this held on my calendar,
but I believe the question was really about
mechanisms for health.
Is that what you asked, health of the industry?
Yeah, I mean, basically every operator,
there is not a single licensed operator
who would disagree with these statements
that they're basically trying to be businesses
with two hands tied behind their backs
as compared to any other industry.
California cannabis is not a poster child for success.
So from the governor's perspective, do you see that?
And where's the governor's office's head at
in terms of how do we fix this problem?
So, I think it goes without saying
that the governor recognizes the challenges of the industry.
That's something that he talked a lot about last year.
We collectively talked a lot about.
Just, I think that, to sort of gut check this conversation,
of course, nobody saw a pandemic hit the state of California,
the nation, the world, in the way that
we are now experiencing that.
And so that sort of turned many things,
it has turned many things upside down.
And you've seen the state really expend
an exceptional amount of resources
in trying to preserve people's lives.
And in that effort, obviously, there was a,
there was a lot of thought given to
what businesses would remain open
and what businesses wouldn't.
And the governor, as you guys clearly know,
did put this essential in that effort.
When we talk about what lies ahead
and what can be done for the industry,
I wanna make sure that we're doing it
in the context of the here and now.
And that is a challenged economic time
for everyone in the state,
including businesses that were not deemed essential.
And so we, as a state,
are gonna have a challenging economic forecast,
and we need to keep that in mind
when we talk about what resources the state can expend.
So I think, you know, it is important to contemplate changes
that can be made absent those resources.
So thinking about those administrative changes
that can be made,
and then perhaps even statutory changes,
knowing what we're up against in the legislature,
as far as the legislature having bandwidth
to take up anything non-COVID related at this time.
So that's a long-winded way of saying,
you know, we're sort of seeing where everything,
the dust settles and trying to figure out
how to best proceed,
knowing that our objective has been
and will continue to be to ease the burdens on the industry,
whether that be regulatorily, administrative,
or financial, where possible.
But that has to be couched in the context of these times.
Hey, Nicole, this is Adam Spiker.
How you doing?
Good, how are you, Adam?
Lovely, doing lovely,
just enjoying life here in Southern California.
I totally appreciate everything you're saying.
And as you and I've talked before,
I think the legal industry has complete sympathy
and respect for what the priorities have to be
for the administration,
given COVID-19 and what we're dealing with.
You know, what I would say to you is,
and we've talked about it privately,
but what we're trying to do is just present,
you know, a fix or two for the industry
that is now two and a half years in,
and just frankly getting its ass kicked
by the illicit market.
And I know you mentioned, obviously,
the budget and other panelists talked about it
and more candidly before you joined,
that obviously the budget is in peril.
No one knows what that budget's gonna look like,
and no one knows when the, you know,
we don't know if the Trump administration's
gonna help relieve the state of California,
its local governments.
All that aside, I do think that there is an argument
to make that the legal industry
has now two and a half years in,
not had a chance to compete.
And we also believe, and you know,
the LAO report got brought up earlier.
I think there's faults in that report.
I wish there was time to refute them.
We've tried to refute it.
I don't think they show their work very well
for others outside of it to be able to take that work
and try to refute it, especially as it relates
to the illicit market and trying to offset tax reductions,
not simplification or restructuring,
but offset tax relief by capturing more
of the illicit market into the regulating realm.
I would assume you agree with that.
I know it's a challenge in this environment,
but I'd be remiss if I didn't bring it up
as just something that, you know,
if we were gonna pick one or two things
that are a priority for an industry
where all these industries and all these residents
and constituents are coming to the governor's office
and the administration saying we need help,
if we could focus on one or two things
for the legal cannabis, it would have to start there.
And I think the story's on our side.
I don't, I mean, as far as responding to that,
I think what I'm hearing you say is,
as an industry, if the industry were to have to pick
one or two things to focus on this year,
enforcement should be top of that.
Is that accurate?
I think it's taxes.
I think it's the cost.
Let me broaden that and certainly allow others to chime in.
It's at the end point, it becomes the price point
for the illegal market versus the legal market.
So right now it's about double and Greg can chime in
and others that are operators,
you know, if we restructure taxes or simplify them,
but the end result is that a consumer,
especially in a world where unemployment,
I think in the States about 4 million
and nationally 30 million,
they're gonna be more price conscious.
If at the end of the day, legal cannabis,
is double the price just to make ends meet of the illicit,
they don't have a chance.
So I think it's the economic argument,
but I wanna make clear to you that we're sympathetic
of understanding that the governor's got a lot on his plate
and certainly the administration and the legislature
has a lot on their plate.
We also believe that there's 80% of the demand for cannabis
in the state there to be captured by the state
and local governments in regulated means.
We just need it to be more competitive
in order to start capturing more of it.
This is Greg.
And you know, just to reiterate everything that Adam said,
it's absolutely true.
I mean, I just had another illegal store
open up a thousand feet for me.
And so enforcement is never truly gonna work
and you're never gonna really get rid of all the illegals,
especially in a big city where everything's so congested
and law enforcement already has their hands full
because gangs and narcotics are the ones
that are doing the investigations at rates.
And like we had discussed earlier,
now they're doing investigations
and trying to do raids on people
that it's not even a felony now selling illegal cannabis.
So I believe the only way is gonna be
through reducing the taxes so that we can be competitive
with the illicit market and that way the consumer,
and it doesn't have to be lower than the illicit market
or even equal.
If it's just to the point where it's only a couple of
dollars or a few dollars more expensive,
we can start also education program
where it starts educating the consumer that,
hey, yeah, maybe the illicit market
is only a couple dollars more now since we lowered the taxes
but is your health worth paying a couple of dollars less
to buy illegal products that are not lab tested?
So it's two things, right?
You've got to lower the taxes
and you have to do an education program
like we see all those commercials on TV
for the vaping and tobacco,
hey, don't buy illegal cannabis,
buy legal cannabis because it's not gonna kill you
and it's not gonna have pesticides in it.
That's all I got.
I wanna add one dynamic in here if I could
as a consumer and a patient who increasingly
sees the industry from that perspective,
almost actually now universally.
I wonder how the powers that be,
are they cognizant of the amount of anger there is
at being charged usury tax rates as a consumer?
A lot of these taxes roll downhill right onto us.
And I'd be interested to get a perspective
from retailers there, people who are public facing
what they're hearing, what they've dealt with
because it's unacceptable.
I've had no qualms over the years of telling legislatures
that I'm just one person.
So I'd be interested in people's thoughts on that dynamic
because I think it's real.
Tom, you're absolutely correct.
The retailers being in the tip of the spear,
if you wanna call it, we get bashed for everything.
The consumers love to bash us,
like the taxes are our fault somehow.
So it's absolutely correct.
They are upset and they have no problem
letting us retailers know that they're upset.
And usually my answer is please call your legislator
and let them know, because it's out of our control.
But they are absolutely furious.
And we've been told, well, this is why I'm never gonna shop
at the illegal place, I'm gonna go up the street
to the illegal place.
And they literally tell me where they're going
because they think nothing's gonna happen to that person.
And it's all a joke.
Enforcement is a joke and our taxes
and our high prices are a joke.
And you probably have more like 60, 70% of the market
buying from illegal market, not from the legal market.
I don't.
I wanna add something that's kind of a little bit
of a different take on other ways
from the consumer's perspective,
because Tom, I really agree with you.
And Nicole, hi, this is Amanda Ryman from Flocana.
So when I first started doing research
on medical cannabis dispensaries, it was 2005.
And I did a study on how dispensaries were operating
as community health service providers.
And that was really because as folks
who have been doing this for a while know,
in San Francisco, coming out of the AIDS crisis
was really when you saw these dispensaries
start to proliferate and you saw people providing
community services in addition to cannabis
in these dispensaries.
And so it wasn't just about buying weed, right?
It was about taking yoga and working in the garden
and having access to internet and having access
to peer support and counseling.
Americans for Safe Access used to come in
and do peer counseling.
We had lawyers that would come in
and give free legal advice.
And so I think all this is to say that,
kind of like taking a full spectrum plant
and then distilling it into THC,
we've taken this beautiful cultural experience
of interacting with cannabis
and distilled it to Walgreens.
And I think that that has really disadvantaged
the consumer, not just because of the taxes,
but because of the education and knowledge
and community that they used to get from that experience.
So all of this is to say is that we need
alternative models of retail.
We need to start opening up the idea
of what it means to get cannabis
and start offering other pathways to that
besides just dispensaries.
So, we need farmers markets,
we need direct to consumer sales from the farmer.
We need more opportunities for subscription boxes
and mail order.
We need more opportunities for people to grow
and process their own cannabis at their own homes.
So we need to look at where they're not allowed to do that
and why, because that's definitely the most economical way
to consume cannabis is to grow it yourself.
So I think that we get focused a lot
on what the current model is
and how we tweak those taxes and those models.
But I also think we need to be really
thinking outside the box,
which is a term that I think is way overused,
but thinking back to those days
of the community model of cannabis retail.
And it's not like we saw a huge amount of social problems
as a result of the fact that it was super easy
for people to go into dispensaries and get cannabis.
We weren't trying to solve for a public health crisis
around cannabis access.
We never have and we won't
unless we keep pushing people into unregulated marketplaces.
And then we will absolutely have a public health crisis
around cannabis with Evali, which we had before COVID.
So, it's just such a vulnerable time
for medical cannabis patients.
Many of them are immunocompromised anyway.
So the idea that they don't have the access that they need,
that they have to go through this one very specific model
of retail that may not speak to their needs,
I think is also a big threat to the industry.
Because those individuals
are gonna still need their cannabis
and they're gonna get it from the place
that they feel is safest
and is most economical to their needs.
They're not naive, these aren't new consumers.
And so we really have to meet them where they're at.
I just wanna say Amanda, that I appreciate those comments.
I appreciate sort of,
well, I really appreciate the approach
that you're coming at it.
Even though you hate the term thinking outside the box,
I think that's really what's necessary right now.
And we all really need to get creative
in how we approach addressing things
like financial burdens and enforcement.
Because you're absolutely right.
Tweaking the existing model is one way of getting at it,
but it's not the only way.
And we should really be maximizing
which avenues we're pursuing.
So, thank you.
You know, I just wanna comment that I think the,
I have a lot of respect for the argument,
the health argument, buy legal, buy healthier.
But I think it may not have as much traction
as it would otherwise,
precisely because so many of us do come out of the gray
or traditional market and have years of experience there.
We all come out of it.
We all were our children of the traditional market.
And we weren't really suffering
horrible health consequences as a result.
Plus, people there might indeed be more receptive
to individual needs.
You might know more what you're getting
than a CPG package in a retail store
where you're not exactly sure,
despite the fact that it has its COA.
And I just think that those are subtle dynamics
that are very real with people.
And that cannabis is a very personal, personalized,
individualized experience for so many people.
And they don't necessarily have that fear
of traversing the traditional market.
And I don't think that dynamic is necessarily true
for new people coming in, who don't know.
But I think that might be one of the problems
with that as a strategic argument.
Well, I think we also have to remember
that just like every substance,
the majority of the substance is consumed
by a small percentage of the consumer.
So, when we talk about the people
that are buying the most cannabis,
that are really making up the most of the marketplace,
it's a very small percentage of people.
And so if those are the people that we need to get
into the regulated marketplace,
it's not the person that's buying cannabis once a year
or for a special occasion,
because they are gonna go to the regulated marketplace.
It's the person that is using cannabis regularly
for medicinal purposes, that's purchasing a larger amount.
That's the person we need to bring in.
And that's also the person that's most likely going to go
into the unregulated marketplace,
both because of economics
and because of comfort with that marketplace.
Well, it's always been like,
those were the members of the collectives.
Those were the people who knew their growers
and were working with them.
And we had 20 years of that
and we had 20 years of access to safe products.
I've got a file folder in my home office
with lab reports from 2012,
because we were testing before we delivered anything
to a dispensary.
So there were those mechanisms in place
for the dispensaries who were enforcing that
and were only selling lab tested products.
And they thrived and they did well under POP 215.
Well, cause the consumers drove that.
And that's something that,
cannabis consumers, as you were saying,
their relationship with the plant is so personal
and so intense that they really do think a lot
about what they want to put in their bodies.
And they were demanding that dispensaries
give them more information.
And I started working at Berkeley Patients Group in 2010
and I worked there until 2012.
And we started to sell product that was tested
because patients were coming in and saying,
I need to know what's in this.
And I saw in the evolution from like 2005 to 2012,
edibles go from like just cellophane wrapped brownies
with no label, like a bake sale,
to people actually trying to tell you
how much THC was in it.
And this wasn't because the state was making us do that.
There were no rules around it.
It was because consumers were saying,
this is something that I need to make sure
that I'm dosing myself accurately.
And so I really believe that if we opened up
more farm direct sales,
where farmers could sell directly to consumers,
we would capture a lot of those regular consumers,
those that are consuming most of the cannabis,
because we're giving them a way to connect personally
with the product again and the farmer.
And that's definitely something we lost
with all of the packaging, which I get,
I totally understand why we have it.
But walking into a dispensary and smelling like everything
that they had behind the case
and being able to choose,
being able to have that more of that relationship
with the farmer, I think that's what that specific population
of heavier consumers is looking for.
They're not looking for like super low dose,
really pretty packaging CBD treats.
They want to tow and talk to the guy
that grew their cannabis for like 40 minutes about genetics.
And there isn't that outlet for those folks anymore.
Like the area 101 old school Emerald Cup
types of environments.
Yeah, as you were talking,
I was actually writing down farmers markets
and then you talked about it.
I mean, I think for every farmer who grows quality product
and is a smart, intelligent person,
that would be a lifeline to survival because they're small.
They don't need to clear a lot of product in December
at a like Emerald, the NorCal farmers
who would come down to the Emerald Exchange in December
with their recent harvest,
proudly sharing it with the SoCal market
and educating them on sun grown cannabis.
They don't need to sell a lot to clear out their inventory
and be able to move on to thinking about the next season.
And right now they're at the mercy
of the distribution networks and the retailers,
convincing consumers in LA
that this tiny brand is worth your time.
This is also a Greg,
and I just wanna touch on something
because one thing that was mentioned also
is the experience, right?
And that is something that the dispensaries were robbed of
is that experience and being able to provide
that experience where you show the product, you smell it,
you actually get to see it being weighed out in front of you
that holistic approach that we had
coming out of the medical, we have lost that.
And that has also affected us against the illicit market
because they still are doing it that way.
They do.
With us, it's no longer personable,
that engagement, that relationship with the consumer,
it's become more cold,
and we do different things to try to change that,
but it becomes very difficult
because everything's pre-packaged
and the consumer, even though in their mind,
yeah, I see your little sample, I'm staring at it,
but I still really don't know until I get home
when I open that package what I'm really getting.
And so that in a way has also affected the legal retailers
because that experience that we had brought
kind of like a farmer's market where you go,
you look at the fruits and vegetables and everything,
it's gone, you know?
And we used to have a whole bunch of vendors
that would show up on our appreciation days once a month,
and they would all have their products
and they would all set up different tables
like our own little mini farmer's market.
And that experience is gone as well.
And now when they show up,
well, now they don't show up because of COVID,
but nobody's showing up.
But when they used to, it became,
oh, here's a hat or a t-shirt, you know?
And I could talk to you about the product,
but I have nothing to show you, you know?
And so it really changed the whole dynamic
of what we had gotten used to for over two decades,
you know?
And I think that is a very, very good point.
So just quickly,
because Nicole has to jump off for a meeting.
Nicole, thank you for being such a good sport.
She had no idea that I was gonna send her a link
to join this call and she joined it.
So let's encourage her to do it again.
Thank you, Nicole.
Thank you, Nicole.
Thank you so much.
But just quickly, you know,
Nicole, I sent you that link to the 2015 economists
talking about price elasticity and economics.
You know, I hope the state views cannabis
like Walmart and Costco view profits,
which is if there is a lot,
if we do low margins,
which for the state would be low taxes and high volume,
we will make more money than high margin and low volume
and all these small operators going extinct
and not being able to hire people
and job losses and things like that.
So anyway, that's my two cents
on how I would hope the state approaches taxes.
Thank you.
Thank you guys for having me.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
Thank you, Nicole.
Thanks, Nicole.
Take care, you guys.
All right, Tom, our most inquisitive host.
I actually have a question for,
I have a question.
Do the people here think that generally speaking,
the state needs more legal shops?
I think in certain areas they do.
Yeah, I think they do.
I mean, just because there's so many areas that have banned.
I mean, it's not necessarily like, are we adding more?
In some places it's like, are we adding any?
And I think that the state really should take this up.
And this was something that we had,
FloCon had put into our recommendations for legislation,
but we know that because of the budget and costs,
but this idea of market expansion
and the state really getting involved
in helping localities pass commercial cultivation ordinances
and cannabis ordinances,
when maybe before they've been reticent
because they thought it was gonna be too hard
or they didn't know what to do.
So I think that if the state can really start encouraging
localities to pass ordinances
and maybe may generate a model ordinance
or be willing to give them some support,
then we'll start to see
some of these cannabis deserts change.
And I think now it's time to strike while the iron is hot
because these localities
are gonna be looking for job creation.
They're gonna be looking for sources of revenue post COVID.
We hear countries all over the world now
talking about legalizing cannabis
as economic recovery functions.
So I do think it's time and we could start with localities
and I always like to pick on Marin.
Let's start with Marin that voted overwhelmingly
for Prop 64, but has banned commercial cannabis activity.
And there's so much nimbyism, let's start there
and let's really put pressure on them to open it up.
So quick, quick adding to this,
does 64 need to be amended to do this?
Did it not codify the patchwork nature in this state?
And so how do we get there?
It definitely includes local control.
And in order to change that,
that's all about the League of Cities.
So the League of Cities,
local control has been their sticking point for 20 years.
League of Cities, long-term friends
of the cannabis industry.
Yes, long-term friends of the cannabis industry.
You know, so local control was in the medical legislation
that was passed in 2015,
and it was actually stricter than it was in Prop 64.
We actually wanted to get rid of local control in Prop 64.
The compromise was to make it a little bit less onerous
than it was in the medical regs,
but to still keep it in there.
We have met with the League of Cities.
We've taken their temperature on this.
They have had some leadership change.
It has been good leadership change,
but that's really who we have to have come to the table
to really do anything to eliminate local control.
So absent of that,
I think we need to make it as easy as possible,
like turn key local regulation
so that localities can just turn it on
or localities can pass an ordinance that says,
if a business applies for a state license
and meets all those requirements,
we will give them local authorization.
We don't have to pass a local ordinance,
but if someone's ready to go
and they meet all the requirements,
we will grant them authorization,
which is what the state's looking for
in order to grant their licensure.
So I think that there's some ways
that we can wiggle around it,
but until we really engage these localities,
adding another 500 dispensaries in San Francisco
or another thousand dispensaries in LA
is gonna help some things,
but it's not gonna help a person
that's in a cannabis desert.
Unless we have mail order,
then that would help them.
So who is we?
Yeah, go ahead, Jackie.
More retail.
I think we're at something like 1,150
when you count storefront retail delivery
and micro business with retail.
We're somewhere around there.
For 40 million people in an incredibly big, vast state.
So, but we need to figure out
how to incentivize local municipalities.
And in the beginning it was,
well, you're not gonna get any enforcement dollars
unless you regulate retail and cultivation.
And that doesn't seem to have worked.
So maybe we have to up that amount
that jurisdictions are getting
and then shine a big spotlight on it
and say, look who's getting some tax dollars over here.
But Los Angeles is very interesting
and it's the cannabis consumer capital of the world,
I believe.
There's more consumers per capita
than in any other jurisdiction.
And if we could get LA to at least be moving
in a positive direction,
it could turn the entire industry.
So I know that there's been a lot of drama
over the first 100 equity permits that had been issued
and a compromise to the 700 that are,
and technically all 800 are sitting on the sidelines
waiting for the city to figure out what they're gonna do.
But the compromise right now
that is being discussed in articles and in the community
is that the 700 that did not receive that first permit
would qualify immediately for either manufacturing,
distribution or delivery.
Now, if we were to turn on 700 delivery licenses,
this year, that's a game changer.
And that could be the number one way
to try and compete with the illicit market.
It could be the one thing that could change the fact
that LA needs enforcement.
It could be that we, instead of enforcing,
offer a way to compete.
And if that was coupled with some sort of equity
easement of local taxes,
then that could possibly spur other jurisdictions
to kind of follow suit.
Maybe making delivery an over-the-counter permit,
like someone else just said before me,
making sure that that delivery license
is compatible with all the state requirements
and then just giving them
an over-the-counter permit locally,
that could change everything.
And since we are an essential business,
I'm really hoping that we see some big win
for the cannabis industry that comes out of this crisis.
So just quickly to-
Greg.
Greg, I'm gonna tee you up.
So just quickly, I mean, when Jackie mentions delivery,
it's almost as if we're aspiring to act
like every other type of product.
Like we all order stuff from Amazon.
I think COVID is kind of putting delivery
in the spotlight in a positive way.
So Greg, can you talk about your,
are you doing any delivery or do you have aspirations
or what's your delivery strategy going forward?
We are, and we actually started pretty much
with our delivery.
So like I had said earlier,
like I'm licensed in phase one since the beginning.
Our store has been around since 05, micro business.
I have three phase two licenses,
cultivation, manufacturing, distribution,
and we got one of the 100 phase three
social equity licenses as well.
So I'm in every phase of LA.
I do not believe that having 700 delivery licenses
come online will help anything at all.
I'm doing delivery.
The max I get is 20 to 30.
I don't even know how the next 100 social equity licenses,
which the audit was completed
and found that it's good to go.
So we are gonna be moving forward
with issuing licenses for the 100.
We did get that email.
So that's a done deal.
There is no more argument there.
And so, but the thing is,
is I feel the 100 social equity licenses
that are coming online, they're gonna fail.
First of all, they don't have the contacts.
Well, unless they're partnered with somebody like myself,
who's experienced and who has the contacts and connections.
A lot of manufacturers and distributors
and Flo Cana could attest to this.
They don't have too much product left for new retailers.
I go on the website of Flo Cana
and it's almost always sold out of a lot of stuff.
And that they're not the only ones.
There's a lot of distributors
that are already at their max capacity
with the retailers that they already work with.
So a lot of these new businesses coming online
who have zero reputation,
zero contacts and relationships with vendors,
good luck getting anything on consignment.
And that goes to the point that Jackie had made
in the very beginning where people's AR books
are out of control because people aren't paying.
So they're already too paranoid to do any more consignment
because they've already had that taste
and it doesn't taste good.
And so you're gonna have a lot of businesses
coming online and failing.
And my thing has always been is,
I don't wanna set up anybody for failure.
I wanna set them up for success.
And if it takes a little longer to do that,
then let it take a little longer and let's do it right.
But to rush into and jump into and just do licensing
and then what?
What did we really solve?
What did we really achieve other than having these people
who are just thrown into a situation,
they don't know anything about metric.
I pay my metric compliance officer 6,000 a month.
How are these social equity people gonna afford that?
Good luck.
And then metric the amount of times it goes offline
and then you can't even get product onto the floor
because you have to wait hours and hours
until it comes back online.
There is so many intricacies and nuances
that really have to be thought.
You have to create a social equity education
and mentorship program for success
or else you could get hand up thousands of licenses
and they're all gonna fail.
Okay.
Can we expand about metric a little bit here others?
My fear is that metric is an auditing tsunami
waiting to happen for a lot of people.
Can people just kind of weigh in on their perspectives
and their experiences with metric?
I can wait till somebody.
I mean, my experience has been insane.
As a retailer, we deal with a lot more like
on the distribution side, it's easy.
We only have a handful of line items,
but on the retail side, we have over 2000 line items.
And then we get one order in from one distributor
and you have 60 different COAs.
You have to enter all of those in.
And it's really a mess.
Like before we would get a product in medical days,
you get the product in, you pay for it, you get the bag,
you can just throw the bag on the shelf
and start selling it.
Now we're like, oh, well, we hope to be able to get it
on the shelf on the same day.
And we hope that metric is online.
So it's a huge problem and it's a huge bottleneck
for the entire industry.
Yeah, it's really labor intensive.
As a distributor trying to get samples out to retailers,
we've got 25, 30 SKUs.
That means someone has to go and individually tag
single items, 25, 30 per retailer
we wanna send a package out to.
What's the benefit?
Are we keeping children safer
by having 30 metric tags go out on samples?
There's gotta be a better way to handle some of that.
It should not take my fulfillment manager two hours
to put together a sample pack,
then have to put it in a van.
And it costs us three, four, $500
to get samples out to a retailer now.
And yeah.
So speaking to Shannon's point about the samples,
yeah, we were experiencing the same thing.
So we worked to get a bill introduced,
trade samples bill that would allow distributors
to give samples to retailers
without having to go through all of that craziness.
And designate certain product as sample, not for resale.
And so that is, again, one of those things
where it was like, oh, this seems like an easy fix.
No one's really gonna have a problem with this.
And then it gets stuck.
Right now it's stuck because of COVID in committee.
And so, yeah.
Yeah, through, right?
Like, let's do that.
That offers some immediate relief in the supply chain
that if it buys us five, 10 hours, 20 hours a week
in labor costs, like that's the difference
between some people surviving.
Absolutely.
And I think that, and Nicole's not on anymore,
but I think part of the frustration
that I feel coming from the industry
is that the super controversial things
like eliminating taxes
and the super not controversial things
like allowing distributors to designate samples
seem to have the same holdup.
It's not like I don't have confidence
that giving them something that's completely budget neutral,
totally in the context of COVID,
everything they say they want,
that anything's gonna happen.
Because I feel like we're putting forth all kinds of ideas
and all kinds of suggestions and regulatory fixes
from the very, very big and profound
to the very, very small,
and everything is getting stopped.
And so that makes it really difficult.
And to be honest, sometimes the industry
is its own worst enemy.
And we have to understand what incrementalism is
and that not everything is gonna be a vehicle for everyone.
So if we submit something allowing distributors
to give samples to retailers,
there may be parts of the supply chain
that aren't included in that,
but this is a low hanging fruit.
Like let's get this, show that it's benefiting us,
and then we can go back and say,
look, it benefited the distributors so much,
let's have it benefit the cultivators,
let's have it benefit the manufacturers.
But the problem is that folks are so afraid
of what's happening, which I totally understand,
that they don't wanna get left behind.
And so they feel this need to be included and involved
in every step of the way,
when sometimes that's what's holding us back,
because we then appear to legislators
to not know what we want,
that they're not gonna be able to make us happy,
that whatever they do is gonna be the wrong thing.
And that's not the kind of situation
you wanna put legislators in.
You want them to think that they're gonna sign this
and everyone's gonna clap for them
and give them a pat on the back.
And I just don't think the industry's given them
one of those situations, except taxes.
Eliminating the cultivation tax
would be the easiest thing in the world for them to do,
and not get the pushback and let it be a sign of good faith
that they really do want this industry to succeed.
Yeah, and one thing about the cultivation tax
that when we were speaking about that,
I don't think it was mentioned earlier,
is they tax us per clone.
For every clone we make, we get taxed.
And I don't know any,
and they keep talking about how we're like agriculture,
but I don't go to a nursery
and I don't see the nursery guy
making clones of his succulents,
getting charged per succulent a tax.
Can you imagine if you did that?
All hell would break loose.
What do you mean I gotta pay
every time I make a clone off of my plants?
Or, you know, it's ridiculous.
It's the most asinine thing I've ever heard,
that we have to be, every time I make a clone
off of my own plant, I have to pay a tax.
It's insane.
Well, part of that issue is because cannabis in California
is considered an agricultural product and not agriculture.
So even when that clone is,
that clone is considered a product and products are taxed,
like wine is an agricultural product and it's taxed.
The grapes aren't taxed, but the product is.
And so the problem is that we don't have a designation
for cannabis and its raw plant form to just be agriculture.
And if we did, and it was just agriculture,
then we wouldn't be applying the taxes to it.
Now, of course, one of the rubs, right,
is that one of the things we're finding
that's a big pain in the ass about the industry
is the multiple agencies that are involved
and the duplication of things that you have to do
for your compliance for this agency and this agency.
So one of the recommendations that was made
that the governor's office is considering is consolidation
and bringing all of the cannabis activities
under the Bureau of Cannabis Control.
Now, this is a double-edged sword because on the one hand,
yeah, it'd be great to just have one agency's rules
that you had to follow instead of sometimes
conflicting rules coming from two agencies.
But on the other hand, it takes cannabis out of CDFA.
So there's a concern that that is gonna separate cannabis
from agriculture even further if the plant
is no longer regulated by the Department of Food and Ag.
So I think that this is like a 2022 discussion,
given where we are right now, maybe.
But it's like there's no easy answers.
And so I think that as an industry,
we really have to think about what we want cannabis
to look like 10 years from now and work towards that.
So if we want it to be an agricultural crop
with farmers markets and interstate commerce
and being treated like the wine industry of California,
we should set our sights on that.
And I really do think that's a good model,
even though I don't like to compare cannabis to alcohol,
as an industry, the California wine industry
really does make a lot of sense
in terms of the appellations and the branding
and the tourism and everything that comes along with that
for them to aspire to have their California cannabis
be right alongside with that California wine.
And we had, during non-COVID times,
we have thousands of buses a day
going from San Francisco to wine country.
And the state makes a ton of money on that.
The industries make a ton of money on that.
So why shouldn't we have thousands of buses
leaving San Francisco every day
to come to the Emerald Triangle?
Again, I go back to the missed opportunities,
because we still think we don't wanna encourage cannabis use.
And that's really getting in the way
of us letting this industry flourish
in the way that it should.
And I just wanna get to that point,
because you said the taking of the buses to wine country,
which is something else that as cultivators
and even manufacturers, we're not allowed to do.
We can't do cannabis tourism.
We can't have someone come and give them a tour
of the facility and then later on,
go and purchase products from the retailer.
We're not allowed to do that,
even though my other property,
that's how we set it up with the grow,
the manufacturing distro and the retail
all there on the same property.
They're not gonna allow us to do that.
And that's a big hit, like you said,
because that's a lot of money in the tourism.
I have a question.
Do you guys think that the California,
let's just say California industry is on the same page
about what it wants to look like in 10 years?
No.
Yeah, I just wanna add on that.
The industry is in a patchwork too.
And I have a note here, perception of wealth.
And I think that depending on who you're talking to,
their perception of the industry is unique to them.
I've done this a lot, talk to people down in LA,
retailers, where's all the money?
And they go, the growers up North.
You talk to growers up North, where's all the money?
And they point fingers down to retailers.
And they're like two separate entities.
Also there's myriad number of trade groups
throughout the state.
I've never seen an industry with so many trade groups
that pop up out of necessity in geographic areas,
representing a swath of different businesses,
rather than setting up trade groups
that represent specific areas of business,
which might make more sense.
I'm not criticizing it.
I'm just, it just seems to be really piecemeal
in a recipe for disparate voices.
And so then who is the state listening to?
And how do we get onto the same page?
Well, I think the reason that the organizational situation
is what it is, is just because of the growth.
So, before we were an industry,
it was like the consumers,
and then the people that were providing to the consumers.
And those were two groups.
And they were represented by like normal,
and Americans for Safe Access on the consumer side.
And then on the people serving the consumer side,
you had like Marijuana Policy Project
and Drug Policy Alliance,
because they weren't businesses yet.
So the people representing the industry
were really representing the criminal justice.
Criminal justice piece of that,
and the policy piece of that.
We're much bigger now.
And so, the example that I'll give,
and I'm curious to hear what Jackie has to say about this,
because I know that she does a lot of work
with organizations and thinks a lot
about organizational politics.
A few years ago, I was invited to speak
at the Alcohol Distributors Conference.
And they have a huge conference
just for alcohol distributors.
And they have another huge conference
just for alcohol retailers.
And they have another huge conference
just for the alcohol producers.
And they don't necessarily agree with each other.
That what the retailers want
isn't necessarily what the distributors want,
isn't necessarily what the manufacturers want.
But they don't all get together in one room
and try to figure out a path that they all agree on.
Instead, they meet in their factions,
and they decide what's best for their faction.
And then they send representatives
to talk about what that means as an industry.
And I feel like we're in that awkward teenage phase
between these two worlds,
where we need to grow out of the idea
that we can have one umbrella organization
that represents accurately
every sector of the cannabis industry.
And we need to start thinking more
about representation by sector,
which I think you are seeing.
We have the California Distributors Association.
We have regional cultivation associations.
And I think that that's really where we're headed,
because it's just getting too big
for us to come together and think
that one association is gonna be able to accurately
and fully represent the needs
of all the members across sectors.
I can agree with that,
that it's probably gonna end up being a few different ones,
but definitely not like 30 or 40 like we have now.
And that each section, the distributors, manufacturers,
cultivators, retailers,
eventually, probably, hopefully, gets into only four.
And that way, it'll be a lot easier
for when each perspectives board goes to meet
with the other executive board, it'll be less.
Because I've been a part of so many trade organizations
and helped found so many California Growers Association,
Greater Los Angeles Collectives Association,
which been around forever,
was like the first cannabis trade organization.
I'm on the Southern California Coalition.
Cultivators Alliance,
when we had started that in the beginning.
And it's just, it gets a little tiring,
when you just all of these different organizations,
and then you help put them together.
Some succeed, some fail, some stick around, some don't.
And so for me, just to see,
and just to have some kind of unity
on that forefront would be amazing.
And to have that message that all of us,
even though we're separate, we're together,
when it comes to certain messaging,
would resonate a lot further with our elected officials.
And in all reality, if they knew,
or even thought that we were all together,
like we all, because whenever it's a crisis,
we all come together really quick.
You know, we get into crisis mode,
we all come together, we all form together,
we get things done and resolved.
And then the next thing you know,
everybody's off to the winds again,
which is what has happened almost every time.
And so I would love to see that not happen,
where we come together during crisis and we stay together,
and continue to progress towards what we want,
with 10 years from now, whatever it may be.
But it does get exhausting
when you have so many different organizations,
and then it's like you're just playing conference call
after conference call,
when we could all just get on one call,
and get to the meat and potatoes,
if you wanna say of the subject,
and actually get some real resolution.
And I mean, LA, we're notorious for it down here.
It's like every year there's a new organization,
if not every three months, you know.
And it's because we are very diverse,
and the diversity adds to that as well,
because every, seems like different,
also ethnic backgrounds have their own organizations as well.
But honestly, trying to get it down
to kind of minimize that,
I think would further us in getting our message
to what we want to our officials
to really push forward our agenda,
which at the end of the day, we all want the same thing.
I truly believe that we all really want the same thing,
which is just to be treated like normal businesses,
and not like third class, third rate citizens,
which I'm kind of sick of, you know.
I mean, in 2008, I got a DEA letter
saying I'm gonna go to federal prison,
and I got arrested in 2007 for 55 grams,
and they tried to give me three to five years
for less than two ounces.
And it's just, I am just so tired
of being treated like a third class,
and all the amount of taxes we give,
and can you imagine if we weren't essential businesses,
where would that leave us?
We would all be bankrupt, because we don't get a bailout.
So the whole thing and the whole thinking has to change,
because we are citizens, we are tax members,
we are fathers, we are mothers,
we are your average working class,
the last of the middle class,
because this is where we transitioned into,
because there was no other middle class jobs left,
you know, and we are normal, regular people,
and we should be treated as such,
you know, and that's my thing.
And the sooner I think we can all,
we're not all gonna come together,
but as long as we can all come together
in our own perspective fields,
and then communicate with each other,
I believe, and that's where
the Southern California Coalition
is trying to make that happen.
We are trying to talk to different organizations
about whether it's on paper,
or just by word, coming together,
you know, it's that appearance
that sends the message to the officials that,
hey, we're coming together,
and we're gonna get this together,
and you need to start paying even more attention
to what we're saying,
because we're tired,
and it's exhausting, and it doesn't feel good,
and then you look at the liquor store down the street,
who's paying only $1,600 a year for his city tax,
and I'm paying over a half a million,
and I'm getting treated worse.
It makes like zero sense.
And, you know, I can get into so many things,
you know, I served in the Marine Corps
for seven and a half years.
You know, I got shot, stabbed, blown up,
and now I'm getting treated like a third-class citizen,
when there is someone who migrated here three years ago
who has a liquor store,
and is getting treated better than I am,
when I sacrificed almost my life for my country.
So it doesn't make sense.
You know, it doesn't make sense,
and we need to get our officials
to start having more common sense,
and looking at us, and perceiving us
in a much different way than what has been in the past.
So Tom, thank you for prefacing that question
by articulating that there's 30 or 40 groups out of necessity.
Like, that to me is really important.
There are 30 to 40 groups out of necessity,
out of whatever their issue is
that they've come together for,
whether it be manufacturing, or retail, or cultivation,
or patient access, whatever it is, you know?
And I think that in my,
I think it's been like five years
that I've been in this industry now,
and I can't tell you how many people,
how many regulators, legislators, politicians
have asked me this question.
Do you have an NRA of cannabis?
And every time I'm like,
no, we don't have an NRA of cannabis.
No, we don't have a consumer association.
No, we don't have anybody, you know,
working at the federal level representing consumers.
We don't have anybody at state level representing consumers.
We have niche little organizations
representing factions of consumers.
Normal, you know, probably being the one most recognized,
Americans for Safe Access,
being the most recognized for patients,
and their access.
We've never had a consumer association,
someone as powerful, an organization as powerful as the NRA.
And that might be what we need.
We, I think that that,
if all of our operators throughout the entire supply chain
were to forget about their operator hat for a second,
and remember that most of them are consumers,
I would say, you know,
a very high majority of them are consumers.
And what is it like to be a consumer in this marketplace?
And for me, I'm constantly frustrated as a consumer
on a daily basis of, you know,
when I find a product in California that I like,
I can, I struggle to find it
in multiple retail establishments.
I struggle to find it at the same price point
in multiple retail establishments.
I'm usually not able to find it in Northern California
and in Southern California.
And I think that that is the type of problem
that's gonna get worse as the industry does evolve.
And if we evolve without any policy reform,
we're gonna see more of a segregated market
because the only operators that really are able
to weather this storm are the vertically integrated ones.
And the more vertically integrated you become,
the less likely you are to sell other people's products,
right, because you're not incentivized to.
You're trying to survive, and I get it.
I understand why the market looks this way.
But for me, every time I find a product that I like,
I struggle to get more of it.
And so I really think that maybe we could all come together.
And it's been really playing in the back of my mind
during this entire COVID crisis.
Do we need an NRA of cannabis?
Do we need a consumer association?
I know I would pay 100 bucks a year
to belong to an association that told me
who my cannabis-friendly politicians were to vote for.
If someone did that work for me,
that would be worth 100 bucks a year for me.
Somebody that was, an organization that was working on
rectifying the fact that I have a problem
that I can't find my favorite edible
in more than three areas of the state.
That to me is an issue.
And I don't think that we've ever come at this
from a consumer lens and taken the consumer's perspective
into consideration.
And if there were an NRA of cannabis,
they'd be at the Capitol right now saying,
this is ridiculous.
We can't pay 45% more for the same product
we bought two and a half years ago.
With our bongs instead of guns, right?
Yeah.
But I don't wanna take up too much more time on this.
I know that our panel is supposed to be done right now,
but there are a few more hot topics
that Peter wanted to talk about.
So I think we should probably do a check-in with everyone
to see if everyone can stick around
and what Peter's thinking about
how much longer he wants to take.
I could stick around.
I just have to take care of one thing,
but you did make a great point.
And I think there has to be a consumer organization
because every time we've done anything on initiatives
or referendums or anything we've done,
speaking of Americans for Safer,
we've always gone about for the patients, for the consumer.
This is what's always our message.
And that's what had progressed us so far
because those elected officials,
they care more about the consumer
than what they think is the wealthy cannabis business owner,
even though they need to just look at our books
and realize we're not wealthy.
They don't care because for us, they think,
oh, they're just complaining
because they're not making enough money.
But when the consumer says something,
it drives that message a lot further coming from us.
Well, that's the reason why we did this banking campaign
that's consumer-facing.
So, I totally agree.
And I think that's one of the things
that's really been missing post-legalization
is bringing the consumers into the discussion.
Prior to legalization,
consumers were like our biggest asset.
I mean, they were making a stink.
They didn't wanna go to jail.
They wanted access to product.
They wanted access to things that were tested.
I mean, they really had a lot to say.
And then I think after legalization,
unfortunately, there was this idea of like,
okay, the businesses have it now, you guys are good.
And we kind of lost some of that from the consumer.
So, one of the big issues I think we need to fix is banking.
The fact that cannabis businesses
don't have access to banking.
I mean, obviously that's a big issue for us as businesses,
but for the consumer, what it means is you have to pay cash.
You have to pay cash at the dispensary,
the dispensary workers have to handle cash.
And given the current environment that we're in,
we were like, hey, this is something that consumers,
myself as a consumer, that worries me.
I don't wanna have to use cash
every time I go to a dispensary.
And my brother manages dispensaries,
and I don't want him to have to handle cash every day
and then go home to his one and a half year old daughter.
So, we thought this is something
that consumers could get behind.
So, we started this dirty money campaign
aimed at getting the Safe Banking Act
included in the next federal COVID relief stimulus package.
And so, we did a public facing campaign
aimed at consumers to write the representatives
to basically say, I don't like the idea
that I have to handle cash
when I go and purchase my cannabis.
And so, I think that we're gonna see how this goes.
We've had the campaign up for two days.
We've had 180 letters generated
to representatives in California.
We're gonna keep going with this.
And I think that this is an opportunity for businesses also
to help engage their consumers
and to recognize that consumers do care
about what's happening.
And it's not just about how expensive it is,
and it's not just about products,
it's how we feel we're being treated as adults
that are seeking out a service
that is legal to us to seek out.
And so, I think that in the future,
there is definitely a role for consumers to play.
I really would hope or wish
that normal would take a more NRA approach
and be more aggressive.
I don't think they're aggressive enough.
And I think that that's really what we need.
We need folks that are gonna be super aggressive
at the federal level on behalf of consumers
because there's millions of cannabis consumers.
I would hazard a guess that there's more cannabis consumers
than there are gun users.
So, we definitely have the leverage there.
Often they overlap too often.
My belief is that cannabis consumers
are potentially the most powerful constituency
in this industry.
They just somehow need to be mobilized.
The lesson I'm taking away is that
this is almost a call to action.
I may devote the rest of my life
to building that organization
since it really is near and dear to me
and has been for a long time because as a consumer,
I feel invisible and unheard.
I just wanna say, and you know this
because I'm here in LA.
You know that when push comes to shove, right?
And things happen, the dispensary operators,
they start sending emails and texts to their consumers
and we rally them up.
And next thing you know, we have hundreds of people
at city hall.
So, it's not like it can't be done.
We could do it, but the part that I always have a problem
is not that we can do it, we never keep it going.
Once we get what we want, everybody goes off to the wind.
And that's the most important thing
is once we do the call to action
and everybody, we gotta keep it going.
We can't just, oh, we got what we wanted.
Okay, I'll see you guys next time there's a problem.
That doesn't work.
Well, I'm sure there's strategies for mobilizing people
and maintaining their interest over time
that people have developed and that people who are,
you know, have done that.
There's techniques to doing that.
I don't think it's easy, but it's doable.
And there's people who are really good
at having clear strategies, short term, medium term
and long term, keeping that information in front of people
and trying to keep them mobilized.
I think it's super hard, but it's necessary.
Otherwise you're a victim, you know,
you're just at the mercy.
And who wants to be at the mercy of anybody,
including the state, which from my perspective
is kind of acting like a drug dealer
in not the best sense of the term.
Yeah, one of the things we were trying to do
with 420 being all month in April
was we were designing some postcards.
We wanted to put at the point of sale
at every retailer we worked with
that they could mail to Sacramento
that, you know, itemize some of these things
because you're right, the consumers have to start
making their voices heard.
The industry's talked to her blue in the face
and we're just not getting traction.
You know, obviously COVID kind of threw a wrench in that
when consumers weren't able to walk into shops
and everybody's got masks on.
So we're working on a different plan.
But, you know, what happens if a couple million
green postcards show up in Sacramento
saying taxes are too high, you know,
I don't have access to medicine.
I had to drive three hours to get epilepsy medicine
for my child.
Like that's how we get things to change.
Absolutely.
That's a big issue for us is how patient,
you know, what happens to patients.
Tom, it's almost like we need to organize a call,
patients and access to medicine.
And we're actually doing that.
We're organizing it in the background.
We are doing that.
So just quickly, let's get to the speed round
on some fun topics in no particular order,
but we got high times getting into retail.
We got weed maps.
Subpoenas.
Not going around.
And one of my favorites is-
Just take them one at a time.
I know I'm just listing the topics.
Med men, which most people here know for a long time.
I've been calling the Enron of cannabis.
Adam Beerman, the Martin Shkreli, the Pharma bro.
He's the Canna bro.
So why don't we start with high times,
thinks that the retail game is where it's at
and they're making big pivots.
So who wants to start with that one?
Oh yeah, I could start.
I think I said this to Tom the other day.
I was like, everybody wants to do retail
until they get into retail.
It sounds fun.
It looks glamorous, but I think high times
is in for a rude awakening when they realize
that the amount of money there is in retail is horrible.
Unless you're gonna try to cut corners
and try to evade certain things here and there,
I'm not gonna lie, a third of retailers are doing that.
They're not doing things exactly the way
that they've been supposed to.
And which shocks me because there has been quite a few
retailers that have already been busted by the BCC.
Legal ones doing things that they're not supposed to.
I mean, I know one that got caught
with a hundred pounds of illicit cannabis
selling it out of the jar from underneath the register,
underneath the counter, and they still have their license
and nothing's done.
So that's another disheartening fact off subject.
But yeah, I think high times is in for a rude awakening
when they realize that the retail business
is not all it was meant to be
and that they're not gonna be able to get the evaluation
that they want from retail to sell it
or what they eventually plan on doing.
Well, wait a second, let's back up a second.
Were they just let go or there was a slap on the wrist?
Because that's not enforcement.
No, it's not enforcement at all.
And the BCC has always said,
oh, well, we only enforce and the DCR,
we only enforce against legal operators
because that's what we can do.
That's what we're allowed to do.
We're not allowed to enforce against illegal,
but they're not enforcing against legal ones either
that are breaking the laws.
And when you do that,
now you're creating a completely miscued market
because now you have legal operators
that are doing illegal stuff to cut corners.
Isn't Cushy Punch back to business as usual?
At Cushy Punch is back to business.
And they got caught with a completely illegal facility
running two locations.
And again, I know-
Are you guys selling Cushy Punch in your shop?
I am not, but I'm friends with the owner and I met him.
I met up with him the other day and I asked him
and he said, oh yeah, we're gonna be back online.
So I don't think they actually have products
back out there yet.
But all it is is the brand gets caught,
they find another licensee,
they make a licensing agreement for the name.
And next thing you know,
that brand is back online with a new license.
And again, I love the guy.
Very nice guy, family guy.
But when people are doing things like this,
and he's not the worst.
The other retailers selling,
literally they confiscated a hundred pounds
from his facility.
And I know of another incident
where the idiot manager started running down the back alley
with like 20 pounds and the BCC agents tackled him.
Okay, I mean, and they're still operating.
It makes no sense.
And I'm over here worried about taxes and this and that.
And I'm getting, if I'm late, I'll get a threat letter
that I'm gonna lose my license.
But then the person who completely does something illegal
and gets caught red handed, nothing.
So it just, a lot of things just don't make sense to me.
And if you're not gonna enforce in areas
where you have complete control to enforce,
let alone the ones that you don't.
Well, again, you're setting us up for failure
and you're rewarding the people
that are doing illegal stuff
to continue doing illegal stuff.
Yeah, okay, so back to the question at hand about high times.
I don't know if anyone else is as bored as I am,
but I actually pulled up the SEC filing
to look at what assets were included in that purchase.
So you've got to kind of unwind it.
Pre-Harvest, before Harvest entered the California picture,
it was Have A Heart out of Seattle
that was getting some of the retail permits
in not so coveted jurisdictions, let's say.
So Harvest purchased Have A Heart's dispensaries
and then they were also in the process
of getting some of their own licenses.
So I unpack just what it is
that High Times allegedly purchased.
And I'm saying allegedly
because you still need a stock to go public
and all of these different jurisdictions to sign off on this
before this deal could ever go through.
So minimum, I would say you're looking at a year
before any dots would be,
Ts would be crossed and Is would be dotted
before this would be completed.
So we've got a Harvest in Palm Springs.
And if you're familiar with Palm Springs market,
Palm Springs is one of two jurisdictions in the entire state
that have an open process for retail,
the other being Lompoc.
So if you're interested in getting a retail permit,
those are the two jurisdictions
that if you can find property that qualify,
you can get, you pretty much can get a retail permit there.
So you've got a very overcrowded market in Palm Springs.
That's one of them.
You've got another one in Harvest of Venice,
which if my memory serves me correctly,
I believe Venice is only a medical market,
which is a really tough way to compete these days.
You've got Harvest of Merced.
You've got Harvest of Riverside
and I don't think that one is opened yet.
You've got Harvest of Hanford, which isn't open yet.
You've got Harvest of Blythe,
which is definitely not open yet.
And then you've got two very expensive dispensary permits
in San Francisco.
You've got another one in San Bernardino,
which I don't believe is open.
And two in Oakland, one in Coalinga,
and the final one being in Santa Cruz.
And Santa Cruz only allows you to sell off 20%
of the business.
So what they sold was their 20% stake in,
no, actually I think it's only 10%.
So you've got a lot of less, you know,
desirable areas to operate.
You know, I know that the Coalinga store is,
if it's still open, is doing about $1,000 a day.
So these are the types of assets
I want everyone to be aware of
that Harvest potentially unloaded onto High Times.
High Times still has to go public
and still has to, you know, take possession of these.
And in the midst of a pandemic,
when everybody is shifting from retail to curbside
or delivery, you know, those business models
absolutely do not make sense
in either Oakland or San Francisco.
And maybe they could make sense
if you're going to turn all of those assets
into trying to become a statewide delivery brand
is the only thing that I could think
that they would attempt to do.
But that would all depend on how expensive
those San Francisco and Oakland properties really are
and how much those are bleeding them dry
until they actually are up and running
and up and running in a post-pandemic world
where we're not wearing masks
and we're, you know, congregating again.
And so this to me should be viewed
as a Hail Mary by both Harvest,
who's looking to unload their less desirable assets
and a Hail Mary by High Times,
hoping that this will help them go public.
And that's all this is and nothing more.
And just quickly a show of hands, the panelists,
who here is getting in on the High Times,
reg A offering?
Getting in while the going's hot.
They keep sending me emails.
Oh, I get them every day.
But you know, something funny about High Times
in that whole situation, first of all,
it just whole thing screams Hard Rock Cafe to me.
And like this idea of just these super like commercial,
just wonky looking places that have like Cheech's pipe
in a glass display or something.
But funny High Times story.
So, you know, Flo Conna,
we launched this dirty money campaign on a Monday
and we did an Instagram post
that was basically like encouraging people
to contact the representative
and you know, we don't wanna have to handle cash.
Right after we posted it,
some dude from High Times who works there,
commented and was like,
all his comments says was, you're lobbying wrong.
Or that's not how you do it or something like that.
And I was like, okay.
So we responded and we were like, you know, what do you mean?
We think this is an issue people would care about,
especially since you just purchased 13 dispensaries
and this is about not having to handle cash in a dispensary.
And they responded that of course they care
and that they invented grassroots lobbying.
So in case folks didn't know that out there,
High Times invented grassroots lobbying,
which actually isn't even a thing, but they invented it.
And so, you know,
they obviously really know what they're doing
and they've got a great team.
I did just read that Stormy Simon is no longer the CEO.
She has stepped down.
I had long conversations.
She lasted four months.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I had conversations with Stormy
where I told her to get out.
I said, you do, because you know where it started
was when I got the emails and you know,
the one from today is coming, you know,
who sent it High Times investor, who sent it, Adam Levin.
And then there was one that had Stormy's name on it.
And I immediately emailed her and said,
don't let them put your name.
I was like, and then I was like, don't,
you do not a couple of years from now
want to be associated with duping little old ladies
who invested in High Times.
You do not want your name associated with that.
And then we had a long phone call and, you know,
I've been trading emails.
I'm gonna try to get her on to do a webcast,
but just to be clear for anybody who's watching,
cause I'm gonna cut this out as the High Times segment.
So people don't have to wait till the end.
The people who currently run High Times
are a bunch of finance douchebags
who have nothing to do with the grassroots history
of High Times from the 70s and 80s.
And any master, you know, any good grower
does not read High Times today.
Okay.
So just everybody who's thinking of investing in High Times
or who thinks, oh my God, that'd be amazing
to go to a High Times dispensary.
So we have a couple of brands on here.
Amanda, is Flo Kanna going to rush to supply product
to High Times retail?
Shannon, is Fiddler's Greens,
is that gonna be the first phone call you make
when they take over those retail operations?
And shame on you.
Well, see, I blame High Times in a lot of ways
for bringing this weird idea of what quality is
to the marketplace.
And that's really been hard for Sun Grown
because when I was growing up in Chicago
and looking at High Times magazine,
they had these centerfolds of buds
that are supposed to be like the highest quality buds.
Like these were the buds.
And they were all indoor
and they were all grown like this far from the light.
And none of them really looked,
I always would compare it to like the Playboy centerfold
where like you grow up thinking
that that's what like the ideal woman looks like.
And then you get out in the world
and you realize that was all bullshit.
I kind of feel like that's what High Times did.
They set it up for people, consumers to think
that quality meant orange hairs and tight nugs.
And that's not true.
So they're like the corn hub of cannabis.
No, no, no.
I have a video clip that I'll play
in the on-demand version.
Kevin Jodry said it best,
which was the article on the left side of the page,
which is that Hydro Bud,
its sole purpose was to sell the product
on the right side of the page,
which was an HPS light or whatever it was.
What you have is you have information
that's used as basically marketing.
It's kind of like reading old High Times
because I haven't read the shit in years.
It's like reading High Times.
And every article was basically to sell the material
on the next page.
So they're not giving you any information.
They're giving you a marketing pitch
wrapped around some photos.
Yeah, absolutely.
But unfortunately the impact that it had
on the consumer marketplace
was that all these years later,
indoors being sold for $65 an eighth
and sun grown is lucky to get 40.
And I do think that High Times played a huge role in that.
Like I don't think they'll ever take responsibility for it,
but I think they played a huge role
in really leading the consumer astray
when it comes to knowing what a quality cannabis product is.
Yeah, and it's a double-edged sword, right?
I grew up in Texas and a lot of my first exposure
to cannabis was High Times magazines
that we were able to look at and see.
So it brought it to people who weren't in Northern California,
weren't part of the community.
But like Amanda said,
it was also misbranding and misrepresenting.
It was selling McDonald's hamburgers
like it was filet mignon.
So we've got to undo that at this point.
I like that analogy, Shannon.
I will not be rushing to do business
with High Times retail shops.
That's not really in line with our brands and our mission.
Got it.
Okay, have we beaten High Times sufficiently?
To a pulp.
Okay.
Do we want to do a Weed Maps?
I'm cognizant that it's 10.20.
So why don't we do a quick wrap?
Anyone have any thoughts on Weed Maps?
Is that Gemma?
Gemma, come say hi to everyone.
Quick, quick, quick, quick.
Oh my gosh, look at you.
I left her unsupervised.
And we're getting a tour of Greg's place too.
I left her unsupervised with a bag of tortilla chips.
You guys are actually gonna go on
a couple of a few deliveries with me.
Oh, awesome.
Also, you see on the map,
Grace is coming with a delivery around the corner.
Marlene's here.
She'll take care of the tortilla.
Oh, yeah, she's talking to you.
Oh, thank you.
Yeah, you're welcome.
Perfect, yeah.
That's what small business looks like.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nothing like getting a delivery from a CEO.
Customer's love it.
I see you're actually going out.
Yeah, you guys.
Greg, on this subject,
can I ask you a really quick question
in terms of staffing and everything?
Have you had to go down?
How has all of this impacted your staffing?
Well, I mean, it's impacted staffing in multiple ways.
From staffers that,
I lose staff.
Yeah, so I mean, staffing,
I've lost a lot of staff.
All right, Tom, let's quickly go to,
let's talk Weedmaps and then we'll come back to Greg.
Okay.
So go for it.
Anyone wanna talk?
Anybody been following the Weedmaps stuff?
Yeah, the subpoena.
I mean, who doesn't love to read a good subpoena?
I'm telling you.
It's the best one ever.
You know, obviously there's gonna be more news to come.
And it's just very ironic
that it's the Chinese year of the rat.
To be-
So people are gonna, go ahead.
Yeah, I mean, like all the articles
that have been written about it suggest,
you know, the federal government sure did cast
a very wide net.
And it's not clear who they're after,
but more definitely will be revealed.
Anyone else have any, I mean,
do they think they're going after the legal market now?
They're gonna take down law-abiding shops
during a pandemic that are one of the few businesses
paying taxes now?
Oh, I'll take it.
Thank you.
Well, my hope is that they're gonna be a little discerning
and they're gonna look deeper
into the folks that are in question.
And there's definitely some people that have since,
or, you know, at the time were in process
of getting their licensure and maybe have been,
you know, trying to move in that direction.
And other folks that have been flaunting,
you know, the fact that they are on meat maps
and not having licenses.
And so my hope is that it's not a one size fits all scenario
and that they prioritize who they think are the bigger,
more egregious actors.
I guess it's hard to know what's really behind this.
If it's a Bill Barr's agenda or something else going on.
I don't know if anyone has any insights into that.
So just quickly, Greg,
how many deliveries are you about to go out with?
How many orders?
I'm about to go out with three of them.
Got it.
How many are you doing a day?
Around like 30 something or so.
So it's not bad.
And are you the main delivery driver
or do you have, this gets back to your staffing?
Yeah, so I'm the main delivery driver.
That's what's happened.
And yeah, I've lost like between people getting sick,
people being afraid to work and just,
and also what's happening is,
and this is something that I'm sure a lot of people are,
there's like a competition amongst the businesses
for good employees.
Cause people are just dropping off
and to find a good employee.
I had another company, another retailer,
outbid me for my own employee.
Literally they stole my employee from me.
So I've lost employees like that as well.
And I pay really good,
but I don't sugar coat and I don't lie to employees.
I don't tell them something that's not gonna happen.
I tell them, look, you're not a manager.
You'd still need to get this training.
You don't even know how to do metric.
How can you even, you don't know QuickBooks,
you don't know metric, you don't know this,
you don't know that.
And then there's other employers that are just,
just feeding these employees with a lot of stuff
in their head and making promises
that they're never gonna fulfill
just so they could get the employee there
as a bud tender for the meantime.
And some of those, how do I know?
I know the owners, I'm friends with all of them.
So I know their personalities, I know their characters.
We know each other.
And so it's really tough finding good employees
and this pandemic has made everything worse.
I mean, we get flooded.
Like on Indeed, I'll get 3000 emails
of people applying for a job.
And we specifically put must have experience
and over 2000 of them will be,
will be bartenders or something like that.
And we do wanna hire and we wanna give them a chance
because people need jobs, but then they come in here
and it's very hard because even bartenders,
they have different habits and different things
that you can't do in cannabis.
In cannabis as a retail, if you're selling a product
and it's because the state,
one, the state says, check it in the front.
The city says, check it at the register.
And so you have to have an ID checker
in the front and in the back.
And a lot of times with bartenders,
if you don't look, if you look over 21,
they don't even card you at all.
So those are two big differences
because that could cost the business a big violation
if you don't scan the person's ID.
So, it just, a good employee has become
a very big commodity, at least out here in Los Angeles
in cannabis, very, very difficult to find.
And a lot, I'm not the only owner, business owner,
unless you're one of the bigger companies
who's funded and got a billion dollar evaluation,
us small business owners are having
to either play delivery boy, butt tender,
doing whatever you have to do
to make sure your small business survives.
Well, what are we seeing in terms of layoffs
in the industry?
So a lot of the layoffs are coming in manufacturing
is what I'm seeing.
Not too much in cultivation and not too much in retail
because retail were hurting for employees.
But manufacturing, I've even seen a few companies
already go bankrupt.
Example, Open and District Edibles, they're gone.
They're never gonna be around again.
You know, those two brands are gone.
They are gone, gone.
And they were great brands.
My customers loved it because the price point was good.
And so you've already seen the first of a few businesses
because of this coronavirus already suffer.
And, you know, cause the whole pandemic just,
it just multiplied everything that we're feeling already.
You know, when you compound everything that's going on,
it makes it very, very difficult.
Very, very difficult.
I just wanna say bye, cause I have to go 1030.
But I appreciate you having me.
So why don't we wrap on that and we can always get back
to Med Men in future episodes.
But everyone good with calling it a day.
We've gone for two and a half hours strong.
We still have like 30 something people tuned in online.
So I'd like to thank those people
for the creature double feature
on Wednesday morning, Jackie.
Yeah.
I like it.
It's a bug.
It's a bug.
It's a safety device.
It's PPE and a bug.
Jackie, you didn't have to refrain from hitting that to be.
Yeah, sweet.
Send me one.
Thank you everyone.
Thanks everyone.
This was great.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate you guys.
Great day.
See you guys.
Safe delivery.
No, thank you.
Drive safe.
Thanks Tom.
I'll see you.
Bye.
