What's up Living Soil Nerds, happy Wednesday to you.
As you can see, we're live on the scene in the home grows.
Shout out to Marco going out of his way.
We had a few little technical difficulties,
seems like as always, Marco, to be honest.
But we got both screens going with you chilling
in your undisclosed location
and us chilling in our undisclosed location,
working on things and trying to understand things
from a home growers perspective.
And I think more individuals need to realize
that there's a lot of people that do this.
They might not necessarily tell everybody,
but growing plants is, you know,
a lot of individuals across the country enjoy that.
So shout out to the home grower.
I think, you know, to finish out this year, 2022,
a lot of fantastic things happening moving forward
for everybody involved, it seems like,
in the shows and stuff.
So Marco, just again, man,
showing up each and every week when we do it,
just a salute to you, brother.
Before I hand it over to Marco, I do want to shout out,
we got our guest, Ryan.
Took me basically this whole year
to get him to come on the show.
I think the stuff that he does and the work that he,
you know, the homies that he hangs out with,
shout out to TJ, shout out to individuals
that I think are just, you know,
upright, stand right, stand up individuals,
you know, nothing but respect for TJ.
And obviously nothing but respect
for this man right here, Ryan.
You know, this guy is my plug.
This is my personal, you know,
I spend my own money smoking his stuff
because of the consistency.
I, you know, I have children, I'm a renter right now.
So sometimes in life, things are thrown at you
and you have to roll with it.
But consistency and quality,
I think that's what really matters for most people,
obviously taking the time to home grow.
So we're gonna chop this up for a while here.
Not only is Ryan obviously home growing,
he's using Layton's Horizontal Soil System.
And now he's transitioned over to the fact
that he's doing Steve Cantwell's Bottomless Pots.
So obviously you guys have seen, you know,
Mr. Cantwell's on a grander scale.
This is on a microcosm scale,
but at the same time you can find success doing this
and showing this and finding that, you know,
talk about really pennies on the dollar
when you've dialed all this in.
So again, buddy, I appreciate you coming on the show
and willing to, you know, talk about this live on the air
because a lot of individuals don't wanna show their grows
and respect to that.
But at the same time, you know,
when you're putting out quality product like Ryan does,
I think individuals need to see that, yeah,
if you're hesitating doing this,
I'm not sure if I can achieve this.
Obviously it takes some time.
I think it does take a few years
to really get good at this on another level.
But yeah, taking the time, researching, watching this show
has allowed a lot of individuals to now farm
and Ryan's one of them where he's just continuing
to take it to the next level.
Marco.
Yes, sir.
Appreciate y'all.
Happy Wednesday, Living Soil Nerds.
Haven't seen or spoken to a lot of people in a little while.
I've been taking my little break from the digital world.
So I'm glad to be here with everybody
and felt like, shoot, you know,
Ryan's out here showing his grow.
I'm gonna go ahead and drop mine too on this show.
So really looking forward to it, man.
As a grower, you always like to see guys that you respect.
You like to see their grows,
like to get little tips and techniques that they do.
And so this will be a great show.
I'll drop a couple of things that I do
and hopefully we have a lot of good questions.
I know that we, Ryan, you know, we grow similar.
You know, I also like Layton's set up with the horizontal
and I've tried the bottomless spots.
Like I'm on bottomless on this run here.
Can't wait to chop it up with you in here,
kind of with your feedback and your experience, man,
how you've been, you know, liking everything thus far.
So yeah, why don't you go ahead and take it away, bro.
Go ahead and, you know, tell people a little bit
and let Brian kind of guide us through this thing.
Yeah, man, thank you.
Both of you, you said a lot, Brian.
I appreciate it.
Nonetheless, Marco is a great senior grow and everything.
I'm excited that you came on with that.
Takes a little pressure off me too.
But no, I just look forward to the show.
I hope we can, you know,
I hope I can bring some knowledge to you
because, you know, you've taught me so much.
So I just looking forward to what we get into.
No doubt.
So let's kind of get into genetics.
I think, you know, networking and that kind of thing
isn't really necessarily, I mean,
you might understand it obviously when you first start,
but I think it takes experience,
especially with maybe somebody that was a friend
giving you a clone that had issues or just, you know,
hey, now I got spider mites, thanks.
Those issues are kind of minimized
once you have that education, but if it's not there,
you know, a lot of individuals want to grow from seeds.
So I thought this was also a cool little thing
for our audience today, Marco.
We have obviously seeds growing here on this side
in the bottomless pits.
And then we have clones over here on this side
in the bottomless pits.
So we have a lot of genetics that I think are tried and true
maybe here in Colorado
that I would love, Brian, for you to run through.
And then a few things that I think are more known
like in Oklahoma and that kind of stuff.
Yeah, so clone wise, I got Chile Verde, Wilson, Peach Rings,
and Pure Michigan.
And the Wilson and the Chile Verde
are both from Mile High Gardener, Matt Jones.
And then the other two are from my buddy, TJ.
And then seed wise, I'm running a lot of Oni seed this time.
And then some Bee Leaf.
From Oni, I got Camptee Haze and Tahiti Triangle.
Now that was one I'd never heard of before.
That's from Oni as well.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
And then Strawberry Diesel Cookies.
And then from Bee Leaf,
I got the Dippin' Sticks x Chimera.
Some seeds that he sent me, but just as testers.
So yeah.
Now I know a lot of times,
really when you're getting into this,
not only you're farming this out yourself,
but you wanna wash this.
So there's certain breeders
that do kind of seem like they stick out.
When doing this show,
the certain names just kind of always seem to stick out.
So where do you think moving forward,
like if somebody was new,
obviously they're excited.
They wanna get into home grows like this.
They wanna have healthy plants.
Obviously that's starting with genetics.
Besides the big name individuals,
they don't necessarily need some help.
But some individuals, Matt Jones, like you said,
he's somebody that I wouldn't consider
like a big name individual,
but out there, from what I understand,
putting out a lot of genetics throughout the community.
Are there a few others here in Colorado
that you wanna shout out?
Like you said, there's a lot of known people.
Canerato has kind of come up over the years.
Small guys.
I have a couple like friends that make seeds,
but no one that really has like seed lines.
I think, I mean, Duke Diamond really does a good job,
but he's known.
For washers, Pony Seeds, Bloom,
Canerato, those are the names that come up to mind.
The seeds.
Reliable seeds, at least,
because washing, running, going through a whole round,
washing it, and only getting 4%,
or not getting 4%, you're gonna lose money.
I mean, flower market's kind of messed up right now, too.
So it's, I don't even grow from flower anymore.
I'm straight on, so.
Yeah, I think that's starting to be,
especially when people kind of wanna do the nine to five,
they don't even wanna smell like flower,
but they still kind of wanna get a puff go,
or a pen, or whatever they enjoy.
Marco, when you're kind of getting into your stuff, buddy,
what kind of genetics have you been running in Virginia?
Yeah, I would imagine some of the stuff is the same.
I mean, you've obviously, from the show and all that,
obviously you've heard all those names,
but what would you say the vibe is
for the home grower in your city?
Yeah, man, I've been,
I'm running some similar stuff to Ryan.
I got, just in this particular deal, is three plants.
This one is Odo, it's a B leaf from seed.
My buddy got a pack from B leaf,
and he was having a tough time germinating them.
So he tried seven, got zero.
He gave me the last three, and I got two of those three,
and then this is the one that I chose out of those two.
I'm running it again, and just to see what I think of it,
I don't think I'm gonna keep it though.
But so that's one thing in here.
And then the other one is a peach from our homie Matt
that we just mentioned.
This is actually Farmer John selected this peach maraschino
from Loving in Her Eyes seed pack.
Man, this is a beast.
Green, love her, she's so funky, loud.
And then in this same room, I also did one more.
I did B leaf Nova gas, which is one of his breeder cuts.
So that's just kind of,
just things that I got going in here.
But in general, man, like the next thing I got coming up
on my list, like some things that are staple of Virginia,
like some Virginia beach ganny,
and I got some packs of that, Jolly Ranch Farms.
Shout out to him, shout out to VW Ed
because I got a special cut waiting for me,
is what I've been told.
And so yeah, that ganny, man, people like that,
and that's been a staple for a while around here, man.
But yeah, really, and for me,
because I've taken the dry sift route,
so I'm really looking for things that are going,
giving me that good sandy,
that dropping a lot of trichomes really easy.
And a few things I've noticed, man,
even with some of these,
and just kind of my initial thoughts,
some of these strains, man, is like flour,
and then actually dry sift is just a totally different
expression of the plant, it seems,
sometimes on some of these cuts.
So that's why it's important for me,
like I wanna grow these in flour, I wanna cure flour,
but along the way, I also wanna try different processes,
like we're talking about with the hash and things
to kind of see what each plant can give
in its best expression before I finally pull the plug
and say, no, I'm not gonna run that, so.
All right, so we've chopped it up a little bit
about the genetics.
Obviously, I think, I'm probably biased to this,
but I think the real magic,
obviously genetics plays a huge role,
but then from the artistic standpoint,
from something where you can truly dictate,
contribute the more time and knowledge
you put into your studies,
starts to build up these living soil systems.
And once these raised beds start to take off,
again, farming, especially on a smaller scale like this,
it becomes a lot easier where this,
Ryan can manage having a full-time job,
having a lady, having,
I think it seems like you're always enjoying life,
I guess, the best thing, like a social life,
compared to other individuals where it kind of,
I remember you saying you had been gone
for like a week or something and you came back
and things are still just kind of just humming
and moving forward.
So I wanted to talk about that a little bit, Ryan,
and then kind of where your focus is,
because these soil systems obviously take a long time
to achieve, man, and you're obviously
doing a fantastic job at it, Ryan.
And if you could talk a little louder, I guess.
Okay.
Yeah, when I went away for a week,
I have to attribute that to the Trollmaster behind me,
the sensors.
I can look at it from my phone
and know everything's going all right.
I also have, for when I go away, I usually hand water,
but right next to me is like these drippers
where I can feed the beds and make sure
that they'll stay with the right moisture.
Even when I'm gone, I have a reservoir over there
and I can leave for, it fills itself up,
so I can leave for as long as I want.
But I try not to leave for longer than a week
just because it just doesn't feel right.
I also have everything connected to this Trollmaster.
So there's a humidifier, humidifier,
and then the AC is on its own app.
But other than that, like pretty much the whole room
is controllable.
I can turn anything on and off from my phone.
So that gives you a lot of leeway, I would say.
Yeah, because when you go to like MJ BizCon
or some of those like super big ones like that,
where it seems like every company,
every booth is so well-funded,
all they talk about is automation.
You don't have to go in your room.
I mean, some of those things are almost comical
at this stage, but being able to go on a vacation
and have a living soil system,
that is a reality for individuals.
Obviously that doesn't happen the first couple of flips.
I think you kind of need to know where,
and know where your skill level is at.
If you're brand new to this,
then taking a week's vacation
might not necessarily be warranted yet.
But the fact that you could potentially see that
on the horizon and then also continuing
to improve your skill sets,
because after just a few flips,
I mean, it's a noticeable difference
on the level of the microbial life.
Obviously when you continue to feed the stuff,
you have the stalks in here, the leaf families.
I'm sure there's some sugar leaves in there
that a lot of the worms seem to wrap themselves in.
So again, just-
I left a lot of the lowers this time.
I'm trying to get to that,
leave 20% of the plant thing.
Hey, Brian, sorry to cut you off,
but he's like really quiet.
It doesn't even sound like his microphone
is even working right now.
Like it seems to have gone off.
Doesn't seem like the mic's working.
Hello, hello?
Hello?
It's a little bit quiet.
Like you're coming in loud and loud and clear
on your microphone, Brian.
So I think it's all being just carried
right through your headset, to be frank.
Is it any better now?
I have a splitter right here.
It's a little bit better.
How are we doing?
How are you hearing him over there, Marco?
Hello, hello, hello?
Marco's frozen on stoic.
There he is.
Can you hear me, Marco?
Yeah.
Yeah, you're coming through better now.
Maybe just talk a little bit louder.
All right, sounds good.
I can turn that thing off too.
I forgot what we were talking about.
More of a, so you got the stalks,
you got the, you know,
you're really focused on a lot of the woody aspects
that I think a lot of the, like,
I would say OG farmers seem to tell the other individuals,
like this is how you're gonna be able
to build up that fungal growth.
Yeah, I mean, I'm just trying to give back to the soil.
Everything I take from the soil,
I wanna try to give back as much as I can.
And that's just only gonna help me amend less
and save some money in the long run.
Let the soil do its thing.
So what are some of the amendments and stuff?
Obviously you're using the plant,
but are there a few things that some,
especially when you were first getting these soil systems in
and how long have these beds been cooking, if you will?
So they've been up for about,
well, this is the fifth flip on it.
So almost two years.
So nothing rushed with that kind of?
No, no, I,
cause I've only lived here for that long too,
on something just cut out, but can you hear me still?
Yeah. Okay, cool.
No?
No, your audio is beautiful, brother.
Brother, keep going.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, so beds been up for about a year and a half.
I went with the horizontal because my buddy TJ was like,
if you're gonna do it, do it right.
And he hooked me up with a lot of the material
with the sand, silt and clay.
And then, and the rock and granite crushed stone.
I have that all on my Instagram,
but yeah, I went with that route
and I really, I'm just really happy with it.
Especially knowing, I mean, you're obviously in your house,
this is a long-term play for you.
So you have the beds, the beauty of the beds,
but again, you know,
Steve's kind of always innovating things.
And then again, on a microcosm scale,
you've been able to take these beds,
have the huge benefits of having that aspects.
And now the, almost like the,
being so prolific with this kind of stuff in the flips
that you can do the bottomless pots.
And for individuals that don't know what that is,
do you mind kind of breaking that down for us?
Yeah, so this is actually my first run
with the bottomless pots.
I went with this because honestly harvesting a full room
was kind of not intensive labor or anything,
but I wouldn't procrastinate on it.
So I think if I could just do one bed at a time
at different stages,
I'll be a lot happier in the long run
and just have a flip every six weeks
rather than every nine weeks.
And just keep it perpetual.
And then also it'd be a lot cheaper to run a four by four
tent rather than this whole room is by 11 by 11,
but it has industrial oversized equipment in it.
So it's kind of, it's not super expensive to run,
but it's a lot more expensive than a four by four tent.
So I'm gonna keep the four by four tent stocked with veg
and have it just go in.
And that way I can pop a lot more seeds also
and not be rushed on trying to keep seeds up
with a clone or vice versa.
But basically, yeah, so the bottomless pots,
they're still on trays, this guy.
He's almost to the point where he's ready to go in the bed.
Yeah, he's about there.
So I'll put that directly on the bed,
add some like mycorrhizae product and water that in.
It'll take off in the bed, I'm sure.
And then I'll have, I don't know,
the more freedom or flexibility of what I can do
and timeframes.
So I'm looking forward to it.
And then Mr. Cantwell kind of gets into then
because there's so many plants,
especially going through the cycles,
there's a lot of obviously roots that are in there.
So the plants tap in,
the new live roots tap into the old roots
as the microbial life is breaking all that down.
And shout out to like Minnesota Nice
and some of these like super OGs
that were teaching this kind of stuff.
That is also part of the secret
of why things start to improve
is just there's nutrients everywhere.
There's things breaking down at the top.
There's a huge life force that starts to be able to be built
throughout that entire system.
Again, I'm a huge proponent of using the composting worms.
So if you wanna get kind of deeper with the ones
that you wanna dive deeper,
the night crawler, the African night crawler,
in my opinion is probably the best bang
for your buck with that.
If you're really new to farming with composting worms,
the red wiggler is something cheap, easy to purchase
and easy to keep alive to be honest.
The only time I've really seen them pass away
is if things got really cold.
Marco, do you wanna kind of get into the life
that you're running with?
Yeah, I was just curious to know about,
so what's your plan?
Cause I've done bottomless,
I'm on a second run on one of my bottomless setups.
And my dilemma was, okay, do I cut the bottom,
the pot off flush with the soil
and just remove that entire pot?
Or do I kind of plant around the pot?
So what I decided to do was just cut the stalk
in the bottomless pot, leave the pot setting on the soil
and then plant around it.
And let, cause what I want is I want the pot
to freely be released from the soil.
So I want the microbes to kind of break down the roots
to the point where when I lift that pot up,
I can just pull it up and replace it with another one.
Cause the point is really for me
to kind of rotate these pots.
You're gonna run out of room on top of the bed
if you just kind of keep kind of stacking them, I guess.
So what's your kind of thoughts
on what you want to do with that, Ron?
I kind of, I a hundred percent agree with you basically.
Another advantage is you don't have to dig a hole
in your soil bed and disturb the soil.
So that's where I'm with you there.
I'm just gonna let the microbes eat it throughout the run.
And then when I have to replace it,
that's when I'll pull it.
I'll let it sit there and decay for as long as possible.
I'll just put the new pot right next to the old pot
and then give it a whole run to break down,
if you would say.
Yeah, one thing that like for me and we know,
you know, they're doing it big time out there,
but for the home grower,
so I did the one gallon bottomless just like GLP.
And then, but on that next run,
instead of doing bottomless again,
I went back to a four inch.
And the reason being I start, I got a backup.
I got a log jam of one gallons based on my nursery space.
So that's probably something to consider too.
So now I'm not really fully a hundred percent bottomless.
I'm kind of alternating back and forth
however it works with my nursery space at the time.
That's interesting.
Yeah, I think it still goes back.
You just have to time it perfect still.
But I maybe in my opinion, I mean, I don't know.
I've been doing it for so long.
If there's a sicker plant or like a plant
that's kind of lagging behind, I'll just get rid of it.
And just, it won't last in the garden.
Cause if it can't grow vigorous
and like be a standout in my garden,
I'm just going to get rid of it anyways.
So I'll just be really cruel and veg and just have it over.
Like I'll probably have a lot of more
and then just be cruel.
Yeah, it makes sense.
So what do you think, do you think,
I would imagine, especially for the newer farmer,
that's too many plates to be spinning.
But I think it's eyeopening for individuals,
as they're getting into this, hopefully for 2023,
that they see that the possibilities
are almost kind of endless with this kind of stuff.
Bright-minded individuals that are kind of
leading the forefront on the commercial side of things,
breaking down little small tips and tricks.
The home growers continue to try these things.
And then, I think there's people all over
that have attested that the bottomless pits
is so much easier from the labor standpoint,
that it's attractive from that aspect alone,
whether you're a home grower or a commercial farm.
Yeah, man, you got lots of opportunity with the bottomless.
I mean, like just for instance,
I got the bottomless here and then you can see, right,
this was an old plant, right next to the bottomless.
So this was my previous run before I went bottomless.
That's kind of what I have too.
And there you go.
I did it first.
Yeah, so you know what I mean?
And there you go.
And these plants are in day 40 something.
So in 40 something days, the old plant is gone
and now the bottomless have taken over.
So yeah, I like that bottomless, man.
Ryan's even got the aloe vera growing in the pot.
You know, I mean, these are all like,
but almost, especially on the forum days, man,
people would say that, oh, that's not gonna work,
stealing nutrients, all these things.
And obviously a lot of that kind of almost bullshit
is to the wayside when you do the work,
when you put in the experience,
you can see that a small little grow like this
can produce some of the best smoke
that I've been able to find consistently
from one individual.
And that's, you know, even here in Colorado,
sometimes that's hard to find somebody
that puts out the same stuff time and time again.
Hell yeah, consistency, man.
That's the key.
And that's what I'm all about too, man.
It's like, that's what people want.
You know how it is, Brian.
It's like, man, no, where's that other stuff?
So if they're hitting you with where's that other stuff,
then I feel like you're not doing your job,
if that makes sense.
Yeah, I mean, this smell is nice and earthy.
You know what I mean?
And I think, you know, two years is just like,
hey, now we're just starting to really take hold.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
Two years, man, is solid.
Like even one year, like some of my newer beds
are like one year and they're just blazing, man.
Like anything you put in there, it just shreds up.
Yeah, I love seeing he does that similar style that I do.
You know, we both use like a heavy mulch,
which is wonderful.
I just put random pieces of bark in there too sometimes.
Exactly.
Yeah, so I think more individuals can see in real time
that it's not necessarily like some kind of magical secret.
Like you need all these ingredients.
Let me say that, you need the right ingredients
to be able to achieve it.
Sometimes, especially if you're on a budget,
just growing the plants out,
maybe paying a little bit for some seeds,
growing that out is gonna feed that next flip
so you don't have to spend a little money.
And then when you got a little money in your pocket,
that's when you can play around, maybe buy some nicer,
you got the fabric pots and stuff.
I mean, there's always ways to improve the grow.
But then at the beginning, I mean, I think going,
not necessarily cheap, but going kind of frugal with things.
So if something needs to be,
if the money needs to be spent on something quality,
then obviously, I think lights is a big part of that.
But on the actual soil building,
I think you can kind of get away
with just starting out pretty simple,
as long as you realize that time is more on your side
at that point than money.
I believe that seeds add intelligence to your bed as well.
So I think it's beneficial to pop seeds as many as you can,
because you're just getting all this new information
uploaded to your beds,
and it's just gonna help every new flip.
And I mean, you can't get better than that.
I don't know.
It's like, I think people sleep on that.
I agree, man.
It's just like having plant diversity.
Like you have that aloe, even a different cannabis strain,
or just any different plant,
it's gonna have a different kind of biology
and relationship with the soil.
So yeah, that's key.
And I always say that I like to always,
if I'm doing different plants,
because when you are doing home grows
and you're looking for stuff,
you have to maximize that space.
You don't usually have the liberty to run
one room of all the same thing,
unless it's kind of different seeds.
So I like to always run something from seed
in each run too, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
It's a little lottery ticket.
Yeah, definitely.
When you're constantly growing with seeds,
it's gonna allow you to always have something different
from somebody else.
I think the old way when people would have
like a couple of plugs,
I think that's still the way things are today.
Like people still have a couple of dispensaries,
and then again, when somebody is consistent,
that goes away because individuals are willing
to drive past places to get quality stuff
that they feel is of medicinal value
and growing in a living soil
and then creating solventless products.
I think that's obviously the wave of the future
for people that wanna take the time
and invest in this kind of stuff.
Do you mind sharing roughly,
like, I mean, I know this isn't cheap to set all this up,
but once everything's kind of been set up,
it's not like you have to spend a lot of money
for this flip.
Yeah.
I mean, so you gotta think about the light bill,
but that's basically it, honestly,
because I don't buy a lot of things.
Only thing I buy really is seeds or clovic acid,
but that's not very expensive either.
So light bill here is like 400 bucks a month.
And then, yeah, I mean, other than that, it's not.
Which is a lot lower.
I mean, when we were running double lenders and stuff,
you know, light bill would be at least 2,000, 2,500 bucks.
Oh, trust me, yeah, I know.
I spent $4,500 light bills back in the day.
So did I.
So yeah.
So things are continuing to improve,
but at the same time,
nothing kind of really gives that girth
the way that those lights do.
So there's obviously a cost for what kind of thing.
It's funny you say that,
because I'm like with that dilemma right now,
it's like I get good results from,
I have HPS, I have half the rooms LED, half the rooms HPS.
And now I'm torn because I have CMHs
that are cheaper to run,
but they don't produce quite as much biomass as the HPS.
And then so do I go with cheaper to run,
not as much biomass.
And then I was thinking about supplementing the CMH
with an LED bar,
but then I'm like almost to the cost of a HPS.
So it's just like,
it's hard to choose.
Well, do you think,
from my experience,
the CMH and the HPS were almost about the same to run.
Maybe it was a little bit cooler
and that's why a lot of individuals
kind of wanted to change over.
Yeah.
But to me, that was almost like the mini CD.
Do you remember those back in the day?
Where it was like, it was new technology,
but at the same time,
it was still such an expense
that it didn't seem like it was gonna last.
Now, obviously, I think Marco would agree with this part.
I skipped CMH, man.
Like I was at HPS and just kind of on the verge,
like CMH, should I go there?
But I skipped it because I don't know.
I felt like HPS was already hot enough.
And the biggest thing I was, you know, was the heat.
I was like, I don't need any additional heat
because they run super hot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's the trap,
especially when you're newer to this,
that you kind of fall into.
You maybe go down a rabbit hole of a certain way
and think you understand,
all right, I'm gonna go with this light.
And then three months, six months kind of go by
and you realize, oh, wow, you know,
this brand or this light is kind of gimmicky.
So there's a lot to that aspect.
I know it's starting,
especially from the community themselves.
There's a lot of people that are now sharing like,
hey, this company's bullshit.
Or on the flip side of that, you know,
this company is legit.
I've seen a lot of individuals, you know,
shouting out certain brands and all that kind of stuff.
So obviously that's warranted as well
when people can spend their money wisely
and not feel like they got ripped off.
Cause when I first bought my HPSs,
I definitely felt like I got ripped off.
I felt like the guy talked us from going from a thousand
to buying two 600s, which meant, you know,
all the other things needed with setting up that aspect
from just having one light,
just kind of took the tent from a,
yeah, from a cheap-
I remember that, man.
Yeah, man, that was silly to think,
but at the time, you know, who are you going to ask?
And it took too long for the forums.
And I remember even asking the guy
if I could pay him to set it up for me.
And he kind of laughed at me, you know, like,
hell no, I'm not going to do that for you.
So being that kind of like naive to things,
that's another reason why this show
has been so important to me, Marco,
is that I think more people, you know,
if they have five grand in their pocket,
10 grand in their pocket,
they're trying to do like a full basement,
that's, in my opinion, can still get done today
when you're making sure that the big purchases,
you've really researched those things out,
like a car or a home or something,
where you don't just run to the growth store
and start buying whatever the dude's telling you
or the lady's telling you.
Because a lot of times,
and I hope that I don't offend people here,
but a lot of times the people at the growth stores,
there's a reason why they're not growing there.
There's, you know, there's just,
especially if they're telling you
they used to grow as a commercial
and sometimes the information is warranted and fantastic.
And then other times the information is dog shit
and that's why, you know,
they're themselves not growing commercially anymore.
So I caution people to get their information
from growth stores.
That used to be the tried and true way.
I think now just, you know,
taking the time and watching whoever you feel,
you know, you wanna listen to,
is much more ROI as far as information
than kind of going down to your local store
and asking those individuals.
Yeah, good point, Brian.
I mean, like that's one reason
it took me so long to go to LED.
Like I went through, you know, I saw everything.
I saw the purple, the blurple or whatever.
And I was like, damn, man, I don't know.
I thought about it, I was like, the UFO shit and all.
So, you know, just all of that seemed so gimmicky
at the time.
And I never really saw a LED light
that was like, that I felt like was serious, you know,
until like, you know, recently, you know, some years ago.
And like you said, don't go to the grocery store for advice.
Like what I did, Instagram really kind of turned my eyes
because I saw straight up what King J was doing.
You know what I mean?
I saw him running some chilled LEDs
and I'm like, damn, this dude's crushing it.
So I'm like, okay, good genetics.
Now this light is serious.
You know, so now I started doing deep, you know,
more research and then I finally settled.
Yeah, LEDs are legit.
And I love them.
The cost is so low, you know,
like the heat output is so low.
I remember like in the winter, the HPS
and I gave a pass, you know, pass one on to my dad
and it used to run as heat.
Like if you ran in a cool garage or a fucking basement
or something like that,
HPS put off some heat, you know what I mean?
So you could use that to your benefit,
but then on the same token,
you're trying to run that in the summer.
I remember like cool tubes.
I was like, yeah, I thought that was gonna be
like the coolest thing.
It made so much sense.
You know what I'm saying?
And so I like, you know, this technology sounded good.
I never bought one of those,
but then, you know, just trying all the different shit,
you know, as a home grower,
like the different parabolic reflectors,
you know, the big umbrella ones, you know,
and then should the bulb be straight down
or should the bulb be horizontal?
You know, all those things are just like,
you know, growing kind of, you know,
not pains, but experience, you know what I mean?
And, you know, like Ryan said, though, you know,
check with other growers, man.
That's where you learn stuff
because the grower is gonna tell you straight up.
Like if he buys a light and it's shit,
he's gonna tell you it's shit, you know?
Because he doesn't want you to make that same mistake.
Whereas the growth store,
they'll keep selling the same shit every day.
That's what happened to me.
I bought some shit lights.
Like they're not shit lights,
but they're not what they say they are.
They, you know, they're not good enough to flower
in this area that I bought them for.
And so now they're my veg lights.
And I'm looking for an LED replacement
that I can put here that is strong enough,
but is a small enough footprint.
And that's my issue is something
with a small enough footprint.
I would love to use another Lux or something similar,
but I just can't find anything that fits
in my little footprint right here.
What size are you trying to fill or light?
The light, I want three by five.
And then the, but the size of the fixture itself
has to be like two by three.
Well, that look into Science Dragon Alpha.
Science Dragon Alpha.
Yeah, it's a skinny light.
Okay.
It's very narrow and I run one
and it's like, it's built for a three by five space.
I got it in a two by four and it's like,
for the dragster, you know what I mean?
Like it's bad.
So yeah, check that out Dragon Alpha.
And they got, I just got another one
cause they have a new version that came out
but the old version works wonderful.
It's a pretty good price.
So they were selling those for a lot cheaper.
Okay, I appreciate that.
I'll look into that one.
Yeah.
So Marco, how would you kind of rate things?
Like if, you know, I got 10 K to build out a grow.
I'd probably put a grand or two probably into the lights.
If it's, if it's warranted, maybe, you know,
less do your research obviously
but I would put some money into that.
I probably put about the same amount of money
into the genetics.
If I was confident in my skillset, if I was newer to it
I would try to find or network my way
with somebody that has quality clones, like on this side
where you know what you're getting.
You don't have to identify anything.
And from that point going forward
you might be able to put a lot of that money
back into your pocket.
You know, spending stuff at the beginning
with the soil system is somewhat expensive
but if you're able to drive and pick it up
not have it shipped to you.
And I mean, there's a lot of ways to minimize that.
And then Ryan's showing you here in real time
Marco's showing you guys here in real time
that you're gonna be able to use that time and time again
that things are improving.
And you know, when you're newer to just farming anything
that almost sounds too good to be true
until you realize this is exactly
what mother nature is doing it.
We're just trying as best we can to try to mimic some
of that so that we can improve on mother nature
with maybe just a few amendments or understanding more
of the fungal aspects of what's going on
within the soil system.
Yeah, man, definitely.
You know, like it takes a little bit of time
but once you get it going and you kind of build it
build your soil for the future, you know what I mean?
You have to amend it properly.
So to get some years out of it,
like the only thing I wanna do with this soil
is I'm gonna take it and I'm gonna put this entire bag.
I'm gonna put this entire, this was a hundred gallon
but I cut it down.
So it's short, but I'm gonna
I wanna put it in a true hundred gallon
and I wanna put, make it kind of horizontal.
So I'm gonna put this entire bag into another bag
and then kind of add soil to it.
Cause I feel like, I mean, man, it's the consistency
is wonderful, but it's almost like, you know
like it turns into pure casting.
It's like, it gets worked so hard.
And this soil is, I think it was, you look here
this is freaking 2016 dated on this pipe.
And I had this bag going a couple of years before that.
So this is my oldest soil.
And this is like, if you look at this mulch
I put literally this like four inches of mulch
between every run and you go through here
and now it's just like, you know, right to the soil.
Just casting.
Yeah, so what I did also here is I did some fermented peas.
And yeah, I wanted to kind of add a little bit
of feed aspect in there between my run.
And I mean, that really kind of gets things going.
And then really good.
Marco, do you think there's a bell curve
because of the size for probably most home growers
of that this needs to be maybe used
and then might have to be improved on as the years go on?
When it does just become castings are close to it.
Yeah, I think that what happens by, I think
cause I'm there now, you know what I'm saying?
And the soil is working wonderful, but I just feel like,
you know, it probably could use some more body to it.
You know what I mean?
Like just some fresh, some fresh life, but, you know
I haven't seen any detriment to the plants.
You know what I mean?
And this is pretty much water only.
You know what I mean?
I've been really lazy.
I haven't been doing any JLFs or anything.
I did the peas because I was being lazy.
I wanted kind of a longer, you know, term kind of feed
for the shredders and all.
But yeah, man, another thing is like, you get
like this bag crust, you know what I mean?
This is just years of just crust.
And you can see like underneath my plastic
like isopods just down there.
They're eating it.
You know what I mean?
So I'm just gonna drop the whole thing
into another 100 gallon kind of fill soil around it.
Maybe, you know, add a little bit more on top, but yeah
kind of just keep it going, man.
Do you think like what would be a bandaid approach to that?
Maybe like adding soil through over the,
throughout the years kind of as a, as a top feed as well.
So that it kind of, you know, as the months
and years are going by, there's still a little bit
of that newer soil so that the castings don't churn
over quite as fast.
Like, what are some ways you think to improve that?
Cause I have heard individuals wondering
what they would do with that.
They just haven't gotten to your level yet.
Yeah, so what I do, Brian, is I add things
which like here, this is kind of a one that I like
and it's called coral sand.
I know people have heard of that.
And sprinkle that on top.
Add additional soil on top.
But when you do like over the years, I've taken my soil
and then I've added a little bit more sand to it.
Kind of get a little bit of the grit into it, you know?
So the worms and the microbes will start cycling
that up and down throughout the soil.
So, you know, things like that will help you.
And I think really the key, man, is just keep adding
those mulches, you know what I mean?
But when you get to this point and it's like, you know
the soil's doing is telling me anything bad.
It's just that in my mind, I'm like, man,
this soil has been rocking and rolling a long time
and I don't want to like dismantle it.
I just kind of want to pack more soil around it.
And the way to do that is to add a bigger container.
You know what I'm saying?
So, you know, if you do have soil.
Now what I did think about as well, Brian, I said, man
if I had to like kind of rework this
then I would cut this bed up in chunks
and then just kind of take a chunk
and put it into another soil if I needed to.
Like kind of use it.
Yeah, use it to kind of inoculate.
Do you ever add rocks and stuff to the top instead of sand?
And is that sand argonite?
This is, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, it's argonite.
That'll add calcium to the soil as well.
Yeah, because I found I was adding a little bit of gypsum
and I liked this particular one because there, you know
it's got, you know, potassium, molybdenum is in there
magnesium and then calcium is also in there.
So definitely we'll add some of that back in.
And that's a key for, you know
to get that nitrogen into your plants, you know
really is to have that good calcium source.
If you have, if you, I don't know if that's bag is
but they even have live sand.
So if you wanted to get some like AMOs
you could, you probably dilute it a little bit
but you probably add some of that to your soil too.
Okay. That's a good point.
I got some, yeah, I do work with a little bit of that fish
my fish waste from my aquariums and my pond too
to kind of get that aquatic aspect in there.
But yeah, definitely.
And that's what it's all about.
I feel like it's kind of trying different things
and using things that make sense.
You know what I mean?
You need a little more grit.
Well, I don't want to just maybe throw sand
which is just dead weight now.
Although sand is good, you know, it has some properties.
Yeah. If you go with kind of a coral sand
you know what I mean?
You're going to get that something that's going to break
down better for you over time
and actually give you a whole lot.
Yeah. I like the, I like the gypsum too, Blue.
I'll definitely water in some gypsum
and even a little Epsom salt in there.
What brand of coral sand do you use?
This one is Aquanatural.
All right.
I just figured you did the homework.
If people want to rock with that
they might just check that out.
They know you don't have anything to do with them.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, definitely not.
It's what it is, is it's a stain from in the Bahamas
supposedly, you know, sustainably harvested from down there.
And it's supposed to be really clean.
So that's why I went with that one.
And again, it's just, you know
obviously adding grit and all the other aspects
but again, just finding ways to add calcium
is another thing that I think
when you're first starting out
you don't necessarily understand, you might hear
but as the experience starts to take hold
when your flips and the years are going by
you do see that calcium really is king
especially for a home grower.
You're going to be able to just have healthier plants.
That does seem like the, you know
the composting worms, the rove beetles, you know
they love all of that kind of grit.
I love adding the crab meal and the insect frass
just kind of adding all of those little like extras.
I think that's where that money that you save
from maybe that beginning, like, you know, the 10K example
that's where I would maybe spend a little bit more money
is just building up my mother nature, if you will
within that soil system.
And then once it starts to take hold, you know
obviously what Ryan has here is protection enough for
what is that?
Like an inch, probably an inch thick of a mulch layer.
And from my experience or a little bit deeper
it's almost pretty hard to fuck that up
once everything's taken hold, man.
I mean, the mulch is like a nice little blanket
of a living protection.
And most of that stuff when you're doing that
is going to be beneficial.
It seems like if things aren't beneficial
then they work together to minimize the food source.
And over time, that's why the soil systems begin to improve
because that diversity when everybody's working together
is really what builds the immune system
from, I guess, from my experience.
It's hard to beat diversity in a lot of things
but getting to that level, I do think would probably
I would think it would take either a couple of flips
or, you know, look at this as a long-term play
of like a year or so, but realize that you're not gonna
have to spend anywhere near the amount of money
that you had setting everything up.
And then you continue to educate yourself.
You can spend, you know, just a couple of hundred dollars
wisely and continue to make, you know
potentially a couple of thousand dollars for yourself.
And that's where that, in my opinion
the real entrepreneurship of this still exists
for the home grower as being able to grow
for a couple of hundred and sell for a couple of thousand.
I mean, that part is still there
regardless of where you are, if the quality is there.
And again, if your network is there
and I can't harp that enough.
I mean, if you don't have anybody that's kind of
showing you the way or learning from
and I think you're gonna miss out on things.
And that's why Ryan, you know, before we went live here
I was even telling him like
it's just hard to find individuals like this
cause they're always so humble about it.
And they're saying like, oh
why do you wanna talk to me, man?
I, you know, and I don't think enough individuals realize
that this is what most people, at least for our show
wanna see is the successful guy that's got another life.
He's got his career, you know, he's changing course
he's doing things that he loves, but at the same time
he's got this in his back pocket.
And obviously a lot of people don't know about that.
So that's why I appreciate Ryan's kind of, you know
lifting the veil, if you will today
so that our audience can see that this can be achieved.
You can find success doing this as well.
Just knowing that these are more like chess moves
than checkers and growing things back in the day
seemed a little like checkers
or that's the way the grow shops would sell it to you.
Just put a light in man, put the plan in there, put this
you know, use this product and you follow week by week
and then you'll have all this amazing cannabis.
And obviously that is anything but the truth
for most individuals when they first got started
farming that way.
Yeah, man, I think if you're starting out
if you got the money for me, you know, environment.
Shit.
I think Marco might've passed.
He was gonna say environment.
I agree, environment is crucial.
Yeah, so spending money on the things
that probably are more in the back end of your mind.
I would say dehumidifier, humidifier
depending where you live, but you need to be
as soon as your lights turn off
your room's gonna get super humid.
So you need a dehumidifier that can handle that.
And, or else you're gonna have PM issues
and all types of other things that you wanna
you don't wanna deal with.
So, Marco, we were just chopping it up about
we heard you say environment.
So we were kind of getting,
Ryan was kind of backing you up on that aspect and.
Yeah, dehumidifier, depending where you're living
but especially a dehumidifier in my opinion
cause that could save you in a lot of situations.
Yeah, definitely need that.
And some of the AC, well, you know,
you guys know what AC is, you know, dehumidifier.
Yeah, it is.
It's a,
Black and Decker.
Oh yeah, Black and Decker.
It's one of the ones that exhausts out.
I forget what that's called, but.
Like mini splits.
Yeah, like, but not the mini split
to where you have the unit outside.
This is just kind of the AC that rolls around
and it has the hose that can go out, you know
go out the window, but it's like, yeah
but it's like 600 bucks, but it's an AC
and it's a dehumidifier.
It has beater function.
And man, that's been wonderful.
Like I know it's tough starting out.
Like even with my buddy, I'm like, yo, get lights
like spend, go ahead and spend the G or whatever it is.
You know, get it, get you good lights.
Cause if not, you're going to buy them again
but everybody always has to go that step.
It seems they want to get that one for 250 or 300.
And then they run and they realized
that shit ain't working.
So then, then they make that upgrade.
You know what I mean?
So for me, environment, lighting
and then the soil really, man, spend that money
on your amendments upfront, take your time.
Like Brian said before, we always say
research the ingredient, is it a good ingredient?
And then buy that quality ingredient upfront
so you can load that soil, have it nicely amended.
And then from there, man, you know, just any tool
that can help speed your time up.
We always talked about time is money.
That's where Ryan has a lot of the monitors
and things like that.
You know what I mean?
Just know what's going on, be able to control this
and that while you're out and about
because that's key.
You know what I mean?
Well, I kind of liked that being, I guess, older is,
you know, this and everything that he has here, man.
And I think in time we'll show you the aquatic setup stuff
but he's done this himself.
So to have these skill sets, obviously
I don't have that skill set.
I would have to pay somebody to set this up.
I think that is another thing that I think
a lot of people don't realize
that they could probably learn from themselves
while they're taking the time to learn how to grow
is, you know, a little construction
or, you know, a little simple things
so you don't have to pay individuals
anytime anything breaks.
Cause that adds up pretty quick too
when you're first getting into it.
Definitely.
I mean, I've done every trade, like almost every trade.
There is a framed houses.
I've done masonry, I've welded.
I've, that's about it.
But, and then my dad was an electrician.
So I was always doing electrical with him.
He would make me crawl up in the attic
and run wires and stuff.
And then I learned AC from a buddy.
So I kind of can do everything and I've had to
and it's been very useful and grows because exactly.
Like I didn't trust people.
I would never invite people over the house.
So like, if I couldn't fix it myself, it was a big deal
because then someone has to come to the house
and we don't want anyone coming to the house.
So yeah, that goes a long way.
What I was gonna say.
Oh, but yeah, I built, I built everything
just cause it's finally my own little,
I've always had partners in a lot of situations
and I'm back to just doing it myself
and just, it feels so good.
That's why we talk about that so much.
Don't, unless you've been like boys for life,
childhood homies or something.
Even that, it just doesn't happen.
More than likely it might not even work.
So one bad flip and it's just like the end of the world.
And it's just like, it's not worth it in the long run.
I don't know.
It's just, it just feels really freeing
and just good to just do it yourself.
And I've always been involved in big grows
and I've done big projects.
And I've had it sometimes go good
and sometimes just go really bad.
So now I've just learned my lesson.
Just don't wanna.
Well, you're finding your own way.
Like we've said that a few times this year.
Just it's so much better to have something
that's a little bit smaller that you can nurture
than managing a large system for somebody else
that really dictates your life.
And when you are a commercial cannabis farmer,
that's more than likely probably gonna be 12 hours a day,
especially if you're a salaried individual.
So probably 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
So that's part of it, I guess, is kind of fun and glamorous.
But the other side of it is a lot of work behind the scenes
and a lot of mistakes can be made at that level.
So it's almost like these smaller setups
where individuals have the skillset,
you have the experience from managing larger systems.
And then for you here,
this is kind of like obviously a little bit easier.
You can take your girl on vacation.
Those are the kind of the other things
that I never was even able to,
a day or two at most would be where,
until I would start freaking out.
But you obviously understand technology.
You're using an app while you were gone.
Do you mind, you can talk about the brand if you want,
but just the fact that there's technology out there
for individuals that might not know
where they can be on vacation
and see their grow in real time
and see the temperatures and pressure deficits
and all that kind of stuff if you buy the right monitors.
Yeah, I've always been a big fan of Miami Mango.
Like I am, because he built really clean grow rooms.
Like, yeah, he's big on salts and everything,
but I used to grow with salts back in the day too.
So like it was more just the cleanliness
and the designs of his rooms that I really liked.
And the fact that you can leave
and not have to be stuck to your garden
and really have to hand water.
So I got the Trollmaster and it's good.
Sometimes I will say that the wifi will go out
and like I'll have like an hour
of just no data getting back to me.
But other than that, it's not the end of the world to me
cause I know it's gonna come back.
But yeah, that was the whole idea.
This was the Coma Lake, like all my years of growing
and all the grows I've built,
like I knew exactly what I wanted, what I didn't want,
what I needed to have, what I shouldn't have.
I had old equipment, so that was a big help.
Basically had access from 20 lights
to now I'm running four lights.
I've ran up to over a hundred lights.
So it's like, just doing four lights is so just for me,
honestly, like just so I can have some clean smoke
and my close friends obviously.
But other than that, it's like, you just,
yeah, you can't beat the home grow.
Like if someone's really putting a lot of love into it,
no computer weed is gonna like, that's,
I use the centers, but it's not, I'm in here every day.
And I'm like, I get yelled at
because I don't spend enough time with my lady.
And because I'm just vibing in the room.
She's like, what are you doing?
And I was like, I really don't, I wasn't doing anything.
I was just vibing.
Like, I was just looking at the plants, like, yeah.
And so, yeah, like there's definitely a huge difference
in that home grow love versus computer weed.
And so like, I advocate data.
I really, I do it for my fish tank as well.
Because if you don't know what's going on,
you're not giving yourself the best chance.
That doesn't mean that you're not paying attention
to your plants, that you don't love your plants.
So if that's what's deterring you,
I would definitely go for it as much data
as you can get for your budget.
Now, I remember you saying,
you're roughly kind of starting to realize
what it's costing you.
Would you say that this has gotten down?
Like, well, actually, what would you say, estimate?
Why does it have to be exact?
But like, an average flip has gone from
when you first started to now and probably the future.
So my very first flip was gonna be the expensive,
the most expensive, because I had to buy my soil.
The soil, I could have made it myself.
I just wanted, I just wanted tried and true.
I didn't want to have to overthink it.
So I went and built the soil.
I actually did the bottom little bit of the layer.
I did 3.0 and the rest of it, I did the light
because I was gonna run seeds straight in.
I wanted to get that intelligence straight into the bed.
I didn't want to waste any time.
So I ran my first round from seed, the whole,
all both, both beds.
And then after that,
that cost me like $800 for the soil up front
to fill two three by six beds.
And then I had, so I would say like a stack
just in amendments and all that other stuff
total for the first run.
Now I spend about 250, 300 on,
because I do a soil test.
And then this run I did sexing for these plants
because some of them are not feminized
and I didn't want to waste time putting them directly
on the bed and then have to rip them out.
So I'm waiting on those results actually.
So as soon as I know which ones are males,
some will get kicked out
and then I'll go straight into the bed.
But after that, I mean, I'm like 400 bucks into this flip.
I had stuff from the last one to reamend.
So yeah, I add IMO all the time.
So that's free.
I don't buy many amendments.
I just, I kind of let nature do its thing.
And I tried finding the most diverse IMOs that I can.
And whether I actually have some of yours, Marco,
I've done a lot of liquid IMOs with yours.
And other than I have friends that give me IMO as well.
So I use theirs, but I'm just looking for diversity
and letting water and the plants do its thing.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, cost goes way down.
Like other than electricity, which with LEDs is super cheap.
Like probably maybe 70 bucks a month to run an LED,
if that, maybe 50.
And then, yeah, like you said, IMO, man,
and adding that diversity
because what you want is the nutrient cycling.
Like that's what I think a lot of times
I try to let people understand that are really growing,
new to growing is the nutrient cycling.
Yeah.
That's kind of where you,
that's how you can go home, go on vacation,
be water only.
And so, yeah, adding that diversity is key.
So, and then add that mulch to feed them,
to feed the diversity.
Yeah, just because you add the dust and whatnot,
it doesn't mean it's there.
You gotta give, your biology has to break it down
just because it trips on highs, whatever you wanted,
doesn't mean it's gonna be readily available
instantly like salts.
So yeah, you gotta like think ahead basically.
So if you're not spending money on testing
and all the other things that,
just really getting started with this,
do you think you could be eventually doing this
for like under a hundred dollars?
Yeah, I tell people all the time,
don't, if you just get a small tent
and run a like a hundred gallon pot,
I think that's the most perfect size.
So I think it would fit in a four by four pretty easily
and you'll still have room to work around it.
And then just let that build up for you
because wasting your time buying bottles of nutrients
because it has a cool label or this or that,
so your friends running it and they swear by it,
it's like, it's not worth it because in the long run,
they're gonna be hooked on the bottle
and they're gonna be hooked on buying stuff from the store.
And if that store for whatever reason,
stops selling whatever they need, what they're lost,
like, I don't know, it's just,
I always felt really disconnected from the plant
when I grew a salts compared to now looking back on it.
Obviously in the moment, I thought I knew everything.
So, but like looking back now,
I would tell you for sure that I didn't know anything
and I was just hooked on the bottle.
So, I would just say get off of it as soon as you can
because then you're gonna have years of diversity
built up on anyone that wants to get in the game later.
Like, just get in as soon as possible
because you can't buy what happens in this.
And it's the same way in fish tanks
and that's why I love fish tanks
because it's like a lot of people want insta fish tanks
and I'm talking about saltwater, like reef tanks
and you can't have that, like money doesn't buy that.
So, that's what intrigues me about this as well, so.
That's a very good point, man.
Money doesn't necessarily buy that.
You could start with a quality brand of soil,
but you still have to really bring it to life.
I mean, buying it, any brand across the board,
especially if it's been in a bag on the shelf,
it's not going to be what, even what they're claiming.
And you have to realize that
and know that you're gonna have to go in there
and put it in your own stuff.
And I think that's why Marco and I have been huge proponents
of getting your worm bin started
because that's gonna be the cheapest way to really,
you start a little fire for yourself
if you wanna start to build a little blaze,
eventually adding those worm castings
that you had going three months
before you started your grow officially
is going to pay huge dividends with immune systems,
as well as just kind of improving that system
and hopefully getting it to expand.
Because when it first starts in that large of a mass,
it does take a while to kind of churn,
kind of pushing it uphill for a little bit.
And then once you get to the top of that mountain,
now it's rolling down the hill.
And I think that's why so many people scream
from the mountaintop once they've reached that aspect of,
look how easy this could potentially be
once you have the skillset and you build up the life force.
Yeah, definitely.
You don't realize the...
Damn, Marco.
I guess that's the only problem with doing the...
Hey Marco, you froze up there for us.
Am I cut now?
Yeah.
Can you just repeat what you were saying?
Yeah, I was saying, damn, I forgot what I was saying.
I lost my train of thought.
Like anyone, no one's gonna catch up to someone
no one's gonna catch up to Steve Cantwell.
Like he's already on a 30 second flip.
Like imagine that if he's doing everything correctly,
that his beds should be like a goldmine of just biology.
So day one, someone starting today
is never gonna catch up to his beds.
Like, unless he has something catastrophic happen,
like knock on wood, you can't buy that.
I think that's why he's so giving with his information
and then people that try to stop including you,
obviously now moving towards that.
I would imagine in time we can have you back
and start to be like, yo, these are some of the...
I'm sure there's a few nuances and then a lot of pros.
And from his standpoint,
I was able to see his facility, man.
And it is huge and it's run beautifully.
And then when you see the individuals that are running it,
it's just like three or four people
from the salt world that would never have met.
It almost like they would invent jobs
for the homie or something.
So that it's 10 people kind of sitting around,
not really...
Kind of remind me of like in the construction days,
it was like, all right,
one person's really kind of telling everybody what to do.
And until that dude comes over
and tells everybody what to do,
you kind of just stand around.
A lot of money was wasted in the early days, man,
in the commercial side of things.
I think because the overall end retail
was still there, the market was there.
And then once that was deflated,
people still had, especially the larger facilities
were running numbers where they just thought
that you needed all this labor somehow to grow cannabis.
And I think the brighter minded individuals
like Cantwell and others are showing in real time,
again, that this isn't some kind of like
dream fantasy grow world that just a few years ago,
I think some people, we won't call them out,
but some people were saying
would never work in an indoor facility.
And they were pretty stern about that.
And now I think it's almost like,
how can you argue with results?
And I know Stensland's doing the same thing in Ohio
and he's taught his crew how to do that.
So it's obviously not only can you know the information,
but you can relay it to your crew.
And then from what I understand,
he's able to manage that system from afar as well,
which is pretty cool as well, man,
to continue to build things
until he's able to take the reins.
Yeah, when you have data,
you can document what you're doing
and this stuff all scales up.
So you get one light,
you can take the square footage that you're working with.
You can add time to all these things
and these things can scale up from one light
and now you got five lights or 10,
it's all numbers at that point.
But I think the key to those guys and everybody,
they're like, they started homegrown.
You know what I mean?
They started growing for themselves
or whoever else or for their friends.
And that experience obviously translates right on up
to the commercial facility
because they've been able to do that and they prove that.
So even if you're only running a couple of lights,
one or two, do your data.
So at least you know in a four by four, it costs me this.
It takes me this much time to do XYZ.
How many plants run well under that?
Different strains run well under different lights.
You know what I mean?
Like these girls are three that I consider my biggest.
That's why I only put three in here.
Like I've had as many as eight plants in the same round bed,
but you gotta know your cultivars too.
So scale up, man, you can do it and you can make good money.
To me, like the time to hire someone
or the time to buy a tool is when you need that help
or when you need that tool.
And that's something that people always forget.
Like when they start a business,
they think they have to buy this startup kit of things
where you're better off being cash positive.
And now you buy the necessities.
And then as you make more money,
you buy more necessities or upgrade your things.
You know what I mean?
So just mindset, when you're thinking long,
if you ever think you have the dream
of running a commercial facility.
And also know that like, if you wanna jump into that
and you think it's just like, fine,
I work in a commercial facility, let's work in there.
When you're in those big facilities,
it's nothing different than Walmart warehouse
or they want you to push those plants,
push, move product, get things done.
And so you don't necessarily have that,
like trying to dream job that you thought of.
Now you can work your way to that,
but just things to think about.
I'd much rather work for a smaller facility, mom and pop,
learn the business if you're younger,
getting into this stuff.
But obviously before you even go there,
you should be growing your own right there
and know what you're doing before you even look
to kind of work somewhere else.
Excellent points.
And if you ever do get the chance to grow
at a commercial facility, more than likely,
if you're at the top of the food chain
of one of those facilities,
you're not gonna be able to grow anymore.
A lot of companies are starting to make that move.
So again, then you gotta put your personal finances at risk.
A lot of individuals,
they're gonna ask you to move out to there.
So it's not as always as bright and as glimmer
that you think like we've been sharing.
And I think if you see a lot of individuals
that you've respected over the years,
you see that those individuals,
if they're not at the level where they can fund themselves,
they've kind of shifted a few things,
or maybe they're doing more like consulting and stuff.
It's not necessarily,
the opportunities aren't really necessarily there
for the small time individual anymore.
So home growers, I think is where you can kind of
plant your flag still and say,
hey, I don't wanna spend money on certain things.
I think I might even be able to make
a little bit of money here.
I would say within six months,
I would think that you'd be making flips
where you're now positive,
if you've put in the time and effort
to understand how to grow plants.
And then as you start to improve that skillset,
obviously you need to focus on,
what does this really cost me?
How much money am I producing?
It's just like a real business.
And once you've achieved that and have money in your pocket,
and this is my opinion,
I think you might also wanna start another little business
so that you have two little things going,
you have that octopus, like we like to say,
so that you can put time and effort
into two little things, I think in life,
and find ways to monetize both of them.
Well, I think, you wanna be an entrepreneur
with the other side of like,
kind of understanding aquatic stuff.
So, you're playing kind of,
I'd love for you to talk about that,
cause you shared with me
when we were kind of first getting to know each other
about wanting to quit all that kind of stuff
and go after certain dreams.
And now that you're there,
I'm sure there's pros and cons for where you're at,
but seeing the path and,
the lack of a better term for me was always like,
you're kind of learning the business
on the other person's dime,
so that when you are ready to be that full entrepreneur,
you know what to spend money on
and what to stay away from.
So basically I was a mechanic for,
I was, I mean, I had gone from welding to being a mechanic,
but then I'm a diesel mechanic, working on generators.
And it wasn't something I was passionate about.
I like working with my hands, so I enjoyed it,
but it's not something that I like,
I went home and thought about,
like I didn't really give a shit about diesel engines.
But I do have another hobby,
which is the saltwater reef tanks.
So I like, I had a nearby local fish store
that I knew was looking for help and I reached out
and they were still looking for help
and was really excited about it.
And it just, it felt good, it felt right.
So I was like, all right, I took less money
to go work on like professional aquariums
and install custom fish tanks in huge houses and whatnot.
And, but every day I'm a lot, a thousand percent happier.
It's, I come home, I have one at home.
So it's like, I'm always thinking about it.
It's, so it's something, yeah,
in the future I see myself pursuing more,
but right now I'm like,
I'm actually really happy with where I'm at
because I'm able to focus on these, I call them the girls,
and really like put energy into both
because I feel like if I went any further
with the aquatics, I would have to neglect the girls some.
And like, I don't know if,
I've been through a lot of stuff in my life
and for some reason this plant keeps pulling me back.
And even when I was on probation,
like a plant pulled me back and I wasn't,
I never, I was never smoking or anything,
but I went and grew hemp, like over 15 acres of hemp
and learned a lot like that outdoors.
It was a lot of fun.
We popped like 60,000 seeds, saw a lot of cool varieties.
From there I went to growing.
I even stuck with it for another year
and grew hemp for seed, grew like 20 million seeds.
And then, but yeah, for some reason
this plant just keeps pulling me back.
So I can't not give it attention.
So I think I'm gonna stay where I'm at for a little while
until I figure out my next move,
but yeah, pretty happy from leaving my job
and just pursuing what I actually enjoyed.
And I think overall, I still make, I don't know,
just the happiness is more than the money in my opinion.
So I-
And you're trading money for knowledge right now.
Yeah, that's it.
So I learn a lot every day.
I look forward to the day rather than try going to work.
It's a huge difference
and I would really recommend it to anyone.
It still allows me to be hands-on as well.
So there's other options, like if you're on the edge,
just look towards your hobbies.
And yeah, I would really strongly suggest it.
You know, like a lot of electricians,
you know what I mean, are key guys in cannabis.
Like, because back in the day, Brian,
you know how an electrician you-
Damn.
I think, well, what he's getting at is that,
you know, you would have to really have,
I mean, it's not like you're gonna just call up
an electrician.
And one time we actually had to do that.
And I remember that once the dude realized
what we were asking him to do,
he said that it was gonna charge us double
with kind of like a, almost like a shitting grin on his face.
And he knew that we were gonna have to pay that.
So I think, again, the network can save you
a lot of money as well, or taking the time.
If you're, obviously Ryan has quite a skillset.
So having that skillset, I think, is just another thing
that's going to be able to save you so much money
in the long run when things do break,
because things do break, stuff happens.
So the less that your plants are under stress
because of whatever is broken,
is obviously going to minimize the stress
that you're gonna feel throughout that entire flip.
Hop on YouTube, learn it, get it, get it done.
It's all on YouTube if you really wanna learn.
Absolutely.
Marco, you back?
It looks frozen still.
Ah, man.
Well, I guess that's the problem
from doing it in the basements and stuff,
Wi-Fi is.
Well, look, man, part of the stuff that I feel like,
again, with the consistency is moving
into like the washing and stuff.
So I was hoping that we could kind of get into that.
I know that Marco actually is wanting to get into that.
And he loves to hear, you know, from some of the,
you know, not that you're a young man,
but I would consider you like on the younger side of things,
but still an OG of really understanding
how this plant grows.
So that, in my opinion, dude,
gives you the ultimate like kind of like outlier moment
where you have those 10 close to, you know,
throughout life, you're getting closer
to those 10,000 hours that seems like you really do need,
which I did the math on that the other day, man,
which is a full year of study.
Okay.
So, I mean, when you think about that,
it's gonna take obviously years to get there.
But, you know, Malcolm Gladwell,
if you've never checked out that book,
I think it's fantastic to realize
if you put in the time and effort,
you can get pretty good at most things
when you put in that much time.
And obviously 10,000 hours is a ton of time.
But now that you're kind of moving forward,
now you're starting to put those 10,000 hours
also into the wash game.
So I wanted to kind of pick your brain on that, man,
because your stuff just tastes fantastic, smells fantastic.
My wife doesn't even smoke,
or sometimes she'll like, you know,
load the Puff Co for me and she just enjoys the smell.
So there's something to that
when just individuals just kind of enjoy your artwork.
In my opinion, that's what yourself
and people in your crew are creating.
Yeah, yeah.
I actually have to really shout them out
because I remember the first time
they started washing before I was into it
and they were always experimenting and whatnot.
And I was never really in the position to be like,
yeah, let's just throw all the weed into some ice and water.
That sounded like a horrible idea to me.
I'm like, we could just sell the flower,
like let's just get rid of it.
But they were starting to be successful with it.
And so I started like dabbling into it with them.
And, but yeah.
So what do you want me to talk about?
Like the process of harvesting or?
Yeah, well, some of the nuances of that,
like the same thing with the growth.
So when you first hear about that,
you probably skimp on products and tools
and that kind of thing.
Yeah, for sure.
My first wash, I didn't, I was naive.
Like halfway through the run,
I was gonna do it for flower.
And I was like, you know what, screw it.
Let's just do it for some rosin.
And I didn't have washers.
So I got like 1% back.
It was ridiculous.
And I was like so frustrated.
And I was like, I knew I should have just kept it for flower.
Like this was stupid.
So I was kind of turned off by that.
But my boy was like, just here's, gave me some washers.
And I ran those and it was like night and day.
Cause we hit like six, almost 7%.
And I made more money than flower would have ever made.
And so I was like hooked.
So I was like, okay.
And it was less work.
So in my opinion, nowadays it takes way too much
of your time and effort to properly cure
and dry as a home grower.
You need a lot of space
if you're doing it correctly in my opinion.
It smells.
It's just way more effort than I'm wanting to do anymore.
Because like I said, I do a lot of other things
and I try to have a life.
I like going out to the mountains and stuff.
So when it comes to washing,
so right before I'll turn the lights off
for like about 36 hours.
I'll harvest about 36 hours
and keep the room as cold as I possibly can.
And I'll have a bucket ready to go,
a five gallon bucket that's like not cold
but it's in the room.
So it's colder than a room temperature bucket.
And then I either use turkey bags or freezer bags
and harvest.
While I'm harvesting, I only cut as much
as I can harvest in 30 minutes.
After 30 minutes, it goes straight to the freezer
whatever's in the bag goes straight to the freezer.
And then I come back.
And so it's 30 minute intervals.
Other than that, we try to wash in the coldest room
or environment that we can.
We've washed in the mountains.
We've washed in garages.
We've washed in labs, whatnot.
So wherever is most ideal, essentially.
Mainly like garages, honestly.
And then-
Do you think altitude affects that?
Like when you're talking like super quality
if you're really going up to the mountains
where the elevation is a little bit higher.
It's just colder.
And there's maybe the air being dry that might help
but it's all about keeping the water in the vessel cold.
Like as long as you keep that 32 degrees, you're golden.
But as soon as you start getting up,
your water is 36 or 40 degrees.
That's when you start like losing quality in my opinion.
But yeah, so from just keeping things cold is the goal.
The room being cold is really helpful
because you go through less ice.
Like other than that, we've washed
when it's 70 degrees outside and we're in the garage.
It's doable, like without a mini split.
Like with a mini split, but not like the cold bot.
So the room, the garage is like 60 degrees
and we just went through a lot of ice.
So it's definitely doable,
but just depending on how much ice you wanna use.
And then we use freeze dryers.
My friend has a freeze dryer
and pretty much all of us use it.
And-
That's another misconception I think that,
when you're getting into this again,
if you have a network
or you're trying to build up that network,
most individuals, as long as there's a bond there,
we'll let you kind of come over and use that,
especially when you're first starting out.
And then for us, we would just always kind of tip
or take them out to dinner or whatever they felt.
But just don't always, I think some people forget,
like that's wear and tear on the machine.
There's a lot of variables on that as well.
That's an expensive machine as well.
Absolutely.
And you gotta be there because if that machine,
sometimes they wig out, they lose vacuum,
all types of stuff.
So if you're not there and your whole harvest can go bad,
like it can get warm
and then your hash is like ruined basically.
So yeah, having someone you can trust and everything
to run that machine for you while you're not there
and like being like, he sits there for me
and everything puts it in a jar.
Like I couldn't ask for more.
But from that process,
what was I gonna say?
Oh yeah, so all of my friends do different things.
Like I have a friend that jams at everything he does
and he has like, now he has a Smucker's brand
or it's Mile High Smuckers.
So, and then the Tapatio,
he pretty much cold cures everything.
Sometimes he jams his stuff.
And then he's now he's working on like Ross and diamonds
and stuff like that.
So it's just crashing the Ross
in a different temperatures
and being right on top of it.
Because if it goes too long, it's gonna, it's you lost.
You know, basically you can waste the harvest.
So being able to play around with a lot of product
and stuff is very helpful.
But yeah, I have to say that they're always pushing
the envelope and I kind of just get the fruits
of their labor when it comes to knowing a lot of Ross
and tech, but if there was any other.
I know Marco, is he there?
Oh, I lost him.
So kind of getting more into,
so what do you feel like is worth the money
if you're getting into solventless, spending the money on?
Good bags, don't go, just get a 20 gallon trash bag,
get some 20 gallon bags.
I mean, if you're doing smaller washes,
you can get away with a five gallon bag, five gallon bucket.
And just being, keeping that water as cold as possible
and keeping your product as cold as possible
the entire time or else you're gonna start seeing declines
in yields and quality.
Because if, yeah, especially yields.
Because you're talking about couple percent points.
I don't know, can they, yeah.
So this is Ryan's stuff.
You know, this is my personal stash.
Like I said, this guy's my plug for a reason
because he puts the time and effort into it.
And I really think that more of the home growers,
if they would start, maybe, it's not necessarily shame
but they're usually like, oh man,
I just have a couple of plants or I have a small grow.
I think more of a customer is starting to see that
as a good thing.
So for you individuals that are out there
that you just have this small tent grow,
small basement grow, I would be proud of that now.
I almost think that that's something
that you should almost wear as a badge of honor
that you're doing it yourself.
That's usually, you know, obviously you're usually doing it
yourself that way.
And you have full control of your grow.
And that's another reason why I enjoy smoking your stuff,
man, is because you continuously come out
with new stuff for me.
And the smell is really there.
So is there some extra techniques that you think,
obviously genetics plays a huge role into that
and then keeping it cold from what, you know,
I almost have always heard from, you know,
doing these interviews that it can never be cold enough.
Yeah, yeah.
So what are some of those things?
Are there like little secrets that you don't mind sharing?
You know, I don't, you know,
it doesn't have to be anything if it's too much,
but your turps are there, man.
And I remember back in the day, like hanging out with TJ
and smoking his flower at one of the Regen things,
just the smell is there, man.
So you guys are, you know, on another level.
And I think it shines in the work that you're doing
on both sides.
I think that has to do 100% to do with living soil.
I haven't seen anyone compete.
Like TJ will run strains that other growers have run
and that they say, oh, those don't wash or, oh, those,
you know, it's not worth your time.
Don't run it.
And TJ likes to run those because then he hits big numbers
with them and they smell delicious.
And they're just amazing because that living soil,
you can't beat that.
Like if you're letting nature do its work,
you're never gonna know exactly what your plant wants.
Yeah, you might be able to, you're good at reading plants
because you run salts and everything,
but you'll never have those micronutrients
that we don't even know to dose.
Like, yeah, you're hitting your majors,
but there's so many trace minerals
and trace elements that the soil is getting
directly from their horizontal system.
That's why we run the horizontal system as well,
because the fungi is mining the sand,
silt and clay as it needs and feeding the plant.
Like I could run 100% water only,
I guarantee we'll have still good results.
I might not hit, biomass is hard.
If I don't run my usual, like all I use is fish amino acids.
IMO and like fulvic acids and stuff.
I feel like if I don't use those,
I might hit lower biomass,
but I'll still hit the same quality.
And that's all due to the soil.
Like you can't replicate that.
So as far as smell, I can't, there's no real secrets
other than yeah, keeping it cold.
The secret is mother nature really.
Mother nature.
I wish I knew more about it
because then I'll be like, yeah, it's this.
It's like, this is this.
Well, that's why I think anybody can achieve this
is because it's like, nobody knows.
So that's the cool part is like,
we're all trying to figure this shit out.
Yeah, just realize that we know nothing.
So just do your best to mimic nature
and then you'll be better off
because you don't have to understand it
to reap the benefits.
I see Marco's back in his captain's chair.
So I know that you wanna get more
into like the solvent list tech.
I know that you pride yourself on like,
getting the information,
without a bunch of noise and bullshit.
So again, Marco, this is the dude
that I'm spending my own hard earned money on.
So I kinda wanted to give you the platform
when you're moving into things,
if you wanted to ask him some of those
more like technical questions.
Because again, man, to have the consistency
that these boys do in Colorado,
there's very few people I've seen
that are able to do that.
Yeah, yeah, definitely quality going on out there.
And I hear that a lot of it is
because of y'all's humidity being so low,
does that help man?
I hear like it's tough to kind of dry and cure flour.
And then so a lot of guys do go straight
to kind of the fresh frozen,
what's your take on that, Ron?
I would 100% agree.
I think in the East Coast,
you can get away with curing and drying
in a lot of places.
Here you almost need a climate controlled room
dedicated to it.
Because if you can't keep that humidity up
without adding more,
like it's weird,
because you're adding moisture,
but you're trying to get rid of moisture
at the same time.
And it's just,
yes, so Colorado is very hard to cure properly.
And that's why you get like,
we're known kind of unfortunately for,
oh, you touch our weed and it turns to dust.
And Colorado crisp.
Yeah, so it's like,
I hate that we're known for that
because there are some really good growers
that are curing flour correctly
and they have dedicated rooms to it.
But again, that's too much work for me personally.
And I think a lot of other people too.
And it takes too much space.
You know, that could be another veg or another growth.
If you're climate controlled and everything,
you might as well throw a light in there.
So yeah, if you can just chop it
and immediately throw it in a freezer,
you can have a bunch of freezers.
Like if that,
we can throw those in the garage.
They don't need climate control.
They, you know,
you just plug them in.
So that's a huge benefit.
Yeah, I'm gonna start running some,
I'm gonna,
I keep saying I'm gonna throw the next back,
you know, one of my next runs in the freezer,
but I haven't done it.
But I've been dabbling really with the dry sift, man.
And I've done it.
I've done, you know, here recently,
like back in the day, it was different.
I didn't know enough about it.
It was like, you just store jars of what we call Keef.
You know what I mean?
All your shit,
all your track home heads that you thought.
But now looking at that,
I went and broke out the microscope
and like the trim,
the trim bin stuff,
like that stuff's really dirty.
You don't realize it.
Even if it looks kind of yellowish and blondish
when you microscope it, it's really dirty.
So I've been focusing a lot on trying to,
you know, really getting that dry sift clean.
I went through down the kind of frozen process
and when I came to the conclusion of I needed cold room
or to do it in the winter.
What's your process as far as like,
and here's another one.
Is there anything that you can do like fresh,
you know, fresh?
I guess pretty much you want to take it,
freeze it that way you can break your tricones off
and kind of go from there.
But other than curing it out,
once you got cured flower,
you're kind of lost the window of doing anything
as far as washing, correct?
Yeah.
Everybody through that.
Yeah. I don't know anyone that washes cured flower
or has tried it honestly.
And yeah, we're trying to get that fresh whole plant essence
in the rosin still.
So it's like still,
it's kind of like I related to smoking a joint rather
cause back when VHO and stuff,
that used to be a different high in my opinion.
It like, it would hit you in the head really hard
and you'd be high for like 30 minutes, an hour.
And then you'd take in another dab before, you know,
like I like my rosin to hit like a joint.
I like to not have to take another dab for over an hour.
You know, like I'm not trying to dab all day
cause I don't have time for that either.
So that's why I enjoy the fresh frozen
cause you have that whole plant plant essence.
But I don't know too much about the dry sifting.
Like I've never tried that as well.
And I feel like that's more of an art and harder to do
because like you said, it's very dirty
and cleaning it is how you really set yourself apart
and doing static or non-static.
And I started following Cuban Grower
and like trying to like follow his stuff.
But yeah, he's kind of tight to the chest with this stuff.
But-
He's next level.
So yeah.
Not everybody wants to be.
Because there's a science to it, like the static.
And I've been trying to, you know, figure it out.
And I bet that guy's probably like a mechanical
or hands-on kind of guy.
Cause usually that leads to, you know,
there's a process and a technique that he's figured out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You can tell he's played with it for a lot.
And yeah, I think he's someone,
he gave credit as someone helping him out too as well.
But as far as the cold room, yes.
Like I was telling Brian, the colder the room, the better.
But we've washed in the summer and the room is only 66
degrees, 60 degrees.
And that's as hard as the AC was working that day.
And it's just, we went through a lot of ice.
That's the difference.
As long as you can keep your water temperatures cold
and then be very fast.
The other thing is being very fast when you're,
when the hash is out.
So like moving to your freeze dryer, like how do you plant?
What would you do for drying the hash?
Would you air dry?
Yeah.
So when I ran, well, what I had to do,
I did a combination of air drying, freezer.
You know what I mean?
Like I throw it in the freezer and it freeze up.
And then I kind of let it thaw kind of like,
cause I remember back in the day
and this was just me using kind of my own thoughts.
Like I remember like my mom would hang clothes out
in the winter and they'd be frozen, but they'd still dry.
So I figured eventually it kind of dried.
That low humidity.
Yeah, exactly.
So like what's, I mean, and I've heard, you know,
I think that's kind of what turned me off a little bit too
from the, I like buying machinery and gadgets
and shit like that, but I much prefer like learning it,
you know, without that.
But I know that the drying of the, you know,
of that is difficult part, you know,
that's kind of what sets a lot of people apart too, right?
Yeah.
I have access to a freeze dryer.
So that's kind of not cheating, but it's very,
it's a luxury for sure.
But yeah, air drying is tough
and you gotta be on top of it.
And then you gotta have a nice sift and be gentle.
It's an art for sure.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Cause not everybody can do the same.
So.
Even the wash is big, like the amount that you agitate.
Cause I learned that you can over agitate.
And now you're getting a lot of chlorophyll in your shit.
Like, so there's a lot of timing into it.
The bad thing though, is like,
when you're an old person like myself,
you're like, fuck, that's money.
I'm learning on this money right here.
I'm fucking up good money, you know what I mean?
I know that that's part of it,
but I think that's where you save yourself some time
is when you can get under the wing of somebody
and take some of these classes
and some of these get togethers.
I think that's where you can save some of that money
and learning.
If you can find someone to guide, like to mentor you,
that's crucial.
Like I said, I wouldn't probably even be into,
I would probably still be doing flour
if it wasn't for my friends.
Getting into rosin.
And now all I smoke is rosin.
Like I'll smoke a joint still,
but it's only if someone else rolls it.
Cause I just, I don't even bother.
Cause it smells and it's just so much easier
to just take a dab.
Cleaner, tastier usually.
Yeah, exactly.
And it's just, I don't smell like it.
Yeah, it's just, there's a lot of pros.
And so it's hard not to take-
When you're doing the ice and that kind of stuff,
is there a specific water that, I mean,
is it worth it doing,
like going out of your way to get RO?
We dechlorinate it, not full RO.
But so I'm gonna set the room up right outside of this room
as my washroom.
And like I can kind of show you what layout I'm gonna do,
but I'll have RO water for that room
because for my fish tank, I also have RO.
So I'm gonna run a hundred gallon reservoir for the washing
and then I'll have another 50 gallon reservoir for my tank.
But yeah, it's definitely,
I would do it if it's easily accessible,
but I wouldn't kill yourself over it.
If you're looking to level up, that could be a secret.
If you're splitting hairs,
you're looking at like maybe that has something to do
with terpenes, who knows?
Because that chlorine in the water can break down terpenes.
I definitely like who knows what it's doing to it.
But you know, on the same token,
when we say RO and drinking it,
we say it pulls nutrients out of you.
Could that be an issue with the terps at all?
No, probably not.
I didn't think about it in that aspect.
So that was advocate, I don't know.
He's got the stinky, man.
Oh, I know he does.
That's why you're there.
Well, and that's why I hope that the audience sees it.
Like there's so many individuals like Ryan out there
that are doing this and they don't wanna be on TV
and they don't wanna talk about their stuff.
But I appreciate it when guys like Ryan
are willing to come on here and show like,
look, this is what I'm doing.
I've dialed this in and I know that you can do it too.
And as long as you take the time to kind of have a little
extra padding with your bankroll,
I think is also something that,
so that if there is something that goes wrong,
it's not like this huge catastrophe
where you don't have enough money to cover it.
Because more than likely something probably will happen.
We're gonna spend a couple of hundred bucks out of nowhere.
And so if you can minimize that, then again,
that's how you're gonna make a lot more money
than trying to make a bunch of money
and then going full force, growing a lot of plants.
Like a lot of us, myself included,
when we first started out,
we thought more plants meant more money.
And now, obviously people are moving towards,
well, I just wanna get the biggest stomach.
So a hundred gallon pots, raised beds,
and then maybe stick four plants in there,
five plants in there.
But I don't necessarily think,
throwing nine, throwing 12 in some of these four by fours,
the old guard used to say,
is really maybe worth the time and effort
for how bunched up everything gets
when you're first getting started.
Once you have a skillset, again, man,
this is your platform, you get to do whatever you want.
But to start out and minimize stress,
minimize potential pockets for pest issues,
I think is gonna go a long way.
So don't get greedy too
with throwing a bunch of plants in there
and thinking that plants is gonna equal a lot more money.
When you view it that way,
I think that's usually the opposite effect
because you're not in there monitoring the things
that you should.
Damn, that's a good point
because also it's all about your canopy, man.
It's kind of like, yeah, look at that canopy.
You can have a hundred plants or you can have one.
You know what I mean?
It's like, you're just gonna have the amount of canopy
that gets light.
So yeah, don't kill yourself on that.
And also too many plants, you're gonna have sickly plants.
And then now they're kind of hard to see back in there.
And you didn't realize this plant.
Cause you'd be surprised, man,
like a single plant can attract pests.
You're sharing a bed,
like six, eight plants in a bed
and one has a fucking problem and it's wild.
So you gotta be persistent
with your identification of your pests early.
I wanna also put out, I would personally not buy,
there's like clone and I'm sure they have their way
that they minimize it.
So you can buy clones from dispensaries here in Colorado.
And I've never really seen anybody find success with that.
I'm sure things have changed within the last few years,
but I think putting that time and effort
of maybe going to a dispensary
is worth maybe going to a few expos
and finding somebody that you could potentially
get clones from.
To me, it would be safer than going
to those kind of dispensaries,
because when you're going there,
most individuals have pest issues.
And so a lot of individuals feel like if you're going there,
you're wearing the clothes that you have and everything,
you have to be so minute down to the detail
to make sure you minimize any issues
from just going to that facility,
because there's gonna be more than likely russets.
There's gonna be spider mites there.
People are gonna have all kinds
of powdery mold issues and stuff.
A lot of individuals might go straight from the grove
to those kinds of dispensaries.
So I've heard a lot of people say
that they've gone away from that
and gone back more to the gray market, if you will,
to get their genetics when they're first starting out
because of those issues.
And I would second that in a way,
because they're not selling you the best of the best,
let's be honest.
So a lot of those genetics.
That's the thing is they're not gonna hand out
their best cut.
So yeah, you might as well buy a package.
Yeah, definitely second that.
And I think that's gonna go a long way for you
when maybe you even find success
and you had successful flips,
and then you get a little bit more knowledgeable.
You have a bunch of different genetics that you're growing
and you realize, or you get them, you grow them out,
you get the experience and you're like, all right,
well, this obviously isn't what it's claimed to be.
And that's another with a lot of that stuff
is it's not even malicious.
It's just a lot of those kinds of places mislabel things
and then they're still flipping it.
They just called it something else.
So again, I think the homegrower network
is kind of the, I don't know,
the shining light of this show for us, Marco,
is to realize that that network needs to be protected.
And we had a couple of shows where we were exposing
behind the scenes, there's always somebody
that's trying to put out the homegrower.
And I think the community as a whole
needs to obviously realize that,
but then continue moving forward and educate one another,
because that's really the only way
we can combat that kind of stuff,
is once everybody realizes that farming cannabis,
minimizing labor costs and all that
should also be part of the discussion,
which the suits never really talk about that
until the CPAs bring it up.
And that's usually six months or two a year
after the operation's already running.
It's the labor that crushes most commercial,
larger commercial farms.
There's some good people on IG
that you can reach out to for clones,
cheap, even B. Leaf has some cheap clones,
like a cheap $20 clone section or something like that.
Yeah, I would definitely go to-
Hop on that, because good genetics,
but also like I've met people on Instagram.
You treat people the right way,
that they'll treat you good.
I've had people send me clones.
Shout out to Spark, a bunch of numbers on his Instagram.
But other than that, there's avenues.
You don't have to go to a dispensary.
I wouldn't advocate going to a dispensary.
You're just gonna get overtaxed
and get problems for paying more.
So go seeds or find a good person.
Yeah, seeds, get that experience too of growing the seeds.
There's nothing like it, man.
I like the treasure chest part of it.
Like, what am I gonna get?
You know, that unicorn you're always hunting.
Exactly.
It is kind of like a lottery ticket,
and you might be able to find something
or you scratch them off.
Washing, you can find the next GMO,
or yeah, like something that dumps
and you can cross it with a bunch of stuff.
People are gonna want that.
Is that kind of the most important thing
when you're talking about washing?
Is it the numbers or is it the turf?
What's your opinion, Ryan?
For me, if it doesn't wash like over 4%,
I'm not gonna run it again.
But unless it's something that I had,
I ran some seeds from Crockett's Family Farms
and some sour banana, and it only yielded like 1%.
But I have a plant left of it
because it got us so high that it was like high school.
I guess it was just, no one's had those turfs before.
And I only had like four grams of it
and everyone was fighting over it.
Like, I need that, I need that,
like for their head stash.
And so things like that, I might run again
just once in a blue moon.
But yeah, I'll run something.
I'll run something that it's 4% and not 7% for turfs,
but I can't go much lower than that for profit wise.
But yeah, there's those special ones
that you find every once in a while that you'll keep
and then, or give it to a friend that they'll run it
and everyone takes a turn running it
just so, you know, it takes a hit for the team,
just so you can get some good smoke that's different
that you wouldn't see regularly.
But that is a big thing with seeds
because if you, for rosin strains,
especially it's a new market.
So you can find those different turfs
because a lot of turfs are good rosin strains
or mixed with GMO or something else.
So they kind of all are started
and taste the same in my opinion.
That's why I'm like reaching out to seeds,
trying going to old seeds,
like the strawberry diesel cookies is a really old pack.
The other ones are new packs,
the chemt-haze and so he's like, all his new stuff.
So yeah, just trying to get a little bit of everything
that isn't really, I don't really see out there.
And that gives you the advantage when you're running seeds.
It might take a little longer,
but that's why I'm looking forward to the bottomless box
because I can grow out a seed in a little tent
and then bring it in here and when it's ready
and not have to stress it.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And think about, I mean, I know we don't,
it's hard to try to say what the days are,
but I would imagine that hinders growth
for at least a couple of days as everything starts to heal
if you're like replanting everything.
So over a year,
like when you're really starting to think data wise,
I see why Steve was-
Five months instead of four.
Quick, put it down, have your team,
I mean, it's easy to explain to a team.
Yeah, especially for a commercial facility.
I wouldn't do it any other way
if I was in a commercial facility.
I think he laid the blueprint.
It's like, and there's people following him,
like those people that are growing in Michigan,
I think it is, the Jethouse Gardens and Alexa.
Oh, yeah, I think so, yeah.
They're double tiered.
That's awesome.
I've never seen-
That's a hypha grow, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that's the blueprint.
Like if you're limited on space, go that way.
If you have a warehouse like Steve, do it like that.
I mean, I don't see any other way to do it
and be profitable in the future
because electric's only going up
and all that's only going up,
so nutrients are unavailable sometimes.
And if you can have a bed,
that's just every flip is getting better.
And you have stuff, it's just a no brainer in my opinion.
Just you're building wealth.
It's like having an investment account
where you have like recurring investment
and it just gets better and better and better.
And yeah.
Yeah, you need much valuable things that aren't just money.
Yeah, a business, a suit can't come in and buy that.
That's why I'm so into this
because I feel like I'm way behind.
Like I'm like, there's people that have beds
that are 10 years old already.
And I'm like, damn, that's freaking awesome.
Like I wish I was that,
like I wish I was, my eyes were open.
TJ put me onto this whole living soil
and organics and whatnot.
And I met him when I was growing hemp
like three, four years ago.
So yeah, I wish I learned sooner.
Well, I don't know, man.
I mean, sometimes I think things happen to you
when you're ready for it.
Because one of the biggest things
that I've always kind of shared
is when this old head up in Idaho Springs,
he gave me a bunch of this leaf litter
and I just put it in the corner
because we were growing like a aquaponics style.
So I didn't see why I would need it.
And then eventually it just like,
I don't know what really happened to it,
but I didn't realize that dude was handing me
basically like gold.
And I was like, eh.
So I think sometimes being educated enough
to realize what someone's teaching you.
Like when you hear bottomless pots,
if you haven't had the experience that you had,
you might not fully understand, okay,
why is he doing that on so many different levels?
And there's so many variables to growing cannabis.
Because yes, everybody's into it,
especially the first couple of flips.
But as life starts to go by, the years are going by,
yes, this is still a part of your life,
but it's not usually like your main focus
is all you're doing.
For the home grower, what I'm saying.
Because life is coming at you.
You have other things to do.
So this is the system that,
obviously why we have this show.
It's gotta be the future for most individuals,
especially ones starting out.
It's like, why would you need to go
and research a bunch of things in a bunch of salts
unless you choose to grow that way
when mother nature has figured it out.
And it seems like a lot of people in the community
have figured it out as best they can at this point
and are sharing that with us.
So it's like, all right, build up your,
you got your raised bed, obviously,
and then the bottomless pots.
And then that is going to allow you to continue
with the seed.
And then pheno hunting again is, I think, paramount
for the home grower to try to find something
that makes them stand out.
It's like your little artwork, if you will.
This is mine.
No, I'm always looking for the one
that I can hand to my homies and be like, gift it.
And be like, yeah, leaves are on this.
And just tell me what you think,
because it's a really freaking, the perfect plant.
And actually, Dulce de Fresa,
we found a really good washer.
She was like 7%.
And I gave it to my friends.
And that plant is insane.
It just, it triples in size when you flower it.
It's scary.
You can veg it for a week and flip it,
and it'll still take over your room.
And then, but it washes so well.
So commercial, it would be a perfect plant.
But only a couple of close friends have it.
But yeah, I'm always looking for that one
that is just worth handing out to people.
So do you, that goes to my question.
So it sounds like you not only keep,
or maybe you don't keep,
do you just pass out to different friends
and have them keep?
Yeah, mostly.
Unless I'm gonna run it again.
If I'm gonna run it again, I'll keep my clones.
But for the most part, I just hand them out.
And if they are good enough to hang around,
I figure they'll hang around.
And if they're not good enough,
like their friends don't really like it,
they won't keep a mother or a clone.
But for the most part, we talk.
So it's like, yeah, we're gonna keep it.
We're not gonna keep it.
So between all of us, someone will keep a cut
and we'll keep it alive if it's really worth it.
But-
That's good to have that network.
You know what I mean?
To have that, somebody's got your back.
Cause it's tough when you got all your own shit.
Yeah, it is.
You gotta be really cruel.
Cause then at that point, your space is valuable.
Especially if you have information overload
and you have somebody like TJ, where he was like,
look, dude, just maybe check this out.
I know you've been growing on salts,
but check this out for yourself.
I'm sure he was patient with you.
I was interested.
He's one of the better human beings out there.
You know what I mean?
So I'm sure he was just kind of like, look, dude,
if you're really about the plant,
you'll see it for yourself in time.
And now that this has gone to a full blown thing,
I think a lot more individuals,
you know, TJ and others should kind of get that gratitude
like today for doing that with no reward.
Like it wasn't like he was teaching you
and then he's like, yo, you gotta pay me five Gs.
I got a 10% on your growth, shit like that, right?
Just being a homie, teaching.
But the whole reason I got into it or I was interested
is because growing at scale outdoor
with salts is just ridiculous.
It's so expensive.
And it's just, it feels so wrong.
You're just throwing these chemicals at like huge fields
and it just doesn't.
So he came in and he was like,
yo, you could be doing it this way.
Taught me all about KNF, put me on to Chris Trump.
Then I went down that rabbit hole, then Leighton,
he told me all about Horizonal.
Then I went down to your guys, fucking your podcast.
And then, yeah, it was just a rabbit hole.
I never stopped digging.
And then I was like, to the point where I felt comfortable,
I was like, all right, I'm just gonna do it myself.
Like TJ hooked it up.
Then with the material for the most part.
And yeah, I just ran with it.
And I think you like moving forward at the forefront
is more of like the aquatic.
So I think in time you'll be able to give back
the same way you took from the community
where you're gonna be able to,
because I don't know, maybe at another time
it might be a little,
you should see this man's tank and his living or kitchen.
I mean, it is, it looks flawless to me.
I'm sure you could walk in there and buy.
But like when you're walking by, man,
it's like in the mall where it's like shiny and shit,
you know, and if you know about taking care
of saltwater tanks or just a little bit,
then you know the work that it takes.
So you understand the microbial world from the soil side,
but you're also, seems like, you know,
you're at the forefront.
I'm sure you're learning a lot too from where you're working
from individuals that are probably at the forefront
of understanding that.
And I think that's, from my lack of understanding of that,
that seems to be the new frontier.
I've been talking to Potentronics about some stuff
and like I actually sent you some stuff, Marco,
and I have this stuff that I consider
like the mother of like AMOs.
So like I gave TJ some, and basically,
Layton actually gave me the idea to brew it.
And so I've made this brew and it like,
it smells like crap for like two days,
but the third day it smells really good.
Like not really good, but it doesn't, it smells different.
And it's just, it's a sweeter,
like more gentle, nasty smell.
And so-
Easier funk.
Yeah, easier funk.
That's a good word.
But I've been using that on my beds with good success.
Like my plants seem to love it.
The next day, they're all happy.
And TJ's using it, or said he'll use it.
So we'll see what he says about it.
Yeah, I like it too.
You sent me some and I've used it.
Replaced it for seawater too.
Yeah, I like it.
Cause it's got that, I look at it just like that.
Cause I love seawater anyway.
And I fermented some before
and I've done different things with it.
And it really gets a really unique funk to it.
But it's soil, like setting up a big soil bed
and an aquarium are similar.
Like you said, you mentioned it earlier.
Like people don't realize when they get an aquarium,
you gotta get it set up.
You gotta let the water
and the microbiology establish itself
before you can put fish in there.
And I know you've probably,
I don't know if you've done it,
but I've done it when I first got
into freshwater aquariums.
Is I set up and I run, I was okay.
I waited two days, is that enough?
And you go buy some fish, you throw them in there
and all of a sudden the fish are darting
all around the aquarium and they start floating.
So, it takes time and I thought that was pretty cool.
And I imagine some very wealthy people are probably like,
are you sure I can't buy this?
And you know, start today, you know what I mean?
And but money can't buy it, only time can.
Yeah, that's my favorite part too.
Is like, exactly, we have some very wealthy people coming.
I wanna know, I saw it on TV,
Tank did this or that and they put the fish the same day
and I was like, that's TV, man.
That's like, you know?
And then, yeah, there's some people that just don't listen
and they'll buy stuff anyways and I feel horrible
because like if I tell them no,
they'll go somewhere else and buy it anyways.
So, I know they're killing fish, but yeah, like you said.
And I think the same thing with soil beds, honestly,
because if you start a fresh soil bed and you don't give it,
like, I think it's good to start with just a cover crop
or something like that.
Let it grow out, cut it down,
and then plant whatever you're gonna plant
because then it's more established,
you'll see better results.
Because a lot of people say their second flip's better
than their first flip
because it's more established after that
and it's built for cannabis at that point
because your cannabis, it was a cannabis-dominated bed.
So, that's why.
So, if you give your soil a chance to establish,
same with fish tanks, that you have to cycle,
what they call it, cycling,
and have that nitrogen cycle going
because when the fish poops,
basically it's creating ammonia.
Then there's a bacteria that breaks that down into nitrite.
There's a different bacteria
that breaks that down into nitrate.
And then nitrate is used by plants and corals
and other animals like sponges and stuff, clams.
But then, so yeah, if you don't have that,
all that ammonia will kill a fish.
Ammonia too high and nitrite too high will kill a fish,
especially those high-end cichlids in the fresh water.
And there's very finicky fish
that live in very low-nutrient systems.
So, if you're not ready for the bio-load
and the whole setup, then you're just gonna fail
and you can't buy that.
So, that's the best part.
Yeah, and just like, you know,
and if you guys get into aquariums,
my advice, get your biggest filter you can get.
Like, because everybody kind of starts
how you get the one that hangs on the side of the aquarium,
old school, and then you get to finally
maybe upgrade to a canister, but it's a small one.
Then you say, well, damn, I should've got the bigger one.
These things are always easier
when you can have that bigger stomach.
Like for an aquarium, to me, the canister filter
is kind of like the stomach, kind of like our soil.
Whereas, yeah, and so you got all that surface area
for microbes and stuff like that.
So, it's all about that environment, man.
Get your environment straight
before you try to grow a fish,
before you try to grow a plant.
You gotta have all that stuff dialed in.
It's just gonna make it, it's gonna save you money.
You're not killing fish.
Yeah, exactly.
You're not having to buy them again.
You'll enjoy it better.
Do you think both of those worlds can coexist,
or do you think one would begin to dominate the other?
I think it's so similar, and that's what I'm trying to do,
is make that connection, and like,
not even create a product to monetize,
but just make that connection and show people
that you can be doing this too.
And I want it, like, I'm really excited.
I wanna get a microscope eventually,
but I need to hop on that, honestly.
I feel like if I get a microscope,
that's all I'll do, is just look at stuff
and just try to figure it out,
because I think there's a lot of similar bacteria
that live in the ocean as well as the soil.
And then there's a lot of products
that I think can go both ways.
Like, I think fulvic acid might help breathe things.
And I also think that there's products
that are chitin loaded.
So I think it might help you for your isopods.
I think it might be great fungal food for the soil,
and I'm about to start playing with that too.
What product?
It's called yellow snow.
It's a- Yellow snow.
It's for coral.
Okay.
Yeah, it's actually, it's pretty much copepods,
which is pretty much, it's kind of like
the arthropods of the sea.
Snails.
Like the springtails isopods.
Springtails isopods, yeah, it's that level.
And actually, I can show you later, but.
So it's basically that blended up,
like dead ones blended up with some nitrifying,
purple non-sulfur bacteria.
So I think all of that is gonna be beneficial for your soil.
And I'm gonna start trying it.
I was gonna do my beds here soon, but I just watered,
so I gotta wait a little while.
But I was gonna see if I had any fungal blooms
or anything like that,
because usually I do have mushroom activity,
but I just did a reset, so everything was kind of disturbed.
But yeah, the, I'm looking forward
to trying to make that connection,
because I think there's definitely a connection.
And I think Leighton proved that with the fish brew,
because I've used that stuff too,
and I've seen good effects with that as well.
And so I'm trying to make my own fish brew basically.
But they focus on a different fish,
and it's kind of like a single source fish.
And I think the coral reef has more diversity.
I think it has more to offer.
But like Potent Ponics was telling me that there's,
yeah, I have to be careful,
because there are things like palytoxins,
which there's a paly, they're called palys,
but they're just like little flowers.
And if they get mad or anything, or something disturbs it,
they'll release toxins to kill what's around it.
And that's really harmful to humans.
So just researching that more,
and that's why I haven't really released anything.
I have given friends stuff,
and I don't have any palys in my tank.
So I'm trying to stay away from all those dangers.
But yeah, there's definitely a link,
and I'm gonna make it eventually.
Yeah, and even, I would say,
we always kind of talk about the cool thing
is improving on Mother Nature.
So maybe you always had to add it like an amendment,
but you were able to continue to build that diversity
so that things are eating each other,
and dying, and pooping in a variety of ways.
Definitely seems like,
when I was adding more of the black soldier fly larvae,
more of moving away from the cricket frass,
there's a definite difference
in the overall shine of the isobots.
So I think just moving up,
and maybe the quality of whatever frass you're using
is probably the same way with the aquatic level,
like understanding the,
sorry, what was the name of those again?
Yellow snow.
Yellow snow, I don't know why I forgot that.
But yeah, obviously I'm gonna go down the rabbit hole
with that.
But I think those are the little things
that can continue to spark off new ideas.
And that's why I love you sharing this in real time,
because I think more people will see
that this is achievable.
And granted, you put up a little bit of money up front,
but after a while, I mean,
you could really dial this in,
where we've always said, for pennies on the dollar.
And I truly believe that.
Now that was the goal, the longterm,
and let it run by itself.
And you got your clonex right here, man,
growing in the succulents.
Cut a piece, put it in the plug,
it reached in five to seven days, no problems.
And I think there's something to having it in the same bed
that the plant's gonna grow in.
I don't know, I'm kind of like woo-woo about stuff.
Well, they take up whatever they grow in.
So yeah, they have the same memory and all that.
So yeah, I try to make as many connections
as I can full circle.
Like my dehu, I reuse my dehu water.
I know some people don't do that,
but it's mixed with filtered water.
So it balances out the demineralization and whatnot,
but I just don't see any sense of throwing it away.
And I have no issues.
I don't see any soil deficiencies
or anything like that because of it.
So I'm gonna keep running with that.
Marco, you had something to add, buddy?
No, I just love it, man.
Just listening, man, loving it.
It's dropping some good stuff, man.
Yeah, and again, I wanna highlight
because nobody in this kind of world
ever wants to be highlighted
that there's just so many bright-minded people out there
that are doing this that nobody's ever heard of
that have no desire to be on Instagram,
to be on social media.
And so I think after today,
more people will see that this is just something
that has kind of been a wave
that a lot of people aren't talking about.
Some people have been dismissing.
We've even seen this year, Marco,
where some people that I've even kind of in a way
looked up to were saying
the horizontal soil system doesn't work.
It's kind of like, well, all right.
They don't understand it though.
It's literally your soil that you're already tried and true.
Now you're adding a little gravel sand layer under
and you're focusing on the organic layer on top.
People want to make something something
where it doesn't work.
It just literally cannot not work if you just set it up.
And I like, I don't know if we can,
maybe we can pan in here, but Marco,
you know how especially with reusing certain beds,
using cocoa and all that kind of stuff,
you would always see the salt rings on the fiber itself.
You don't have any of that when you're growing this way.
Well, those beds are too new.
Those beds are too new.
That he hasn't had.
Two years?
I felt like I definitely would have had that stuff.
Underneath this is probably.
It looks like that?
Yeah, that's all beds.
It's down there.
For me, it was advanced nutrients
that always made it like just pop up.
Salt's a lot helpful.
Yeah, where it's almost like,
okay, now I see what people are talking about.
No, that's not just salt though.
That's actually stuff out of your soil.
It's not, it's just leaching.
Leaching, yeah.
Salt and money, right?
That's right.
You saw those isopods on mine.
They go under that plastic
and they go under there and eat that.
So that's like another round of cycling of that nutrient.
But you know the reason why though, Brian,
also these beds, I think you have the,
they have the fat, the liner, you know what I mean?
So you won't really get anything
but the bottom four inches
where you don't have that liner.
But yeah, man, the salt,
but I remember the salts would be so nasty.
Like I still got like old Klonor machine
is like salt on it.
I don't care how many times you scrub it.
It's like the salt is ingrained in it, you know?
Vinegar helps.
Yeah, especially back in the day,
using the aquaponic systems,
it would be like fence posts
is what it kind of looked like with like a pump.
And that shit would be like a G.
Like when you got at home and you unpacked it,
you're like, wow.
You gotta filter yourself.
Yeah, man, or at least like paid somebody to do it.
Well, I made my own out of fence posts.
I didn't buy the kit.
Yeah, exactly.
But doing that kind of stuff,
that's where you'd see the buildups and stuff.
And you'd be using really heavy products.
So it would say like whatever milliliters you would,
you know, there's 15 milliliters,
we'd be putting 30,
thinking that we were doubling our money.
I mean, just making really bad mistakes.
And again, when you're using this system
with mother nature,
even if you do make a few mistakes,
it's a lot easier to buffer that out
than if the plants are so dependent on you
because everything's pH based on how you are feeding them.
Do you wrap, what do you, do you have trays, Ryan?
Like how's the bottom set?
Yeah, right now I got the plastic trays.
Under your bed, like your big bed.
Okay, so when I was building the room,
I laid down like a shower liner on the,
I have a floating sub floor.
It's in the basement.
So it's a floating sub floor.
I even considered cutting out to make more height.
But so I put shower liner first,
then I have these rubber mats,
like gym mats on top of the shower liner.
And then the beds are on top of that.
And I have an additional like layer of black plastic
in between the bed and the,
I just try to make it like a big bathtub.
Yeah, you gotta do that, man.
If you're not doing that,
yeah, if you're not making yourself a basin
and you're just letting your leachate
run out on the floor to the drain,
you're not building this system right now.
So I did a two by four,
or actually it's a little bit bigger than a two by four.
Perfect.
Perfect, and the rim around both.
Dialed in, man, look at that.
All stapled in nicely.
Yeah.
And it took me a while to dial in
like how much water the beds could take.
But now I can pretty much do it just by sight and feel.
But-
That's key too.
Yeah, I think that was the biggest hurdle
from going from like one gallon to a full bed
is really, that was for getting like
sometimes 12 times a day.
And that's a lot different than hand watering a bed
and making sure it's saturated
because you want the correct moisture throughout the bed.
Yeah, so there's a different challenge in it.
And honestly, like I said,
you're not connected when you're using the salt
because unless you're a chemist,
you don't really know what the hell you're doing.
So yeah, might as well let nature do its thing.
And a lot of times with that,
or at least in the earlier days,
you wouldn't even really know what you're using.
You just knew the brand name.
So if that company went out of business,
all of a sudden you don't know how to grow
as great as you were.
Yeah, and then where you blame it on the nutrients.
Oh, I just switched nutrients.
That must be why.
It's like, no, your environment was shit.
Like, it's like, there's so many other things too.
Like, I don't know, I can go on forever.
Well, people would like chase the nutrients.
Like you'd run and then,
oh shit, this new gold bottle thing came out.
Oh, I might want to switch to that.
You know, like, it's like people get to where
you're chasing nutrients, man.
And that's, you're really spinning your wheel,
you know, when you're doing that.
I felt like I was a victim to that for sure.
I mean, I ran House and Garden.
I ran the gold bottle for the Roots Accelerator.
Like, it's like, you know, we didn't spare any penny
because we thought we were going to get better stuff.
And we always, I always thought we grew good stuff in the end
but like looking back at for sure,
I feel like, I guess the love and care
that goes into a home grow is way bigger than,
even when I was running a home grows that were
like a hundred lights,
then it's different than running this.
It's like, this will get way more attention plant per plant.
So I don't know, I think people shit on the quality
but it's way better in the end.
Well, the goal is to grow flowers, not, you know,
so the can, like we were saying before,
the canopy is what's important.
And I think when this is starting to be like, you know
a full utopia, that's where it's like, all right
I can just plant the plants kind of wherever I want
and know that things are really taken off
in all areas of this.
So there becomes almost like a super highway.
And then a lot of the OGs would just wait
until they started to see the fungal aspects,
the mushrooms, and then that was kind of like the pat
on the back, if you will, like getting three a light
or something that used to be paramount
for quality and success.
Now it's all right.
Now we have fungal highways being built
and we have fruiting bodies that are starting to show.
So I know without a microscope
without all of the other expenses, you know
that I can be a home grower and see for myself in real time.
All right, I got the fungal aspects building up.
And again, that's gonna probably take a few months
depending on what you're using to maybe a year or longer
you know, depending on your skillset
the quality of your network, to be honest
like if you can get a bunch of different ingredients
from people that have been doing this for a long time
some leaf litter, like we had mentioned
some things that you just can't buy at the store
getting building up the bio, yeah.
Building a biofilm from the worms going through your system
that there's no dollar that can be spent
to be able to do that takes time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, you know, someone, any bag of soil, right?
I can tell anybody I can make that bag of soil better
simply by adding worm castings.
Like, so it can, whatever that soil is
if you just simply add worm castings
or simply add IMO now it's better.
You know what I mean?
So that's the key.
That's what we're all trying to do is make things better.
And you know, like it is pretty crazy.
I remember the, you know, cha-ching, you know
open sesame, you know, supposed to make your buds.
All the Fox farm stuff.
Yeah. You know, like all these names
and these gimmicks, man.
But like they, people still fall for that stuff, man.
Yeah.
You know, and they still use it and it's not necessary.
It's like, you know, you know, guys like myself
or Ryan or a lot of other people out there
can show you that that shit is not necessary.
And, oh, something I wanted to mention, like Genome's
Alchemist, I got three of his Fantasia girls
and one of them, man.
Yeah, brother.
Dude, one of them, they all look beautiful
but one looks like it's growing in hydro.
You know how hydro, like the stems will get so fat
where the bottom main stock was kind of still small
and the branches would get so fat.
Like this thing looks crazy, dude.
I'm excited about that.
So genetics are also a big thing.
Like once you spend that money on that light
and that environment, get yourself some good genetics.
Come out the gate strong.
And that's again, you're gonna have to network with that.
Like, I feel like if people didn't talk about Genome
he wouldn't talk about himself.
You know, he's just not, he's the kind of guy in the world.
Same thing with Ryan.
These gentlemen are in the trenches doing the work.
They're not out there, you know.
So I think some people are, sometimes people are fooled
by like, well, how much can this guy really know
his Instagram is this or that?
I think a lot of people should begin to realize
that that shit doesn't really matter, man.
I mean, there are so many bright-minded home growers
that are able to put out consistent products.
And hopefully after today, man
maybe we can get TJ to eventually like.
I hope so.
Yeah, buddy.
So TJ, I don't know if you're still watching this sometimes
man, but I salute to you, buddy.
I think, you know, sometimes individuals resonate, you know
you and I didn't know each other when we were talking
and he was kind of like a common dude.
And the way that we both were talking about it was like
obviously he carries himself that way wherever he goes
and to mentor you the way that he has
and kind of taking it that whole, like each one
teach one kind of thing is living proof right here.
And then you're kind of taking it to the next level
where, you know, some of the guys carrying the torch
for living soil, Mr. Cantwell's got his thing dialed in.
Now you're obviously taking it.
This is your first flip.
You're gonna probably put your own little spin on it
for your environment, whatever works out for you.
And I think that's what hopefully encourages more people
that kind of, once that ship is built,
now it's kind of play around, update the furniture.
Maybe there's a little bit of things
that you can spend your money on if you choose to.
Or it just kind of, it seems like the basic stuff
is what really goes long-term, man.
Keep keeping things as simple as you can
so that you're also enjoying your life.
Yeah, just stay within your means.
Cause like, honestly it's work.
And if you don't do the work, like defoliating
and you're just not gonna hit the same numbers
that you would, or you're gonna have problems
if you don't pay attention and neglect your plants.
So like get a realistic size room or a tent
or something that, you know, you can take care of on your own.
My girl helps me a lot.
Like she's really good at defoliating.
She's really good at harvesting.
But if I didn't have her,
I'd probably have even smaller rooms
cause it is work.
And at the end of the day, just if you're not doing the work
you're not gonna get the results you want.
So might as well get a manageable size
that you can actually produce quality and be happy with.
Having that support system too, man.
Cause you know, I was growing with a buddy
at my old house at the time.
And I had to hide from my girlfriend of two years.
She never knew that we grew.
So every time she came over to the house,
I'd have to, I mean, it was stressful.
I don't know.
We were all playing Madden.
Yeah, she'd be like, why does it smell?
I'd be like, oh, we were just smoking a blunt, you know?
She's like, it smells fresh.
But luckily she wasn't like educated,
but to have a girl that like supports it, man,
I think is another part of the battle
of sometimes finding success is when there's friction
on that where people are like,
oh, you smoke too much weed.
But yeah, but.
No, she's awesome about it.
Yeah.
No, your girl's cool as hell, man.
I think that's part of finding success.
Margo has a cool ass chick as well, you know?
It's just somebody that.
Yeah, so do you, man.
Yeah, just ladies you can put your time into
and know that they're gonna give something back.
I like, you know, that's worth more
than anything else to me.
So you were with a chick that was like,
you go to work and you're like, man,
is this bitch gonna call the cops on me today?
Like, you know what I mean?
You were in that kind of situation.
That's not good.
Yeah, I even, I remember a memorial day.
We were all having fun and I was like paying
for some lemonades and I had like a couple hundred dollars
in my pocket and I just pulled it out and I paid for it.
And her friend comes over to me in front
of all the fucking people and was like,
what do you do for a living?
And I, like in that moment I was drunk, you know?
And it just kind of was a bad atmosphere
because you're always like lying.
I hated that feeling, man.
I was always trying to be like,
what are you, oh, I try to make money doing this or that
or whatever you, what do you think about?
So now that everything's legal and you can rock this stuff,
I think if you've never tried it,
please, you know, jump off the cliff
because the water's warm now and there's real no,
I bet there's only just a couple of states
where there's real jail time left
if you, you know, if you got caught doing this.
And, you know.
Yeah, it's time to go ahead and dip your toe on in there,
you know, now, man, these days and times,
like if it was like that, like, I mean,
this is luxury now, you know?
Yeah, there's really no,
I mean, there's a little risk, I guess,
but the real risk of the individuals
that have done it for a lot longer than all of us
that really paved the way,
especially like in the 60s and the 70s and the 80s
and, you know, moving towards all that where it was,
you know, you get busted with just even just plants and veg
and all of a sudden you're fucked for probably five to 10.
So now to be like, oh man, I don't know if I could do it
or if that's the shit that's holding you back,
then again, that's why I want more individuals to see
that there's so many people
that can put out unbelievable medicine
and they don't have to have some state of the art system.
It could be a system that they're constantly,
you know, they started out with, you know,
a smaller and then smaller space
and built out that system.
I've seen that too, where it's like, all right,
I have a basement grow,
but I don't have the money to really build out properly
a basement grow.
So I'm gonna start out with a tent
and hopefully make enough money with my flips
to then reinvest in my business and do it properly.
And I think again, when you're really growing cannabis
as for profit, this has to be chess moves.
These have to be moves that you have thought out weeks,
maybe, you know, gone back and double checked, right?
Is this the light that I wanna spend two grand on?
Cause some of those lights are worth it
and other ones are truly gimmicks.
And I think that's another reason why
LEDs kind of got a bad rep there for a while
is cause they would promise a lot of things.
And then after a year or so,
people would say that it didn't work out,
but like Marco pointed out,
now everybody's onto the next light anyway.
So nobody's really listening to like,
hey, these guys were bullshit a year ago, two years ago.
They're onto, you know, the newest light.
Don't home grow to get rich either.
Don't think you're gonna turn into a baller.
Don't grow weed to get rich, I don't think.
Unless you're in a state where-
Weed grows to pay your bills.
It's stressful as weed, like just don't do it.
Like have a job and then do this on the side
until you can really, like Marco says,
until you have a need to, you know, drop your job.
You're doing so much work that, you know,
like actually requires your energy that you have to go.
But other than that, don't do it for the bills
or the dollar bills.
I mean, it can help like take care of some of the bills.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, it's not a-
If you're relying on it, it's gonna be stressful
when that light bill isn't paid or something
because you had a bad flip and now you're like 1500 down
and you're like, oh shit, like, trust me,
I've lived a lot of mess ups,
so like don't do it for the bills.
Yeah, we, I think that's a good point.
Yeah, we-
That's your side chain, just, you know.
Yeah, that's just your play money.
That's right.
Or it ends up costing you all the extra money you had
because, you know, at the beginning we would have flips
where we had no success.
We had to cut down everything.
Yeah, see.
You know, spider mites in the early days,
then it was russet mites.
Yeah, something happened in here,
I can cut it down and not even think twice.
I'm just like, okay, whatever, I'll start fresh.
Like, it's not like I'm like,
oh, my bills won't be paid, so.
Right, and you have a job, you know.
Yeah, so.
And you have a support system, you know,
your girls working.
It's, this day and age, going into 2023,
you honestly have no excuse not to try.
If you're interested, yeah.
Like, if you're not interested, don't do it.
Well, if you're watching this show,
well, I would hope that you're interested.
Yeah, because, you know, time is money, man.
And Marco, you know, throughout this whole year, buddy,
I mean, you've been dropping stuff.
Like I said, you're the first guy I've seen with IMO
that shines, that shines like fancy weed.
So you're obviously onto something
and you're willing to share it.
And what else can be said about you, man?
This year has been something special.
And I know that 2023 for myself
and hopefully everybody involved, you know,
hanging out and all that, will find their own success.
And I know you're gonna find success, Ryan,
in the aquatic world at least, buddy,
because you just seem like your head
is on a whole nother level compared to, you know,
your peers.
And so if you can continue that
where you're ahead in this marathon,
I know that you're gonna find success
being an entrepreneur and that growing your,
you know, your collections out.
And it seems like when I was at the parking lot, man,
the people that come into your store
have an abundance of extra income.
And they, you know, I can overhear what it costs,
you know, when people were being rang up
for their purchases and stuff.
So that might be a very lucrative thing
for people that also have that skillset
or are interested in understanding that skillset.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, do use your space,
because if you think,
if you look at that space y'all are in,
that's a cannabis space.
But just think, you could make that an aquarium space
just as easily and fit, you know, several aquariums
and start growing corals.
That's my callback right there.
If the weed market really hits the fan,
I'm like, all right, I'm not making money anymore.
All right.
Yeah, that's smart, man.
And like a lot of folks are doing things that are,
you know, smart moves,
like go work for an electrician for a few years,
learn all that,
work for this plumber for a few years, learn all that.
And then you're learning things
that are actually gonna help you do the passion
that you wanna do anyway.
You know what I mean?
And so learn all that stuff, man, young,
and then shit, when you get older,
it's kind of just all falls together.
You know what you wanna do,
you know how you wanna do it,
and you got the means to do it, you know.
Another thing is, man, old dude told me,
always try to save 10% of whatever you make,
especially on a side hustle.
So like try to, if you, whatever you've got,
you make it in that room,
throw 10 to the side and never try to touch it, you know.
Those kind of things help people make it through.
Also, when the times get hard enough,
you might have to increase your output.
You know what I mean?
You lose work or lose income, recession hits,
now you gotta ramp up.
You know what I mean?
I've thought about it a couple of times,
but I got a couple of rooms where I can,
but I always go all out.
So like, it's gonna be expensive if I want,
and a lot of work if I wanna do it, so.
Yeah, I feel you on that.
I always go hard.
I want it to look professional, yeah.
I don't know.
You and Budding Gardeners, you guys,
he's a buddy on IG,
you guys are two like home growers
that like have your shit looking like in tight,
like a real facility.
And I think that's very smart.
And I think that's good practice.
You know what I mean?
So as you grow, look at that,
I can see a corner, right?
I don't know if that's a corner
of a hundred thousand square foot facility
or a home grow, you know what I mean?
That's a lot of respect to you for that.
It looks nice.
I really appreciate that.
Yeah.
I took a lot of pride in doing it.
Every time I like came to a crossroads,
I'd always pick the harder or the more expensive way
to finish the project.
Because I knew it was a long-term move
and I have people come over my house
that don't even realize this is here.
Like I have it, you know, like,
and that's what I wanted.
That was my goal.
It's like, I'm not trying to be all out there with it.
Like, and like Brian said,
like I was kind of like nervous
or like didn't really want,
like didn't feel normal to just have it on like a lot.
Let's be honest, you didn't want to do this.
Yeah.
Or at least at first.
Yeah.
Like I didn't know, yeah.
But yeah, so like when I was doing it,
I just really took every, like I made sure,
like when I do this, I really wanted that
because I'm not going to redo it.
So just make sure you like it.
And then I'm happy how it turned out.
Yeah, man.
Do shit one time.
I remember back in the day, I was like, you know,
yep, I'm all dialed.
It's all good.
You know, so we had some company over or something.
And my sister-in-law was like, she comes in,
it smells like skunk in here.
You know, this was back then, like nobody, you know,
nothing, so I'm like, oh shit.
So like after that, I like revamped my shit.
And you know, like, you never know, man.
Yeah, yeah.
Don, it's like, I just, yeah.
If there's people that don't want to see it,
they won't see it.
Like they will never know this here, so.
That's right.
We just never know who they're going to tell.
Or who's going to break up.
I saw a lot of that shit too, man.
I grew up on that.
Scoring girlfriends would be telling everybody.
Telling my brother.
I had a scoring girlfriend call my mother
that I was trying to keep that a secret from her
and told her.
Damn.
Which to me was almost worse at the time
because my mother was not, yeah.
She was just a boy.
Yeah, that's like telling her,
oh, you know, your son's a fuck up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I think a lot of us kind of took that on,
you know, in stride a little bit as being, you know,
farmers before everybody else felt like
it was an okay thing to do.
Especially even just smoking cannabis.
I remember in high school, you know, in ninth grade,
people thought we were just kind of like these,
I guess like the losers.
But then by junior year, you know,
you're slaying weeds and cheerleaders.
People are more cool about it.
I think that cannabis has grown pretty dramatically.
And I would imagine before, you know,
we pass on that it will be legalized, you know, nationally.
That'd be wonderful, man.
But it'll probably be all fucked up too, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's obviously there's a huge conglomerate
of bullshit that's gonna come with that too.
But I think eventually it'll be kind of like accepted
where, you know,
cause I still feel like sometimes, you know,
if you're picking up your kids and stuff, you know,
they're kind of more open about like,
oh, we smoke, we drink on the weekends.
And I don't share with anybody that I smoke weed.
Like when we're waiting for our kids to come out of class,
I hear a lot of moms actually talking about,
yeah, we're gonna get some Chardonnay.
I feel like that's accepted.
But if two moms are sitting around being like,
yeah, we're going home tonight, smoking joints,
it's still not on that same level, even here in Colorado.
So it has kind of like a stank on it, you know,
if you're going home smoking joints.
Yeah.
But that's why I make it a point to every chance I get.
Remember last year when we were at the cannabis conventions,
you know, if you looked around,
there wasn't a lot of people just openly, you know, smoking,
but I was like, what were y'all doing?
Like, you know what I mean?
At some point you have to just keep that torch lit,
you know, and keep it, let other people know.
Because sometimes they'll see you and say, oh, it's cool.
Yeah, well, let me find out.
He sees that, oh, it's cool.
And the next, you know, it keeps it going.
Someone's got to normalize it.
Yeah, I try to make it normal as much as I can.
The one cool thing I thought was,
at least in Oklahoma was,
the rule was if you can smoke cigarettes there,
you can smoke weed there.
So like if you, yeah, if you were like a fancy dinner even,
and you wanted to, you know, before dessert or whatever,
you want to go out and smoke in this joint,
like some people smoke a cigarette before dessert
and, you know, a nightcap or whatever.
You could do that in Oklahoma,
and you can't do that in Colorado.
So, you know, there's little things like that.
I think they're just, those little extras
that probably make it more,
more normalized for people like, you know,
ah, there's a guy smoking a cigarette.
Ah, there's a guy smoking a joint.
No big deal.
Yeah, you got to make it, yeah,
keep it normalized, definitely.
But if they see the Puff Co, man,
they look at you,
especially back in the day with the torches and stuff.
Oh, yeah.
Torches, that's why I went to the Puff Co.
People would be like, wow.
Yeah, great.
You guys are great.
Yeah, like, I'd be lighting up
if I went to a show to my mom.
Hey, so we're, let's bring London on,
and I wanted to ask him,
are the bottomless pots,
are you guys talking about that in Canada at all?
I got kiddos running around,
so I'm not going to go on the camera for this one
just because I don't want to clothe them,
and I'm tired.
It's been a long day.
So, yeah, the bottomless pot system
is not something as common that we're seeing up here yet.
We are seeing, like, that play out in theory here and there.
I do something similar,
but I just put, like, larger gashes
in the bottom of fabric pots
to allow some of the larger root system to go into.
I find even a fabric pot,
two fabric pots pushed up against each other
will form into one fabric pot very quickly
if you have a strong growing root system.
So I kind of play with the idea of, like,
a pot could be a pot of a bed
if you just put them together for long enough
and don't remove them apart,
but there's been a few people who play with it.
There's not really a lot of products
on the line, on the market,
and there's been a strong decline
in the amount of home growers in Canada
over the last year.
There's been a pretty decent decrease
in hydroponic sales at hydroponic shops,
as well as grocery stores and stuff like that.
So it's been an interesting space.
I've seen a lot more move
to regenerative living soil practices
than I do see movement of kind of innovative
or different ways of utilizing the current systems
that they're kind of being played with right now.
What do you attribute that decline to, London?
Is it because you guys are pumping out factories
of commercial cannabis up there?
Well, yeah, there's the $85 ounce
you can buy here in Canada,
which is like your $50 ounce for you guys,
and that's cheap.
So a good portion of people,
that was a lot of the reason why they were growing.
Well, that's a shame.
Product quality has gotten,
sorry, I gotta take care of my kids, sorry.
Well, that's a shame that fucking,
that people are declining to grow home
and then go into commercial.
I mean, that's like the opposite of what we want to happen.
Yeah, and especially when there's big money behind
trying to achieve that, miseducate people.
I hate to say it, but 90% of America
is smoke smiths and my friends are into that,
and they're okay with it.
And it's okay.
There's 90% of America shops at Walmart
versus Whole Foods, and it's okay.
It's like some people, that's what they can afford,
but that's what it comes down to.
So-
But you can't afford not to, really?
Yeah, if you think about it,
but unfortunately, a lot of people
have been brainwashed about health
and when it comes to what you're putting in your body
and the quality of it.
The whole world's been sold a poor bill of goods
when it comes to what's healthy
and what goes in your body,
and when it comes down to it, man,
people talk about agriculture in Europe
being so much better and the plants
and it's healthier and it's more organic.
It's like, that's fucking bullshit.
I've talked to the farmers in Portugal.
I've talked to the farmers in these high production areas.
They've been salting the soil just as long as us, man.
They're not that all different.
There are some, there is currently
a two or $3 billion project going through
where they're putting in a ton of money
for regenerative or living soil
or proper agricultural practices in the EU right now,
but prior to, it's not as great as it is
and we've all been sold the organic idea
that this is the most purest form
and if you look at the certification
on what's permittable in the organic space in Canada,
it's not there.
It's not great.
No, and then they take everything
and they irradiate it anyways.
So it's like, what's the,
we're gonna grow these nice organic vegetables
and we're actually gonna do it, grow it on mass
and be able to supply large grocery stores
with the product, great.
And it follows the trends,
but then let's take it and pull it off early
before it hits nutrient density
so that it can travel through.
And then on top of that,
let's make sure that we kill every bit of bacteria
to sterilize the product at one point.
It's like, oh my God, what are people doing?
Horrible.
Yeah.
I even saw a post that said,
vegetables that are okay to buy, they're not organic.
And I'm like, because they're less likely
to have these pesticides.
And I'm like, you're gonna gamble like that?
Just less likely?
I don't know, but that was kind of funny.
Oh, that's terrible.
And it was on a health page.
It was kind of, yeah.
We don't get back to a society
where we're purchasing things.
Okay, just a perfect example.
This popped in my head today
while I was driving my kids around.
Your advent calendar.
At the start of Christmas,
you do the 24 days of Christmas.
You guys grew up with that, right?
I'm sure a few people in the channel
that I've been listening to
have grew up with the advent calendar.
I got two of them behind me
that are scrapped after Christmas.
Back in the day, you used to make that type of thing.
You used to go to your lumber friend
or your woodworker friend
and either get them to make it or get the wood
and then build it yourself.
And you would use that each year over and over again.
You would fill that with things from around you.
That was how these things were done.
And so we had a woodworker
or a wood person that we had to go to
to get the products that we need
or we would produce it ourselves.
But usually, we would go and buy something from someone
that had a more complete product or something like that.
Every little part of our lives has been,
we've been so separated from where it comes from
and who makes it,
that it makes things so hard to understand
what the fuck's going on.
You really can't.
When's the last time you talked to your woodworker
that designed your furniture?
You know what I mean?
When's the last time you talked to your farmer?
When's the last time that grows your food?
When's the last time you, you know,
not as much as it should be.
That's where these practices are so important too.
It's like that takes you to that grass root,
to the, you know, literally like to the soil itself.
And I feel like once you can understand that,
that will trigger,
all right, I want it cleaner than organic.
I understand what organic is.
I need more.
Nutrient dense.
I think also the only way to truly be like regenerative
in the future for like on a scale
is you gotta keep things local.
Like, and it might suck for certain people
cause they might not get their favorite fruit or whatnot.
But for everything that you can,
you have to keep it local or else it's not like when,
when you shipping stuff across the world
and I'm trying to sell it like and make money on it,
you know, the bottom line is not gonna be your health.
It's always gonna be the dollar.
So I think if communities could have a,
like a community farm and then everyone ate from that,
or if everyone could just grow their own food
in their backyard enough to the point where they're,
they might only buy the tropical fruit
that they can't grow in their region
or something like that.
But other than that,
like it's just like buy from your local butcher,
buy from your, like you go to your woodworker,
do all that cause that's the only way
you're gonna actually have like nutrient dense food
at a reasonable cost.
And maybe even for free or barter or something like that.
So that's the other thing.
It's like trying to have,
with Walmart's in existence,
you'll never have like nutrient dense food.
I don't know how to explain it.
I'm saying it bad.
But basically at that scale,
there's no way to do it regeneratively
or in their eyes and make money.
So it's gonna be messed up until we can figure that out.
Yeah, regional, I agree with you on that one, man.
You gotta be, it's gotta be a limit to how far stuff comes,
even if it's, you know,
it's gotta get back to eat more seasonal.
You know, you don't always get to have a watermelon
in January, you know what I'm saying?
You get watermelon in August, September,
you know, when it's there, you know what I mean?
So to me, that would lead to a much healthier gut biome
and just overall lifestyle.
And that's kinda how we like to eat.
And I got my wife on that.
I used to always tell her, is it watermelon season?
Is it peach season?
You know, I got her thinking.
Now when we get groceries, she's like,
oh, well, damn, it's May or it's March.
It's probably not peaches.
Shouldn't be peaches unless they come from overseas.
And that's usually the case, stuff like that.
We're spoiled.
Some aspects it's nice, but yeah, I think you're right.
Going back to our earlier people were, you know,
they didn't have that luxury.
And so Thanksgiving was a big deal
because they had all the pumpkin and the squash
and everything ready, like a harvesting right then.
So they'd had a big feast and it made sense.
Now it's just overindulgence, you know?
So it's like, oh no, there's something to that.
I think you're right, biome and all that
might benefit from eating what's seasonal.
Yeah, definitely.
All right, do we have, or I guess we should throw it out
there if people wanna ask direct questions,
kinda coming up here on three hours.
But while we're waiting for any questions to come in,
again, Marco, I wanted to thank you, man.
This is the last show of the year
and there's something special to this.
I look forward to it on Wednesdays.
A lot of people have asked me,
like how do you keep up with all that?
But it's something that I look forward to.
It's something that I don't see as like a negative thing.
So I appreciate you showing up, man, each and every week
and just being a part of this, dude.
Yeah, man, I'm glad you asked me when we started this.
I think it's pretty cool.
It's funny though, when I did the FCP,
I told my wife, I was like, I don't know,
I said, I got a feeling this is gonna lead
to something else.
Like I just had a feeling we connected or we vibed.
So I'm glad we did this.
And I'm not gonna lie, man,
sometimes there is a lot going on, you know what I mean?
And to dedicate three hours,
I hope people do appreciate that we do this,
you know what I mean?
And just giving that time to just where
we can all get together, chop it up,
talk, figure out things, talk about what...
I like this show
because we talk about a little bit of everything.
We don't just strictly talk cannabis, we talk life,
we talk manhood and all those kinds of things too,
just being a good person.
So yeah, man, it's been great, man.
I appreciate everybody.
As far as Instagram and stuff, man,
I think I might be done on there, man.
I'm feeling like that's a wrap.
I went five years on that.
I feel like I gave pretty much a lot of time on that.
It took a lot of time.
Like if you add up all those hours,
I got like a thousand posts on there and shit, man.
So it was like, I feel like that kind of has run its course.
I'd like for something else to maybe pop up for us,
more for our people where it's not like fucking Instagram
where it's always worried about them taking your account
and stuff like that.
You know, so.
It's freeing though when they take it, I'll tell you that.
Yeah, well, it was freeing for me to be off that bitch.
So I've been off of it for like three weeks now
and I'm like, hell yeah.
I looked on it just, I was like, all right,
let me go on there just to see, right?
I went on there as soon as the first fucking thing,
political bullshit, poly tricks, fuckery.
Like as soon as I went on there and I'm like, why?
Like, I told my wife, I'm like right here,
sitting right here, I was like,
guess how many haters I got in my vicinity?
Zero, you know what I mean?
Like when you go onto a public platform,
now you subject yourself to,
I know there's more good than bad,
but then why even suggest,
subject yourself to any kind of hate?
Like why?
You know, like what's the point?
Like, so I can see why a lot of people
kind of go away from Instagram.
I had a friend that Liz, I forget her handle now,
but she had got up to like 20,000 followers.
And then I remember she abruptly left
and I really didn't understand why.
And she told me, she was like, it's just too much.
And what it is, is it's just too much,
it's too much extra shit on IG, you know?
You know, like it's too much of the extra shit.
Like if I've never gone out of my way on anybody's IG
to give any unsolicited advice, me,
if I see you fucking up,
if you didn't specifically ask me or tag me,
then I'm not going out of my way.
That guy's doing his thing, let him do him.
And so much we got, so much of what it is online today
is everybody thinks just because I showed you what I did,
gives you the right to chime in and interject.
Like we're not always trying to get an interjection.
We don't know, we're not asking for help.
We're just showing you,
trying to inspire you with what we're doing.
So to me, you know, like that,
and then as far as Instagram,
and like their Instagram mind,
they think you work for them.
Like they think Marco works for them.
Like Marco's gonna post more shit for their site,
you know, and like,
that's the part where they got me all fucked up.
And I've seen that over time.
Like I've just learned that
it's just a numbers thing with them.
And if you could work for them and post 24 hours a day,
they'd love it.
You know what I mean?
You're working for free, you're building their platform.
And so really to me, you know,
20,000 some followers and a thousand posts,
the return on investment, I'm leaving it up.
And it's great information.
It's current as the time that I posted it,
but I feel like moving forward, man,
I'll be kicking it here on this show.
And just really creating real life contacts
and just building my own little shit in my own world too,
you know what I mean?
Without taking a lot of time.
So we'll see how it goes, man.
But for right now, IG is on some bullshit.
Well, and they won a court case.
There was a gentleman that was taking other people's photos,
putting them on fancy canvases, I think it was,
and then selling them for crazy amounts of money
without having to pay the person that took that photo.
And so then the courts ruled that basically
anything you put on Instagram's platform,
they have the right to that.
You're more than welcome to read those terms of service
and stuff.
So it's kind of cool, man, to see you like stepping away
from really the only social media drug, if you will,
that cannabis people have,
because there is no other platform
that seems to be able to withstand the type,
just even a couple of years, they run out of money.
And now it's starting to truthfully seem like a meta,
which is Facebook and Instagram.
They spend all that money on the virtual world,
and it seems like nobody wants to do that.
So they might eventually go away as well,
where Instagram might be bought out by somebody
or something like that.
I've seen the hypocritical side of Instagram to me
is I'm starting to see more cannabis sponsored ads
with like the Jungle Boys
and some of the nutrients that they use.
And I would imagine it's because they have a big budget.
So here they are deleting other people,
living soil type individual accounts.
You put up a post of your flower,
you're getting deleted or being warned.
But yet on the backend, they're taking money from brands
that have that kind of marketing budget.
And if you haven't seen those yet,
believe me, they're on the way
and it's kind of eyeopening where it's like, man,
if it's synthetic cannabis, I guess it's cool.
But if it's just a flower picture, that should be deleted.
Yeah, that's wild.
I remember, if you think about it,
none of this stuff lasts forever.
I remember I wasn't on it,
but I remember MySpace was like so huge.
Like a lot of people my age and a little younger
were on that and that shit faded on out.
I feel like, I don't know, man.
It's just, I guess so much more shit done in real life.
Cause that's time.
We only have so many hours of time.
So if you're using that time, it adds up.
Like we said earlier, 30 minutes here every day for a year,
add it up and you could have read a book or two or seven.
So it's just setting boundaries, man.
And figuring out what's really gonna get my life
moving in the direction I wanna go.
Cause I got a lot of shit I wanna do, man.
I got a lot of shit I'm working on.
And sometimes just like taking the time to film it
and taking the time to post it.
To me, it just kinda has been getting in the way
a little bit.
So we'll see how it goes.
Ain't the end of the world.
I'm still living.
Everything that I'm doing, I'm still doing it.
Still growing my cannabis.
I'm still doing all that shit.
But that's just like,
just without necessarily showing the process
where we're going.
Hopefully I like to bounce back after a few months
and be able to show like, all right, on my property,
pond, my pond is done.
Filter set up done.
Chicken coop in.
And then start kind of maybe go back to Instagram
and just showing just daily life around the farm.
Kind of just keeping it low and low key and light.
Yeah, man.
You probably felt a little bit of that spotlight
and you're like, fuck that shit.
That's how a lot of people feel, man.
Yeah.
It's not, you know, what is a like?
What is a follower?
You know, I really don't even like the words follower.
You know, I really don't,
I don't move in those circles like follow me
cause I'm cool.
You know, like it's more like we're colleagues,
we're buddies, we're rolling together type of thing.
So it's kind of just all set up a little bit,
weird to me.
Yeah.
They've spent billions of dollars
to try to make it as addictive as possible.
And TikTok has spent even more.
Did you know that TikTok in China
only lets children on TikTok for 45 minutes?
TikTok in China promotes educational things to the children.
There's a mass filter for their children.
I mean, I know China's fucked up in so many other ways,
but I just thought it was interesting
that they're in a way kind of like, yeah,
let them do the dances and all the weird shit.
Our kids only get 45 minutes a day.
That's strategic.
Yeah.
They know how powerful that is.
And I'm starting to see how powerful YouTube is
when my daughter is upset
and I can't really get her to calm down.
There's this lady called Miss Rachel
and she talks in a high voice and she like,
mama, dada, like this kind of stuff.
But when I plop that video in front of her, man,
she instantly remembers that shit.
And I know that she's like, obviously,
I'm learning times a million,
but the way that she lights up, it's like, okay,
now this is starting to make sense to me.
I think it was the early seventies
where they would do like subliminal messages
when you would watch a movie and it'd be like,
all right, you need popcorn and Coke.
And they had to remove that as a marketing tool
because of how effective it was.
And so I think a lot of that stuff comes down to like,
I mean, that would be a whole different show.
But my point is that I'm really noticing
how much screen time affects when you're learning.
And it definitely, like my daughter reacts
and almost like, it stimulates her in a different way
than almost anything else does.
Isn't that wild, man?
That's crazy.
And then to think like, if you think about it,
you talk China, that's communist, right?
So they got a whole agenda.
So behind TikTok is China and their goal
is to make us dumber, make themselves smarter, straight up.
Like I'm falling for all this shit
and jumping on every little story
that that's the new thing to jump on.
Like they're dictating what everybody's doing.
Like, I mean, I'm like not watching the news much.
Yeah, I miss some things, but really I'm not missing shit
that ain't, that's happening where my feet are.
I see it's cold, I get it.
I ain't on no fucking plane on Christmas.
So I'm not gonna get stuck in the airport.
You know what I mean?
Like things that I'm gonna do with my life
that I'm not gonna, don't necessarily have to affect me.
Really.
Only thing that matters is where you're at.
So that's a lot of people got mental issues and stuff.
It's cause they're always looking the other way.
They're not even looking where like,
or looking where they are, how much, what they got.
It's always, oh, there's more, something better over there.
And that's what social media is so bad for.
All right, we-
Yeah, for each his own and yeah, do you is how it works.
All right, do we have any questions for Ryan?
If not, you know, again,
I think my term has always been like A to Z farmer.
And I hope that you at least kind of understand
where I'm coming from there,
where you understand growing the plant,
building the soil system,
and then creating a medicine from that,
that is far superior to most other products.
And I hope after today,
people realize that putting in the time and effort,
you're gonna be able to achieve this for yourself.
And after a little while, man,
it's definitely a labor of love,
but you're finding ways to minimize the labor
so that you can go out and hang out with the real love,
with your lady and coming back to these ladies is nice,
and getting away even for like a couple of days
and having the technology now,
like we didn't have that shit, dude.
Actually, when I was growing wheat,
we didn't even have iPhone yet.
So it was fucking, like I remember sitting in a bar
and my business partner at the time
bought us Red Rocks tickets on his phone
and I was fucking blown away.
I couldn't believe that you could do that.
And now here you are going away,
checking on your growing real time.
It wasn't always like this either.
Yeah, yeah.
I used to be ball and chain to the growth.
For sure.
It's just interesting how things have changed
and find success in this or find success in something else
that has to do with what you're interested in.
But I can't stress this enough.
I mean, just being an entrepreneur,
paying in your own way with your own business,
there's just something to that.
And as the years go by,
you're gonna be rewarded for putting in all that time.
Life's going by either way.
So when you're working for somebody else, man,
it can be brutal and it's hard to sometimes,
myself, I will speak for myself.
It's hard sometimes when you feel certain,
when people, at least when you feel like your boss
is treating you a certain way,
where you don't wanna actually speak how you feel.
And I don't even mean in like a malicious way,
just like, yo, I feel like the way you talk to me
is disrespectful.
But in a business sense, in a corporate sense,
you'd probably be fired for that
or they'd find ways to get rid of you.
So when you're on your own, you can,
somebody's, I like that part.
Like if I feel like somebody's fucking me over,
it's just, hey man, I don't wanna do business with you.
And people are kind of like, they're jaw drops sometimes.
And it's like, yo, I just don't wanna, nevermind.
Yeah, it's not worth it.
I tried to do business with these two ladies in Kansas.
They were gonna like make some stuff for us.
And then I straight up told them like,
all right, this is taking too long.
I just can't see my wife and I are frustrated with it
to be honest.
And I almost feel like they were taken back
that I was being that honest about it.
You know, and I wasn't just making up some bullshit.
Like straight up, you guys dropped the bag, man.
I can't deal with this.
I appreciate you.
JLF, right now my JLFs are frozen solid.
Just like the soil in the forest, when it freezes,
microbes do not die.
So your JLF will wake back up in the spring.
My JLFs in the garage probably frozen too.
So I was gonna actually dump some, I had some pumpkin.
I was gonna dump it in one.
I opened it up.
It was like this block of ice.
I was like, oh, fuck it.
Well, cool.
You have anything else, Marco?
No, I think we're good, man.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, we'll keep rocking, try to get some good guests.
I don't know, email me if y'all want some good guests
since I'm not on IG or hit Brian up.
Yeah, I got some guests in the back pocket.
But yeah, man, it's just been a wild ride this year, man.
And I think next year is gonna be,
if you plant all these seeds and trees,
I think they're gonna bloom next year for a lot of us.
So I'm excited to see that.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, guys.
Yeah, thank you, Ryan.
Thank you, London.
London and I have been talking behind the scenes,
so we got a lot of things
we'll probably be announcing here soon.
But I wanted to respectfully also have a meeting
with you, Marco, so we can discuss everything
and make sure that everybody's on point.
But I'm looking forward to just being able to,
I don't even know the best way to say that, London.
Like, bougie it up a little bit, Marco.
Like, we could have an intro, buddy.
I want music, man.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, we're gonna switch shine this a little bit.
So, you know, organize.
Maybe we should start doing like video numbers
so that people can catalog this.
You know, little things like that,
I think we're gonna eventually,
or now have the opportunity where people can probably
find these topics a little bit easier.
Yeah, I love it.
Sounds like a plan.
All right, Ryan.
Yeah, man, we're gonna come back to you for sure
talking about this.
And then of course, hopefully we can get your boss
to let us come to the shop one day and film that
because it's a beautiful store.
The colors are just unbelievably vibrant.
And I would imagine it's because you're using mother nature
and using microbial world, right?
Breaking down as much as possible, yeah.
Yeah, it's gorgeous store.
All right, well, thank you.
Thank you, Ryan, man.
Appreciate you, man.
Great conversating with you.
And I'd love that, you know,
we have such similar growing style.
It's pretty dope, man.
Much success to you in the coming year, man.
And we'll stay in touch, bro.
Much love.
Thank you, man.
