If you guys, where's Nora?
Careful, careful, ladies.
Here, first everyone come here.
There's Tweedle Dee.
Where's Tweedledum?
Where's your sister?
Come on, Valentina.
So Joe Romaji, you look like you have a little glide in your stride right now.
He feels a little lighter, that's for sure.
With my, well one's a newborn, but with my other two daughters we talk poo all day long.
So it's a topic close to my heart.
I was saying James should huddle up with you in the bathroom, because that's what my daughters
do.
Yeah, we're going to log in.
There's no, here's, all right, where's number two?
Oh my gosh, it's the top of the head.
Oh, it's the top of the head.
Yeah, we are live.
Happy Sunday, everybody.
Happy Sunday.
Happy Sunday, everyone.
See ya.
See ya.
All right, go for it.
Hey guys, welcome to the James Loud Show.
We're at episode 34.
We're doing a real short episode today.
I got my good friend, Mr. Joe, Dr. Joe Romaji here, and we're going to be discussing cannabis.
We're just free flowing here.
We're doing, both of us like jujitsu, so we're going to do this impromptu jujitsu style episode.
Yeah, and I'm all COVIDed up.
He's all COVIDed up.
I just wanted to say actually, real quick.
I appreciate to all growers that did interviews like this 20 years ago, and like, hey, I'm
Grower X, so that I can do shit like, hi, I'm Joseph Romaji, and I work in this industry
very proudly.
Yeah, I mean, you talk about Kenny, you know, Kenny from Tricob Technologies.
I mean, he did a CNN episode until like 94, 95, I believe, where he was in the shadows.
Like literally, that's how you had to do interviews back then, and we can do them live today.
It's a great thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, you talk about a plant, it's kind of weird saying that we couldn't do it
legally before, but moving forward.
Times, they are changing.
For sure.
It's been crazy.
As a Californian, it's been crazy watching legalization happen.
So I got something here I want to show you guys.
This is, you know, talk about times when things were illegal.
This is the original grinder before grinders.
So my friend, Gmon, I was at his house yesterday.
Yeah, you look at grinders from today and from the past.
This is called the Mary Gin, right?
And so you put your nugs in here.
And back in the day, it was nugs with seeds and leaves.
You put them in here.
This is the coolest present I've gotten in a long time, by the way.
So you put them in there and then you twist it and all your leaves and bud comes down.
If you have sticky bud, it's not going to work quite as well.
But back in the day, we had a lot of seeds in the cannabis, especially in the 60s and
70s.
And Gmon's an old school guy.
And yeah, I got to hang out with him yesterday.
It's been a minute since we got to hang out.
I've known him for quite a while, from my chef years.
And yeah, good stuff.
Hopefully we'll be hanging out more this week.
But yeah, so getting into science, we're going to talk about Hoplite and Viroite a little
bit, you know, because I've been having conversations with people all over the place about Hoplite.
I've been seeing people that think they have Hoplite and they show it to me.
Oh, yeah.
We've been discussing pictures from friends.
One of my buddies who's also been on the show, I'm not going to name his name because who
knows if he wants to share that he thought he had Hoplite, but he has broad mites and
russet mites.
He has the HPLV.
He has.
Well, he doesn't have the, I don't think he does, because what I was talking about with
Joe is 100% germination rate.
He's getting, you know, in the first season it was rooting rate.
His rooting rate.
Yeah, exactly.
His rooting rate from clones is still 100%.
So more than likely he doesn't have Hoplite.
He has russet mites or broad mites.
It looks like he has russet and broad mites.
It's hard when it's like, it's rarely one thing, right?
So many things are usually going on in grows.
Totally.
And a lot of times you could have, he could have Hoplite and he could, yeah, it's anything's
possible.
You need to test your, your plants in this day and age, we can test for that stuff.
It's a beautiful thing.
I think for russet mites and broad mites, you know, the best treatment for that, you
know, we've come to agreement through several people, mycothiol disperse with two S's on
the end is a great solution.
You know, Ivy just even agrees on that one.
Yeah.
And like the big point being like, you have to wipe out the reproductive cycle.
It's not right.
So you're doing a treatment every three days for seven treatments.
And then you want to take new, new cuts just in case and start fresh.
As far as like, that's the best way to go is as far as for broad and russet mites and
the mycothiol disperse also works for powdery mildew.
So there you go.
You got a great solution.
If you guys have PM russets or broads, love that stuff.
So yeah.
Let's see what else?
Oh yeah.
So I was, I just had the reason I thought he was gearing up with all the stuff was because
I've been in a whole bunch of super spreader events over the last couple of weeks.
I was in Seattle and then I got back from Seattle and I went to Joe Rogan.
We saw Joe Rogan.
And then I was at Masonix where with the free seed giveaway, which was absolutely amazing
by the way.
That that's just, you know, I think free seed day every year, very similar to comic growing
up.
We had a free comic day where you can go to the comic store and they would give you free
comics.
So I I'm totally into it.
And then I went to slightly stupid that night before I did the last show at Masonix on Sunday.
And you had some crazy videos from backstage.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Black backstage with Marlon Marlon performed it slightly stupid and I get to hang out backstage
next to Kyle's mom and Kyle's girlfriend and it was pretty amazing.
And Charlie tuna.
Yeah.
So Charlie tuna, big fan of Charlie.
He's been around forever.
Jurassic five crushed it.
Yeah.
I saw them live at Amoeba records on hate in late 1998.
It's so amazing.
The production that they put on is ridiculous.
Those guys are just, you know, they've been around forever.
I think Bradley Bradley know from sublime was kind of the guy who turned them on to
everybody.
And, you know, and ever since then they've just been freaking rocking and, you know,
unique as it is, they have a Kyle and miles switch instruments, bass to guitar.
And that's what got me into them in the early 2000s was seeing these guys swapping instruments.
So yeah, who's holding out to cut chemists?
Definitely legit.
Sorry, right now they know we're reading the, yeah, we're reading the chat for sure.
So yeah.
So if you guys have any questions about tissue culture or hoplate and Veroid or Veroids in
general, byroids.
And still like my constant update of misinformation on Instagram.
You can't cure viral diseases by topical treatments.
You cannot dip plants in zero tall bleach, alcohol, or sugar water to cure them of viral
infections.
This doesn't make the plants not dud.
It's kind of this topical thing that bucket, man, it might clean up like some bacterial
infection that causes things to be worse.
But again, topical treatments don't cure hoplate and Veroid or any of the other fucking viruses
there we're starting to see.
You're sending me crazy pictures of like curled up leaves that like until I want it,
I want to see the testing because it's like, Oh, that looks like fucking beet curly top
in the hemp fields of Colorado.
And we're seeing it on the West coast and that's fucking awful.
Yeah.
And more than likely that's what it is.
I mean, you know, so I'm seeing stuff from all over from friends and from, from clients.
Hey man, I don't know if you know, but cuts sometimes move across state lines.
It's fucking weird.
It's totally weird.
Yeah.
These licenses, I don't know.
They weird shit.
I like conception, but yeah, so we're seeing viruses pop up all over the place and this
is just the beginning.
We're going to see more and more of it.
So clean your tools, y'all plant juices, spread disease, pop seeds, but seeds also, you can
reinfect seed.
Yeah.
I mean, I think so you were talking about stuff and then I have a friend who just popped
a whole bunch of seeds from a breeder and he had them tested and they had hoplate.
So and a percentage of them.
And the crazy controversy right, or it's not crazy, but controversy right now about seed
transmission of hoplate and viroid is different groups are doing different studies.
So all the vectors at purple city genetics is doing tests on these seed run lines.
Jeremy Warren at dark hearts put out info about this.
Other people have done all these spots and there's contradictory information.
Some people are saying that the results show very low amounts of seed transmission.
Other groups are showing no seed transmission and everyone is wondering if this is like
a sampling size issue or a limit of detection issue.
So cannabis is now experiencing something that's been happening in science for a very
long time, which is a replication crisis.
So no one group can really do anything anymore.
You need to see that it's reproducible in different States, in different labs.
How many times have you said flower to multiple THC content labs and gotten like different
numbers like nothing or very few things are like binary.
So we're talking like, you know, all the crypto people know two F a two factor authentication,
double tap verification.
A lot of people are sending out testing to more than one testing company now.
So even though I have stuff in Sacramento, I'm working with this company called to me
genomics T U M I genomics.
They're on my Instagram.
I'll try to post it later.
They're helping is like this kind of person.
That's not me that does this important testing.
Yeah.
So that's a test your stuff, clean your tools, seeds, clones, whatever, as long as you're
trying to grow fire.
Yeah.
And I think testing, testing, testing, you know, as a homebrewer, you, you may not be
able to test for it, but you should be learning to identify it by looking at the pictures.
Like on Joe's Instagram, you can go to his it's Joe S Romani.
R a M H I and Instagram.
You look at his page.
He has a lot of pictures of fucking plants.
Yeah.
I'll post that.
I'll post some today so you guys can check it out.
Yeah.
And that's this guy and his cats.
But as far as cannabis, I mean, you guys have to start identifying stuff.
And the thing with Hopliten is it's, it's kind of like COVID is there.
You can, you can have it, but you know, controversial topics for sure.
But as far as it's, it's hugely asymptomatic and symptomatic.
I've found it in damn near every fucking place I've gone looking for it in every state.
I know that it's in multiple countries.
I have worked with groups that have imported plants, hemp plants, and you know, stuff that
had brought Hopliten, but we know it's on the West coast.
So we know it's in Canada, Europe, probably, you know, Mexico and all over North America.
Hawaii.
I don't know about Asia yet, but I don't have that many folks growing THC in variety yet.
But I'm not throwing any bugs.
I don't think they're going to get there.
It's eventually going to be everywhere.
It is global.
It's as global as Metro Worldwide.
And we all just need to work together to kind of test and move past it.
Yeah.
Move past it.
Because the next thing.
And prepare for it.
Yeah.
And set up SOPs that, that can help us identify problems in the future so that we can identify
those before they become bigger issues.
And I think, you know, we're not going to get rid of it.
But what do we got here?
Oh yeah, that's my last thing about just viruses of plants.
Yeah.
The thing is, is like the industry standard right now for tool sanitation, you can't
average for it.
It's probably going to be isopropyl alcohol.
And that does not eradicate or prevent the spread of many virus and viroid diseases in
plants.
Alcohol has been great for, you know, killing bacteria and all sorts of stuff.
But mirroring horticulture and like, you know, people that are growing billions of plants,
they sterilize their tools with those industry standards are more like bleach or Virkon S.
I use house bleach because it's cheap and plentiful and I don't wear nice clothes to
the lab.
But I'm like, people need to, yeah, I've seen so many mom rooms lost and like so many like
fire genetics that I smoked 10 years ago that they're not, it's hard to find certain cuts
because it's hard to find verified clean genetics of many things.
Like what James was saying, a lot of small grows.
If you're like an individual consumer grower buying clones, buying seeds, this is less
of an issue as long as you're working with companies that are doing these things.
But if you're a skilled producer and trying to grow thousands, tens of thousands, millions
of plants, these are real issues that, you know, the banana people know about.
Citrus, orange people know about.
Hops, beer growers know about.
And we're all, and you know, and I'd like to teach those folks about weed.
So they taught, they teach me about Huanglongbing or citrus greening disease in oranges.
And I teach them about what's going on in cannabis.
Usually when we're either doing something that has to do with oranges, cannabis or hops.
Nice.
But yeah.
Yeah.
What else?
So they're on the October 16th and 17th, there's the Bare Roots Festival.
I'm donating seeds so that everybody at the door gets a pack of Gonza Farmer's Seed Company
seeds or Loud Canagenics, one of my, one of my brands.
Oh, someone asked a good question.
Does it stick around in outdoor soil?
Shared beds are kind of like interesting right now.
I would guess yes.
I would guess yes too.
But people are like, people all, there's all these dope, amazing questions that people
haven't kind of like systematically pumped out and, you know, published in either a scientific
journal or Instagram or some kind of like forum where people are like, hey, I have this
observation, here's the records, let's see if it's real.
Right?
We've seen soil bed infections.
I know.
I know.
Yeah.
So really, really bad in the city.
One of our buddies that like, yeah, that I actually was going to call up later today,
but we'll talk about him later.
Nice.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, oh.
While I'm on, because he's probably, he might be in the chat.
Joe Jitsu from SoCal, Carlos Machado, Black Dog, Roll Dogs, Komodos, thank you for the
thank you for the A2.
Always good to be back training and have new armor.
And I know someone's going to put me to sleep with the lapel of that Gi.
So it looks very comfy.
Thank you.
I'm going to come to that shit.
People are like, what is he talking about?
So we're talking about, so just to give you a little backstory on what Joe's talking about,
our other buddy Joe, who also does Jiu Jitsu said Joe and Gi, since he's out of shape.
I'm getting there.
Hey, I've both lost and gained weight during COVID.
Hey, can you hand me that picture right there?
Which one?
Yep.
That one.
So this right here, I want to show you guys.
This was a gift from my good friend, Ben, who won with the Blackwater with Cali Connection years ago.
He sent this.
This is the new addition to the wall.
So it's Jerry.
I love it.
You guys want to see me down in LA, Hollywood Bowl.
I'll be there all three nights on the 29th, 30th and 31st at a dead and company.
Should be a lot of fun.
Let's go to the chat.
And you guys have any questions?
I think someone said, what was the percentage rate of transmission through seeds?
We don't know exactly, but it's small.
Probably less than 20.
The people that have put out numbers, they're like, oh, like we found like 10%, 20%, but they didn't test every seed,
which is kind of technically impossible.
It's all about statistics.
And do you have a representative sample?
Are you testing 1,000 samples and getting 10%?
Or are you testing 50 samples and getting 10%?
Those are two completely different things.
And a lot of times people go with the shortcut.
Wasn't there an article recently that said 90% of nurseries in California, 90% is a very high number.
It's probably 100%.
It depends on what their library is.
It honestly depends on what their library is.
For sure.
And I know, you know, I've been hearing stories about a lot of nurseries testing specifically for hoplatin and calling everything that has hoplatin.
So I think that 90%, even if it was 90%, is going to go way down, you know, just because of awareness more than anything.
A lot of people tend to kind of do these drastic things over a one-year period where they try to churn it and burn and turn their whole population over in like a window of time,
from TC or seed or moms from a clean room that they built.
But it's actually really interesting watching the different scale populations do that or the different scale companies do this.
And because it all depends on the library.
It all depends on the library.
So we got a question from Al the Beastly.
What are the best things you can do as a breeder to prevent these viruses passing on through seeds besides testing?
So I mean, common practices that you would use is sanitize your tools and bleach.
I think that's first and foremost.
If you're doing cuttings, you know, be aware of what hoplatin viroid is.
And also, if you see plants that are struggling or are stressed out, you may want to avoid breeding with those specific plants.
I mean, I think there's a lot of common sense stuff.
But I don't know if common sense ain't common, yo.
Like, for sure.
Not everyone breeds like you, right?
Where some people, I've met breeders where they're like, if they will deal with, they're like, I only have this one male or I only have this female of a certain genetic.
And they'll bring them to the dance, even if they're not the strongest pollen donor or pollen receptor, right?
Yeah.
And if I want to put a male plant out to stud, you're not going to send, you know, like.
So it's people do, what someone told me recently that is helping me work with teams.
It's like you got a war with the army you have, not the army that you want.
Right. So everything is this cost benefit analysis of what's acceptable and what's not acceptable.
So I've literally worked with companies that are like, we cannot afford to throw out every plant tonight.
And I'm like, that is option C. Right.
You know, you have many options to deal with this.
A lot of people work with these waves.
I tell people compartmentalize your growth.
Right. The days of massive rooms for genetics and cuttings are probably over flower.
You know, that's, you know, we'll talk. That's wide open debate. Right.
About like mono rooms versus mixed rooms.
Flower. Anyways, I'm talking about like you want many smaller rooms for genetic storage because if something gets into the room gone.
Right. Like you want these options to wipe out problem areas.
Right. It's just it's a lot like how nodes of like computer networks work.
You don't want to bet everything on one thing. Right.
And in many times. And that's what's so nice about TC as far as like germplasm storage is like, oh, this test tube or, you know, this 10 test tubes.
Because I would never want one plant TC of anything. If it's like a backup of a backup.
Yeah. We've all learned from our. I lost stuff.
And most people, if you've worked with a ton of genetics, everyone's lost. Right.
But, you know, people want backups on backups. Right.
Well, sometimes the ones that look garbage are the most fire in the world. Oh, yeah. Totally.
Like I've worked with people that they're like, I would never run this plant, but she smells amazing. Right.
And I'd be like, why? And they're like structure, weight, yield. Right.
The Turk profile is amazing. So you argue biodiversity or yield.
And you're like, I want both. Right. Fuck it. I want a thousand strains in my lab.
Which is hard to maintain. Right. So, yeah. So I got some questions for you since we're sitting here talking about science.
We want to jump into tissue culture real quick, because I feel like that's one of the things that Joe is an expert on.
An expert in the field, one of the top guys in cannabis as far as tissue culture.
Oh, thanks, bro. Well, I mean, it's a fact. I got numbers. I've run some of the big events that you've done.
I've got some big numbers. I don't put a rookie number.
So, yeah, I mean, if you heard of Dark Heart, this is the guy, TC guy back in the day.
But, yeah. So as far as going into TC and Hoplite, now, if we need to clean up, let's say I have Hoplite and I've tested for it.
I'm suspicious that my plant has Hoplite and Vero. I get it tested. I give it to you.
And it's positive. What is the next step? Do I test it again to make sure?
The thing is, is Hoplite can be on multiple parts of the plant.
So it doesn't just appear necessarily I want. And it can be positive, negative.
We can have false positives, false negatives. And there's no knowns, unknown unknowns, unknown unknowns.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. So I've worked with many people now that they're like, like you just said, you walk in and you're like, I have a plant.
This genetic is fire and she's positive.
The first thing I fucking tell everyone is if this isn't your proprietary genetics and this cut, the same cut exists somewhere else, find it.
I'll help you find it. I didn't test it. No, no.
Go find some offsite location and go test that shit because finding a clean version of your cut is the cheapest, fastest way, period.
Facts. Right. However, I love when I meet people from Kentucky or Mendo growers that are like I'm a third generation cannabis grower.
And this is my grandpappy's flower. I'm like, fuck, yes. Let's protect American farmers.
Yeah. And I was like, OK, we've got to fix this. Right. If it's hot.
Yeah, it's this whole cycle. Right. And you can verify and look into these things at land grant universities like Madison, Wisconsin, University of California, Davis, University of California, Riverside, Clemson University out back east.
And many universities have these agricultural labs that they specialize in something.
In Davis, we do straw. We did strawberries and like fruit and nut trees.
Anyways, yeah. So you can do your homework. I post stuff about these kinds of things.
And what they'll do is they'll take these infected plants and they will bring them into tissue culture, which is called initiating things in vitro, initiating into TC intake into TC,
all sorts of jargony words to basically turn this outside plant into something that's not quite a plant,
but plant parts that live in a test tube and sterile environment stuck in like either a liquid media that's very close to deep water culture.
When you look at the nutrient profiles, but kind of like a closed loop that you cannot re-top off.
And or it's like it's in the semi-solid jello thing. Right.
Which is what a lot of the posts that I put up on. And it's kind of like this industry standard,
just like these little soup container looking things with ventilation at the top and this nutrient media that's solidified by auger.
And so, yeah. So now that you have this plant in vitro, even if it it's likely you did some treatments with either all sorts of pre initiation therapies,
heat treatment, cold treatment, cold storage, chemotherapies with these chemicals that are also used in like animal systems to just like prevent the replication of viruses.
I fuck with all these things, have my own things. There's all sorts of companies saying that that is their proprietary patent pending thing.
Guess what? If a patent doesn't have a number, it's just an app. It's just been applied. Right.
So many people in the IP world, a lot of things are straight up trade secrets.
That's what a lot of the real Coca-Cola secrets out there is a trade secret.
Because when you file patents, you actually have to write what you're doing. Right.
Also on my Instagram is like Lauren, the comments or links to other patents that other cannabis companies have tried to put out there.
Marist and cleanup therapy being one of them. So you have these little plants in vitro and at the growing tip, every plant.
All right. Well, what's a plant when you try to explain it abstractly?
You're like, what the fuck is a plant? Right. It's green photosynthetic.
I'm even simpler. A plant has a top and a bottom. Period. Right.
That sentence is true. Every plant has a shoot apical meristem and a root apical meristem.
And they have many of them. But there's a top one and there's a bottom one.
And there's these hormone gradients that's both of the top and the bottom send.
And every part of the plant knows where it is in between the top and the bottom.
What we do to clean up plants is we micro dissect in a sterile environment.
The top brain shoot apical meristem. It's like eight hundred to a thousand cells.
It's 200 nanometers. The width of a human hair.
It's literally like peeling a Brussels sprout and getting to the core of a Brussels sprout without infecting it with the Brussels sprout juice of the leaves on the outer layers.
So it's this tedious dissection against something else that like, you know, other companies and me have put on me, put pictures of me online doing it.
Right. Because I've established these protocols at several different companies now.
And yeah, so you dissect that shit and you put it on a special media with a hormone concentration that tells it that there's a bottom when there isn't.
And then a shoot grows. And now you got a plant.
If you do that enough times with enough of the treatments from an infected plant, you will should get or can get clean negative testing plants out of the other end in a few months.
Hey, basically just core it with a big needle. No, no.
I've tried this. The needles get stuck and jammed up.
But you need to like, you know, the industry standards, there's videos online.
You know, it's the you know, people are dissecting with scalpels and all sorts of tools.
But the key is right. Can't just core it out because that inner clean thing in the center is surrounded by viral infected tissues.
Right. So you can't just cut it out because the viruses on the outer layers will get into the inner layers.
So it's a pain in the ass. I can't drink caffeine those mornings that I do this work.
And yeah. However, yeah. Many groups or not even many, several groups.
I trust to do this, but I count those groups on hand and I won't say anymore.
Right. For sure. Got to trust with verify. A lot of people are selling these services and they don't really know what they're doing, but they want you to pay for it.
That's been going on in this industry for decades. Right.
Well, there's many forms of tissue culture. There are many forms of tissue culture.
There's a big misunderstanding that tissue cultures on the net. There's forms of tissue culture. We're dealing with meristem.
Yeah. You know, I mean, that's other companies. They're not just dealing with that. They're doing a much simpler version.
You can buy home kits for tissue culture. You're not doing meristematic.
Yeah. So there's no little tissue culture, which is, you know, it's basically tiny cloning. Right.
It's awesome. Yeah. You cut little pieces of plants, stick them in the jello plants.
Two other technologies that are kind of becoming more commonly used in at least North American cannabis industry is the East Coast.
Kids are ahead of the West Coast on like callous regeneration, somatic embryogenesis, recovering plants from dissociated cultures.
Shout out to like Shiner 420 TC. He's out of Providence, I think.
And, you know, several groups out of the East Coast have very promising looking results from that kind of stuff.
Meristem culture is everywhere. You know, West Coast groups, East Coast groups, European groups.
However, you know, many people are also saying that they're doing no little propagation and that cleans up hoplite and viroid infection.
And I'm like, interesting. Right. Sure. Which is possible because I firmly believe that some people have fucking cloned their way out of it.
I think you can outgrow it. Yeah. And outgrow it. Sure. You can totally outgrow it.
If you keep your plants super healthy. If your plants are super healthy, you might find that one cut.
And I'm like, that's incredibly lucky. Yeah, you're getting lucky.
But you're working in numbers. Statistically, you should be able to outgrow.
Yeah. What's a happy.
When I saw someone said about hops plants from test tubes. Oh, yeah. Plants from test tubes.
Oh, yeah. It's a great book. It's like under $20 on Amazon.
Yeah. Also, PDFs are available online. Funny enough, like PDFs of many books are available online.
You know, like livegen.co. There's like all these free textbooks, Sci-Hub for the win, research articles.
A lot of stuff is stupidly paywalled out there. But, you know, there are ways around things. Right.
I mean, 17 year olds that tell me they don't know how to get free music. Yeah. And it makes me sad, bro.
It makes me sad. And it makes you feel old.
Spotify. Yeah. Hey, there's always Spotify.
Napster is just a paying streaming service. Right. Napster.
The ones that pay them the most. They pay artists the most. Good.
Good shit. Napster. OK, so we're going back to the chat.
What else we got here, guys? Good book on breeding autos.
I don't think there is a good book on breeding autos yet. I definitely don't.
I haven't seen it. If there is one. I know this guy, James Loud, is working on a book that's going to have a section about autos.
It has a big section on autos, breeding autos, history of autos, all kinds of stuff.
But that's not out yet. You know, we'll do another autoflower show.
I'll get some autoflower guys on here for sure. Someone asked about good breeders for seeds.
I still think Rob Clark's 1970 book or his original book, Cannabis Botany, is one of the most money books on breeding.
Because it's like parts of it comes straight out of a genetic textbook.
We have 100% regular autos. So for me, I did not breed any regular autos.
I've been working on autos for three years now. I only do feminized autos.
And there's nothing wrong if you're selling them to homegrowers, but there's very few, if any, maybe in Mexico, they would buy your regular autos.
But most people want feminized seeds in bulk for an acre.
It would be hard to separate all those males out. And the amount of time and labor, it wouldn't be conducive to the cost.
So I think it's great. I do breed some regular, but I do not sell autos that are not feminized.
I think a lot of people, and myself included, by people I mean me, I loosely refer to myself as people.
But a lot of things scale weird. Like roguing males is something that the labor that goes into walking your population and getting rid of bananas,
that gets really expensive when it gets bigger and bigger and bigger.
Totally. But if you guys are looking for good autos out there besides the stuff that I have available, obviously Mephisto, they got some killer stuff.
Mandalorian, it used to be Mandalorian, now I believe they are called Gnome Automatic or Gnome Autos or something like that.
They have this anvil and they have another variety that's black.
Those really high quality genetics, I've seen some awesome stuff coming from them.
So if you guys are looking for those, Compound does amazing stuff.
There's a bunch of breeders. I'm not going to throw a bunch out, but I really like Compound's feed.
There's a person that asked for banks and I wanted to just throw out a bunch of banks.
Seeds Here Now. Go to Seeds Here Now. They sell my stuff.
You're welcome, James.
Seeds Here Now, they sell my gear. I like Seeds Here Now. You can find the stuff, type in.
Anyone else sell your stuff?
I don't know. Who else? Oh shit, I almost forgot about Daga.Love.
Peter's in the background like, Daga.Love has my gear. In fact, we got to restock Daga.
We're going to do some special stuff just for Peter on Daga. Coming up here in a second.
We'll do some exclusive stuff only for Daga.
You guys are wondering why my stuff isn't out everywhere.
The reason I do that is because I know that I trust Peter and I trust James from Seeds Here Now.
Those guys aren't going to knock my gear off.
If you're looking for my stuff, there's only two places you can find it online.
That's Daga.Love and Seeds Here Now.
Although, California, we're looking at doing some awesome releases and dispensaries here coming up in the next three or four months, hopefully.
Chad Westport, great episode yesterday. People love Chad.
Yeah, that's the sixth time I've seen that.
Let's see. I think that's pretty much it for today.
I want one of those seed hats.
Yeah, you're not going to get one because they don't exist anymore.
God damn it.
I think for $1,000 you can get one on eBay.
Okay, I think I found something.
We're going to have more hats and more gear for sure.
After seeing the stuff Masonic does, I like his gear as far as clothing.
He has some awesome stuff. He gave me ideas for stuff that I could do.
We'll be doing hoodies and we'll be doing t-shirts and hats in the very near future.
Thank you guys for tuning in. Really appreciate it.
I think we went over 30 minutes, man.
We're talking a lot of weird stuff.
We're clickbaiting you guys into watching a longer show.
Yeah, 33.
We're at 33 minutes.
Sanitize your tools, please.
Sanitize your tools. You got questions, go to Joe. DM him on Instagram.
Peter, you got anything else you want to wrap up with?
Yeah, just Chad, who's in the audience right now, is going to be on with Pedro, who's live bubble hashed.
I think Pedro is chopping today down here in SoCal.
He's going to walk us through all the hash yielders that he grew this season.
Anyway, that's in an hour and 45 minutes from now, 2 p.m. Pacific time.
Oh, you got to see this weed though. Real quick.
I got some testers. This is cherry lime number 14.
Smell that.
Oh, Jesus.
We're going through some testers. This is straight cherry lime. It's freaking unreal.
Big ups to my guys up in Seattle for doing amazing work up there.
Jason, he's bringing some really good stuff.
Thanks for the chat on the last show.
House of Cultivar, buy their shit.
Okay, House of Cultivar, shout out. I haven't coughed once today.
That's impressive.
That's true. I forgot about that last time. I was packing up lungs.
Joe went light on the barbecue today.
Someone was all like, you need rosemary water.
Rosemary water, Jason.
I was like, wow.
Take it easy, all.
Sterile electric tools. Much love.
Thank you guys very much. Tune in next week.
We'll have another show for you. Have a good one.
Yeah, and just quickly, what's the cherry lime a cross of?
This cherry lime is actually cherry lime 27 wedding cake black lime reserve F4.
Which is, oh yeah, it's cherry lime.
Yeah, I think cherry lime 27.
I'm not sure.
There's other cherry limes.
It's not cherry lime haze.
This stuff is not a haze at all.
This stuff is fucking.
It's pungent and it smells.
I get straight lime like a kefir lime.
Almost more of a kefir lime with like a Bing cherry,
like very specific turps and it has gas.
It has like a little breadiness to it as well.
You get that bread like the cake.
Yeah, that kind of like bread kind of background.
Yeah, so there's another way to get that like lime.
Grab the 30.
Lime zest.
Not the.
Yeah, this one right here.
The zest, but it's more of a, you know, I would say kefir and then smell this one.
This one straight.
So we have another feet of it.
It's a little chocolatey and it is.
And the funny thing is, it's one of those ones you fire the road trip.
The road still tastes good.
I love it.
Oh, it's my favorite part of the job.
Oh, no, my real favorite is when plants still alive.
This is a close second.
Yeah, it's amazing.
It's also amazing.
Yep.
Well, thank you guys.
I hope you guys have a wonderful week and I'll talk to you next Sunday.
Thank you very much.
Bye.
All right.
See everyone.
