I'm Newell Taylor. I'm Chelsea Duggan and we're the co-founders of Newell's Botanicals.
We're a topicals company that has won this competition the last two years in a row.
One of the surprises coming back again this third year in a row is
noticing how many people are not here. A lot of our friends that have been here
in the past and are not here, not participating, well not here participating.
They might be here at the show. We feel privileged to actually make it
past the first two extinction level events that have moved a lot of people
out of the manufactured products end of the market. We're very thankful for our
distributor to help us get past that point and our manufacturing partner to
help us be in compliance. The landscape is really changing and we're
trying to stay in it and trying to help our fellow sun-grown cannabis folks stay
in business. The other thing I noticed about the Emerald Cup this year is
there's a lot less weed. This is the Hall of Flowers, right? So there's no
weed sales in this room where we are. But this time last year there were so many
people walking around with blunts in their mouths that this room was hotboxed.
And so what I'm noticing is despite greater access to cannabis there's not a
whole lot of it here. Like where's the guy with the blunt bandoliers? What
happened to that? That was awesome.
No, I'm definitely seeing the cannabis industry evolve cannabis culture. It's no
longer just your Cheech and Chong kind of a thing. It's your mom, pop,
Vado are starting to use cannabis more. The Boomers are actually using cannabis
more and you can tell that it's changed the whole industry that we work in. It's
been interesting to watch that development. It's interesting to see how
it's playing out here at the Emerald Cup. And how everyone's bringing their
packaging game up. The boxes are really fly this year, I have to say.
What was your hardest moment over the last 12 months?
Shared manufacturing. Trying to find a location actually build on it. Trying to
make sure that we we could stay in business. And then the BCC regulations,
you know, making that type of manufacturing questionable. And yeah, and
then trying to find investment to actually keep us floating and moving
forward. It's a lot. Well, you live it with me. It's stressful.
So I think for me the worst was when they dropped the reg revision after the
45 day comment period and immediately banned our business model with two weeks
of comments allowed. And then they sent that off to the OAL to get written into
law. So you know, that was a there's been multiple existential crises
throughout the last year. Like are we going to survive this one? That was the
worst. I had like a breakdown. Like I'm not gonna be okay for a while. But you
what you come to figure out is like, no one's position in this industry is
guaranteed or secure. And if you want to keep if you want to be here, month
after month, year after year, it's it basically comes down to not quitting.
How did you come to be in the cannabis industry? From your position, your
perspective?
Okay.
At that point in time, we're talking like seven, eight years ago. I was I was
married to somebody who was having really bad health problems due to
prescription medications. And so I told him he should start smoking weed
instead. And it kind of led us down a path for a while where we got really
involved in advocacy, public speaking at shows like this. And then I just I kind
of knew that I just wanted to be around cannabis and where it was going, that I
could actually fulfill my my kind of inner drive to help people through this
new commercial pathway that was at that point in time, just expanding, right. And,
you know, fast forward a bunch of years, and I had a lot of contacts in the
industry and a lot of jobs under my belt and experience and a lot of cannabis
knowledge. And so when I saw that the the market in the topical space was
saturated with stinky, sticky, ineffective, smells like weed, you know,
you know, gunk, essentially. I wasn't about to to recommend something like
that to my grandma, who, you know, was having hip surgery, and is super
Christian and conservative. I wasn't gonna be like here, Nan, rub this weed
cream on your body and go to church just reeking to high heaven. No. So we
developed something just from the ground up to be to solve all those problems to
be easy to use to be friendly to an older, more conservative customer to not
smell like weed to be highly efficacious. And, and I didn't launch that as a
product. I just handed that to my grandma. But the Emerald Cup came around in 2016.
And I decided to bottle some of it, slap a sticker on it. And then we won. It was
very unexpected. How did you feel in that in that moment?
Well, for myself, like, when you came into my life, and you discovered me, I was
working on building regenerative natural farming techniques for cannabis. Because,
you know, I came out of my background is bioremediation, cleaning up the
environment. And I realized a lot of the same techniques could be used in
agriculture to advance natural crop production. So I was, I had always been
in Canada into cannabis as a user. And it was only in the last seven to 10 years
that I got into it as like breeder producer, it was a good way to, to prove
and validate agricultural principles. It's a high uptake plant, if I could
prove that I could grow cannabis well with these techniques, I can grow
anything really well with it. And the other half, it's a clean growing
technique. You want to plant that's going to be clean for somebody using it for
potentially for their health. And I was seeing a lot of nasty products out there.
I hate hearing the statement, what do you do to flush bro? What do you mean flush?
What are you talking about flush? What is this flush you speak of? I don't have to
flush shit. I mean, my plants, they're does does nature flush, I guess, fall
rains would be a flush. But I mean, no, no, that's stupid. So that's that was my
passion and getting into it. When I met Chelsea. It's kind of a marriage made in
heaven. She she does really great plant work. I do a lot of really good soil work
and together we were coming to the Emerald Cup as a cannabis consultant team
for growing and chose to enter it to kind of validate what we do. You know,
put in a flower entry put in a topical product and ended up winning and pivot to
actually creating a business around that but we really want to get back to farming.
We we do this to support our camp to support our farming habit essentially.
And so we haven't been able to be on farm as much as we want to right now and I
want this to blow up so I can go back to like tending goats and sheep and chickens
and plants and and that's that's where I'd want to be. You know, this is all fun
and good and it's helping people but I really just want to get back on the land.
We're working in association with farms right now. A few of them here being
represented in boobs but we don't have our own farm. That was the whole purpose
for us getting into this was to actually get to that.
But I might as well plug our homies right. So so two of our source farms are
son of his full full sun farms who won. They've won multiple top 10 awards for
their flowers and their products like their manufactured products. The other
one is a green shock farms which is again won multiple top 10 Emerald Cup
awards for their flowers and also chirping last year. Yeah they end up so
they do all their own breeding in house every year they come with a fresh line
of strains that are completely unique and they're rocking terpene profiles and
no one's ever seen before. What did you do to differentiate our product from the
other things you saw in the market. You had spoken to the fact that didn't want
to smell like a hippie's man didn't want to be overly greasy and tacky. What were
some of the other factors that you were kind of shooting for when you design the
product. Well it's funny that the product ended up having such wide appeal and
doing well because when I designed it I had two people in mind very specifically
my grandma and my dad and they had very specific issues that I was trying to
address like my grandma is still caught up in that belief that that fat is bad
and she's like terrified of cholesterol and she takes statins which are just
horrible for you and nothing I do can I can convince her to stop those
destructive behaviors but I knew that the email which is one of the
ingredients in our topical I knew that it had the ability to mimic cholesterol
and so when it hits the skin and is absorbed it essentially takes the place
of missing cholesterol in handling inflammatory issues in the localized
area where you're applying it which is why email by itself is anti inflammatory.
So that was that was half the reason like I knew that she was fat phobic and I
wanted to get some good cholesterol fats into her any way that I could.
So essentially working around her own particular ways of accessing health which
aren't really serving her and since you can't get her to change behavior you
gave her a product that worked around her behavior and that was kind of your
part of your design constraints.
And then the herbal ingredients that ended up infusing into that original
batch of oil was just what I happened to have growing in my herb garden because
I we were doing permaculture cannabis cultivation at the time at the time.
So I had calendula and chamomile and a bunch of other stuff co-planted and I
harvested those flowers you know.
What pinching off little chamomile flowers every day one at a time one at a
time until I had a jar full of that a jar full of calendula.
I took some lemons off the lemon tree and I peeled them and I put those skins
into the oil too which so I did all this on instinct initially and then come to
find out well calendula is incredibly good for healing and restoring skin and
fighting infections and chamomile is one of the best medicinal plants next to
cannabis.
I would put that like cannabis number one chamomile number two like ginger
third.
And that's what I finished with.
I the one ingredient I went out and actually bought you know specifically to
put into this that I didn't have on hand was ginger CO2 extract which is
hundreds and hundreds of monoturbines and sesquiterpenes and phenols polyphenols
sterols all of all of the things that make the synergistic effect in cannabis
with the terpenes.
Most of those are found in ginger lower amounts differing varying amounts
different combinations but that's that's kind of one of the things that we really
like experimenting with also is finding out the other plants that work within the
endocannabinoid system to help modulate human human health and human metabolism
and we're researching every day we're trying new things every day we're trying
to make sure that we you know get it out to people and get actual people using it.
