Hey, my name is Cody and I want to give you guys my version of a garden tour.
We're about 45 minutes south of Chicago in the Midwest and I just want to share some
views.
I'm not trying to show off.
I don't pretend to be any kind of authority.
I don't think any kind of growing style, like I don't think my style is better than any
other.
I just want to show what works for me, at least what's working this season where I am.
And I don't know, hopefully somebody out there needs to see this.
I know maybe a couple years ago I wasn't so sure that this style would work where we are.
So I'd like to see a video like this.
So I do want to say thank you to Future Cannabis Project.
You guys are an outstanding resource.
The content you provide, the speakers, the conversations, they're bar none, especially
when everybody's stuck indoors.
So thank you so much for allowing me to contribute and I just really appreciate it.
All right.
Now one thing that's always been fascinating to me, it's always been important, is genetics.
Selections and who's making those selections.
So I've always been interested in breeding.
Everybody's lines that I choose to grow, they all seem to have very big heart.
They put it forward with passion.
They want to help people.
And those are things that I personally align with.
So that's what I choose to grow.
I also have been hobby breeding for a couple years now.
And then actually Rizzo AK reached out when he saw a male I selected.
And I got to collaborate with him.
So we have some stuff in testing.
But yeah, it's such a blast.
I don't know how to explain how exciting it is when something you make gets grown by a
friend that is in need.
Yeah, hopefully more good things to come from that.
If you see, I've got different sized plants here.
Part of that is going to be when they were transplanted.
A lot of these smaller ones here specifically are for the breeding projects I have going.
They are cuttings that have been tried and true.
And like this season I found a really nice royal wedding male.
Right here we have two royal wedding females, both from seed.
So they are sisters.
And royal wedding is from Emerald Mountain Legacy.
If you don't know who they are, please go look them up.
They are doing fantastic out here.
Now I am dry farming.
And when I say that I just mean I do not have irrigation and I am not watering.
I did give them three solo cups of water when I transplanted.
And I also inoculated with mycorrhizae and also used some superworm frass.
But I am not convinced those two steps are entirely necessary.
However they do seem to be happy.
They might be best looking plants in the garden.
You tell me.
Definitely very, very happy.
Cannot wait to see how it goes.
I plan on doing some fresh frozen.
I have a friend and his family.
What else can I say?
This one got knocked down.
And the cage sort of ripped open the stem there.
I took curry powder, made a paste with some water and put that inside where it was split.
And it seemed to heal right over.
It is just antibacterial, antipathogenic.
And that is something I picked up from Rising Moon Farms.
If you do not follow Rising Moon, go check him out.
He is also a breeder.
He grows hemp.
He grows cannabis.
Let us see what else.
This is mother's milk.
Some Bodhi.
That is going to be in a poly-OG across Appalachia.
We have Sour Dub.
This is Gorilla Glue.
Some Peace Josie.
Strawberry Banana OG.
This is Nor-Kale Dosie Dose.
And a Paradise Circus.
Just let her do her own thing.
This is the mountain cut of Tropicana Cookies.
I can touch briefly on what I did for IPM this season.
I leaned heavily on Lost Coast Plant Therapy with weekly applications.
And once the pistils went from lashes to more like palms, as my friend would say, I stopped spraying.
And started to lean on these green lacewing eggs that are on these hangers here.
Well, they were.
And, yeah.
Very minimal.
You will see some pests.
You will see some damage.
This plant is one that I really like looking at.
She is really pretty.
She seems to be just soaking up the sun.
But this plant is Black Lime Reserve across the Chem 91 Death Star.
I got these as a seed at the Organic Regenerative Conference from Buckwheat.
And that dude is an amazing artist.
He is a breeder.
He is a grower.
If you want to check him out, go on IG, underscore, underscore, Buckwheat.
And look for Green Triangle.
Thanks so much.
Thanks again.
This tent does not have much going on.
I am not really sure what happened.
This is GMO in the back.
And right away I was going to lean heavily in this tent.
This was going to be my main thing.
And immediately could tell something was wrong.
I let it go.
I sprayed with plant therapy.
Just kind of wanted to see what would happen here.
Someone can chime in and tell me what is the deal.
I appreciate it.
Right here we have another Gorilla Glue.
Looks like it is starting to show seeds here.
Nice.
Okay.
This plant is a Pfister.
It is another Royal Wedding.
But it has a totally different leaf morphology.
Kind of likes to emphasize the middle three.
And she is definitely the furthest along for flower.
Starting to really smell.
It is really nice.
We had a day of clouds and a little bit of rain.
And then last night it rained.
So they are all looking pretty happy right now.
Here we have another Paradise Circus.
Some of these big ones were actually mom.
They were my mom's I should say.
I had power outages for four days.
I decided to do a round of cuttings and put these bigger ones outside.
That would be easier to take care of the smaller ones.
So far so good.
Sour Dub.
This one is interesting.
This is a bag seed.
It is going to be Valley Girl.
Valley Girl is SFVOG cross face off OG I believe.
So far so good.
Always check the lowers and everything.
So far nothing to write home about.
I don't see any signs of unhappiness.
Maybe I got lucky.
Maybe it just isn't unhappy yet.
Those things can sure hide.
Here we have two different Panama pupils.
Mass medical strains.
Gave out some freebies last year.
My friend split the pack and gave me half.
So far so good.
This one is obviously tighter flower structure.
Looks more like what I see pupil pictures look like.
Maybe it will turn purple as we get cooler here.
This one has more of a cherry sort of a smell.
Kind of a hemp smell.
Very pretty.
Really like the smell.
Also really like how the leaves will attract the sun.
If you come in the evening it will be drooped down like it needs water.
If you come in the morning it is angled totally sideways.
Same with the evening.
In the middle of the day like this it is just all over.
That is very cool to watch.
You know what guys.
I think that brings us to what I might be the most excited about.
I don't know.
I am just super stoked.
I am really glad I get to talk about it.
So.
This is unreal to me.
This is a test line.
That I was very fortunate to be sent.
It is cashmere 22.
Across to a pure vintage afghani.
How cool is that.
What do you guys think.
Genetics from Middle East.
Growing Illinois.
In this dry soil.
Like I said it just rained.
But this soil really is.
It is dry.
Also another one I am super excited about.
I wonder if you can guess from the tag.
We got.
P triangle PU.
Any guess?
It is going to be black triangle crossed purple unicorn F3.
Again how awesome.
I mean I give thanks.
This is just too cool.
Thank you so much to Bodie.
And his family for sending this test line.
Both test lines.
I mean I have heard nothing but good things about black triangle.
Nothing but good things about purple unicorn.
I have not gotten to try either.
So man.
I am not trying to show off.
But I do feel very fortunate.
Alright to wrap this up.
I would like to say thank you.
Thank you to Peter from Future Cannabis Project.
Thank you to Leighton Morrison and Joshua Rutherford.
For putting on the organic conference.
If it was not for you I would probably still be playing with DWC buckets somewhere.
I want to say thank you to Kevin Jodry.
I want to say thank you to Hedy Medy Farms.
Thanks again to Buckwheat.
Thanks again to Rizzo AK.
Thank you to AK Bean Brains.
I want to say thank you to Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
I want to say thank you to Shango Lose and Heavy Days.
There are so many more.
I am so sorry if I forgot you.
But really I give thanks.
It is all gratitude.
And I hope you enjoyed this.
If you would like to follow me you can go on Instagram.
T H E underscore I L underscore G A N J I E R.
And once again thank you so much for checking this out.
