Live.
All right.
We are live.
Thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to butterfly sessions.
I am PJ West and tonight we are excited to be talking to Alana Davis from
dabble and discussing how to create the ultimate destination, uh, for cannabis,
cannabis destination.
So I'm excited to have you here, Alana.
Thank you so much for being here.
Um, after a long day, which I'm imagining that you guys are still deep in
harvest.
No, we are fortunate that we are all finished harvest actually for about a
week or so now.
Um, and onto processing.
So I spent the day pressing rosin and, uh, that's for our next drop coming up.
Some strawberry jam.
Ooh.
Uh, what kind of strains did you guys do this year?
Uh, so this year we had our dabble berry, which is a blueberry wedding cake
cross, uh, that we have in market.
Uh, we also have the strawberry jam, which is launching soon, as I mentioned.
Um, and then what is that?
Do you know what the lineage of that is?
I do.
Yes.
It is a pineapple express cross, uh, strawberry cough cross.
Oh man, I'm having a blank.
I mean, just those two right there.
Exciting me.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Um, that's going to come back to me.
I promise.
Anyways.
So that one is a beautiful strawberry strain.
It is named after my Nana's strawberry jam recipe, because it
smells like wild strawberries.
Um, and then we also have one called purple mistress, which is a, um, God bud.
Cross, um, lavender.
Um, and that one is going into some pre-rolls.
So that's our first dried flower offering that's coming up.
And then we had a bunch of test plants.
And so, um, we just went with the three kind of main crops this year.
And then our, we tested out a bunch of, I think about 20 different cultivars to
see what is going in the field for next year.
Nice.
Is this your second year?
Yes.
Yeah.
How is this year different than last year?
I would say the seasons were like a 180.
Uh, so the spring last year was super sunny and beautiful.
And then we had a pretty early rain, uh, right in harvest and then it was
freezing cold, like late September, mid September, whereas obviously this
year we had a super rainy spring.
Um, which really impacted the veg time for sure.
Didn't really get sunny until first couple of weeks of July.
Um, and so definitely noticed the sort of like size of the
plants was impacted a little bit.
And then the fall was an absolute banger of a incredible fall.
So super beautiful finishing conditions.
So that helped us out for, you know, adding the weight, even though the
size of the plant was just sort of like a little bit smaller overall.
Do you guys do like all outdoor?
Yes.
Yeah.
So you get one crop a year.
Are you doing any light depth?
No, no, not yet.
Okay.
Um, so are you also do, you just said you're doing some dried flower.
Do you do mostly fresh frozen though as well?
Everything is fresh frozen.
Yeah.
And then we actually, um, because we don't have any drying capacity at our
own facility, um, quite yet, cause we have a really sort of simple outdoor,
uh, field, we went kind of the opposite direction as many LPs, um, and just kept
it really, really, really simple and streamlined.
Um, so our facility consists of a security room, a, and these are all in
shipping containers, um, converted into, um, into offices and processing rooms
and a secure storage, which is a freezer.
And then in our processing trailer, it also has sort of a freezer
attached to that as well.
And then just the fertigation and, um, irrigation that side of the
that side of things.
Uh, and so, and then just a greenhouse for vegging and the moms and the clones,
uh, up until they're ready to go into the field.
And then that kind of uses a bit of a, like dual use that we kind of use that
as sort of like our harvest structure a little bit just to keep away from the
elements, usually rain, but this year it was sun.
The irony.
Yeah.
Um, how many people do you guys have on your staff?
Uh, staff of one, only, only have one full-time team member, uh, Ross, who,
uh, is our assistant grower.
And then we have just my family.
So myself and my dad, uh, kind of oversee the business.
Um, he's the COO.
So definitely does all of the sort of behind the scenes, like.
Irrigation and fixing things and, you know, always in the field, watering
and making care, making sure that all the plants are taken care of.
And then I handle the sort of regulatory and QA and marketing and strategy and.
Pretty well, everything in between.
And then, uh, we have my mom and my brother who are involved in my sister
as well, um, for everything from like sales to security and sort of harvest
support and my mom is amazing.
She just takes care of us all doing pretty much everything today.
She spent the day, uh, packaging up some new dabble berry batch.
Um, she's way better at it than I am.
If you get a really, if you get a really beautiful jar, like smack dab in the
middle, like, you know, that's a joy jar.
Cool.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Well, okay.
So, I mean, that's quite a dynamic.
That's quite the dynamic scene going on with your family.
You guys get along pretty good.
Yeah.
Most of the time, you know, it's like.
No, that's pretty cool.
Um, how much, um, Rosin are you guys pressing?
I'm just curious to know how much you've done so far.
Um, I think I had about 11,000 grams of blueberry, um, dabble berry rather,
um, from last year, and then I have just this week pressed, uh, maybe two or
3000 grams or so of the strawberry dab.
Yum.
Okay.
Yeah.
That'll take some time.
Some, some good amount of supply, uh, to carry us through.
Um, obviously that's just sitting in like curing up now, so it'll be delicious
and nice and saucy in a couple of weeks.
Ready to go out.
Um, do you know what microns you're using in your Rosin?
Mm-hmm.
So with the dabble berry, I was tricked by the fool's gold.
Uh, so I included the 45 to one 59.
Um, and with the strawberry jam, I am going to keep it to the 73 to one 59.
Um, I found that it oxidizes a little bit quicker.
And so it kind of results in that little bit of a darker
coloring, um, with the 45 in there.
Doesn't affect the taste or like flavor or anything to me, but, uh, some people
are more particular about what grades go into their Rosin.
You know, what's so funny is like 45 really sets off some people's buttons.
And like, I think the 45 can be great.
Cause it's a, you know, it's big.
So, but, um, there's definitely a change in consistency
when you get it out of there.
So that's interesting that you've taken the 45 out.
That's cool.
Yeah.
I mean, it won't go to waste.
It'll go into other projects for sure.
Potentially a, uh, infused pre-roll down the line, or I'm doing a little
experimenting with some vape carts.
Um, but we'll see.
Um, I do notice one thing that's interesting though, is when I'm washing
the 45 bag always has the most aroma.
And I've kind of been like theorizing as to why that is.
And so maybe it's if the, any of the heads are like popping at all while
you're washing or while you're sieving through the bags, I'm thinking it's
either a, that the terpenes are in, like they're flowing through the 45.
And that's the one that has the sort of most resistance and
like it drains the slowest.
And so you're just getting the terpenes that are just sort of like in that
water flowing through the 45 bag.
Or maybe it's that those are particularly aromatic sized heads.
I don't really know, but I do sort of just like anecdotally notice that when
I'm washing that bag smells the most fragrant and I would love to know why.
If anyone has that knowledge.
I know that there's people that have that knowledge, but I wish I could
answer that question too, because it's just, and you know what?
Every strain is different though too.
And sure you noticed, right.
They all have different, they dump differently in different micron sizes.
So I find it fascinating how much difference, like, you know, some
strains have like equal 45 to 73 and then some strains have like a speck of 45.
You're just like, Hmm, that's interesting.
It is what it is.
Um, have you started making your pre-rolls yet?
No, they're just, uh, curing right now.
Okay.
Are you going to do half grams or full grams or packs?
Uh, well still kind of TBD, but I'm pretty confident that I'm going to do a 0.4.
Um, reason being, uh, they're named after my mom, Joy's joints.
Um, and she is, she likes a slim joint.
And so kind of was thinking that, uh, with the like 0.3s or 0.35s or 0.4,
whatever, um, 0.4s kind of give you a, a slim, but, and like also kind of a
personal consumption at one time, you know, doesn't necessarily have to be
a sharer if you don't want it to be.
Um, but you know, no roaches.
I'm not a big roach fan.
I am pretty well exclusively dabbing these days, but, uh, um, yeah, so going
to do a 14 by 0.4 is the plan just kind of working as a packaging solution.
Cause I am hoping to find a tin that's, you know, reasonably
priced and all that fun stuff.
But the kind of concept is like, you know, 14.4s.
So you've got either, you know, two joints a day or, you know,
one, one for two weeks.
I don't know, but, uh, but, uh, yeah, kind of like that two joints a
day was sort of the play on things.
Um, that's what joy does two joints a day, more than two.
But, uh, I kind of feel like it's just like a nice quantity for people to like
be able to purchase that once not too big, not too small.
Yeah.
I call those little guys, the 0.35s dog walkers and then the 0.5s are lady
joints and then the one grams are just, that's just a joint.
That's just a joint.
Yeah.
What is, okay.
So your dad, is he a long time grower?
Uh, personal grower.
Um, never anything obviously to the size that we have now, which is
five acres of outdoor, uh, cultivation.
Um, but yes, has grown for his medical or his own personal
medical, uh, for quite a while.
That's cool.
He must be loving this.
Yeah.
Well, it was definitely his dream to have a cannabis farm.
And I don't think that he was quite prepared for how intense all of
the government stuff was going to be.
I think he had a little bit of rose colored glasses on about this, like,
amazing weed farm we're going to have.
And it is that, but also there's a lot of BS that we have to deal with
the government, uh, which obviously, you know, it's growing pains and
industry is still pretty young.
And, uh, we've got a lot of, you know, lobbying to do for ourselves and, uh,
to kind of like shape the industry, how we want it to be.
How long did it take you to get licensed?
Um, they submitted, uh, November of 2019 and got licensed October of 2020.
So a year.
Yeah.
That's a long time.
Yeah.
We, um, we did have a little bit of back and forth with health
Canada with, uh, Oh no, you need some of this.
And so we would go off and like do the RMI's of like, these are the photos
we need, and this is the rationale we need for this, and we need this and
we need this SOP and, um, you need to build this.
And so a few times we're kind of like, uh, we go off and fix something or
make sure that we get something, uh, because we really just did it all on
our own and, um, there is no guide book to this.
Do you want to pay some expensive consultants?
Uh, and so, yeah, it was just a little bit of back and forth between us and
health Canada, but we got there in the end.
What were you doing before you were doing this?
So my career path was I started off in banking, uh, and quickly realized I
needed to get out of there because it was just a very sort of like specific
path and I was just like, no, this is not for me, very rigid and sort of
strict and boring and needed out of there.
And so then I moved into, uh, Lush cosmetics and sort of spent some
time in, uh, inventory operations and kind of supporting the retail stores.
Um, and that was really cool because I definitely got an understanding of
like supply chain and retail and kind of just like how the business, a
manufacturing business works and, um, definitely really liked working for Lush.
It was a private company, so much more, you know, like fly by the seat of their
Um, but I still kind of craved entrepreneurship and like doing something.
And I didn't quite know what that something was.
Um, but then kind of around that time I left Lush and I was doing a little bit
of consulting for, um, just kind of operations management for a few businesses.
And then my dad was like, we're going to start a weed farm.
And, uh, I was kind of like, yeah, I love weed.
I love weed.
I love weed.
I love weed.
And, uh, I was kind of like, yeah, I love weed.
Like smoking weed is amazing.
So I was sort of like right on.
And on a whim, I actually saw online that Aurora cannabis was hiring and I, it was
for a wholesale operations job, sort of, uh, essentially starting up the
recreational supply chain.
So each of the provinces obviously have a different sort of like process to order
And so I applied on a whim and kind of got offered a start date and a position
like very quickly and it was sort of like, ah, what the hell, why not?
And so, um, I, yeah, I started off and set up all of the recreational supply
chains between each Aurora and each of the provinces, um, before legalization.
And so that was a pretty wild time.
And then, um, moved into a business process role because essentially nothing
was established in the business at all.
And so kind of built out a lot of like internal processes and, um, got exposure
to like a couple of their acquisitions.
When the Whistler team was integrated, I sort of supported that project and then
built out, um, this sort of product master catalog, um, as the business lead for that.
So any Aurora product data was kind of floating around on like multiple
spreadsheets and multiple teams and everything like that.
So definitely one of my biggest contributions to that business was wrangling all of the
stakeholders in the business to identify all of the product attributes and collect
that data and input that data and make it work in a flow through fashion and who's
responsible for owning that and working with it to build it.
And that was a very crazy, hectic, big project, but one that was
really impactful for the business.
Um, and then I moved into a product development role and most recently was in
a product commercialization role, which was basically handling all of the
recreational business, uh, from idea to shelf essentially, and sort of program
managing all of the launches, which Aurora does a ton of.
Um, and so, yeah, just kind of like really learning every step of the, of the way
for what an LP has to do.
Um, kind of with it in mind that eventually I would step away and, uh, you
know, run the family farm and here we are.
That's impressive.
Like, honestly, you can't pay for that education that you just got working for
them and you got paid for it.
Yeah, and I got paid for it.
That's amazing.
How has running your own business been different than setting up those supply
chains for Aurora?
Well, um, never ending resources was definitely nice to have.
I'm not going to lie.
Um, and so definitely pros to running my own business is that I don't have to be
subject to anyone above me who doesn't consume cannabis, trying to tell me what
the best thing is and, um, definitely appreciate the autonomy that having our
own brand gives us.
And, you know, it's just pretty well what I decide or what I kind of like, you know,
confer with the family and see what we want to do, but we just go for it.
Um, whereas like working in a huge corporation, like it's approvals, this
and like, you know, just a lot less flexibility for sure.
Um, but having all of those resources and like people to do things is great because
you know, things get done and it's not just you doing them or me doing them.
Um, and yeah, so, and the, the last sort of con I would say in running it myself
is that we are currently working with a third party, um, sales LP and working with
them is great, um, because we don't have a sales license or sorry, a sales amendment
rather to allow us to sell our own products.
So we're going through them to go to the province and then also through direct
delivery.
Um, they're called Western extraction and dealing with them is great, but it is just
kind of like that.
It's a third party that's having the conversations on my behalf.
And so this brand is my baby and like, no, one's going to tell the story as well as I
can.
And like, I'm, I'm, you know, kind of waiting on information to come through somebody
else.
And because it's a brand new sort of process and relationship and everything like that,
it just takes time to sort of build out those things that we went through with Aurora.
It's like, you know, you want those inventory reports and you want to know how much is
available or how much is selling or who's buying and they, it just doesn't exist yet.
And so it's, I'm impatient and I know exactly what it, what I want it to look like and
what information I want to have like right now.
But, uh, obviously I have to be patient with them and like help them build and help
explain what we're looking for.
And this is by no means like a problem working with them.
It's just how it is with small businesses and how we get to that sort of more mature
stage.
How many provinces are you guys in right now?
Just BC recreationally.
And then we are selling through Mendo as well for medical.
So patients nationally are able to access that.
But we are looking to expand into maybe one or two other provinces.
Um, Alberta is really tough, uh, to just get listed in because they're sort of like
registration situation is very rigorous.
And so that would be something that, you know, Western has to first get licensed, get
their vendor.
It's not just you, it's them as well.
Right.
That they have to do background checks on everybody.
Right.
Yeah.
And like financial.
Yeah.
Whatever.
Um, really intense, you know, just to do business.
It's great.
Um, but so Alberta is kind of like not yet.
They're working on Ontario, but Ontario declined our first SKU.
So then I have to wait four months to try again.
Uh, and so thinking about doing Saskatchewan because it's kind of got options for
distribution and yeah.
So kind of just figuring out what the best next move is, but really trying to capitalize
on BC and just like, you know, it's our home market.
We're doing a lot of, um, outreach to stores and building relationships with retailers
and trying to engage with them as much as possible.
And like, if I could be sold exclusively in BC, like, and that could sell out my supply,
like I would love that.
I don't, I don't need to go to another province if BC will have us, you know, like I
would love to just be able to sustain our own economy.
Really?
I mean, it would seem like it would be a no brainer that that would be an easy thing to
do because you're not that huge of a company.
You should be able to sell out in your, in BC.
No problem.
I think it's definitely possible.
Um, it's just going to take a bit of growth period, obviously, like ramping up the
supply, sorry, ramping up the demand to the supply.
It's challenging because not everyone is kind of like on board with direct delivery.
Um, because probably for retailers, I would say like central delivery is an easier
process.
You know, you order from one place and you get one order with everything that you're
looking for, but direct delivery, um, you know, is available all the time.
Whereas central, we've been out of stock for like three or four weeks and they still
haven't even cut a PO.
And so head to direct delivery, everyone.
So how during the strike is that's kind of when direct delivery was peppered out.
How did you guys maneuver through that?
So we were, it looked like it was going to be really bad.
And then it turned out to be really good for us.
Um, because we had just shipped our first order ever to BCLDB on the Wednesday before
the strike.
And then on Friday, two days later, they had not yet put it up for wholesale to
purchase.
Um, after they had already declined us to be listed on bccannabis.com and in BC
cannabis stores.
So it was already kind of a bit cheesed about that.
Cause I'm like, we're a small family BC farm.
Like why not?
And, uh, it's because my category of hash frozen is only 0.2% of sales.
Um, and because I was not the one selling it in, I didn't have the ability to sort of
like push back on them and say like, is it because of what your assortment looks like
that it is that small?
Um, or, you know, really any kind of rebuttal.
But, um, so ultimately I had been hoped to get listed on the wholesale website so
private retailers could order us.
Um, and then that Friday they said, you're, we're going on strike.
And so then it was just like, oh man.
And so then the following Monday was when direct delivery was supposed to be open.
And I had received my letter saying that I was an approved cultivator.
And so we were just sort of like waiting to hear if Western was going to get approved.
And then they said, we're not going to do direct delivery.
And so then it looked really bad.
And then.
Turns out last minute they did direct delivery.
And because we were approved already, we were the only concentrate listed in BC.
Um, and so that kind of created a great buzz, um, because we were the only ones who was
ready to go and available.
Um, so at that same time I had already had a retailer tour, like an education day at
the farm planned just because it was the end of summer.
We're in, you know, in flower.
It was a great time.
We have a beautiful lake.
It was like, you know, a barbecue kind of thing.
Like just enjoy the farm.
Um, and that was planned for that weekend that direct delivery was like open.
And so we actually happened to be able to have Sean from Western extraction, bring my
product to the farm and allow retailers to purchase it direct delivery.
And Sean delivered it to them at the farm.
So we had kind of like this like faux farm gate, first ever sale of direct delivery
happened that Sunday at the party.
And, you know, people were doing business deals at the kitchen table again.
Uh, so a lot of people had said that was like really reminiscent of the legacy days and like,
you know, the right way to be doing business with the growers, like at their farm and like
getting to shake our hand after, instead of just order through the government, through the
screen.
Right.
Like it was just like, they were all so happy to have that experience again in the legal
side.
And so that was really special and just an amazing way to kick off the brand.
Like I could not have asked for a better sort of like sequence of events to happen.
Obviously the strike was terrible for a lot of retailers and like impacted us.
They shipped us back our product.
Like it's it was total headache for everybody.
How many cases?
We had 50 cases that were there and then they sent it back and then whatever.
Like it wasn't a lot, but it just kind of was just like inventory that was hung up for like
weeks.
Right.
Right.
And then they didn't put it online for a long time and then it was, then they don't reorder
right away.
And so it's just definitely a, a sort of clunky system recovering from that interruption in
supply chain.
Um, which is, you know, it takes a long time to recover from a big blip like that.
Yeah, totally.
Do you have a few retailers now that are like have ordered again and again from you direct?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Do you know how many?
Um, who, like how many repurchases?
Or like how many retailers have ordered from you direct?
Um, maybe like 50 total.
Um, and then the repeats I would say are like 15 to 20, like definitely.
And then like a handful, um, definitely got to shout them out.
Heat and Herb have been selling a ton of Dabbleberry.
So has, um, the, uh, Queensborough in North, uh, sorry, New West has been selling lots, um,
and ordering lots.
So I really appreciate, uh, those customers as well as everybody else that's ordering it and
trying it.
Um, but yeah, we have seen a lot of reorders, which is amazing because that's what you want,
right?
Like the first one is great, but the second one is way better.
That's really exciting.
Actually.
That's really cool.
Okay.
So your Dabs, like the ultimate destination for your Dabs is that they're paying for your
farm.
That's actually the ultimate experience.
Cannabis experience.
Is this correct?
Yeah.
So our farm is a beautiful oasis that has a accommodations that you can stay at and also a
private lake that's got, you know, beautiful clean water for swimming, um, and a little lake
house with a fireplace and, you know, barbecue and just patio for set good spot to sesh.
Um, yeah, just like a lot of great sort of space to hang out and have a really relaxing time
and, uh, lots of things planned for events there and all kinds of stuff.
How many people can you accommodate currently?
Uh, the loft is, um, for four guests right now.
And then we are, we have sort of expansion plans cooking right now.
Uh, it's not really sure on what we have in the works, but I would like to see some sort of
like tiny homes or, um, or anything like that.
And then we do offer camping as well.
So, um, camping, we have had up to about 150 guests or so, um, a music festival that we used
to host a few years in a row, um, prior to COVID.
Um, but, uh, yeah, so we, we definitely have some capacity.
How big is your farm?
Like how much land do you have?
80 acres, but a good portion of it is like forested.
Um, but, uh, yeah, around the lake and like some fields and stuff like that have lots of space.
So you have space for events and camping and what could, how do you describe the
ultimate cannabis experience?
So I actually have been kind of, uh, just put out a questionnaire on my Instagram today.
I said, what are the ingredients for the perfect sesh?
And so, um, the types of events that I want to host at the farm are not just us hosting
it, but, uh, other people as well.
Um, but we have like a retreat coming next year, a women in cannabis retreat.
Um, the, a big glass gathering hopefully is going to be, um, at the end of next summer.
So that's kind of a project that, uh, is we're working on that right now.
Um, and then even just smaller events, like, you know, like a crafting and cannabis, you
know, like yoga and cannabis, like just sort of like things that you would want to do and
hang out at the farm and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and,
and, you know, experience that while also being able to consume it, because that's what
you like to do.
And you're not going to have anyone giving you dirty looks, because you want to smoke
a joint while you paint, you know, or like have a day just like swimming.
And, um, we have held a few, um, dinners as well that, uh, have infusions.
Um, they were really incredible.
And so that is kind of hosted by our farm itself,
High Point Guest Ranch, and is not Dabble,
the LP that is hosting those.
Let's make that clear right now.
Yes.
Yeah, so the first one we did was a Jamaican theme,
and that was with Fated Living,
who I actually worked with Nicole at Aurora,
and it was a project that had been two years
in the discussion, and then we were able
to finally bring that to life after COVID,
you know, decimated in-person events for a while.
And so we had 30 people, and it was, like I said,
Jamaican theme, five-course meal.
Only the things that were infused were the sauces,
and they were kind of optional,
so your meal itself never has cannabis in it.
And so for the people who are just there
as, you know, a couple, often we'll have, like,
one partner that prefers to consume,
and one that doesn't, or maybe that does only a tiny bit.
And so we wanted to make sure
it was a comfortable experience for everyone,
because we knew that if people were going to come
to the event and they wanted to get high,
they were gonna get high.
They were gonna do dabs, and they were gonna smoke joints,
and that's exactly what happened between every course.
Kind of people would just get up
and, like, go have a smoke outside,
and mingle, and I had a game that was such a big hit,
was our blindfolded joint rolling contest.
So it was anonymous, so you had, like,
a number at your chair, and everyone would, like,
you know, do the joint, or do the contest.
You could start with the rollie in your hand,
and, like, you could see, like,
that the tray is in front of you,
and then you'd get covered, and then you'd put it in
and do the joint and whatever.
And so you'd then-
Wait, do you have to grind your own,
or is it already pre-ground?
It is pre-milled.
Make it, you know, somewhat easy.
And so then the first one, I said,
okay, has everyone who wants to compete,
like, put in their joint?
And everyone's like, yeah, and I was like,
mom, did you put yours in?
And she's like, no, no, not yet.
I was like, do it, you might win, you never know.
And so then we go put the joints up,
and I said, okay, everyone go and put a, like,
vote underneath what number you think is the best.
And so then I go around and I'm like,
okay, everyone's votes are in.
Here's what the prize is, this shirt
and this blah, blah, blah thing.
And I was like, okay, number 28, like, who is that?
They got landslide, like, almost all the votes.
And it was my mom.
And I was like, amazing.
She was like, no, no, I don't want the prize.
Like, give it to the next person.
And I was like, okay, so second place,
like, number seven, who's that?
And it was Brian, who is our processing facility
where we do our processing at.
It's his farm.
And so he gets second place, and he's like,
you know, a grower for 26 years
and smokes blunts every single day, all day.
And my mom, I get to roast him for beating,
for getting beat by my mom in this joint.
And so that was amazing.
And then the second dinner that we had
was a Mexican infusion.
And again, was only in the sort of like optional sauces
and whatever on the side.
And we did the joint rolling contest again.
And only two people got votes that time.
And it was sort of like a 50-50 split.
And my mom got second place that time,
like, almost came in first again.
You did one, you beat, that's awesome.
That sounds really special and really amazing.
And I love the idea that you can customize,
like have it set up so that people
can customize their experience,
so that, because everybody, you know, so different.
And that's pretty cool.
Because I think the tough part is, like,
having to bring those experiences out.
Because currently, like, that's a private experience.
And so how do you allow people to bring,
come into that circle so that they can have that experience
is definitely one of my personal conundrums
right now as well.
Well, and it's definitely in the gray zone
because I can't legally be advertising that.
And so it is right now a dinner that people attend
and they are gifted cannabis from another adult
in a certain, you know, sauce that they wish to consume.
But it even says in the regs that you aren't supposed
to have a place where people consume.
Like, you're not supposed to be, like,
inviting people to consume in a place.
And it's like, why not?
Like, if this is, so it's like one of those things
that I haven't, I have had them
and I intend to have more of them
because it's a safe, you know, event
that is on a private property.
And we make sure that everyone, you know,
has either accommodations or a safe ride home.
And it's kind of like let adults consume adult legal things
and let us promote it because it's like, why not?
If you can go drive to a restaurant and have lots of drinks
and just go away and, you know, what's the difference?
I feel like it's imperative that you keep doing them.
So that like, you're setting the model of,
like you said at the beginning,
you have to be an activist right now as well.
So you take that model to your regulators and be like,
this is what safe consumption looks like, y'all.
Yeah, a hundred percent.
I definitely feel a responsibility to do those things
and to sort of push for what we wanna see, like I said.
What kind of changes would you like to see
in the legislation right now?
How long do we have?
Okay, so my main ones are the cost,
I would say, of everything.
So the 2.3%, so I pay $2,000 a month just to have a license.
Then there's the excise, obviously,
is based on a completely out of date formula.
So that's absurd.
There's the 15% markup that is also pretty absurd amount,
but I would kind of understand it.
It's like, that's kind of what they're saying.
It is fine, but I think that direct delivery should pay less.
The production retail license, which previous,
if you and I were having this conversation,
you know, a month ago or two months ago,
I would have told you that Farmgate
is like my number one priority.
I'm going to be the first Farmgate on the island.
I want that so bad.
That's gonna be the cherry on top of the cake
of the whole High Point experience,
you know, that full weedery vibe.
You know, you get to have a dab flight
and you get to, you know, come to our store
and buy what you wanna consume
and then go sit on the patio and you get to enjoy it.
And then you get to go for a swim
and you get to have a tour and like all of that.
And then you go to bed and have a nice, you know,
tub in the clawfoot and go to bed to the crickets,
like the whole thing.
But the cost of it was literally so obnoxious
that it's completely out of question.
Like it's off my list.
What's the cost?
Isn't it like seven grand?
$7,500 application fee to become a retailer,
which is 13 times more expensive than it would be
if you wanted to open a winery, in case you wondered.
That's $550.
Then the annual fee is $1,500
and the winery, brewery, cidery fee is $50.
So I just feel that that is so outrageously biased
against cannabis businesses.
And so then when you push back on that,
or you say, why is that the cost?
They say, well, that's the cost
to us to license a cannabis retailer.
And I'm like, yeah, I am not telling you
I want different treatment than a cannabis retailer.
I want you to treat all of us cannabis retailers better.
There's nothing wrong with them being charged less as well.
Trust me.
Yeah, totally.
I want better for us all.
So definitely financially entirely
could just give us a break
because I'm of the mindset that
if you lessen the burden financially,
businesses get more creative and we're able to do things
that will increase demand for our products,
whether it be launching new products,
whether it be hiring marketers,
literally whatever that you wanna put your money into,
chances are you're gonna do it to grow your business
and put the money back into the business.
And therefore that's gonna hopefully drive competition
and drive a more diverse industry
and just create more demand overall
for the legal Canadian industry,
which in turn would create more excise revenue,
provincial markup revenue, PST, GST.
We're already paying so much tax.
Oh, and then also like your corporate income tax
and everything.
Sorry, I've got a little tickle.
Get in drink, let's drink break.
Yeah, so all of that financially
and then just be like restrictions on marketing,
I think definitely could take her down a notch
and then lessening the sort of consumption
and just sort of seriousness.
And then, you know,
edibles definitely could come up in potency.
Yeah, concentrates should be allowed to be sold
in at least two gram jars.
Definitely, like instead of the thousand milligram limits.
And like, that's the, I don't actually care that much
because it doesn't really affect me that badly,
but the calculation for the dried cannabis equivalency
is like embarrassing.
Yeah, it's so.
It's like this gummy that has a bunch of gelatin
and sugar that is equivalent to all this weight.
And that's what's going to make it more cannabis
than this concentrate product that has,
you know, 700 milligrams.
Yeah, it's not, if that's for safety reasons,
it's not keeping anybody safe.
That doesn't equate to any kind of safe.
Yeah, it's so.
It just makes no sense.
And it also limits like how much you can sell.
Like you cannot sell so many drinks at one time
and all of that.
Because the total net weight is more.
It's like two milligrams and you're like, still no.
Yeah, it doesn't make any sense.
Yeah, you could buy like, yeah, barely any THC at all
in all of those drinks.
And by the same amount or like so much more
for concentrates, right?
And like, that's way more dangerous.
Like, not that it's dangerous,
but it's just, if, you know,
it just really doesn't make sense.
No, no doubt.
So like when, I guess,
when do you see that $7,000 like licensing fee?
How do we lift that?
That's a matter of changing everything, isn't it?
That's the retail.
Is it if they're charging that to everybody
and they're trying to put you on the same level
as a retailer?
Yeah, I mean, I don't know the answer to that question.
Yeah, that's a tough one.
I have begun like just the preliminary,
like why email back to them,
but that obviously went nowhere.
So I am currently interested in kind of like gathering,
you know, contacts and just creating relationships
with all of the other producers on the island.
I know that there's a lot of organizations out there
working towards lobbying for things and stuff like that.
And I'm not trying to create a new association of any kind,
but I just personally for my own network,
I want to get to know the other producers on the island.
We're a very small community really.
And I think it would be a pretty easy feat
to be on the same page for a lot of these things.
And, you know, for us all to stand united and say like,
no, this is unacceptable.
All of us, sorry, producers,
and maybe even all the retailers too,
like everyone on this whole island is against what this is.
And like, you know, we go create our own grass on the hill
in Victoria and, you know, make some noise
because it's like, this is absurd.
And I don't think that anyone cares
unless you're loud enough.
I think you're right.
And I definitely think that it takes community clout
to get those things done.
You're totally right.
That's the only time I've seen that actually happen.
Like down in Washington,
I've seen a lot of laws being able to get changed
because of business associations
that were able to bring those lobbyists in
and get that done.
So I can see that happening here too.
I just don't know that it's as active maybe,
or if people, like you said,
there are associations that are happening,
but are you not a part of any of them yet?
No, not yet.
I don't know.
I don't have a reason why.
Well, actually financially was the initial reason was like,
we literally have gone, you know,
four years with no revenue, like we're broke.
So it was just like, financially,
I didn't want to pay to join them at first.
And then, I mean, we're slowly starting
to see some revenue trickle in now,
but I just am not finding that, you know,
the organizations that are out there
are kind of like capturing enough of like an aligned voice.
It seems like pretty,
like there's a lot of things happening.
And so I kind of just feel like I want to sort of see,
in my own community, just kind of be like, okay,
these are the things within sort of like my realm
that are impacting me and, you know,
definitely open to like have conversations
with all of the organizations that are out there.
But I just, I'm not really quite ready to jump on board.
Like I know that there's some groups
that are looking to the like alcohol lobbyists
and stuff like that.
And I don't know that that sits right with me.
And then there's a lot of people that are on the legacy side
that are looking to come in and they're affiliated
with some other organizations.
And I think that they should do that
if they want to do that.
But for me, I'm kind of like sitting here
in the LP boat right now,
and it's impacting my bottom line like right now,
and I need to make it work.
And so the things that I would need to be lobbying for
are going to affect my family and my farm right now,
and not necessarily about legacy farmers
like coming into the industry.
And that's like no disrespect to them by any means,
like just more so the things that I need to focus on.
Yeah, for sure.
For sure.
Okay, do we have any, I'm gonna start out there.
Do we have any questions from the audience
before we get too far further into our conversation?
What do you see yourself in five years?
Are you still gonna be pushing your farm?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, 10 years?
Yeah.
This is the first career or job I've ever had
that I have not even begun to get bored.
Like I've got so much in runway of ideas
like I have a really like a cannabis restaurant,
Dabble University with internships and hands-on education
through all of the sort of like entire life cycle of cannabis
from propagation to sale, everything in between,
like many, many ideas.
So I definitely think I'll be doing all kinds
of cannabis stuff in 10 years and 20 years and 40 years
hopefully forever.
I hear you like with all the things that you're doing,
it kind of strikes me as like the way
that we're gonna really create change
is doing exactly what you're doing on this like
community scale, this small level of just like
this is what we're doing over here.
We've created this now and you guys can all follow suit.
And this, I think that's pretty cool.
We're really fortunate that our municipality
is a pretty like pro cannabis one,
which a lot of people are not at all lucky like that.
So thank you, city of Duncan and the CBRD,
you guys are dope.
And hopefully we continue to, like drive progress
and maybe they wanna be the first municipality
to have a cannabis restaurant
and they will let us push the boundary
on cool things like that.
We are also on ALR land.
So that adds yet another government lens
on what we're doing.
So that's fun.
So you are, how booked out is your retreat center right now
or your Airbnb?
We are definitely, we have some openings for the winter
and we do have a winter special.
So it is our winter rates are 275 a night.
And then we also have a midweek special.
So valid Mondays through Thursdays.
And so if you book two nights, that'll be at 250
and then get your third night for 50 bucks.
And yeah, so definitely lots of staycation opportunities
in the loft this winter.
Summers are definitely when we see a lot more bookings,
but I would love to see,
more guests throughout the year.
It doesn't snow there, does it?
There's no snow in Duncan.
Actually it can.
It snowed actually quite a lot this winter
and stuck around for like 10 days,
which is unheard of on the island.
But yeah, so it can definitely snow the farm a couple feet.
So when people come to the farm right now,
they can't really get much of a tour.
They're not gonna really be able to see much
besides maybe your greenhouses from the outside.
Well, I mean, I can always take people into the facility
and show them like, this is where we plant the crop.
And this is like our processing area
and this is the greenhouse and paint them a picture,
but yeah, there's no plants in there right now.
Were you doing farm tours this summer?
Yeah, that's cool.
I did one through StratCan during the Grow Up Tour,
or sorry, conference I mean, which was really amazing.
And met quite a few other cool LPs there
and like Serena from the Mary Jane Manor
and Because She Can.
And then I then subsequently went to the Mary Jane Manor
for a women's retreat sort of right after meeting her.
And so just, and then I've like created
a really great relationships with a bunch of women
that went to that.
Now we're gonna be hosting that retreat
at the farm next summer.
And so just like every time we open the farm
and I meet new people,
it's just a whole new set of connections
of like fun things and collaborations and opportunity.
And that's just like really what our farm is about
is like dabble comes from like, so Doug Alana Brody,
which is me, my dad, my brother,
dab the product that we do,
but dabble itself means to like try new things.
And that's what we want the farm to be about
is like whether you're a super heavy consumer
or you're someone who's like brand new,
or you just wanna try new things,
like whether it be cannabis or not,
like just come and experience like what the farm is.
And it's just like a beautiful place
that you get to experience nature
and like your friends and family's company
and have a good time and smoke some good dabs.
It sounds pretty magical.
Like as you were describing it,
I found myself sighing at least once or twice
and it sounds really relaxing.
And that flight dab or the dab of flight of dab
sounds pretty cool.
And that becomes a thing.
Well, do you have anything else
that you would like to tell our audience?
We've talked, we've covered a lot of ground here.
Yeah, I mean, I just love cannabis and so do my family.
We all consume it, we all love it.
We grow it, we process it ourselves,
family farm certified soil to oil.
It's what I like to say.
And we hope that we get to meet all of you
and you come visit our farm
or we get to meet you out in the field,
in the retail stores
and just really appreciate everyone's support
in trying dabble and supporting our family.
And thank you guys so much for having me on the podcast.
Like it's been so great
and really appreciate being featured.
Cool, thank you so much for taking time
in your busy, busy schedule,
razzing present schedule to be here.
And we'll see you all next time.
Peace, everybody.
Thank you, see ya.
