Give me one.
And we are possibly almost live on YouTube.
Welcome, everybody, to today's Breeder Roundtable,
spelt incorrectly, but it should be R-O-U-N-D,
table with Mean Gene from Mendocino.
That's me, Peter Saveri.
We got a panel of cultivators and breeders
who are all growing Jackson's genetics in, what do we have,
Massachusetts, Colorado, California, Maine, right?
We have a Maine in the house?
Yep.
All right.
And Jackson is having technical difficulties.
He has not yet mastered Zoom, but he is trying to get on.
So why don't we start?
I'd love to hear you guys talk about Mean Gene.
He's kind of legendary, and why don't you guys
talk about his genetics?
Brandon, let's start with you.
OK, well, I have my own cross.
That's a cross between the Black Lime Reserve and Gorilla Glue
for the Lime Gorilla.
It's a really high terpene variety.
Usually tests around 6 and 1 1% for total terpenes.
I've been hunting this variety for about five years,
and I've picked a couple of different phenos that
I always judge all my pheno hunts off of the terpene profiles
and I get them tested.
But I've kept different varieties throughout.
And when I originally had made this cross,
I didn't know who the breeders of either of the parents were.
And it wasn't until I started going on Instagram
and I found out who had bred the different varieties,
and I started tagging the original breeders.
That's how I actually kind of got turned on to Mean Gene.
And we started talking on IG.
And I ended up meeting up with him at the cup,
and I gave him, I think, my number 31 cut of the Lime
Gorilla, and then he gave me some seeds.
And I came out to Oklahoma from California,
and I'm a cultivation director for an organic farm out here.
And I just ran some of the seeds that he gave me,
the Lime 1 Lime 1 Grape Soda Skunk.
And they have a really distinct terpene profile
that's very similar to kind of one
of the undertones of the terpene profiles from, I apologize,
I have a macaw that's really loud at times.
They have a really interesting terpene profile,
and it's really hard to describe.
I actually have a cross of the Lime Gorilla of something else
that's really similar to the variety.
And they have this, like, they definitely
have a lime that cuts through the whole profile,
but this one has this really musky,
kind of cheesy funk to it as well.
And it's really similar to the black lime
that has that real chemical.
It's really hard for me to describe,
because the profiles are so complex.
But I've been doing, I ran the Lime 1 Lime 1.
I found a couple of phenos that I like that I'm keeping.
And I have a bunch of different phenos of the Lime Gorilla,
which is the Black Lime Reserve Gorilla Glue Cross.
I'm running a bunch of those at my facility.
And I've just, if I, I also have a really robust male
from the Lime 1 Lime 1 Grape Soda Skunk.
I haven't done anything with it yet.
I'm not sure if I'm going to.
I do wanted to do a out cross on my Lime Gorilla
so I could have male breeding stock, because it's all S1.
Or it's a feminized cross, so it would
be nice to be able to do that.
Sorry, hold on.
All right, so first of all, Gene or Jackson,
this is your first time ever on Zoom.
He has not yet mastered audio, but at least he's here.
So in the bottom left of your screen,
you should see a little microphone.
And if you tap on it.
But anyway, Brandon, let me, sorry, I'm trying to grab your.
Here, why don't we go, Kyle, let's move to you
while we troubleshoot Gene's audio.
And I try to show some of the pictures that Brandon sent,
and then I'll get yours as well.
So go for it.
You're in Massachusetts, my home state.
Yeah, no, it's a great place to grow.
I started growing some of the limevine outdoors here.
And right off the bat, it was just super resistant
to all the pests.
And I actually didn't see a lick of botrytis on it all season.
It was just a super sturdy, consistent plant.
And when I popped those packs originally,
I got a few males that just right off the bat,
you could smell like an acetone coming off of them.
And I used those to breed a few things.
I got a Dr. Lime times limevine that it's
fermented fruit for days.
It's not quite as high as Brandon's terpenes,
but it gets around 3%.
And that smells great to me.
I also got some pina that I'm going
to cross with a Bollock Afghani that throws about 7% to 10%
CBG.
So I figured that'll be a really cool medicinal cross
that I can get out there.
And other than that, I got some Cherry West BX
and some Ghost OG times Sky Jaro outside this year.
And they are just loving the damp New England weather.
They are super hardy and some of the most consistent genetics
I've seen out there.
All right, so Gene, your very first words ever,
or Jackson, your very first words ever on Zoom.
Let's hear them.
Ah, are you still kidding?
Just kidding.
Yes.
Yes.
I'm here.
I'm on Zoom.
I have my mic muted in the settings.
As I said, we'll do it doucement.
We'll do it slowly.
We'll be gentle on you.
Break me an easy.
Right.
So why don't, all right, now that we have you,
because originally I wanted to have you talk about,
or actually, let me start with this.
For everybody else, you've all run his lines.
What do you think he's about?
What's his lane in terms of what he likes as a breeder?
That unique palette.
You know, that's what I hear from everybody,
is just the Terps are different.
And you can't find Terps like him on almost anything.
Yeah, I would totally agree with that.
I think it's really the complexity, I think,
of each Terpene profile.
Like, you know, there's so many elite cuts out there
that are single dimensional, I'd say.
And what really appeals to me about Freeborn
is, you know, it'll hit every note.
It'll get the fruity.
It'll get the funk.
So, I mean, I kind of got addicted to the Terpene
profile, so just all those layers.
Anyone else?
You guys touched on the Terpene, and I would just say breeds
for size, too.
It's huge outdoor.
Oh, yeah.
Love it.
It seems like all the lime varieties that I have smoked,
they all have a really similar type of high, which seems to me
to be more uplifting.
And it's not so sedative for myself, anyway,
in my experience.
Definitely.
I found, too, you know, everything is really hardy.
You know, all the plants that I grow from Freeborn,
or, you know, 80% to 90%, they just kick off with,
you know, they're not always the most vigorous,
but they're always pretty vigorous.
And they just seem to stand up to all
the environmental factors out here in Colorado.
You know, we get high UV, and we get pest pressure,
and tons of sun, not too much water.
And they just seem to be really resilient,
I would say, as well, to, you know,
all those environmental changes.
I appreciate the work and the lines, too, man.
Like, the stuff that you, even the stuff
that you put out on the internet,
like, to other seed companies, it just,
it's not just like a chuck, and then here you go.
You can, you know, you're throwing out
fourth generation seeds, and, you know,
you can, the consistency in the line,
or at least a bunch of different lines.
And Gene, what, or Jackson, why don't you
talk about kind of what your intent is in breeding?
I mean, I really try to focus on stuff that,
you know, like, things that are good for me to grow.
So, I mean, when I originally started making seeds,
was kind of a weird transitional period
where there was some stuff around back then
that was, like, really, really consistent and pure,
and there was a few things like that,
but a lot of stuff, like, you would plant
whatever seed it was, and you could get, like,
a whole huge spectrum of different plants,
and some of them were good, and some of them were bad,
and even of the pure stuff, it would have,
it would be, like, really consistent,
but then you'd have, like, they'd all wanna rot,
and everybody would be like, oh, yeah,
you gotta cut the tops before it's really done,
or, you know, stuff would be really chunky,
but not that stony, or whatever.
So when I first started making stuff,
I just always wanted to have, like,
a plant that I'd really like to grow,
and be able to have it from seed,
where we could do whole gardens of it,
and have it be pretty predictable as far as quality,
and with the vigor and everything on it.
So that's really what all my work comes from,
and it's, you know, been bred outdoor,
and if something likes to rot outdoor,
I never really like to keep the seeds from it,
unless it's really special,
and then I'll keep working on it for a while
to see if I can find ones that are good,
and, you know, don't rot.
So, you know, with hard, like, I, you know,
I want stuff that I can actually grow,
and you can have the coolest weed ever,
and it can be the best smoke,
and the most killer plant, and huge buds,
and if you get all the way to the end,
and it wants to rot on you,
then, you know, it's pretty much worthless to you, really.
So just the hardiness, and then, you know,
really good smoke, like, basically, like,
stuff that, when you finish it out,
and you're done growing it,
you're glad that you grew that seed, you know?
That's, like, the only, oh, the only real major goal,
you know, I just don't want to grow something
that I get to the end of, and I'm like,
oh, man, I shouldn't even given this any space.
So just trying to, you know,
make stuff that is good in those ways,
and then consistent in those ways,
so that it's pretty reliable,
and so that's, like, my real focus.
And I, you know, I've grown indoor,
and I've grown greenhouse, I've grown winter greenhouse.
I've done all of it, to a certain extent,
but I really like growing, like, outdoor plants
that are bigger, because it just has
a little more character to it,
as far as, like, your experience with it,
and so I kind of focus on that,
and, you know, it's gotta be good for that.
You gotta be able to grow a real big plant,
and have it be a big, heavy plant,
usually, for me to really like stuff,
which is kind of weird,
because now people grow smaller plants,
and sometimes that doesn't translate as well
to yield for some of the things,
so then you gotta find the ones
that are better as a small plant.
Some of the stuff I have, it's like the lime stuff,
the buds aren't that big,
but if you plant a big plant of it,
you get this huge yield,
but if you grow a small plant of it,
you don't get as much,
because it just doesn't, you know,
it doesn't scale down size-wise
the same way on the frame, so,
but yeah, that's my whole goal,
is just some good weed with some character to it,
good plants.
All right, I'm gonna unmute myself.
So, Kyle, you were, I actually just queued up
some of your pictures, so why don't we run through them,
and then just keep going down the line.
So what are we looking at here?
That's the Doctor Who x Limevine.
I took that Limevine male with that really acetone-y smell
that just loved being outdoors in the humid
New England end of summer,
and I hit it with a homegrown,
or hit that on Homegrown Natural Wonders Doctor Who,
and there's so many great phenos
I've been pulling out of this.
Actually just made F2 seeds out of it,
and it's just super funky, super fruity,
it's got beautiful terpenes on it,
it seems to be very resistant too
to any environmental issues,
and just really consistent, fun plant to grow,
like you were saying.
And so it looks like you grew it indoor and outdoor,
or sorry.
Yeah, I try to do them both,
just to really see how it's gonna react
in all the environments.
It's great being able to do it indoors
in perfect climate and environmental,
but if they can't handle outdoor in September
and the soggy nights, it's not really worth growing.
Got it.
And Jackson, what are your thoughts
on looking at your babies growing up in Massachusetts?
I've been watching those for a while,
those are super cool.
Odie and Mushmouth are friends of mine from years back,
and they bred a lot of their stuff outdoor in Oregon,
which is even harder than here.
So it's a really kind of a match made in heaven,
I think, with two real exotic mold resistant,
good yielding strains, with crazy turps.
That's more of like, as far as I've been told,
is more of kind of a grapey fruity thing,
and then the lime vines more of a citrus cushy.
But they look really nice.
I'd definitely give them a whirl out here.
I think they'd probably do better than most anything
out in the weather, in the harsh climate,
as far as humidity and everything,
just because of the combo and the environments
where both of those things were bred.
So it's a cool mashup.
I tagged Odie on Instagram,
and I was like, hey, we did a collab.
And he was like, no, I didn't have anything to do.
And I was like, no, no, they collabed us, man.
It's a forced collab.
No, it's a beautiful one.
The nugs are super cool on that every time too.
You're never disappointed with the yield
with that cross, for sure.
I'll try to get some of that out there.
Yeah, yeah, I'd try them out.
It's killer work.
I still have some Doctor Who and Quantum Kush
and a couple other things from them
that I've had for years that I've just been,
I pull them out and I almost pop them,
and then I just wind up popping more of my own stuff.
But I've just had my eye on them for a while.
So it was cool to see somebody do something with it,
because it's something that I might've done with it.
So it's like one of those,
I always like to see when people make stuff
with anything that I put out and that it works.
Super cool.
I appreciate that, man.
All right, and then Brandon,
as I'm frantically pulling everyone's pictures
and trying to organize them.
So this is, was this grown in Oklahoma?
Yeah, that's the Lime 101 grape soda scump.
That's one of the phenos.
I did like about a dozen of them.
They're all pretty consistent.
I had, the phenotypic expression was pretty,
even across the board.
And then I had one pheno that was a lot more purple.
And then the leaf morphology wasn't, was different.
It was more narrow and all the rest,
everything else was really broadly dominant.
And then I had one, which I kept in the pheno hunt,
which it actually has, I didn't have a picture of it.
It has a different bud structure.
It has the same structure as far as the morphology
is concerned, as far as really a kind of a short bushy plant.
And it's really, really broad, wide leaves.
But this one has like almost like black flowers.
And it has a slightly different turtipene profile.
It doesn't have so much of the lime as it does,
like a fruity musk, very similar to,
like, I guess like this kind of skunky musk,
I guess you could describe it as.
Kinda like that cheesy, that like kind of cheesy funk.
But it has some like fruity tones in it as well.
So, and then I had the other pheno that I kept too,
was more of like the lime that I get from,
like some of the crosses that I've made with the lime aurilla
and it's that lime kind of chemical,
like floral turpene profile.
Sounds tasty, man.
Yeah, they're all really good.
I have, you know, that's one of the things too,
is like the, I feel like the smoke is more like,
it has more body to it, it has more flavor, like overall.
Like, and it almost, it really does kind of translate over
to, you know, what you get when you're, you know,
breaking up open a nug.
So I really like that,
cause I think people really,
well, I look for that as a connoisseur smoker.
I wanna be able to have taste that, you know,
that profile that I'm smelling.
So just quickly, Survivor one time asked,
what does Jackson feed his plants?
So can you talk about your own kind of setup?
Like you're in Mendocino, kind of, is everything for breed?
I mean, you're not growing for the market, right?
For, I mean, like flower to sell into,
California is amazing regulated market.
So what's, talk about your setup.
So, I mean, I used to grow really big plants
as big as I could get them,
and we could do 25 plants here.
And so it was like, you know,
between 100 and 300 gallon pots,
depending on what I was doing and when.
And so I did one year where I was all 100 gallons,
and I had more plants that year,
and use the same space for more plants in smaller pots,
which, you know, I think small plants
are always more practical,
but big plants are really cool to look at
and just super fun to have.
And you feel really good walking around a garden
full of monster plants that are just looming over you.
You can stand in the shade of a plant,
you know, it's pretty cool.
Now I have, you know, pretty much like five and seven
and 10 and 15 gallon pots with plants.
And this year I'm depping stuff
because last year the frost was so bad
that I didn't really wanna gamble with it.
I lost way too much last year to the frost,
and here that's never happened.
And I've made seed for a good 20 years,
you know, 20 actual seasons, I'd say.
And I've never had any problem where everything froze,
and then last year everything just froze.
And it froze early, like right at the turn of October.
I can't remember the exact date,
but it was like 18 degrees here or something.
And people who were on land that wasn't quite as flat
as where I'm at,
cause I'm kind of on a little, on kind of a shelf.
I'm not at the bottom of the valley,
but I'm on flat ground, maybe a couple of hundred feet up.
And everybody who was on a little hill
or a knoll or something was like,
oh, it was the best fall ever.
And I was like, damn, yeah,
I wish it wouldn't hit 18 at my house.
Cause most of the stuff I have is hardy down to,
you know, in the mid twenties.
If it gets, you know, 28, 26 or something,
you're probably cool.
But anyway, so that made me kind of switch it.
So this year I started doing stuff in a depp.
So right now I have a big hoop
full of a bunch of different cool clones.
I have all the stuff that is big around here right now,
like ice cream cake and runs and gelato
and all those ones that are like
the big market favorites right now.
And then I have, you know, lime selections
and root beer selections and Urkel cross line.
What else is in there?
A bunch of different stuff.
And are these things you want to bring in
as part of your library and start playing with
and crossing with stuff you have to kind of.
Yeah. So, you know, what I do is I go ahead
and try to work my own stuff that I've already made
to go forward.
But I always have to remind myself that at one point
I didn't have anything.
And everything that I wound up with was something cool,
you know, that somebody else had and gave to me.
So even though I have these things that are like
have been around and I've worked them and like they,
you know, I consider them to be like my stuff
that's got a lot of energy put into it.
At one point they were just some seeds and clones
that I wound up with.
So I try not to get too tunnel visioned out
on my own little projects and, you know,
thinking nothing else is good.
I mean, like a lot of this stuff, people go,
that's just hype or whatever.
A lot of times if you grow up for a while,
you go, damn, this is good.
Like this would have been good in the late nineties
or this would have been good in the early 2000s
or the eighties or whatever.
It's just killer.
I mean, the ice cream cake clone that's up here right now
is just, it's awesome.
Like it's just a great plant.
So, you know, my knee jerk reaction is to go,
ah, everybody's growing that.
I don't want to do nothing with it.
But then I grow the plant and I go,
damn, that's really a good plant on its own merit,
even if it had no name
and it just popped out from somewhere.
So yeah, I'm taking those things
and then working them in and then,
and just trying to, you know,
keep an open mind to try things.
And, you know, you gotta be,
you gotta have that kind of mindset
when you're breeding stuff.
You can't just get stuck and go, oh, well, you know,
you'd have to judge thing on its own qualities.
So, but yeah, I mean, back to,
I drifted off just talking about how I do things.
So I was talking about the depth
and kind of picturing it out there.
But I do stuff organic.
I tend to use, I tend to use like dry powders.
I'll take pots that I already have full of dirt
that I've grown last season
and I'll just leave the dirt in them sometimes.
And I'll throw in some gypsum and fish bone meal
and kelp and trace minerals and glacial rock dust
and cascade minerals and just different stuff
to give them what they need.
And then just plant right back in it.
And I seem to have the same results or better
as if I do like real nice super soil mix myself
or if I buy dirt in bags or whatever,
it seems to all kind of come out the same
as long as you stay on top of it.
And I'm not super attached to any particular mix.
I really, I always use glacial rock,
has a lot of iron, manganese.
I always use kelp.
Over the years I've started to like fish bone meal
even though it's really stinky, but it's really nice.
It's got a lot of nitrogen in it.
And for a bone meal, steam bone meal,
I always used for phosphorus for years.
Just different things, you know,
like things might be kind of redundant on what is in them
but different sources.
So like I'll use like gypsum.
And then when I was doing my big pots,
I would put in a little bit of dolomite
and then maybe like some oyster shell.
You know, you wanna have a lot of calcium
with pretty much everything we're growing.
And, you know, I don't do any soil testing
and I'm not really a soil scientist of any kind.
I just kind of do what has always worked for me.
And, you know, I don't even have like a specific amount
I use, I just make sure there's a good amount.
I'll use different amounts
and not see that big of a difference.
I mean, I have friends who test their soil
and do everything really properly
and they might get a little bit better results
but I always get good enough results.
When I was growing big plants,
I was able to grow big monster plants
that if I did them right, you could get 10 pounds off a plant
and that was a lot of fun.
So I've always just been happy
with kind of the old organic soup, no pH,
not really knowing what's going on except for the results.
And I've always had really good results with that.
And that's kind of how I do it.
And I just make sure to not use anything,
anything too salty.
I stopped using chicken manure years ago
because I realized it was a lot saltier than I wanted
but I still don't have any problem with it.
I just don't use it myself.
And then other than just, you know,
trying to make sure I don't ruin the life in the dirt,
alfalfa meal I like a lot, top dressing in the spring.
If you have your pots out
and you wanna do like a low tech, no till,
you can kind of just toss a bunch of stuff on your pots
and put about a foot deep of organic alfalfa hay on top
and the worms and everything will just break it down
and take it in and they'll kind of dig everything down
into the dirt for you.
And you'll wind up with a really good live soil
and save your arms and save your back and save some money.
And I was able to do a really good 200s.
I guess by that point I was doing 300 gallons
and it got to the point where it was a lot of work
to mix 300 gallons and I had broken my wrist
and I didn't know it was broken at the time.
I just knew it hurt.
And I was like, just mixing all my own dirt myself
and it got ridiculous.
And at a certain point I was like,
well, I've been growing these other pots,
these 65s and I never dig them.
I just top dress them and they do pretty good.
So I'm gonna try it with the big ones.
And so I started doing that with the hay.
And after I started doing that, I got the same results,
but it seemed like the plants
were a little more resilient to everything.
Like everything was more in balance.
And I was able to have 25, 300 gallon pots
and I think I only probably spent maybe
one or $2,000 on all my amendments
to grow those from start to finish.
And that was a big change because before that
I had been spending at least a few grand
to be able to feed those suckers.
And so that's kind of where I've gone to now
is just everything's kind of low tech.
I used to use Dr. Earth for a little bit.
Then I started just kind of looking at the ingredients
and then mixing my own stuff.
And then right now I'm just using like EV stone all purpose
because it has a lot of the same stuff that I use.
And then I just add some cascade minerals
and some glacial rock dust and a little extra gypsum.
And that's been doing really good,
but that's how I do everything.
Super bootleg, nothing really specific.
And it seems to work just about as good as anything
that I see going on.
So that's as far as how I grow.
That's how I grow.
I was gonna say, you said most seasons,
you amend with generally the same type of stuff
and it doesn't come out too different.
Do you notice like different phenotypical expressions
if you get someone growing the same plant as you
out by the coast or on the East coast
or down in Colorado or anything like that?
Well, I mean like locally here,
there's really some major differences in the microclimates.
So I've talked about this some other places before,
but it's like if you get into more humidity,
I noticed that weed gets really stinky
and it gets really big,
big, more fully developed individual features
like each brack, each little leaf,
everything is maybe not quite as dense and heavy,
but it gets a little bit,
it seems to be bigger resin.
I've never seen, I've never really done any study
to see are the heads on the glands actually bigger or what,
but it just seems like it.
It definitely, they're definitely at least
get a little bit taller and more visibly frosty looking.
Whereas if you go like over the hill to the East
from where I'm at, things start to get really compact
and the resin is more close to the flower
and you're producing a lot more biomass,
but you're probably losing a little bit of like
what I like, like I'm really,
I grew up seeing different stuff from different areas here
and it's like where I'm at is over basically like one range
from me is the ocean,
but I'm in a place where it's still nice,
but then if you go East from me just a couple miles,
it becomes really arid and there's no more,
like where I'm at, you can grow redwoods,
but you have to plant them,
but if you go a little further East,
it's like really a challenge to be able to plant a redwood,
which they kind of get a lot of their water
from humidity and the air and stuff.
So like I see a lot of differences with that
and just the general structure and morphology of the plants,
the way they are, they wanna be like a dense little hedge
bush if you're where it's more dry and hot.
And then if you go over the hill from me,
everything is like a Christmas tree
and then you top it to make it bushy
and you get like a double Christmas tree
and you top it again
and you get like a four topped Christmas tree.
But if you are where I'm at,
even if you don't top everything, it's totally round.
And then if you go a little bit further East,
farther from the ocean, it just becomes super shrubby.
Yeah, if you try to grow a Christmas tree,
it just doesn't ever really work.
They never get that shape
because it's so hot and dry.
Everything just kind of wants to get that kind of a,
make kind of a globe shaped plant.
And the same thing happens with the buds,
instead of being like that well-defined look
where you see the big pods everywhere
and it's all super frosty
and it might be a little more leafy and everything,
then it gets a little bit more arid
and all of a sudden you have this stuff
that's just like compressing itself as it grows.
Not really, but it's just growing,
like the stems grow slower and everything grows smaller,
but it definitely produces more biomass.
You get more weed,
but it's like not the weed that I like to smoke as much.
But if you were growing it just for extracts and stuff,
I would say going to a climate that's hot and dry
would make you produce a lot more profit
versus if you go near the coast,
you're gonna get this weed that you're like, wow,
somebody from inland might wanna trade their sack
in their pocket for the weed front that's more coastal,
but they're not gonna wanna trade the cash
they get from their harvest.
So it's kind of that trade off.
And then that I think kind of translates
to just general climate.
So somebody, even if they're near the coast,
but they're in SoCal,
it's still gonna be more hot and dry
than it would be if you were in inland Washington
or Canada or something.
I think humidity plays a lot and heat plays a lot into it.
And I don't know so much about everything else,
but that's definitely a thing
when people talk about terroir and different areas
and all that.
Weed from one place is weed from that place.
Like Hawaiian weed is distinctly Hawaiian
and lowland Hawaiian versus upcountry Hawaiian
is really different than each other too.
So the environment you grow it, it has a big impact.
And that translates to indoor growing too.
Like if you grow indoor weed on the coast here,
you'd think, well, you're creating the environment,
but unless you have a sealed room,
where you're taking out a lot of the humidity,
if you're intaking any air from outside
and you're near the coast,
you'll have good weed and it'll be a lot easier to pull
than if you're growing it outdoor when it might mold,
but it's still gonna have that look
of something that's more coastal.
And it's gonna have like just super thick
white frost everywhere,
but it's gonna be more leafy and less heavy.
And that seems to be something that translates.
So, if you, with the right strains,
one strain might do better one place
than it does in another.
If I grow diesel here,
it might be a little bit less dense than I want it.
But then if you grow diesel a little further East,
then maybe you go, oh no, it chunks up fine.
And the people think you're tripping
or you use too much nitrogen or something.
I was gonna say though,
the lime vine I got going outdoors
compared to when it's indoors,
when I make rosin out of the outdoors,
it's so liquidy, it's just turps on turps.
It doesn't really ever solidify.
You know, most of the stuff just waxes up.
You know, it's crazy how different it is
just by a little bit of environmental change, you know?
Yeah, it's a trip.
And a lot of the stuff from the lime,
it is a lot of the stuff that I have
just because for years I always kind of bred stuff
on how good it smoked in a joint.
And a lot of times the really greasy stuff
smokes great in a joint.
And then, you know, I would make hash from stuff
but never like on a commercial level.
So if I got some dank hash on it,
I would be like, oh, it makes really good hash.
But if you go to actually produce like hash
on a commercial level with some of the stuff I have
that's so good in a joint, it's just too greasy.
Like you said, it just doesn't, you know, it's really hard.
And then if you do grow it indoor,
a lot of times indoor,
especially like some of the best craziest looking indoor,
you see and you go, oh God,
that looks like the best weed I've ever seen.
And then you go to break it up and you're just like,
where's the grease?
Like, where's the oils, you know?
It's definitely seems to be a trick
to get your weed greasy indoor.
And I don't know if that's because, you know,
it could be affected by the humidity for sure.
And there might be ways to tweak that.
You know, I'm not sure.
I don't have any data for it really,
but it seems to be a thing.
Just bro science in my head,
but I assume, you know, the outdoors is trying to put on
more terpenes to defend itself from the insects
and stuff like that.
So it tends to get-
And would this be what you're talking about?
Yeah, that's one of the lime vines.
That's one of the females I use to make some crosses.
Just loved it out there.
Didn't care what the weather was,
how much water she had, just ripped right open.
Yeah, so my buddy from Trinity who's on here,
he has some experience growing the lime vine
actually like right next to the ocean.
And yeah, I don't know, it's crazy.
You know, I think the soil biology has a huge,
is a huge factor in, you know,
the secondary metabolite production of the plants
because it's a very, very, very,
very important metabolite production of the plants
because if we are talking about terroir
in an aspect of climate condition,
you get a lot of regions,
like for instance, where I'm at,
even though it gets really, really hot out here,
it's humid in the morning,
you can see there's always moisture on all of the plants.
So that little ecosystem that's allowing water
to always be present can help the soil biology.
It can help because hydrology plays a huge role
in being able to have those soil microorganisms reproduce.
And I know that if you're in an area
that is a little more humid,
you're gonna have usually more moist soil
and that soil is usually gonna be able to produce
more biological activity because of it
as opposed to a place where it's real arid.
Plus, you know, if you have places too,
where you might get cloud cover,
that can affect too.
That way, you know, I noticed that plants
that get a little less direct sunlight
oftentimes produce higher terpene concentrations as well.
For sure.
Yeah, we used to notice back in the old days, in the 90s,
we would always be like, damn, the shade weed
because back then it was like everything was grown
in some cover, but every once in a while,
someone would have, you know,
a place that was less than ideal
and really didn't get enough sun at all.
The weed would be super leafy,
but it would always be so stinky, you know?
And then, you know, I kind of have a feeling
that if you're in an area where it's super,
super gnarly sunny, you might get better weed
if you have a 10% shade cloth or something like that,
for that reason, I think.
Yeah.
You know, probably because a lot of those terpenes
are volatile in higher temperatures.
And so, as things are producing them,
they're also volatilizing off of the plant
as opposed to, you know, the plant being able to retain
more of those chemical compounds.
Yeah, those monofilaments are gone.
Yep, they're jumping out as soon as you're getting
into the 80s, you're probably starting
to lose a lot of terps.
The best indoors that I've ever seen are always,
you know, it's always like 75 degrees or 78 tops.
And that seems to be like where you really,
really get good weed and then people whose grows get hotter,
it's like the weed smoked before it's ever cut, you know?
I know for, cause I do all indoor,
but I do like low till system where, you know,
I use crop cover and I do amendments,
a lot of the same stuff that Jackson's using,
the gypsum, Langbanai, I use some amino acid,
soy hydrolysate fertilizers.
I use, and then I always inoculate with the probiotics
and like the Bokashi because I think that helps
increase the soil biology as well.
And I know that when I have a higher humidity,
which I like to run my rooms pretty humid,
and that actually really, really increases the bioactivity
of the bio stimulants that I'm using in the soil.
Cause you can see the mycelium mats developing
and staying for a longer period of time
in those higher humidity environments.
So, and, you know,
and we're trying to cycle all that stuff in
to make all those things bioavailable to the plant.
So if we have that biology sticking around
for a longer time, you know,
and it has something to feed on,
essentially we can keep that going
and we can get as much into the soil
as that plant is utilizing.
Yeah, for sure.
There's a thing going on with the soil where,
you know, if you're growing in straight cocoa
or rock wool or whatever it is,
it's like you're putting stuff in
and then it's coming back out.
But that's why I've always liked just organic soil
because you put all this stuff on there.
And when I do like a super soil style,
it's kind of the same as when it's like
the low tech no-till that I was doing too.
You put everything on there and it sits
and all of that microbiology going on in there,
it's all breaking things down and tying them together
and making it all stick around
so that when you water your soil,
the water's not just pushing everything right out.
Everything is stuck in there,
but it's also being released by that same life
that's in your soil, you know?
So, you know, it's definitely,
I think that by doing that,
there's more of these trippy things
that become available to the plant
that help it to be able to turn it
into these different terpenes that you might not get
because I've seen really cool clones
that I have grown by salt growers
who have really gnarly custom salts
that will like increase the THC in crazy ways
and give them crazy yields,
make the plants finish faster, heavier.
In all aspects, everything is improved,
except that when you smell the weed,
even though it's still good weed,
it's lacking all these things that I smell
when it's either grown organically inside
or when it's grown organically outside.
Some things outside, they become plain
when you grow them outdoor,
or even if you're outdoor in a different place,
they become plain smelling.
And then other things, when you put them indoor,
they become plain.
And, you know, it's really trippy,
all the little subtleties going on.
It's, you know, sure, eventually people will figure out
exactly what it is and pin it down,
but, you know, as far as right now,
like a lot of times live soil in the sun
and the outdoor environment,
you just get a lot of crazy terpene content.
You know what, I think it might be due to the fact
that all of these microorganisms,
all these bacteria, the fungi, the archaea,
they're also producing secondary metabolites.
And some of these are organic acids,
these things are different vitamins, amino acids, enzymes.
And I think the plant, and you can't get those in salts.
You know, you can only get those things
through the biology.
And if the plant is essentially getting those things
through the biology, I think that is what's,
it's probably, it's causing a lot of genetic changes
in the plant, because we know there are like signaling
molecules that change, you know,
systemic acquired resistance, for instance, right?
And that could be something where it changes the plant
internally because of something that a bacteria is producing
and it's telling the plant, okay, I need to change this
to internally fight off this compound.
And that might affect the way that it produces
its own secondary metabolites.
I think there's a lot of stuff that's happening
with the biology and the soil and endophatic microorganisms,
bacteria that can go in and out of the plant,
as well as fungi that are, you know, we know, for instance,
the endo and ectomycorrhizal fungi,
they have these symbiotic relationships.
And I think those things are playing a huge role
in the expressions for the terpene profiles
and also the cannabinoid profiles.
Yeah, for sure.
And I think like recently, I mean, not that recently,
but fairly recently, especially in terms of history,
people are starting to realize that, you know,
starting to look at like the microbiome of everything
and realizing like, okay, like as people,
they say there's only so much of us
that actually is really human.
And that can come in the form of things
that are separate from us as far as like,
okay, everyone has certain bacterias
and all this different stuff and probiotics in your gut
and all this different digestive stuff
and things that are there that, you know,
we pick up and are beneficial.
Then there's also a lot of our DNA, it turns out,
is likely to have come.
And I think the plant, in plants too, you know, the DNA,
we get these things and they attach themselves
and then we wind up with these remnants of things too.
And so all of the different things in genetics,
they all get triggered and can be turned on and off
and restricted and, you know, enhanced.
And I think, you know, when you have more microbiology
and you have more trippy inputs, like you're saying,
like, you know, this thing, you know, is exuding this
and this is doing this,
and you're getting these new combinations
of molecules and everything.
I think that can, you know,
it can probably take your plant's ability to produce,
you know, maybe it can produce 20 terpenes
and then all of a sudden, this other thing is a present
and all of a sudden it's producing a lot more
of those things and maybe producing some new ones.
And, you know, it's really trippy.
I think humans is probably the same thing
is going on for us.
Like if we have the ability to eat really varied diets
and go to a lot of places and get a lot,
pick up a lot of different microbiology on us too,
it's probably really good.
They're talking about with the whole coronavirus
that it seems that a lot of people
who are impacted the worst,
they don't have the best gut flora.
And I'd imagine that if you're growing plants
in a sterile culture, you know,
that, you know, they probably don't have abilities
to accomplish certain things
their genetics are set up for too, you know?
It's a trip.
Sounds a lot like the hollow biome kind of theory
that's going on.
Cinch Angel on Instagram references that a lot,
but it's basically, you know, that idea that,
you know, the microbiome is far from unique to humans
and, you know, plants are literally a part
of their environment.
You know, I mean, the roots are digging into the soil,
getting exposed to fungi and bacteria
and basically living the same way.
So I'm sure that you guys are onto something there
and we'll be finding out, you know,
exactly how all that is impacting
our terpenes and cannabinoids.
But I'm actually gonna have to get going here, guys.
These are kind of my last moments here on my lunch break.
So I appreciate having me on and I'm gonna bow out.
So thanks.
All right, James, thanks for joining us.
Come back soon.
Just quickly, I wanted to keep going down the line
a little bit.
We had, I guess, Dan, that's you, right?
Whoops.
Unmute.
Did I unmute myself?
Yeah, you are.
Can you see that?
Yeah.
So what are you running here?
That's the skycuddler.
And that, I believe, is the skycuddler double.
That's the double as well, I think.
I can't.
Got it.
The ones with the purple expressions are the double
and the first picture was just the skycuddler.
Got it.
And what are you noticing about,
how you wanna talk about how this stuff grows
in Trinity County?
I'm sorry, what was that?
I said, you wanna talk about how this stuff's growing
in Trinity County?
I'm actually in Maine.
Oh, right, right.
Sorry, who's in Trinity?
Wait, was that, I think that's who we just lost.
But all right, so yeah, let's talk Maine.
Yeah, no, I mean, it's grown phenomenal.
It's grown phenomenal.
Right now, we've just run it
in a climate-controlled greenhouse.
So we haven't done a full-season outdoor run.
We did about, I guess, somewhere around 30 seeds
of the skycuddler double and about 20 of the skycuddler.
And we found that there was,
like, again, what I was saying, just about consistency.
I mean, it was a fourth generation, I think, F4.
And they were just, like, almost all the same.
We had one really cool pheno that was
the black afghan kind of leaner.
And just a really cool plant.
Super sour, turps, gassy.
Easy to eat, really easy to grow.
We did living soil.
We also ran it in cocoa.
And it kind of goes to what you guys
were just talking about.
I mean, it's kind of funny because the cocoa,
this thing put on arm-sized buds.
And even in living soil, it did really well as far as yield.
But the soil just, the terpene kind of,
the terpene content was just so complex.
You get that sour in each, but with the living soil,
you just get all these little nuances and stuff.
We ran a root beer cross, I believe,
that was root beer with the source genetics.
They did a sort of collaboration with their land-raised tie.
But we've been really just working
with the sky color lines here the last couple of runs.
And yeah, I just, I mean,
they're my favorite plants in the garden.
I can't wait to actually, next year, run them outdoors.
We just really just been working on trying to
hunt through something, kind of just found
the black afghan leaner that is really compact,
big yielder, super high calyx to leaf ratio,
very sour diesel, OG, sharp, sour,
with this real hashy notes.
Actually just got a chance to try it today.
Smoked it and it's just like,
there's kind of like no ceiling.
It's like really hashy strain, man.
It's like not for the faint of heart, which I enjoy a lot.
Conda is like smoking just straight hash.
It's pretty wild.
And just quickly before I lose it in the chat,
CBC Squirreled asked,
did Dan start from cedar clones every time?
So this whole run was all seed.
We just are revegging that now.
So our next runs will be from clone.
We do have a bunch of other seeds going,
but I haven't flowered those out of the Giroux,
crosses and a pina, but I haven't flowered any of that yet.
So I can't speak on that too much,
but all the Sky Cuttler and the double,
Sky Cuttler double was all from seed.
I think we had a hundred percent propagation rate.
Yeah, pretty good, pretty easy to grow when that happens.
Stretchy, nice stretch on everything.
And again, like just the consistency
on the Sky Cuttler doubles was like,
I mean, in veg, it was kind of weird
seeing all these plants from seed and being like,
are these clones?
Did I take clones or did I start these from seed?
Cause they all look the same,
which I think speaks to the talent of anybody
who's breeding genetics
that can get their fourth generation to do that.
I mean, I think that's pretty hard to do.
So it's pretty cool when you're buying a pack of seeds
and like hoping that that happens and then like it happens
and then you get,
we got one really cool expression on it too.
So thanks, thanks Jackson.
Oh, but yeah, no, I really love it, man.
Especially if you like sours,
like that sour terpene profile or that OG,
you know, that kind of like gassy,
you know, like that gassy, like strong racy smoke too.
Yeah, so.
And Gabriel, did you send me pictures or no?
Well, I just unmuted or, yep, there you go.
Yeah, I sent you the pictures of the land vines.
What's your email?
Trinity Valley Organics.
We're the one that's up in Trinity.
Oh, you're the one, all right, there we go.
All right, I was like, did we lose them?
All right, so why don't you,
cause you haven't talked yet, right?
Okay, so let's talk about growing in Trinity County
cause the weed is quite good from there.
Right, yeah, I mean, we're pretty close to Gene.
I grew up in the same area as him.
So obviously it likes our climate a lot.
It's real similar to where he's at.
A little more dry up here in Trinity,
but you know, stuff gets huge and loves it.
And then we grew that line behind,
we took it a couple of hundred feet from the ocean
and grew it there.
And it was very mold resilient.
Out of anything, it actually didn't show any mold.
All the other plants kind of molded out.
We didn't get much.
And that, we pretty much got every bud off the plant.
And look at that.
Yeah, so this is our selection of the land vine.
It just, all of them are pretty consistent.
Got really big.
This one maybe didn't get quite as big,
but you had more of like a purple expression
where the other ones didn't.
And it's a real, you know, it's a head high.
It's real racy, make your heart race.
But we do it all like no-till,
just same kind of way he's talking about, no-till organic.
He actually was the first one to kind of turn me on
to growing no-till.
Told me like, hey, guys are doing it
and they're killing it, getting the same results
without the work, you know?
So we kind of just gone that same way.
We're just no-till, all organic.
So let's talk about, I mean,
kind of for me, one of the ideas here
was a bunch of different people
and a bunch of different geographies
and with a lot of similar growth styles,
but some different.
I mean, we have a little bit of cocoa,
a lot of living soil,
but when each of you is talking about it
or other people, like that's exactly how it expressed
itself for me or it's expressing itself
slightly differently for me or...
What Kyle?
Yeah, I mean, it works great for us, you know?
I mean, we've tilled, no-tilled
and it kind of get the same results.
Yeah, and I was gonna say my lime vine
came out really close to Gabriel's,
the greener pheno, the less purple expression.
It almost looks identical.
So you're looking at like a twin.
Yeah, I'm in Marlborough, Mass.
So it's probably an hour and 20 minutes
from the ocean on the East Coast.
So it's not too far.
And Gene, or let me see, you're not muted.
I mean, have you talked to different people
who are growing your lines in different places
and is it fairly consistent
or are there differences that you're seeing?
I mean, there's always differences for people,
depending, I mean, like sometimes I have differences
in my own thing.
Like if I dry something out a little bit,
everything will yellow up, the buds will get harder.
So it's really hard to tell completely what's environmental
but I'm lucky here that we get the bad weather
as far as for breeding.
I mean, it's not the greatest for production,
but for breeding, it's kind of nice
because if something finishes out here nice,
it usually does good other places.
I mean, I was impressed at how well that stuff did in Maine
for these guys.
And then Trinity is more mountainous.
It's definitely, it's close to here,
but it's definitely a more gnarly place
as far as I can tell.
I mean, I've only grown out there once,
but it's fairly different.
And then I've had people grow stuff everywhere.
I mean, I had a buddy do a lot of stuff in Thailand
and there was some things that worked
and some that didn't.
And the things that didn't work
were the things that were harder to grow here.
And that he was growing it in the jungle in Thailand.
And then people grow a lot of my stuff in Hawaii
and in Hawaii, Hawaiian weeds,
probably about my favorite expression
of how stuff comes out.
Hawaii is just really something about the way
the air is there.
And I don't know, maybe,
cause it's a little further South and day length.
I don't know what it is,
but it's definitely, stuff does great in Hawaii,
but I mean, it holds up in Hawaii too.
And places like Thailand and Hawaii,
if you grow something and it's not hardy,
it just all goes to shit.
And, but yeah, I mean, I'm thinking Wisconsin,
Oregon, Washington, Canada, Thailand,
India, the more exotic places.
It's only one or two people from those kinds of places,
but people grow stuff that I breed here all over
and it always comes out different,
but it's always trippy cause you never look at it
and go, whoa, that really tripped out.
It just, you look at it, it's like, oh, it's good bud,
you know, just a little bit different,
but something like from Australia doesn't look,
doesn't look any more crazy than something from like
Ojai and SoCal or, you know, something in Washington
doesn't look that different than something in Humboldt.
There's, you know, there's definitely differences,
but it's really trippy to see everything's still
real recognizable and, you know,
people get different results, but it seems to work.
People, the most trouble I've seen people have
with my stuff is when they are like salt growers
and they run at really high rates of feeding
and then stuff freaks out and it's unhappy.
And that's because my stuff's all bred
to be done kind of minimally.
And it's not, and I'm not the one who like decided
to go in that direction.
It was just that everything from around here
is kind of from a gorilla background
and people didn't have a lot of food and water
to put on stuff, even if they could afford the food,
you still have to backpack it in and everything.
So people tended to select for years around here,
the stuff that would do well on a more minimal program.
Whereas when I get seeds from like Amsterdam,
they're bred in like more of a big horticulture setting,
like all borderline agriculture setting.
And so, you know, I noticed that I'll try something here
and it'll be like, whoa, like every thrip
in the whole County will show up
on your one pack of Amsterdam seeds
and all my stuff just looks great.
And then, you know, it goes yellow first
and, you know, it doesn't finish as well in the weather,
which, you know, probably is more from being more
from indoor versus their big greenhouse operations
they had back in the day there.
But yeah, it's trippy to see how finicky things can be
when they weren't selected for years
by people where really counted that they could,
you know, they could handle it.
But, you know, that's the biggest differences I see.
It seems like you can almost see them.
From place to place in small distances,
like it's, you go all the way to Maine and I'm like,
oh, that's sky cobbler, that looks killer, you know?
And then you go and then you have something in SoCal
and you're like, well, that looks crazy.
And then I see the stuff from Australia and I'm like,
yeah, it looks like the stuff from SoCal, you know?
So there's a guy, Baked Beans, Baking in the Sun on IG
and he has buddies who pick him up stuff up here from me
for seeds and he grows a lot of different stuff down there.
So I get feedback on that from Australia
and it's really a trip.
I still haven't seen anything from Australia
that's that, you know, like you think maybe
it'll look a little bit more tripped out
or sativa-ish or bolty or, you know,
more crazy dense or whatever it is,
but it just kind of looks, you know,
just looks like some good weed, you know?
It's cool.
Right.
With your kind of, your breeding, you know,
your program, can you talk about like, for example,
when you're doing a pheno hunt,
like how many seeds do you wanna run?
Like, can you talk about your program?
Like, for example, right now you just mentioned
a lot of the hype strains you're bringing in
and playing around with.
So like when you're crossing things and exploring kind of,
what's the scope of those projects?
What I like to do usually is I'll make some seeds
and then I'll try, I'll just try planting
a few of the seeds.
Like maybe I'll only plant 10 or 15 of something.
And I've literally even planted 10 seeds,
especially like sometimes if they're other people's seeds
and I haven't seen them before,
but I have access to a lot of them.
I'll just take 10 seeds and plant them all
in one seven gallon pot.
And as soon as they get like a foot tall,
I'll lean them apart from each other
and yank out the males and then just let them bud.
And then if there's anything really exceptional,
then I know that it's worth growing 40 or a hundred
or however many.
Ideally to look through stuff,
you really want it to be in the hundreds,
but that's hard to do it that way.
So a lot of times a more realistic thing for me
will be like 40 or 80 plants of something
hoping to get like 50 females to look at
and, you know, or 20 or 30 females.
And that's enough to let you know
what's available in the gene pool.
You might not find anything as crazy as you'll find
if you can plant a couple hundred of them,
but it'll at least tell you if it's worth it
because every time you're growing out those plants,
it's a lot.
Sometimes I'll also like right now it's July.
I could plant plants right now from seed
and treat them really good
and put them in a 15 or 25 gallon pot.
And you might still be able to get a pound or two
off of a seedling right now,
which I didn't used to think is possible,
but you can do it.
But you can also take those same seedlings,
plant them now or even in a week or two
and leave them in a five inch pot
or a one gallon pot or a three gallon pot.
And, you know, the smaller the pot you can leave stuff in,
the more plants you can look through.
And if you find something really cool,
you can always re-veg it.
And so I've been over the years, I've got into that.
And in a lot of cases,
you'll be happy that you didn't put everything
in 10 gallon pots or even seven gallon pots
because you go through them all and you go,
well, it was cool.
I'm sure this would be something someone would really like,
but it's not anything I wanna do anything with.
And you can find out just by seeing, you know,
a good little quarter ounce of every different plant.
You know, you just know,
cause you're like, wow, it's not outperforming
these other ones that I have next to it really in any way.
And you have to be able to focus a certain amount
on the things you really wanna do.
So you can't just jump on everything smoking
and grow everything and try to turn it into a project.
You really have to find the ones
that you have the most faith in being able to take you
to the next level in your garden,
or for you to be able to take it to the next level.
Sometimes you plant some seeds
and there's only some of them that are really good,
but there's so much better than all the rest of the things
in the same cross that you're like,
okay, this is worth doing because I need to get rid of these.
And if I can make them all be like these winners,
then it'll be something that was worth the time, you know?
And sometimes you plant a bunch of stuff
and they're all really consistent,
but none of them are up to what you would want anyway.
So there's really not a lot of room for improvement there
without outcrossing it to something else.
And if you're not really in love with it,
then that's even more work when you're gonna start
making new hybrids with it,
because what you did is gonna get less and less frequent.
And it's all a trip.
And being able to focus is one of the biggest things.
And it's like the most challenging thing for me
is always just like telling myself like,
dude, you need to be able to pick which things to go with.
Because every time you pick something, it's a whole run.
And if you're breeding outside,
or you're breeding in the depth,
or you're breeding in the winter greenhouse
or whatever you're doing, it's all that time put in.
And then if you didn't go with what was the best bet
for you at the moment, then by the time you're done,
you're like, damn, I could have grown these other things.
Because there's so many kinds of seeds.
There's a lot of different ways you can go.
So I just try to go with what I know
is already pretty consistent on quality,
and then try to make slight improvements.
That's really the meat and potatoes of my breeding goals,
as opposed to trying to find something
that's gonna be the craziest by looking through.
I have like all these seeds, and a lot of times I go,
okay, well, if I do a thousand plants right now,
I can take this land race and that land race,
and I might find something new,
and I can make something completely novel.
It's really tempting to do, but at the same time I go,
yeah, but you're gonna miss this whole run
when you could have just improved.
A couple things that you already know
are you already wanna stuff your garden with, so.
It's all a trick.
Hey, did you still have that lime arola that I gave you?
I do, I never cloned it.
I assumed that you still have it,
and so I'm gonna hit it with something right now.
It's about, it's almost three weeks into flower right now,
I think, so I was gonna go ahead
and cross it back with a lime again,
and see if it stays limey
and keeps some of that gorilla frost.
It looks killer right now in flower.
Nice.
Yeah.
That's a really, really turpy pheno
that I had found in the second hunt that I did,
and I was really, really impressed
by the terpene profile on that.
It smells great, it's all lime.
It's very much lime,
but it has the resin looking more like a gorilla, so.
Yeah, if it's only three weeks into,
it'll develop as it goes along.
It gets pretty complex, the profile.
It has, it develops kind of like a floral chemical lime,
and then it has kind of this,
almost like a soft fabric softener undertone to it.
It's weird, it's really complex, though.
Nice.
Yeah, those are in the lime.
That was always my favorite ones,
were the ones that were really crazy,
where they have the combination of the chemical,
and the citrus, and then the kind of indescribable stuff.
Some of them are really woody,
and then some of them have a lot of the floral.
Some of them have, some of them smell
like a fucking urinal cake, you know?
They're just like that weird, crazy,
disinfectant kind of cleaner smell,
but then it's mixed with all this other stuff.
Some of them are more like really heavy on the eucalyptus,
and almost like peppermint.
Really cool.
There's a lot of weird stuff in there, but yeah,
I always like the ones that you're talking about
that are a little more floral,
and I've always liked weed that's really floral like that.
It's funny, some people hate that.
They're like, no, all gas, and I'm like, gas is cool,
but it was kind of more normal to me when I was young.
Things that were skunky, and what they call gassy now,
just like that killer rank weed, buds, that's just weed.
That's what weed smells like to me
as far as from when I was growing up.
So the first times I smelled things
that were really floral and candy,
and those were like that exotic, new,
different stuff to me, and it,
nostalgia plays so much into what I like
that it's always hard for me to knock the stuff
that first had the impact on me that made me,
that really seemed different.
It still seems different to me now,
30 years later, 20 years later.
So can you go back in time and talk about,
did you grow up in Mendocino?
Yeah.
So can you talk about, I mean, going from kind of like,
just plain old weed that we all smoked when we were young
to like, what were some of the first genetics
that you were just like, what is this?
Was it coming from Mendocino?
Was it coming from elsewhere?
So when I was young, I didn't really see weed from elsewhere.
I think maybe in the mid nineties
when we used to go to Reggae on the River,
we'd go to Reggae on the River
and we would just camp and party,
and we would walk around,
and a lot of my buddies would do like the trade up
where you would basically
go around and you might start with maybe,
you might start with a sack of weed,
and then you trade some of the weed for some other weed,
and then you trade some of that weed for some shrooms,
and then you trade the shrooms to somebody
for way more weed,
and then you trade that for some acid,
and then you trade that for way more weed,
and then pretty soon people are like,
yeah, dude, I showed up with my one little Ziploc
in my pocket and I'm like,
I showed up with my one little Ziploc in my pocket of weed,
and now dude, look, I got this, I got these shrooms,
I got this seed, and I got this,
and people would like keep upgrading,
and so that was like some of the only times
that I really saw weed from other places
because back then it wasn't really a social thing.
We would get to see, people will show you their weed
when you already have a big bag of shrooms in front of them,
but back then it wasn't like there was no,
there was no real way to really see anybody's weed
except kind of in that context or if it was local stuff,
so those were kind of the only times,
like sometimes somebody would come from like Santa Cruz,
I remember still now, I remember this dude with a backpack
and you'd walk by and people would be like,
doses, kind buds, whatever, nuggets,
and we'd be like, hey, I'm probably not gonna buy any,
but can I check it out?
And some people would let you check it out,
and I remember this one dude from Santa Cruz
pulled out his bag and he had like a pound or two in there,
and I remember the weed was just so hard and core looking,
like it was just so, it had no leaf,
and it was so frosty and just dank,
and it was way different than anything we'd seen,
and it was from a different area,
it was totally different genetics,
and then there was, Bob,
the closest thing that I can remember seeing to that
was this stuff called golden lion,
which came from Island Mountain back like around 90,
maybe a little bit later,
so some of the first weed I ever saw with a name,
probably golden lion, northern lights,
as far as weed with names,
like usually weed didn't have names back then,
and honestly usually weed wasn't even in its own bag
by itself, so like if somebody had a pound of weed,
you could go through the pound of weed
and find a few grams of something
that was really, really gnarly among a bunch of weed
that was just some weed,
and it didn't really matter back then,
nobody really had their weed completely separate
unless they grew indoor from clone
and they only had one thing, so naturally it was separate,
or if they only had a little bit of weed,
but like people who were really growing weed,
you cut down all the weed, you hang it all up,
and then it gets all trimmed up,
and people weren't keeping it separate
because it didn't matter, it all sold and smoked the same,
people were just stoked to have weed back then,
so the whole name thing,
there wasn't even really a whole lot of point to it,
coming into around 94, 95,
like when I started actually growing weed
and my friends were all growing weed,
then we started, my buddies would have
some really exotic stuff,
and it would usually have the name of who they got it from,
my buddy, one of my favorite ones that he had,
my buddy, OG Foundation Farms on Instagram,
he had this one from this lady named Madeline,
and Madeline's passed now,
but she had this strain that I don't know what it was,
if it was hash plant or some cool Afghani or what it was,
but it was just really gnarly weed,
it was kind of similar to like what people call the puck,
or like kind of like a chem 91 look,
but it always had different kinds of flavors,
but it always smoked really good,
and it would really knock you on your ass,
and that was killer,
and we had a buddy that we called Grimp,
and Grimp used to get weed from his dad,
and it was purple weed that would,
when you popped a film canister of it,
like back then, if you had weed,
it was probably in a film canister,
he used to keep his weed in vitamin jars a lot,
and if someone popped that in the car
when you were driving down the road,
you would just think that you had gone past a skunk,
and then when you smelled the weed up close,
it had like a pine sap smell to it,
and some of it was all the way purple,
always with really pretty white resin,
and some of it was like purple on the very inside,
but green on the outside,
and we call it the 50-50 grapes,
but we called it Grimps grapes,
and that was like one of those weeds
that was just like,
when he had some, you'd be like,
oh, dude, can I get a little bud,
and we were like 15 or something,
and super killer, was always grown,
his dad only used chicken manure and lime in his dirt,
and he grew in like 25-gallon pots
underneath tan oak trees that were hollowed out,
and it would just always be the most smokable weed,
like to this day,
like the closest thing to it
is probably like some of my cherry pine crosses,
like cherry limeade or something,
it has a skunk and a pine,
and it had like a grapiness to it
that was kind of understated,
and we mostly called it grapes because it was purple,
not because it smelled grapey,
but it did have a little bit
of like an exotic fruitiness to it,
that was like one of the real epic ones,
and then I'm trying to think of some other ones,
there was some really cool stuff
that it turns out it looks like probably came through
from like Brotherhood of Eternal Love,
we didn't ever know,
because the older guys didn't ever tell us,
but my buddy was talking to one of his dad's friends,
and he was like,
oh yeah, you didn't know so-and-so?
That's what they used to do back there,
they were making sunshine back there,
and that was those first indica seeds,
and then those seeds,
they wound up taken to Mexico in the tire of a car,
and then the Mexican weed price went up that next year,
because all of a sudden they had the indica,
and they were giving the seeds to people,
and then buying the weed back from them,
and they promised if they grew it,
that they would buy it,
I can't remember what it was,
like we promised we'll pay you 1500 or something,
and weed was only worth 800 before that or something,
and in the hills up here,
and then that stuff is stuff that's in some things
like my grape soda skunk,
and the pina,
like the purple stem stuff,
and it's cool,
some of the stories wind up,
like the stories develop,
people don't tell 14 year old kids,
that people are batching up acid in the back of the valley,
and then now you're almost 40,
and you're talking to a dude,
who's basically like on his deathbed almost,
and he's telling you,
oh yeah, no, no, yeah,
this is the history of this and that,
and you're like wow,
so there was some heavy duty stuff going on,
that we never knew about,
but there was that kind of stuff,
and those old original Afghanis,
and then there was the Northern Lights,
we got the Northern Lights when I was a kid in 89,
and that was to me,
like that was like my household weed,
it was really, really strong,
like ridiculously strong,
like strong like an OG or something,
just regular green bud,
not a real loud smell to it,
smelled kind of like juicy fruit gum,
and pine sap when you grew it outdoors,
indoors it just smelled like indoor keefy weed,
it wasn't real exotic or anything,
but it was so damn potent,
and the hash from it was just crazy,
it was the only weed that I can remember,
where you could put a bong hit in the bong,
and right when the lighter,
right when the flame was about to hit the weed,
you could see the resin on it beat up and melt,
and I still haven't really seen that with any weed,
I'm sure there's something like that,
but that was the only one,
that I ever really remember doing that,
and that was used in black lime,
it's also in the grape soda skunk,
and then just trying to think like other stuff,
like anything with names,
there wasn't a whole lot of named stuff,
there was some cool old indica's,
that I saw in the mid 90s,
that I wound up doing some stuff with,
big blue, big red,
that's in the sky cuddler,
those ones were from like up on bell springs,
or spy rock,
they're like old gnarly original,
like deep chunk type plants,
and yeah, in the 90s,
I mean most stuff was just like,
there was the stuff that our buddy Jedi had,
it was this crazy purple,
it got these huge spears,
that were like giant,
these giant buds,
like the cola would be,
along the whole bottom of a Ziploc,
and it would just be like this boom,
like a big bud,
yeah, and it would just be,
the whole weed,
we'd ask him,
we'd be like,
hey is your perp done yet?
And he'd be like,
no it's still getting purple,
and we'd be like,
dude it's like mid November,
isn't it gonna rot?
And he's like,
no it's just we leave it out,
and it gets all the way purple,
and it was really kind of like,
a little bit of fruit,
with almost like a black peppery thing to it,
and just real special and unique,
I've never seen anything like it since,
and that was like,
we just called that,
just Jed's purple,
it was just,
it was just,
back then,
you didn't really know,
what things were that much,
so it was like,
okay there's Gramps purple,
there's Jed's purple,
there's,
you know there was the stuff,
that I made the lime with,
where I got the kind of,
more fuel-y side from the lime,
which was the old,
the stuff the guy called oil can,
he had stoil,
and he had oil can,
there was,
this guy Ren had an old Afghani,
that him and a partner of him,
they of his,
they had,
they had this gnarly Afghani,
and,
and it was just like a big,
crazy broad leaf,
hella frosty,
a lot of these things,
I have seeds of them still too,
they just,
they're not,
they're alive and I have them in cold storage,
but I didn't store them well enough initially,
so they don't have the juice to pop,
but one day maybe,
you know,
we could bring them back in the lab.
So you're waiting for like mad science stuff to,
not even that,
you have some dinosaur DNA,
that you wanna bring back to life,
that's awesome,
but like,
back in the day,
I had,
I knew a lady named Mary,
and Mary,
we were talking about cloning,
and I think I was probably 13 or something,
and she goes,
oh well you know,
you guys take cuttings,
you don't clone,
and I go well,
you know,
you can't really like clone things,
right,
that's like sci-fi stuff,
and she,
she goes no,
we,
that's what we do at my job,
and she goes,
I work in an orchid facility,
and we actually clone,
agriculture,
right?
Yes,
and so she goes,
we only need a few cells,
so she goes,
what happens with orchids,
is they take years to get a flower,
and so,
once you get the,
once you get the one you want,
from seed of a hybrid,
to be able to produce millions of them,
to ship all around the country,
we have to make true clones,
so we actually cut open the leaf,
and we get a little bit of cells,
and we put it on a plate,
and we grow it out,
and then we give it different hormones,
and it makes it get roots and shoots,
and we can make millions of plants,
from one leaf that way,
over the course of a year,
you know,
and I was like,
wow,
that's really a trip,
and unfortunately,
she passed away years ago,
if she was still around,
I would just hit her up,
and go hey Mary,
you know,
can you,
can you do this for me,
I'll pay you to do it,
there's people who do it,
I just don't know anybody well enough,
to want to give them stuff,
there's two levels of trust,
that I have to have,
I have to trust in their skill set,
and I have to trust in their ethics,
and a lot of the people,
who have the skill set,
would probably be a little questionable,
on the ethical side,
and a lot of the people,
who have the ethics,
would probably be a little questionable,
on the other side,
so I just keep them in the cold,
because I know they're still alive,
and I know there's a lot of tricks,
I could use,
but I don't want to gamble on them,
because even if you say,
if I have a hundred,
or a thousand seeds or something,
if I only get a couple,
that's only a little slice of the gene pool,
so I'd rather be able to give somebody 10 seeds,
get back 10 plants,
and breed them and see what's there,
and maybe if there's not something,
that's the greatest,
give them some more,
I'd rather give them all to them,
and get back a whole ton of plants,
but I know it's all,
you know,
it's not cost effective,
and all that,
but I mean,
it's not like this far out thing,
it's just a matter of finding somebody,
who could make it happen,
and I do have some really neat stuff,
that I'd like to bring back.
Well, so to me,
what's interesting is,
I feel like in the cannabis space,
people talk about tissue culture,
like it's this new technology,
and I know this guy,
who he's been doing tissue,
and he was actually in the rare flowering plant,
I met him,
because he was helping,
a rare flowering plant nursery,
that used to send stuff to like Vietnam,
or somewhere to propagate,
and then send back,
and he was like,
well, I could set up a tissue culture lab,
in your nursery,
and you could eliminate the step,
where you have to send stuff to the far East,
and wait like a month for it to come back,
and they were like,
really?
So, yeah,
and then he started teaching me tissue,
and he was like,
I could set up a lab for you right here,
I was like,
I'd like to do that.
Yeah, and I mean,
that's the thing too,
that's always a trip for me,
is I'm like,
I know the basic concepts,
I mean, in high school,
they taught us how to do it,
it becomes a specific skill set,
when you get species specific,
so you need like,
the right protocol for doing cannabis,
which I know nothing about,
but I do know the basic steps,
and I know I could learn,
it's just that I don't have the energy,
to put into that,
while still doing what the other stuff,
that I want to accomplish with the plants,
I actually already have viable.
But that would be a pretty cool skill set,
to master, right?
Like with your current skill set,
have you added that to the lineup?
Yeah,
I mean,
it kind of drives me a little crazy,
thinking about it sometimes,
because I go,
dude, all you need is,
in high school,
they taught us to grow mushrooms,
and they taught us to do tissue culture,
and we didn't ever tissue culture anything crazy,
we tissue cultured stuff,
that you could have actually,
just stuck in the dirt,
we did like,
we did like,
like ice plants and cacti,
you know,
so there are things that you can grow anyway,
but that's why they started,
but what,
what we did learn was sterile technique,
and when you know sterile technique,
the rest of it just becomes a recipe,
you know,
if you can get a clean plate,
you can get a clean plate,
if you know how to take a Petri dish,
and keep it from being contaminated,
you're good,
but you have to know those other details,
to get it going,
but I do understand that stuff,
and,
you know,
I've successfully had clean Petri dishes,
and cultured,
you know,
mycelium,
and plants,
and plant tissue,
and all that,
but,
it's just a matter of,
one more thing,
you know,
and so I'm always looking for somebody,
who's just already in the routine of it,
so I can just hand them some seeds,
and they can cut open a seed,
and pull out some cells,
and toss them on a dish,
you know,
but,
you know,
eventually that's gonna happen,
I've met a couple people,
and I've talked to people,
about keeping an eye out,
and so I don't think it's like a pipe dream,
or too far out,
if I thought nobody would ever be available to do it,
I would just go ahead,
and try to get myself on it,
but I just know that pretty soon,
it's gonna,
I think it's gonna become pretty run of the mill,
to take old seeds,
and get them going,
because there's too much value in it,
if anybody started that service,
it would be really easy for them,
to demand a premium way above,
and beyond what a regular tissue culture lab,
can get for doing,
some kind of a regular isolation of something else,
you know,
because,
because of the value these things have,
like some of these Afghanis I have,
you only need a couple of the plants,
they're really inbred,
they're all kind of the same,
so if you could just get,
a couple of them to be viable,
I mean,
if you could just get one male,
and reverse it,
you'd have your regular male,
female line,
just from that,
one male,
and you'd be able to go,
okay, well,
it's not the whole gene pool,
but it's a whole lot of it,
and then you'd have that tool,
back again,
so,
you know,
hopefully,
hopefully it's a matter of,
you know,
months or years,
and not,
decades before that happened,
because it's just crazy to think that,
it's not more practical already,
you know?
So,
can you talk about,
like for stuff you breed now,
you have tons of seeds,
and then pollen,
like obviously in high school,
and stuff like that,
you weren't like,
rigidly following a long-term storage process,
for your seeds,
so like,
but for stuff now,
kind of,
what's your approach to storing stuff?
How long do you think it stays,
you know,
the seeds stay good,
and then the pollen as well?
Okay,
so with pollen,
I'm not in the habit of storing pollen,
I should be,
but I tend to just use it,
while I use it,
and when I was had males,
that I wanted to use as,
recurrent parents,
then I would,
I cloned them,
and I only did that a couple times,
I only ever kept a couple male clones,
and,
you know,
the thought with the male clones,
has been,
and also with keeping pollen in the past,
was if that male was really that good,
and that pollen was really that good,
then it should be making,
plants,
that I can pull another good male out of,
and if I can't,
then why would I want to use that pollen,
or male that much anyway?
That's just my logic on it,
I don't know if it's completely sound,
because of course,
if you have the same male forever,
then you can bounce it off of endless individuals,
and I mean,
there is a lot of benefit to it,
it's just that when you're already,
trying so hard to keep those females,
that you really like,
trying to keep a lot of males,
adds a lot to it,
the males that I have this year that I'm using,
I am trying to,
keep them all in clone form,
so we'll see how it goes,
but storing pollen,
I mean,
I have stored pollen before,
I've stored pollen for,
a year,
and had it still have some viability,
and it got to the point where I thought it didn't work,
and then there was some seeds in the plants,
that I used it on,
but,
the pollen that I have stored now,
is done the way that Bodie recommended it,
and what he said was to take a jar,
take the pollen,
anytime you store pollen,
even for short term,
you want to make sure that it's screened really well,
and for that,
I'll make little disposable sieves for it,
and what I'll do is,
I'll take like two containers the same way,
like two,
like two big plastic cups,
and then I'll put some mesh,
a buddy of mine years ago,
showed me this mesh that you can get,
that's basically a window curtain,
that you can get at Walmart,
and it's like a see-through curtain,
that's just kind of,
you know,
it doesn't actually block vision,
it doesn't block hardly any light,
but I think it's about probably 200 micron mesh,
and so it really,
it's really good,
you can use it to do like bulk,
dry resin extractions,
but you can also,
like for your initial process,
but you can also use it for pollen,
so what I'll do is-
Like to dry sift?
Yeah.
Okay.
And it's cool because,
you know, it doesn't cost anything,
you get, you know,
a square of it that is like eight feet by 10 feet,
for like $4 or something,
you know what I mean?
And it's like,
it's some kind of a synthetic fiber,
and it's got a really consistent mesh,
it's actually really nice for that kind of a thing,
so I'll take like a cup,
and then I'll take the cup like this,
and I'll cut off this much of one of them,
and or about this much of one of them,
and then I'll have two cups,
and I'll take the screen,
and set it on top of the regular one,
and then I'll take the cut cup,
and I'll put it right in the top,
and what it'll do is it'll make it so that there's a,
you've just made a little place to screen stuff,
and that way it's disposable,
and you don't have to worry about cross contamination,
like you would when people use the trim screens,
or whatever different things you do,
so I'll go ahead and screen it like that,
and with that you can do,
you know, a couple tablespoons worth of pollen,
which is a ton of pollen really,
you know, it's not very often
that you'll have one individual that'll have that much,
it might take you a few clones of one clone to really,
of one male to collect that much anyway,
and then once you have that pollen,
you can do whatever you want with it,
but to store it long-term,
what Bodie recommended was to take it,
and fold it in some construction paper,
so that it's, you know, all together,
but the construction paper still breathes,
and then what I'll do is leave it in a really dry place
for a couple days, like two days,
and then I'll take it and put it in the paper,
and then fold it up,
and put it in a jar,
then with desiccant in the jar,
and then seal that up,
and then put that in the freezer,
and I have some pollen in there
that's been in a couple months right now
that I'm gonna use probably this fall,
and so I'll get a taste of how that technique works,
but in the past, I just put the pollen in a jar,
and put the desiccant right in there,
and just had it in the jar,
and I think that's not quite as good of a technique,
because if the desiccant didn't take
any of the atmospheric moisture
out of the air inside the jar,
then as the jar comes out,
and comes to room temperature,
you can't open it while the jar's cold,
or all the atmospheric moisture
will just stick like a wet, like a cold cup, right?
So you have to let it come to room temperature,
but if you have it in the paper like Bodie does,
I think it's one added element
of insulating it from that moisture
that might wanna kinda stick to the glass
as the air becomes a different temperature,
you get the condensation,
but so that's a good technique for pollen storage
as far as I know, based on what Bodie says,
Bodie stores a lot of pollen
and does a ton of different breedings,
so I usually take his advice on stuff,
and then for seeds, what I do is pretty similar,
except I use little bags that,
they're not the best bags ever,
they are just like little craft bags,
and they have a white front,
so that you can write with marker on them
and the marker won't wear off.
If you use a regular Ziploc
and you put marker on it, after a while,
eventually it will come off
and then you might not know what it is,
so I used to use Ziplocs
and then I would put a paper label
inside the Ziploc with the seeds,
and even before I put seeds in cold storage,
my seeds used to be good for like eight years or so,
and so when I was younger, I just always figured like,
if I didn't do anything with it in eight years,
was I really gonna, what was I gonna do with it anyway?
If nobody wanted them and I didn't breed it further,
then what the hell am I doing with it?
And I used to kind of think of like
the hybrids and polyhybrids that I was making
as being useful as plants,
but not really as genetic stock,
but I was naive to the fact
that everybody would lose their stuff.
I thought these people who had had it already
for 10 or 15 years, they would continue having it,
and it turned out in a lot of cases,
what I had was all there was,
because I was the only one interested in seeds
and they all started growing clones,
and so once I came to that realization
and I started meeting people
who were interested in growing seeds,
what I do now is I take them, I put them in those bags,
and I like to use those bags
because I can put lots of notes right on the bag,
so I can say this one has extra mildew resistance
or extra bug resistance or extra mold resistance,
extra sturdy, heaviest yielding, less heavy yielding,
whatever things make it different
than the other things in that line,
then I have those basic notes on there
and I don't necessarily,
when I pull out my seeds to look at them,
I don't necessarily have to open up some program
or open up some journals and look through everything
and go, okay, well, this is 126B, here it is right here.
I can look through as I look through my seeds
and know, okay, here's that one,
and it might not be all the information I have
for it on the bag, but it tells me who's who,
so I like to do that and use those bags,
and then I take those bags
and I put them into airtight containers,
and then in the container outside of the bag,
I put in desiccant,
and I use this desiccant that is blue,
and then it turns pink when there's moisture present,
and so what that'll tell you
is sometimes you put something away
and you thought that they are fine
and they're totally dry and everything,
and then you look and you go,
ooh, a few of them are starting to turn pink,
and then more of them turn pink,
and then you know, okay,
switch out the desiccant one more time,
and you can take that desiccant
and put it on a cookie sheet in the oven,
and you can leave it in on like 200
for however long until it turns dark blue again,
let it cool down,
and put it back into the container of desiccant
that you have, and you can switch it out that way,
and then it's reusable.
You don't have to just continue buying tons of it,
but by doing that,
you save the quality of the seeds,
of course, then I put those in refrigeration,
but you save it,
and by having a desiccant
that actually tells you when moisture's present,
you know if you need to switch it out,
because what happens is sometimes
maybe I have some seeds,
and somebody wants something,
and I'm like, oh, okay,
well, these need to come to room temperature,
and I let them come to room temperature,
but maybe because there's so many seeds in it,
and so much desiccant,
it's still holding on to some of the cold,
or the heat hasn't grabbed on all the way, rather,
and so when you open it up,
there's condensation,
and you might not realize it,
and it might just be a little bit
between two of the bags in there,
and so if you just had something like rice,
or something of a more basic,
traditional desiccant in there,
when you close it back up,
there's moisture present,
and you don't know there's moisture present,
because there's nothing to indicate it,
so having that desiccant in there
is really a valuable thing
for keeping your seeds all legit.
Now, if instead of being in bags,
if everything was in there,
was in completely airtight containers,
then it wouldn't be as big of an issue,
but the issue that I have with that
is that if there was moisture inside of those containers
that are small containers,
then you would have to put desiccant directly
in with the seeds in there,
and then you would have to check every one of those
to see if the same thing is going on,
where it's much easier to have it all
in a big, clear container,
and be able to look at the desiccant
through the bottom of the container.
So that's how I do it,
and that's how I store seeds,
and right now, I'm planting stuff from 2014,
and it's all good,
so that's good,
and I'm trying to think of when I started storing my seeds
in the cold, probably wasn't until maybe 2012 or so.
I think 2012, I probably took a bunch of the stuff
that I had that I knew was cool
and put it all into cold storage at that point,
and so some of those things,
I haven't even bothered to try to get back into,
but hopefully they're good,
but if you, from the very start,
when your weed is first dry,
you get the seeds all the way dry,
you package them up properly,
and you put them away,
there's no reason that you can't have seeds
that last for an easy 20 years.
20 years is routine,
that's not a crazy number at all,
and I wouldn't be surprised if somebody who is really sharp,
and I knew how to store seeds since I was 14.
I just didn't ever think that it mattered that much
because I didn't think I was the guy with the seeds.
I was just the guy making some stuff
from the real people with real seeds,
and my seeds were all bullshit.
So then after a while,
when they didn't have any seeds anymore,
then I was the guy with the seeds,
and I didn't think I was gonna be in that position,
so that's why I didn't store them properly
because I thought they were all kind of bastardized versions
of the stuff from the real hippies with the real shit.
I wouldn't be surprised though,
if somebody who actually learned that when they were young,
followed through with the protocol
and stored their seeds properly,
if they told me, oh, I have seeds from,
somebody could tell me right now
that their grandpa was a seed collector
and put seeds into the fridge in 1958,
he got from Mexico or something,
and that they were still viable,
I'd be like, oh, wow,
well, that's a little longer than I thought,
but they've been able to bring back seeds
even without tissue culture that were really, really old.
So, I think potentially for somebody making seeds right now,
they could be putting stuff away
and have the seeds be viable for 40 or 50 years
and maybe a lot longer,
but 20 years routinely, no problem.
You can put seeds in your sock drawer
if your house isn't too hot all the time.
Like if your house is climate controlled
and it's always 72 all the time,
you could probably keep seeds for 10 years
at room temperature.
It's just when it gets really hot or it gets really humid,
those are the two real enemies
and coupled, they're the worst.
The humidity and the heat together are the most harmful.
Humidity at really low temperatures isn't that bad
and heat when it's really dry, isn't that bad,
but when it's hot and humid,
the seeds just get destroyed really fast.
So, that's what you wanna think about
as far as your two enemies for storing seeds.
Got it.
So, just by the way, anybody else in this conversation,
if you guys have questions or wanna talk about topics,
just jump in.
I have no pride of moderating.
Anyone?
I got a question, yeah.
What do you think about seed viability
when it comes to the way that they're actually cultivated
as far as soil or living soil or modified growing mixes
versus somebody who's doing hydroponics?
In my experience, I've found that typically,
I get better germination rates
from people who are also doing living soils
and typically, the seeds that I grow
from people who cultivated in salts,
they typically take a little longer
to acclimate to the soil system.
Do you find that similar?
I don't know.
I mean, I don't have any real hard data on that,
but I mean, just back to what we were saying
with the microbiome and everything,
I mean, I would imagine,
in my mind, I picture things being at their best
when they're part of a living system
because of evolution and just general
modern scientific ideas.
I just think that if you,
that the more the seeds have as far as health,
every advantage is gonna be,
every advantage they had in their life
is gonna be an advantage to the seed
because that's still the live part of the plant.
Even after the plant's gone,
the seed is still a live part of that plant.
So whatever gives the plant the best vigor,
I think you're gonna have the best vigor in the seed.
And just in general,
as far as seeds for longevity of storage,
and everything, I've had seeds that I made,
I've had seeds that I made when the weather was really great
and they really formed really well and they were all good.
And the seeds are beautiful.
And they finish when the weather is really bad
because of being seeded late a little bit.
In particular, I have these Skywalker crosses that I made
and the seeds were so gorgeous.
It was like, oh, these are great.
These things will store really well.
As soon as the weed was dry, I took them out.
I was excited about all of them.
I put them in cold storage.
And it turned out that they were not viable
for longer than like a year and a half.
And at first I was like, well, what the hell happened here?
Did I put them away with moisture?
What is it?
And then I looked back at what the conditions were like
and I thought about it and I went,
they just didn't finish in good conditions.
And so I think what happened was probably
the humidity got too high and they were in there
basically like ready to come out because they're like,
okay, we're gonna sprout.
And they used a bunch of their energy to sprout.
And then the plant got cut and they got put away
and then they didn't.
And I think they ate up some of their energy
because they were too well formed to think
that they had just formed poorly
because the germ forms before the shell
and the shell was beautiful.
So I think like conditions,
the conditions can really affect stuff.
And it was that same year from that same wave of seeds,
there was, I think some grape soda skunks
and some Urkel cross limes.
And all of those particular seeds were the same thing.
They just didn't keep that well.
And some of the grape soda skunks did keep really well,
different plants, but some of them didn't.
And I think that that kind of conditions
as far as it just being poor conditions for the seeds,
like the humidity, I think that was a factor.
But back to what you said,
I think that the same thing could come into play
if essentially the plants kind of on the edge
on a junk food diet in a less healthful program.
I think it could be an issue for sure.
I just don't have anything to say that definitively.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I had some old seeds from the Afghani war writer.
I think I had talked to you about different methods
to try to pop these things.
I had tried every single method that I could think of.
I used enzymes, I did the hydrogen peroxide,
I used gibberellic acid.
And every time I tried to pop any of these seeds,
it seemed like there was a pathogen that would,
like a mold that would coat the seeds.
Have you ever seen a pathogen seed association
with any work that you've ever come across?
I've noticed, years ago, I used to have,
like I would make the seeds kind of late
on one branch of big full-term plants.
And so some of the seeds would stay in a long time
and then maybe I'd have a whole branch
and it would be seeded with a bunch of different buds.
And one of the buds would be moldy.
And I'd look and I'd go,
oh, the seeds are still pretty, whatever.
And I'd put them in there and then I'd go to plant those.
And then you would see some of the seeds
would just, as soon as they got wet,
they would just wanna be moldy.
And then beyond that,
what we wound up discovering later on
was that those plants would also be the ones
that would wanna maybe get some stem mold
or something when they were growing.
And so obviously it was just this like botrytis
just carrying through on the plant
and almost not systemic,
but ingrained in there somewhere from an early age.
And so, which would make sense if it pops out of its shell
and then it comes out and it's touching somewhere on there,
where the seed leaves are,
that's basically gonna be the base of your plant
and it's coming right out of those shells.
So of course it could be right on there
and could almost be getting grained there at the time
until much later, then it becomes a problem later.
So now if there's any mold anywhere near,
typically if something gets mold,
I don't really wanna grow it anyway,
but sometimes you have like the anomaly of a bud
that got something damaged about it.
And I don't consider that to be part of the genetics
of the plant if it really got messed up
and then it molded like it was dead
and then it sat and it was wet or whatever happened to it.
So I just always make sure that if there's any mold anywhere
it's not getting harvested.
And then when I did have things that were,
like I had like some Nepalese that I did,
it didn't finish till like December.
And the only seeds I could get out of it,
the buds had some mold on it.
And I was like, well, I want the seeds.
So those seeds I would be sure to basically sterilize,
whether you give, I've done it a couple of ways.
You can give the seeds a roll in a bag
or in a cup or whatever in some sulfur powder
and just let them sit for a little bit
and then wash it all the way off
because sulfur super gnarly, it'll kill plants
if it's too much of it on there.
So you don't wanna leave it on the seedlings
just in case, on the seeds just in case,
but like that, or of course a peroxide soak.
I find that a regular peroxide soak where you use,
people would say, okay, take the 3% and dilute it to 1%
and then let them sit for a little bit and whatever.
I found it didn't really work on stuff
that I knew was already coming from moldy stuff
or seeds that were older.
And so what I started messing around with different stuff
and what I found that really works was I'll actually take,
I'll actually take peroxide and start with like a 29
or 30%, 30% or whatever, the really, really gnarly stuff.
And I'll dilute it, so it's about 6%.
And then I'll take it and put it in
like a plastic water bottle.
And then I'll actually shake the seeds in that
so that I know that they're really getting cleaned.
And then I will rinse it
so I know there's no peroxide on there anymore,
but I'll let them sit for 10 minutes or something.
So it's not penetrating the seed,
but it is getting really into the coat.
And then the other trick of course is to add,
like a drop of soap in there so that it actually really,
it breaks the surface tension on the seed
because the seeds don't really wanna get,
they don't really wanna get that wet
when you go to just do something briefly like that
if they're not really soaking for overnight
or 12 hours or whatever.
And with peroxide, even at 1%,
you can't let them sit too long
or you'll notice when they sprout,
the tails will have this little scaly brownness to them
and they do get burnt by peroxide,
but definitely like cleaning them up like that.
And then if you clean them up like that,
it's probably best to go ahead and roll them
in some kind of a mycorrhizal product
so that they have some life back on them
so that they can't be easily attacked.
I think the combination of that,
you could come straight out of a moldy,
your buds could come,
your seeds could come straight out of a moldy bud
and I think they'd be okay.
There could still, if you did real studies,
you might discover that there could be some kind of
aspect of them being penetrated
in the hylum of the seed or something,
but I don't think so.
I think you can clean them up.
Yeah, that's the method that I tried.
I diluted down the stronger hydrogen peroxide.
I just couldn't get it.
And then I was in the same predicament
that you were talking about where,
who can I have tissue culture these types of seeds
that isn't gonna run off with genetics
for their own purpose.
So that's always like, I don't know.
It's weird though too,
because now the facility I work at,
we actually have a PCR machine,
which we can do genetic sequencing, sex testing,
and we can do genetic marking
for genetic assisted breeding.
We also have like mycology and bacterial incubators,
but we just haven't started using them yet.
And I'm not a laboratory technician by any means.
So I'm waiting for, to learn those skillsets
to hopefully be able to use those to find out,
hey, this is exactly the trait that we want
for botrytis resistance.
And then we can know that all we have to do
is when we pop seeds, we can take a tissue sample of it
and it replicates the DNA and it'll say,
oh, yep, there's that marker that we put in it.
So we know that this clone or this seedling
or which seedlings have these genetic crossovers
and you can do all breeding based off of looking
at all the different characteristics
that you've been able to mark.
Yeah, I mean, that's definitely,
that's in modern breeding,
that's really the, that's the way to do everything.
I mean, we're lucky when we do stuff without that
and it works, but it's really a trip too.
Like if you follow Kevin McKernan on Instagram,
it's really interesting how he'll put up some stuff,
and a lot of it's over my head,
even some of the graph types,
I don't have like a statistics education,
even there's, he puts up some graphs sometimes
or it takes me like 20 minutes just to learn
how to read the graph.
And I'm like, well, this is a trip,
but it's such cool stuff where I really like
when he's analyzing like, okay, well, here is,
here is this trait, but look at this attached thing.
And if you get rid of this trait,
then look at what else you get rid of.
And you start to see like, oh God,
so traditional breeding in a sense is really cool
because you wind up keeping those things just because,
just because you don't care about specifics as much.
And then with real agriculture stuff,
they're so inclined to look at things
on such a specific level that things just get chomped out.
And then, of course they're gonna have these disasters.
He's like, look, you get rid of the THCA,
you get rid of the mold resistance.
And so people got these hemp crops,
they're like, look, we did modern breeding techniques
and we found the markers and we removed the THC.
They grow it all out and they're like,
we have no crop, and it's a trippy thing,
but it's all valuable.
It just, there's a huge learning curve
with going forward to that modern side.
Yeah, definitely.
I think that too, I mean, for me,
I like to really push organics
because I think there's been such a misconception
in the community about salt grown.
I mean, like everything from rap songs
about hydro and a lot of the early stuff.
I did hydro for nine years before I switched over.
And I like to push that just because I feel like
the expression that I get is just,
there's more depth to it.
Like you have all these overtones
and you have these unique, subtle profiles
from all the different flowers
that I don't necessarily get.
Like you get some of them, but you get more of the depth.
You get more robustness in the terpene profiles, I feel like.
Yeah, I mean, it's trippy.
Sometimes I hear people,
I hear people who don't like soil grown weed
and they're like, it smells like soil.
And I'm like, my favorite,
one of my favorite things about the smells of weed
is when they're earthy, I like that.
There's like a cool thing to a lot of strains
that they are earthy
and maybe it does have something to do with the earth,
but that's actually in the soil and everything.
But yeah, it's trippy because
it's almost like anytime you talk to people about organics,
it's like there's not,
it's like there's two different conversations happening
within the conversation where it's really not a conversation
because people who are attached to the idea
of salt grown stuff,
they're really all about, in a lot of cases,
the efficiency, the effectiveness of the foods,
the cleanliness, everything being sterile
and simple and streamlined
and the high THC numbers.
And for a lot of what, like for commercial cannabis,
it's like, yeah, salt grown is like, it's the shit.
It's how people have a really effective recipe
for their business model.
But then for me, I'm like,
I don't really give a fuck about the business model
because I don't,
like I've never looked at weed in that way
where it's like, okay, how do we scale up?
How do we maximize profit?
How do we, to me, I'm like, that's cool,
but that's like a whole other,
I'm not even involved really in that conversation
because for me, it's always been a matter
of having the baddest bag of weed.
I just want the baddest fucking bag of weed.
So like, it's a totally different thing
because I can't like tell these people,
hey, you should grow organics and do it for this
and the subtlety and this and that.
Like, people don't wanna hear it.
And I don't really even care to tell them.
And I don't think that they need to do it
the way I need that I wanna do it.
But it's just funny because like,
for me, it's really simple
that I wanna have my shit be organic
because I've grown both ways.
I've grown with fucking salts and purely nothing,
but, and I've even smoked people's weed before
where I was like, when I was young,
that I was like, wow, this is really nice.
You know, what do you use?
And they were like, fucking Peters,
fucking, you know, whatever, 20, 20, 20,
or some cheap ass salts.
And that's all they did.
And the weed was good.
But what was funny was it,
it would turn out that,
it'd be like, well, what do you,
what's the soil?
And it would be like,
oh, we use like half the manzanita mulch
from underneath where we're at
and like the madrone duff under the leaves
where it's all black and shit.
That way we don't have to haul in as much dirt.
And then when we get to the last like,
to the last like 20 days,
then we don't feed them anything.
And I'm like, well, as soon as the salt
rinses out of their soil,
there's probably this huge fucking bloom
of microbiology.
And so they actually were getting
all this really cool shit in there,
in their terpene profile and their smoke.
And I try to,
I try to look at it blindly with like,
okay, well, these people use
the system they use and it's really cool.
And somebody will be like,
no, dude, you gotta try this weed.
I mean, it's salt grown production weed,
but dude, these guys nail it.
And I'm like, dude,
like this doesn't smell like dog food to you guys.
Like, it smelled like dog food to me.
Like, this is like a fucking,
like a fucking fish farm
where they're feeding kibble to the fish or like,
like it just doesn't seem right.
It's not, I don't know.
It just, it never,
you roll the joint, your hands are dry.
Like there's no goo.
It never feels fucking duct tapey on your fingers.
It's like, and then-
You get that bud that's beautiful
and you crack it open and it just turns to powder.
And it doesn't have any of the structure.
The structure, like the cellular shit,
it's just weird, you know?
And then, yeah, I don't know.
It's really trippy.
But then like we always grew indoor
and this is the thing.
I grew indoor for somebody one time for a few runs
and they wanted me to use,
they wanted me to use a product
which I'm not even gonna bash,
but it's fucking awful.
And they wanted me to use this product.
Are you sure we can't name the product?
Maxi, Maxi.
But they wanted me to use this product
and you put the water in it
and it looks like fucking,
it looks like lemon lime Gatorade.
And there's all this like sand at the bottom.
Like, oh, this is organic, you know?
Like, look, we put sand in here.
So people are like, it's organic based.
I'm like, cause there's fucking gravel in it.
What the, what is this shit?
It doesn't melt.
Like you can't even use this with the siphon feeder.
They had me use it and stuff.
And I'm just like, well, what is this?
And then you grow the weed and you get to the end
and you finally get to have some bud from it.
And you're like, I don't even want this weed.
Like, I just don't want to smoke it.
It feels dry.
It smokes dry.
It doesn't have the right mouth feel.
It doesn't have the right lung feel.
It's just weird and not what I'm looking for.
And then you grow with soil
and you use something really basic and silly
like Fox Farms Big Bloom.
That's just like a guano tea or earth juice.
And you grow with that and your weed's done
and you smoke it and you're like, fuck,
this is really good weed.
I see why people like indoor so much
because this is like my outdoor,
but it's just a little more,
the flavors on it are really just like tuned up
and there's a little bit of stuff
that I don't get off of this strain when I grow it outside.
And even sometimes it might be more plain inside,
but it's still just so good.
And the resin is different.
And you go to make hash off of it.
Like in the back of the day,
I used to always make hash off of it.
Like in the back of the day,
I used to always do on a dry screen
and I would just screen it.
And it would be like, damn, this is such, such crazy melt.
And then you grow the same thing with the other stuff.
And you're like, it's good,
but like I'm having trouble on my hand screen making melt.
Like it's really, really hard to get it to do it.
And, you know, I mean, of course this is all anecdotal
and I'm not trying to say that it's impossible
and that maybe someone doesn't have it,
but I haven't seen it.
And I've seen when we go and do all the shows,
my buddy Shanti Farms,
he goes around and he buys eighths from everybody.
And he's like, yeah, I got this one, this one, this one.
And we sit there and he pops them open
and we got a dozen kinds of things sitting there.
Maybe there's four of the best ones from these guys
and four of the, and he's like,
one of these has got to be great.
And you try them all and it's like,
miss, miss, miss, these all suck.
And then I'll pull out some like 16 month outdoor
and hand him that.
And he's like, damn, this is fire, what's this?
You know, and it's just, I think because of that thing
of the microbiome and everything that is working
to give these little trippy micronutrients and exudates
and all this different stuff coming from this real soil web,
and it's just funny because we, you try,
I try to like everybody's stuff
and I try to believe in the process and go, okay,
well, I know these guys are really educated.
They've seen a lot of weed, what's their stuff like?
And then you're like, meh, so it's all whack,
it's a trip, it's really weird.
Go ahead.
I started doing, taking my green waste
from when we do pruning, taking water leaf
and fermenting that using the Micro Plus,
which is the consortium of the Bacillus Saccharomyces
and the Rhytopseudomonas.
And I turned that into a biological fertilizer
and I can dilute that with water and use that
as both a biological inoculant
and to add the minerals and nutrients from plant matter.
And that seems to, the plants respond
really, really well to it.
So that's something that I think that I'll be implementing
in the facility that I'm running.
Because it's been interesting because I try to do,
basically I'm running the same style that I was before.
I was on the, before I was in the legal market
and I'm doing all no-till, all organic,
just the amendments and then biological inoculations.
And it works really, really well.
I think the biggest thing is I do have to worry about,
how can I produce large quantities as well?
So I think that just comes down to genetics though,
doing the pheno hunts and finding the best varieties
to run in those spaces that are gonna give
the highest possible quality along with the production.
But I found that the biologicals really, really help out.
I think that makes a huge difference
in overall health of the plant and soil.
Yeah, I think so.
And I think like market-wise,
that's why I say it's almost like
two different conversations.
Like I'm not gonna tell these guys they should do it.
Cause like you're saying, it's hard to do it organic
if you're indoor and you want this sterile environment
and everything like that's all cool.
And the market, what does the market want?
30% THC and it looks good on it.
It looks good in the photograph.
It looks good in the bag and you can flex on people
and be like, oh, this is chronic.
And everybody's used to that weed.
So nobody really knows.
So it doesn't really matter.
Like if you like things to be a certain way, like cool.
It's not that I think that they completely don't know.
I think they might be used to that
to the point where it doesn't really matter for them.
But for me, I like-
That was a very polite way of describing them.
Well, there's just like, for me, there's like certain weed
I can only enjoy so much weed.
I'm like, if you guys are really enjoying this
and this is what you like, then cool.
Like it's not, I don't think there's anything
really wrong with that.
It's just that for me, like as smoking,
there's only a little bit of weed
that I really like.
I mean, like some of the only indoor
that I see that I really like,
like when I can just kind of feel the weed and go,
oh, okay, this will be nice.
Because when I smoke weed,
I want it to have a lot of oil content
so that it has more of a rich kind of a steaminess
to the smoke and not just a dry, empty thing.
But I think for a lot of people,
they're just trying to, they want it to look pretty
and then they wanna get off.
And I'm like, yeah, that's cool.
But like-
I feel like that's an empty high, right?
That really high THC for me, it's like,
I wanna be stoned, right?
I want a full stone.
I don't wanna be just high, just for a little bit.
I want all of the effects and nuances
that go with like the maximum expression of a variety.
If you have something that you know
is gonna be really uplifting,
that's gonna get you going,
that's gonna be real, you're gonna be real focused.
I wanna really feel that, I wanna express that.
If you know you have something
that's gonna be the opposite or in between,
or you can make you more creative.
I just feel like the experience for me plays a huge role
because I don't have to smoke a lot to get high.
I can smoke a couple of bong hits and I'll know,
and I'll be able to feel the effect.
So that's the one thing that for me personally,
I'd rather have like a lower THC variety
that's just that has that, like you're saying,
that oil to it, that stuff that just real...
It's crazy because when you're breaking it up in your hands,
you're like, man, is this gonna even smoke in this joint?
But then you roll it up and no, it smokes great,
but it feels like, it has that texture to it
that's just not dry and brittle.
It doesn't flake up when you roll it,
it has structure to it.
Those are the types of weeds that for me,
I get the full experience from.
I'd rather have an 18% with a four or 5% terp anytime
than a 30% with no nose on it.
It's just not as good.
Yeah, all the best weed that I ever remember smoking
that was really the best was like,
it would be, I remember like we would be tripping
on mushrooms and you'd go to roll it
and you'd be like, I broke up the weed,
so someone else needs to roll it
because there's no way that I can roll right now
with my hands this sticky.
And I really can't remember the last time
I saw salt grown indoor that was any issue to,
I mean, it's more a question of when you go to roll it,
you're trying to keep the weed from falling out the ends
because it just won't stick together.
The weed won't even stick to the weed,
and I'm like, this is supposed to be the shit?
Like that's not, I mean,
they say it's the ooey gooey for a reason.
If it's not like, if it doesn't have any grease factor
and stickiness factor to it, it just doesn't,
it don't do it for me.
I just went to grab a beer.
So there, we could take this conversation
in a lot of different directions.
I mean, one of the things,
so let me actually go into some questions
from some of the chat.
There are like almost 400 people,
or last I checked, almost 400 people watching
over two hours in, so.
Thank you to the audience.
Well, actually, let me just finish one topic,
which, you know, or since I get to ask questions.
With your breeding,
like when do you pollinate?
And then how do you,
like are you putting males in with the females
or using pollen and applying it?
And then when, like what's your sweet spot for pollination?
So, I mean, the stuff that I tend to do
is in a pretty close window
because I don't tend to do really long running strains.
And I've never been able to really find many
that are super fast, that are,
you know, I don't know,
I've never been able to find many that are super fast,
that are the greatest.
I only have a couple of those.
So it tends to be,
stuff tends to be, you know, nine or 10, 11 weeks
is like kind of that window
where it seems like a lot of the best stuff is.
And when I say best, I mean like kind of all around,
like good for the market and good for the grower
and good for, you know,
me as what I actually like for my personal tastes.
So depending on how I wanna do it,
I mean, because I like to do
a pretty decent number of things,
I have to do a few different techniques.
So sometimes if things are a little earlier than the rest
and I only need enough to keep it around for myself,
like if I'm growing like deep chunk,
the males will come off
and the females before anything else
because it's one of those fast flowering things.
And that's one of those more on the short side
before everything else.
And so those ones I might,
when the males first start getting a little bit of pollen,
I'll collect some and then I'll do a little,
I'll do a little hand pollination
or I'll go ahead and maybe do an open pollination
if they're before anything else is gonna be flowering.
And, you know, they'll still be off in their own area
and everything, but it makes it a little bit more,
a little easier to know that you're not screwing anything up
and then that's the same deal
for things that I don't need many seeds of.
A lot of times I'll do those things earlier
and then that way I don't get as many seeds,
but they're really beautiful seeds
and they'll store the best
because they're the most big, gnarly, mature seeds.
And the other thing I do is I'll do a little bit
that kind of helps me to get those out of the way.
Then if I really wanna make a lot of seeds of something,
then I'm gonna wanna take those males and those females,
like if I have like my,
if I'm doing a multiple male breeding,
then, you know, the few males that are going
and then all the females.
And then those, I wanna like put them in a room
for a couple of days and really seed it.
and at the very least maybe put the males in there
and let them really start really opening up
and then maybe just put the females in
and maybe just seed them and have them just be fully seeded.
And then that way, that's like corn on the cob, I call it.
You know, you just seeds,
it's just the plants are straight up seeded.
Now the perfect window for making a few seeds
might only be, they might only have to be a couple weeks
into flower, you know?
But then like, you know, three to four weeks more
to get the real full, fully, fully seeded stuff.
And then after those are done,
then after those are made,
then maybe some more select hand pollinations
here and there to make more stuff,
maybe for like test crosses
to see how these two gene pools, you know, went together.
And then if I'm making something in
with those big pollinations where there's the males in,
put inside in a room and then with the females of it,
and then I'll probably take some clones
that I think might be a good match
and then put those in there at the same time
to make some out crosses.
And so sometimes that's why stuff that I release,
I might only release a little bit of it
because if I release 20 packs,
that might be half of the seeds that I had of that
after I grew some out, you know?
And those, so sometimes too, that's why those ones,
you know, I want more for them
because I'm basically like taking half of my potential
for breeding that and I'm letting it out
and I'm not gonna have it.
And so when somebody finds that crazy one
and they have it, it's theirs and I missed it
because I can't grow it because I got rid of it, you know?
And those tend to be the things that are like,
that's like a hybrid, like Gelato 33, Cherry Limeade.
I didn't have very many of those,
but when I did them outside
and I gave them to a few people outside,
it was like, they were like, damn, those were great.
And I looked at them and I was like,
those really came out good.
So I was like, all right, well, I'll do 20,
I let out 25 packs of them, you know?
So those are like,
those are those ones that are just made a little bit
piggybacking on the breeding that was already going on
as I was making a bunch of Cherry Limeade seed.
I made a little bit of Gelato Cherry Limeade seed.
And then, you know, like I said, like those basic things,
then maybe like a little bit of like an odd land race thing
that does run late,
then I can go ahead and make that after everything else,
just by hand, just to make some so that I know I have it.
When I say some, that's like, you know,
a matter of hundreds of seeds as opposed to thousands.
Whereas when you're going corn on the cob, you have,
you know, one of those plants might be,
might have five or 8,000 seeds on one plant,
but if they're all from seed
and it's not a whole bunch of clones when you did it,
then your favorite plant out of that whole breeding,
even though it's like, you might've put 10 plants in
and they all have 5,000 seeds on them.
You only have 5,000 seeds from the plant
when you grow it out that are the ones
that were your favorite.
And then now your whole stock to go forward
is of that particular line from that plant is that.
And then once you grow them out
and you wanna put some of them out from that generation,
you're only left with however many you're left back with.
And it might be the case that I release, you know,
a hundred packs and now I have 4,000 seeds,
but I don't wanna work with that for years
because I'm onto something else.
And now those are in storage.
And by the time I plan them, I don't know,
maybe I'm only gonna have a certain percentage
of those seeds coming back up, you know?
So, you know, it's all a matter of trying to figure out
what, you know, there's enough of to release
or there's enough of to give away.
And then, you know, you have to give people
to grow them out.
So, you know what you really have and all that.
And so there's all different levels of making a little bit,
a little bit early of something for myself
and then making a bunch of this and then making some later.
So I only really wind up with so many things
that I could release or give away.
Cause a lot of them, I just only made a little bit.
And that's the only way to do a lot of different things
in my situation, you know,
without having like a motel worth of breeding rooms
or something, you know?
So related to that, I think kind of a relevant question.
Long Fam asked, he says, ask, no, sorry.
He said, can we ask Jackson his selection process for males?
So for males, and I've said this before,
I really like to learn.
I like to learn what's in there first.
So sometimes the first time I grow something,
I'll keep a male, but like,
usually I'll grow something first
and I'd ideally like to grow a couple waves of it.
So if I have a new cross that I made,
ideally I'd like to grow, you know,
10 females and then grow another 10 females
and kind of get a picture of which ones, you know?
And if I can grow 50 or 60 females,
but get a picture of what the females are like
that I really want from it.
And then try to pick a male that's like them, you know?
So I like to like educate myself
about what types look a certain way
and try to find a consistent correlation
between a look and an end result.
And then try to use a male that's like that.
So if I'm growing a cush cross
and I noticed that the narrow leaf females
with a certain color are always the ones I like better
than these other ones,
then I'm gonna wanna use a male that's like that.
And then I'll keep a bunch of males that have that look
and then I'll let them flower most of the way.
And then if some of them flower a little bit heavier,
more of a look that I want,
maybe sturdier branches,
maybe a little bit better branching, maybe.
And I like with males, I don't like to like treat the males.
Like I don't wanna like sulfur the males
or spray them with anything for bugs or anything like that
because I wanna see if there's any of them
that lack resistance to a certain thing.
So if I keep eight males that all have the certain look
out of the original 30 or 40 males,
then I wanna see what they do all the way up to the point
where I'm gonna get to the point where I'm about to use them
and then figure out what are the very best ones.
And at certain times I might wind up with two or three
that I consider to be like exactly the same.
And in those cases, I might go ahead and use multiple males.
But if I don't, and there's only one that really stacks up
to the criteria that I'm trying to judge them for,
then I'll wind up with that one good champ male
and then I'll use that one.
So, there's a lot of generalized things to look for
in a male as far as just as it's the kind of plant
you'd like to grow, but then it has to fit the description
of what you were looking for from the breed
in the first place.
Like if I like this strain because it grows monster plants,
there's no way I'm gonna pick the small male.
If I like it because it has really strong gnarly branches
that grow way out like a candelabra shape,
I'm not gonna pick the one that doesn't have any branches.
If I like this strain mainly because of the kind of turps
it has and all the females that get the kind of turps
I like happen to smell a certain way on a stem rub,
I'm gonna look for the male that has that type of stem rub.
If everything was perfect about the male,
but then it had some major issue,
like it really likes to get mildew more than other plants
that are in the same population,
then I might just say, fuck it and not even breed that time
and then keep my favorite females and revege them
and then, or maybe just outcross them
to do something with it for fun.
And then go ahead and go back and grow more plants
to try to find the male
because I didn't find it this time.
I don't necessarily always just jump on it
because I need one.
It's gotta fit its position,
otherwise it's not helping me.
It's gonna set me back.
So that's most of my process, I think.
And then related to that long fem had a follow-up,
how many times have you selected a male
with similar female characteristics,
but in the end it turned out to be duds?
Trying to think of really,
like a particular instance of that happening.
Although I feel like if you're struggling
to find an instance, it's probably not that common.
It's not common at all.
And I'm actually trying to think like,
yeah, I don't, I can't really think of a time
that it happened.
It's only really happened when I use the males
just because it's the one I have.
So like back in the day, I had this strain called Berry
and I have this one called Sweat
that's this really cool old clone.
And I crossed them together
and I got these big monster plants and they were neat.
They weren't, they didn't get the best of both things,
but they were just really good plants
that really got a lot of weed and it was good enough weed.
It wasn't, didn't have really the magic of either side.
But I wound up, I remember, I think at F2,
picking this male because I liked how it looked,
but it was on the smaller side.
And, but it had this cool look like the Sweat,
but Sweat is a bigger growing plant.
And so I kind of thought, well, maybe this isn't genetic
that the male's small, maybe I screwed it up.
Maybe it was a weird seed
and this is just an acquired thing.
And I bred it and I remember growing the next seeds
out of those and going, yeah, all of these are just,
they're just all not what I want.
They were all small and that was like a dead end
on that cross and I never worked with it.
I never worked with it any further
just because it lacked a few things I wanted.
But I can still picture that male
and I can still remember using it, thinking,
okay, it has some of the traits
from that original female that I really want,
but it doesn't have all of them.
And then breeding it and growing it and going,
yeah, this is bullshit
and just not ever doing anything with it again.
But it seems like usually if you know the line well enough
and you pick a male that is what you think
is gonna be good, you have a pretty good odds
of it not being too bad.
You might still have to go through stuff,
but it's really hard to analyze
without doing a ton of out crosses with just the male,
whether the undesirable stuff came from the female side
or from the male side.
So it's hard for me to say that that was the case,
that it was that I picked the male that was like the girl
and then it didn't work.
Sometimes the girls,
they don't carry much of what you want either.
So the American one actually asked a question
that's kind of relevant to what you're touching on.
Please ask if Mean Genie has noticed traits
that are passed from mom or dad only.
You just mentioned if a male is prone to mold,
he won't use it.
Is he sure that traits or that trait is shared?
I know very little about sex-linked traits.
I do know that it's a real thing.
I do remember that I had a Salmon Creek Big Bud
cross with Barry, which was the male side
of the one I was just talking about,
which was like a Big Bud perp,
perp being like this old Burmese syndicate thing
that's in like Grape Soda Skunk and Pina.
And the Barry crossed with the Salmon Creek Big Bud.
And I'm trying to remember,
I feel like it was also when I had the Pog
crossed with the Salmon Creek Big Bud,
there were these plants that we would get.
And as soon as I saw that type,
which was a really pretty type of plant,
I would know it was a boy as soon as I saw it
because after going through hundreds and hundreds of them,
we just started to notice, hey, this one right here,
this nice, big, sturdy, upright plant
with these certain leaves and a certain green color,
it was always males.
And that is really interesting
because it's actually a whole type.
And a lot of times when people say like trait,
they are talking about a really big set of traits.
So they're like, oh, did you get the OG trait?
When you cross that, it's like, well, which trait?
Like the smell, the structure, the THC production,
there's tons of things that make a type
be a certain type, right?
And that particular type, I only saw in male form
and I saw it across a lot of plants,
definitely more than dozens.
I can't say necessarily hundreds, but probably hundreds
because back then we had a lot of plants.
So I've always kind of looked at that
and thought that was a trip,
that that was a whole big set of traits
that were obviously sex-linked traits,
but I don't really know what is linked to the sex
to what, and I don't believe that it would be
like a global thing across all different strains.
Like there's these weird things that happen
that make you think that you've learned this about cannabis,
but you've really only learned it
about one little slice of the gene pool.
They behave a certain way.
An example of that is like with males
that get some hairs when they get later in life,
in a lot of cases are an indication
that you just have a hermaphrodite line
and the boys get hairs and the girls get balls.
And it just means that they're hermy.
And I've talked to the inspector about this from CSI
and I asked him about it and he said,
yeah, those are just hermies.
And the thing that raised the original question
was reading about Tom Hill discussing it
and saying he had read that from DJ Short.
I got a little bit interested in it
and I asked different people about it
and different people have different takes on it.
Inspectors take was that those are always hermies
and undesirable because of it.
And that is his experience and it's true.
And he's probably the most transparent
scientific, talented dude.
I mean, him and Shawbud from 707 Seedbanks,
they're like the two dudes that I like,
if I can pick their brain,
I always wanna ask them about stuff
because I know that they're very intelligent,
but they also don't color things
with their opinion very much.
But what's interesting is that even though
that was inspectors experience,
then I know of a few other lines
and I don't even really like to mention them
because of the stigma surrounding,
he just said stigma, males that get stigmas.
It's really a weird thing because these other lines,
in those cases, the males all get some hairs on them
and they are completely bulletproof
and can not barely like,
they're probably hard to even reverse chemically.
They just will not stress.
You can grow them in a hot ass depth with light leaks
and screw up the hours
and they will still just be totally great.
So that's an interesting thing where,
talking about back to the point of sex-linked traits,
I personally don't know a lot about them,
but my hypothesis about them would also be
that what's true for one thing
is not necessarily true for another.
Meaning that there could be some different ways
that that could go.
Like there might be some strains
where a mold resistant male
doesn't mean mold resistant females.
There might be other ones where a mold resistant male
means you're just guaranteed yourself
mold resistant females.
My opinion on it is that if a male,
I kind of like to, towards the end of when males are done,
I kind of like to spray them down and see which ones rot
and which ones don't.
And I have noticed that the males from lines
that rot easier tend to have females
that are less mold resistant.
That's like deep chunk
or certain lines of the grape soda skunk.
They're very chunky.
The males are like the females.
They get really like gnarly knobs of flowers
and they're like super dense and hardcore.
And then when you spray them down with water
towards the end, they just explode with mold.
And other males don't, like more OG based males
or sour diesel based males.
Those are really pretty mold resistant lines.
But when you take these other lines like deep chunk
and you spray down the males, boom, it's just mold city.
So there does seem to be a correlation there
with what I'm experienced with.
But back to the thing of the stigmas growing late
out of the male clusters,
it obviously one doesn't always mean that it's global
across all different strains.
There's different things that play in different strains.
So I don't really know the specifics
but that's my experience with that, with moldy males.
Okay, so along the same lines,
so Cascadian Grown asked,
Cascadian Grown asked,
can you ask Gene if the approach is different
for selections when he's selecting
for recessive genetics in a line,
if 45 to 50 looks same and he wants the other,
does it change?
Read it back to me again.
Can you ask if the approach is different for selections
when he's selecting for recessive genetics in a line?
I think what he's saying is,
is it still okay to just have 45 or 50 plants?
Is that, was that what you get from it when you hear it?
Sometimes when I hear,
sometimes when I hear questions like that,
I don't quite understand what they mean, but I think-
I have this, let's come back to this one.
So the American one, can you rephrase your question?
So it's clear.
So blue, okay, so blue,
so blue of green tank, Tyler asked,
how important is a fake winter for a seed stock,
if at all, I mean, mimicking the natural winter
or cold period, not freezing per se,
but that cannabis seed would go through
in order to boost germination rate
or holdability storage of seed stock like a real winter.
My experience is that once seeds are fully dry,
you can grow them.
I originally was told that if plants don't freeze,
then they can't sprout seeds.
But then I was growing,
I was working in people's gardens who had seeded plants,
and we were like,
whoa, this plant's getting a crazy flush of new hairs
so late, and we discovered that they were actually,
all the seeds were sprouted in the buds.
But I can't say for sure if I've ever seen that
without a freeze.
So I feel like if seeds are still fresh and in the plant,
they might need to freeze to be able to sprout first.
But I think that once you cut down seeds
and you dry the plant and you pull seeds out of fresh bud,
you'll have 100% germination rate right away.
I don't, in my experience, see a need for a false winter.
Versus maybe something like,
I think opium seeds, you kind of have to freeze.
And I have opium seeds that are 20 years old in my freezer,
and they're still like 100%.
But I don't know if they would have come up
if I hadn't froze them.
I mean, that could be another,
that could be a myth as well,
but I would put the false winter or true winter
being necessary.
I would think that that's kind of a myth at this point
with my experience,
because it seems like as soon as it's dry,
you pull out some seeds and boom,
you can sprout them if you want.
All right, so yeah, the American one,
I just realized that that was not your question,
but Cascadian Grown has clarified the question.
If 45 of the 50 plants all look similar,
but he wants to isolate the other five plants,
does the approach to selecting males change at all?
Ran out of character, sorry.
He said he ran out of characters last time.
Yeah, I mean, if that was the case,
if you're going through something
and you find out that something is very infrequent,
it might not even be recessive.
The interesting thing about things being dominant
or recessive is that just because something is dominant
doesn't mean that it'll be super frequent
in the population.
So sometimes things don't pop out very much
in the seed you have because of how it's bred,
but once you breed it, that particular plant,
you'll get tons of them right away
as if it came out of something frequent.
The lime is an example of that.
The lime was originally very rare in the seed,
but it was dominant.
So as soon as I bred with a limey plant,
I got lots of limey plants.
So it went from one in 50 to being like half right away
because it was dominant.
It was just very infrequent.
So if you plant something and you find out
that what you're looking for is infrequent,
then that's what I'm going to go ahead and go,
okay, I only have five to select from out of 50.
Now, next time I better grow hundreds of these instead
so that I can get a decent slice to actually find a male
that is the way I want it to have.
So yeah, I mean, that would change that aspect of it
for sure because you found out that you need
a much bigger selection.
All right, sorry.
There's a lot of chat going on right now.
So two people, Longfam and Blue of Green Tank,
so ask Jackson when root beer crosses are coming back
and Blue said, what is the future of root beer?
Well, root beer is a trip.
It really loves it outside.
I feel like you even get the best expression
of the weed outside,
but it's really,
the clone is stable inside.
Everything that I've bred from it,
when you put it inside for the most part,
it's hard to have stable crosses from it.
So it's one of those things where I might wind up
releasing some stuff from it specifically for outdoor
because outdoor it doesn't rot, it's sturdy.
The stretch is insane.
You can plant a small plant like near the end of July
and still get like a couple pounds off of it,
a few pounds off of it.
It's really an amazing plant.
The smoke is a trip, even pretty much from any seed,
you get the same enjoyable stuff.
You can smoke it and it will come back
and it will cut through whatever you were smoking so hard
that you'll almost think you're sober for a second.
And then you'll realize that you're really fucking stoned,
but it's really clear and uplifting, but it's powerful.
The root beer is great, but it's just not,
it's really hard to find ones to breed out of the seed
that are super stable inside or even in a rinky dink deck.
So I'm not really sure what the future is
for it at this point.
It's just a funny thing because it's such a great performer
and it's so solid outside.
And then it's just super shaky
when you try to take it inside.
There's some people who have some going of it
Kush family crew up in Washington has a killer one
that is raspberry cream soda.
That's a root beer seed.
They're doing that.
They're killing it with that.
It's really nice.
Skunk Tech's done a little bit of work with it.
Source Genetics, the real OG Cushman,
he has the root brother cross, which is killer.
There's a lot of stuff you can do with it.
It's just that I'm trying not to do out crosses
with it as much.
I wanna really try to get it better.
So I think my only real path forward that I see
that I can really, really get it to be better.
I think I basically need to self the original mother
and find an exact copy of her
that doesn't carry that instability
and then begin working from there.
And then I think even if I made F1s off of maybe
a first or second generation selfing
that was really stable from her,
then I think I could get rid of the garbage
that we don't want in there.
But at this point, it just isn't,
everybody's like release or release it.
I'm like, you can't release that.
It's just not, it's not something to release right now.
It is great to grow and I could definitely release
some out crosses that would be stable.
The thing about a lot of that instability
is it comes more from when you try to inbreed it
and then you hit those recessives.
And if you out cross it, then you can mask that.
So I'm sure I could make like root beer bubba
and you would probably get some root beer plants
and they'd probably pretty much all be stable.
But as soon as somebody made root beer bubba F2s,
they'd be like, oh shit, here's these nanners again
back here on the bottoms.
So that's the story with the root beer right now.
Kyle or Brandon, you guys are very quiet
during this conversation.
Any deep thoughts or questions?
Kyle, I was trying to catch you falling asleep actually.
I was like, I think his eyes are closed and I cut to you.
Learning from the man, you know?
You're soaking it all in.
Oh yeah, as much as I can.
Okay, so do you have any questions or comments
in what he's saying or do you want me to,
I can keep going with that.
Oh yeah, I did have one question for him.
I didn't know if there's any strains he's tried to make
that he just cannot get viable seed out of.
I've had one or two experiences that,
you know, it's a beautiful female
and no matter what I hit her with, what timing,
I just cannot get viable seed out of it.
Do you get seed out of it at all?
No, I can't, no matter what pollen I've hit it with,
what we can flower, it just, she will not throw seed.
Just not a single one?
No, no, I've hit her with some gibber oak acid.
I've tried S1-ing it, you know,
and the thing just will not throw.
Well, that's actually kind of neat
because it seems like you probably have a female
that is not fertile, which would be like,
you know, let's make 10,000 clones of that
and plant it in the middle of a Kentucky hemp field
and let it grow wild.
And then we'll just go back
and cut down two tons of dope in October, you know?
It'll be Sensimia because it can't make.
So I was just listening to Breeder Steve
talk about this actually, and he's working on it.
That's what I was just gonna say.
I talked to him about that a couple of weeks ago.
Yeah, so it's actually a pretty valuable
kind of plant to find.
Because like I said, you can take that clone
and you can plant that clone next to anything.
I myself have never found one.
Everything that I've ever tried to seed,
I was able to at least, some things don't get many seeds
or some things I've made seeds
and the seeds weren't any good because maybe of my timing
or maybe because the plant is not fertile enough.
So I've never found one.
Maybe because the plant just doesn't,
it just forms little husks of seeds that aren't the goods.
But it sounds to me like you have
basically a barren plant.
And I mean, if I had it, I'd keep the clone
because that could be really valuable to somebody
who can't grow otherwise
because they're next to a hemp field.
Or I always wanted one like that
so that back in the day,
when everything was always like a pipe dream
of how could you actually grow some dope?
Because it used to be really hard to pull anything off.
I used to be like, wow, there's wild hemp.
If we could find a barren female
and clone it and go stick it in those fields,
you could just go back.
Weed already grows wild there, just dry cropping.
It could be cool for some stuff.
Yeah, definitely.
It's actually, it's an interesting lady too.
She's got anywhere from like seven to 10% CBG
and up to 18% THC generally.
So it's a real cool feeling too.
I've been trying to make seed out of her
and she just will not give it up.
Wow, trippy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But yeah, I mean, that's what I would,
that's what would be my guess.
That's cool.
So there were actually that conversation
sparked a bunch of kind of similar questions.
So speaking of that,
have you ever found a male that shoots blanks?
That was from the American one.
And then Cascadian Grown asked,
can you ask him if they have ovaries?
If you peel the female flower open,
you can find the ovary with a pistol attached,
but if it's missing, question mark.
Hmm.
I've never actually tried to peel back
and look for an ovary, but I'll definitely try that out.
And then Paul West Apulo asked,
how can you maintain vigor in an inbred line?
The thing about that is that if you,
a lot of times there's gonna be compromising
anytime when you're breeding something for specifics.
So sometimes people compromise vigor
to be able to achieve some other end.
The way to avoid that is by having a big enough selection
of plants that you are never putting a plant
that lacks vigor into the program.
People say generally like there's inbreeding depression,
like, okay, things just get smaller
and smaller and smaller,
and you just less and less vigorous.
But I mean, great Danes are inbred.
That doesn't mean that great Danes don't have issues.
That doesn't mean that Clydesdale horses
or these giant Danish horses, they don't have issues.
They might have other issues
because whoever was breeding wasn't taking that into account.
So you have to be able to take every different thing
into account.
And sometimes what people are not taking into account
is vigor.
So you just always have to be able to select a plant
that has everything you want and is still vigorous.
And then you'll avoid having that form
of inbreeding depression where you lack vigor.
You might get different takes on it
where instead of lacking vigor,
you lack THC or you lack terps
or like a lot of people back in the day,
they bred for something that was all the way purple,
but to breed for what was purple,
instead of taking the purple potent one,
maybe they didn't have one that was purple
and potent, so they just compromised
and they use the one that was purple and not potent.
And then you wind up with quite a few strains
that are purple and not potent,
but you can have purple potent weed
or you can have whatever you want,
but you can't select away from it and expect to have it.
So you can't breed a plant that has no vigor
and then wonder why you have progeny with no vigor.
The further you inbreed, the more the plants
that come out of that plant are gonna be like it
to the point when they're all exactly like it.
And then at that point, you hope that the way you selected
was for something that you like
because you get to a point where it's,
it's all you have is that one thing.
So the main thing is to make sure that as you go along,
you always select for everything you want
and you don't take compromises because you lack,
you lack the right amount of plants that fit the description
of what you were really shooting for.
Obviously whoever bred Great Danes didn't at one point go,
ah, well, this one's only as big as a lab,
but it's got a nice coat.
And then do that one or two more times.
And pretty soon you'd be like,
well, what happened to those big ass dogs you used to have?
Now they're little.
But somebody might have bred that line for something
that they weren't able to see at the stage
when they bred it.
So sometimes that's why you have dogs that have,
it's more likely to have dogs that have late,
life stage problems than early life stage problems
because the early ones show up before you breed,
but you could breed a dog and then everybody gets the puppies
and then later on you discover, oh, wow,
look, but when it got old, it got unhealthy.
So that's those traits you miss.
And that's what happens with breeding weed
is that somebody gets too much tunnel vision
looking at what kind of turps they want.
And then they pick the turpiest one, but it's smaller.
And I mean, I did that with grape soda skunk.
Grape soda skunk could be bigger than it is now,
but I was so set on the turps
and I couldn't find a big plant with those type of turps.
And it might not be my fault.
Those genes might be linked.
And so they might pass together
that when you get this smell, it's always on a shorter plant
and there might not be any way to break that up
without outcrossing and getting a new assortment of genes
so that they can realign.
And even then they might still be too linked
for you to be able to break those links.
But that's an example of something that I did
where I possibly, it's possibly in breeding depression.
It's possibly just the way the genes are linked together.
But had I had a big plant
that smelled just like grape soda skunk,
I could have made a bigger grape soda skunk.
But at this point, it's a pretty small plant
and they're all small like that,
cause it's like F8.
So that's pretty much,
you know, the couple of things you have to think about
when you are trying to avoid that.
So it seems like the first couple of generations,
the F1s, 2s, 3s,
you really want to look for the cannabinoid
and the turp first,
and then really make sure you focus on the vigor
once you get towards inbred lines,
just to make sure you don't have little runts
and stuff like that.
Yeah, I mean, it's easier to change anything
when you're in your earliest stages.
So ideally you want to be able to make the selection
you really want from the hybrid right out of the F1.
But you can't always do that
because of the way some things,
you kind of hope there's some co-dominance there,
but sometimes things are fully recessive
and you won't be able to get them to F2.
But when you're leaving F2,
you really want to have the whole thing
really where you want it.
And then when you get to F3,
you'll really be doing well.
If you leave F2 and you're not quite where you want it,
you might be able to make a better pairing in the F3
cause stuff's still around.
And sometimes that's why if you have limited stuff,
even though it's kind of kooky,
sometimes it's better to use multiple males
at those early stages still.
It's not really ideal if you're really trying to run
to the finish line of where you're trying to get,
but it might save you from needing to go way back.
But yeah, I mean, ideally the earlier you can lock down
things and get rid of what you don't want, the better.
And the further along you get,
the more of an impossibility it'll become.
Cool.
So a while ago, Steve Reisner, Potent Ponics asked,
how often has he seen viral issues like mosaic
or others in genetic stock?
I've never seen mosaic.
I have not actually ever seen
even a confirmed test in cannabis.
I saw one years ago and it seemed like it was a false
positive and didn't really pan out.
That might be wrong,
but that was what I made of the situation.
That's talking about TMV.
Mosaic technically can be a term used to describe
a plant that has certain genes turned off,
which makes it become a sport.
I was informed recently though,
that they also call that a chimera in cannabis.
But as far as like diseases like that,
I haven't seen any of them.
I have friends who are starting to test everything
for Hoplatin virus, viroid, not virus,
but because it has been around a lot.
I haven't seen any symptoms of it on anything that I have.
And I'd like to test everything just because I know
that it's a thing now,
but it's one of those things that just kind of recently
really came to my attention.
I think most people don't know about it,
but reading about what they are is really interesting
because these plant viroids are way gnarlier than viruses.
And they're a lot harder to get rid of
to the point where it seems almost impossible.
People have said you can keep your plants vigorous
and grow past it,
which is like a macro version of meristem tissue culture,
where you're just trying to grow
instead of that tiny little tip,
you're trying to just get past it.
I don't know if that's possible or not.
I haven't seen that confirmed scientifically.
And it's definitely like the boogeyman at this point
is that Hop's latent viroid.
It's really, could be a scary thing.
It's also interesting because you don't necessarily
see symptoms of it when it's around.
And that's why they call it latent,
but myself, I've never seen a confirmed case
of anything besides various fungal infections
and insects and of course, whatever kind of regular pests.
But I've never seen anything on that level confirmed myself.
So this is a totally, totally random question,
but do humans get viroids or do we just get viruses?
Anyone know?
I believe-
Like are there example of viroid like?
I think there is one viroid,
which is like hepatitis D or something like that.
And I think that that's the only identified human viroid.
Somebody can look that up though.
And I'm not exactly-
We are definitely an unqualified panel on that topic,
but that just popped into my head.
Yeah, but I'm pretty sure that what I said
is at least three quarters true.
We'll take three quarters.
It's truthy.
I don't know if it's D or F or E or what.
I just went past C because that's the commonly heard one.
I feel like I read that the only one in humans
was a form of hepatitis.
That's what I remember from reading about it,
but I can't say for sure.
Somebody can Google it real quick though.
I told Kevin McKernan to jump on and he emailed me back
saying that he's on a boat right now.
Awesome.
All right, yes.
So a couple of things.
Can you talk about F1s and F2s?
Because someone said F2s are where all the unicorns are at.
That is why most breeders only sell F1s.
The ones who sell F2s are risking their career.
Well, you can analyze that really, really easy.
The logic breaks down there pretty quick
because if it's a huge risk to sell F2s,
then it's just as big of a risk to sell F1s
because someone can take your F1s
and make the F2s pretty easy.
So the logic there would be that you would only sell,
to back that same statement,
you would only sell F3 or F4 to avoid the F2s.
So you can get past the F2s
and then people don't get the variety.
As somebody who wants just genetics,
if I wanna possess genetics from a certain gene pool,
F1s and F2s are of more value in certain ways.
I feel like if you're a breeder,
pure lines like heirlooms,
and then the F1s of them and the F2s of them
are probably a little bit more useful
if you wanna do something novel.
And F3, F4, F5 and on are more useful
if you're trying to have predictability
and a little bit less novelty.
So like say, I wanna make,
whatever, I don't know, name two strains,
you wanna make big bud cookies or whatever.
If you get the F1, you're gonna have a bunch of plants
that will probably be big ass cookie buds.
The F2, you're gonna get some plants
that are little tiny cookie plants
with big bud weed on them.
You're gonna get big giant, big bud plants
with cookie weed on them.
And you're gonna get these different variety,
different variation going from there.
Now in the F2, depending on how people pair those things up
going forward, now if you take,
if in the F1 you have this plant
that has a giant big bud plant
with killer cookies weed on it,
but it's giant cookies weed.
And now you seed that with the male
that you think is gonna be similar.
You get your F2, you'll still get some variation,
but you'll get a decent amount of that same thing
that you had in the F1.
In the F2, it's important to select the same thing
you liked again out of the F1, and it'll be less frequent.
So then you take those and you put them together.
Now, if you continue that process into like F4,
then you're gonna wind up with these things
where that's what it is.
You always get this giant cookie bud
on a giant big bud plant, and it's all cookies,
and it's maybe what was the most desirable outcome
you could have had from that cross.
But if somebody isn't a breeder and they get those F1s
and then they make the F2s,
and all they wanna do is grow them to produce,
they're gonna be bummed out
when they get some three foot tall mute looking plants
that grow like cookies
and then get undesirable big bud weed on it
that nobody wants to buy.
So then those are less valuable for the producer,
but to the person who wants to breed,
in that F2, you might have something that is way bigger
than what you would have got originally
and a shuffling of the genetics where,
okay, now, whoa, we just went bigger than big bud,
and we just went more resinous than cookies,
and that would be the unicorn that you're talking about.
We went to 11.
Yeah, you just went to 11.
And when you go to 11,
that's what's called transgressive segregation.
And that's when you get something that comes from the past
that's not really from the past,
it's like from another dimension almost.
You're like, where the hell did this come from?
Whereas sometimes you would get a throwback
and that would explain why you got such a cool thing,
but that's not the case.
In this, in what we're talking about when you go to 11,
because just something from the past wouldn't explain
why the present just outdid all past generations.
That's when you've jumped to a new level.
And those plants are what you will find.
You will find those in the F2 and the F3
way more likely than you would find them later on
if somebody hadn't selected those in the F2 and F3.
So I don't know.
I think that kind of answers what that was.
And when are you gonna release the Big Bud Cookies line?
You know, I don't have that one.
All right, so something someone asked of like literally
in the first 30 minutes of the conversation
that I've been saving till kind of near the end.
This was 619 to 664 asked,
could you ask Jackson if there are any seeds
he has popped from Mandelbrot
that he was gifted in the past?
I, this year I'm growing my first Royals
and they're not from Mandelbrot.
I have seeds from Mandelbrot,
but he told me when he gave them to me
that they might not come up.
So they're in the category with other stuff
that I'm kind of afraid to gamble on.
He gave them to me a couple of years before he passed
and I didn't get a chance while he was still around.
And once he passed, I kind of got gun shy on him.
But right now I'm growing Royals that are pure,
that are bred to a different side.
That's more of the straight Afghani Hindu Kush lineage
that's inside of those.
And this year I'm gonna breed a bunch of stuff
with that in the fall.
And I'm gonna see kind of what comes out of those
and they'll be really cool.
I'll probably cross them, kind of do roundabout stuff
like he would have done.
Like I'll probably take that and put it on like a Baba
to reinforce that kind of Hindu side,
maybe like sour dub, sour diesel,
maybe some different like OG stuff.
And I'd like to cross it with like my lime,
like lime one and some different things,
but probably more like the more kind of Indica leaning,
Afghanica, broadleaf, gnarly stuff.
Cause that's what it is.
It's not like the fruity Royal
and it's not the dieselly Royal.
It's kind of like what I call like Hindu Kush,
which people know as like that Baba Kush type.
So those right now, they're like a foot tall
and those are my first first mambo brought seeds
I've ever grown actually.
And can you talk about him as a breeder and a person,
like what made him stand out?
I just did a big segment with a couple of guys
Danny from a GWS Smoke Break the other day.
And they're gonna put that out.
They're gonna put that out soon, but just like to be brief,
he was one of those dudes who really like risked his ass
when it was sketchy to breed and grew tons of plants
and only for the sake of his love for breeding
and everything.
And he could have just busted out scenes
and made a lot of money,
but he spent a lot of money just to hunt through
thousands of plants to find these ones
that he considered to be unicorns.
And first time I met him,
he gave me a whole bunch of seeds, like, I don't know,
like a bunch, like a gallon freezer bag
full of packs or something,
like the first time I ever met him.
So I'll say like he was a really generous dude.
He was very intelligent.
And from what I know of him,
he was just a really good dude
and he was really loved in the community up here.
And he goes back, goes way back
and was one of the pioneers
of what is kind of the modern kind of NorCal breeding stuff.
Now a ton of people make seeds
and sell seeds and everything,
but when he was doing it, he was one of the very few
and he's just a cool dude.
And who are some kind of breeders
that you respect a lot and follow
and kind of what makes them unique and special in your mind?
I really like Inspecta from CSI.
He's always just been really, really, really nice to me.
He's always offered me seeds when I went by his booth
and always offered to share anything he has.
And he's very, like I said, he's very transparent.
He's really good with documenting stuff that he does.
Me, I'll try to get pictures and not get good pictures
and flake out on the picture stuff
while I'm doing all the other work
and have sticky hands or dirty hands
and wind up with not that great
of keeping track of all of it in that way
because I'm doing the other stuff.
But he takes the time to really document everything
and show you and you see what it is.
I grow his stuff and it's always really killer
that I've got from him.
And I just think he's a really good dude
and a really solid dude and he's super no drama.
And he's cool with everybody
and he treats everybody really good.
And I like what he does.
He does stuff that he likes and he's very focused.
And he's a real plant guy that's really interesting
and plants for the sake of plants.
And it's not just like pageantry
and cool guy shit with him.
The other guy that I kind of found out about through him
is 707 seed bank, Shabad.
And he's just one of these dudes
who kind of pushes the envelope
and does really solid work
and took a lot of time to do everything he did.
And a lot of people have seen him
and a lot of people have used his stuff to make stuff.
And there's a couple of companies based off of his stuff
that are really solid too.
And he's just very scientific and knowledgeable
and level-headed and the same deal as Inspecta.
Source Genetics, OG Cushman.
He's always been really cool to me,
hits me up when he comes through
and brings by some killer.
Pretty much like some of the only indoor
that comes to mind that's really like the shit,
where it's actually that goo and it's great.
And he has really unique tastes
and breeds for what he likes,
which is like tripped out fucking space walk weed
and doesn't follow any kind of trends
and has really had a big influence kind of behind the scenes
that a lot of people don't know about.
But just has always been real cool to me and everything.
Let's see.
I mean, there's so many people, man.
I mean, Bodhi's like the sweetest guy you'll ever meet,
does tons of work.
One of the few people who travels around the world
and collects land races
and then does stuff with them, preserves them,
does all kinds of neat plant shit,
unrelated to weed, collects lots of different seeds
and plants and all that.
Mr. Bob from Crickets and Cicada and Hannah Bolt,
both really, really cool total plant people,
put a lot into it, into other kinds of plants.
And it's always hard to start naming people
because you're guaranteed to not be able to name everybody,
but Bamboo, super cool, worked with Coastal for a while.
Oh, jeez.
There's tons of people.
It's like giving an Oscar thank you speech.
It is.
They're freaked out that you're gonna miss out
and be like, why didn't you mention me?
No, people are interested to hear,
like, yeah, people are interested to hear like,
oh, well, who do you think is legit?
And, you know, I mean, anybody who's into plants
for the sake of being into plants,
it's because they like them.
And that's why they play with plants,
like, and they're not total dicks, you know?
Like, I'm gonna say that I'm stoked
that they're doing stuff and I'm interested
in knowing what they think and what they're doing
and what kind of plants they have.
And, you know, I like plants.
So like all those kinds of people, I'm gonna, you know,
what happens is who comes to mind
is usually like the last people
that I was just like checking out their stuff
or talking to or something.
So I can say that there's probably,
I just named maybe five or 10 people
and there's probably another 50 or a hundred
that I should be naming.
And, you know, like-
Well, let's take you off the spot for a second.
Brandon and Kyle, how about you guys?
Um, as far as breeders go, you know,
the gear that I ran from, my name is Earl on Instagram.
All of his gear was, there was nothing that I,
that was in the hunt that I wouldn't run again.
There was some stuff in there that was amazing.
The stuff from Capulator that I've run,
the map and the gas, those were both top, top notch.
Um, and those were like some of the,
some of my favorites that I had,
that I just completed in the current Fino hunt that I did.
I also kept a couple of Finos of the Lime One,
Lime One, Grape Soda Skunk.
I kept two Finos of that.
And then there was another company,
I think they're a small company,
they're called Blue underscore Channel,
BLU underscore Channel on IG.
And they did a Skywalker Appalachian Thunderfuck
and crossed into a Purple Gooey.
And I'm not even sure what all the genetics,
lineages and all that stuff is,
but I found a couple of Finos in there that were just,
I mean, they were literally just dumping resin.
They tested really good for the terpene content.
I mean, there was a lot of good stuff.
The stuff, a lot of the stuff I got
from second generation genetics was good.
The Velvet Ropes, they all had really nice color
and they had that old school reminiscence,
like the goo that was really,
that was around a lot in the early 2000s.
It had that kind of flavor,
those blueberries that were around back then.
One of the things that I did notice
in this current Fino hunt is a lot of stuff
is really similar.
They all had this very, very similar terpene profile.
Some of them were completely different, obviously,
but a lot of them had this kind of sweet,
like a sweet cheese doughy, kind of like the cookies,
kind of like the Miracle Alien cookies.
A lot of the stuff had that kind of terpene profile.
And I was really expecting to see a lot of the profiles
that I used to see back when I first started growing
in the early 2000s, which was like,
hoping for some like bubblegums
and like the train wreck smells,
like the grapefruits.
And a lot of the stuff that I, like I said,
was really similar.
So, that was a lot of the stuff
that I ended up selecting to keep running, to continue.
I tried to take the things that were
furthest apart from each other,
as far as the profiles go, as far as the flavors go.
So, that's kind of like, those are a couple of people
that I liked running, kind of my experience
with the last Fino hunt that I did.
Yeah.
Cool.
Yeah, so for the indoor stuff,
the symbiotics been awesome.
I'm running some TRH,
some of the grape soda skunk crosses,
and they're just, they're coming out really good too.
And for outdoors, I get seeds from this guy,
Landrace Genetics on IG,
and he's got a lot of like Landrace and heirloom stuff,
some Bollock, and they've been treating me fantastic.
You know, they love the outdoor weather here.
Rebel Grown has been pretty solid too.
You know, I'll try anything just about once.
I got some actually, some Mandelbrot oil spill
that I've been just waiting to crack into.
I'm hoping I can pop some of those
within the next month or two,
but I try not to get too many different things
going at once.
You know, you get too much going on
and you start losing stuff
that you really would rather keep, so.
Yeah, you know what?
I got some seeds too,
that I'm really looking forward to pheno hunting
from a friend of mine who's been breeding
since the late 90s,
and a lot of them are the F2 Blueberry crosses.
There's some old, so there's some,
a lot of the stuff is also the San Diego,
old San Diego varieties, like the,
there's some P91 crosses,
there's some Bull Rider crosses.
There's the F2 Blueberry,
there's some Raw Mule and crosses.
So I'm really excited to dive into those too.
I actually popped a couple
just from my little home grow tent.
So I have, you know, one or two,
but I'd love to be able to plant more of those
and hunt through those older varieties.
I feel like that's always the problem.
You know, you got so many seeds in the collection,
you want to just pop them all.
I can't even count how many packs
from random people I got sitting around
that I'd love to find 20 acres
and a big old crew to just pop them all at once
and see how it goes.
Yeah, well, that's what we're working on.
We're working on building this pretty large farm
out here in Oklahoma.
So I'm hoping that I'll be able to take,
because I, again, you know, just like you said,
I get packs from people all the time for seeds,
and I'm like, I get it.
I totally love getting seeds
because that's like, there's potential there, you know?
And it's like, I don't know what you're going to get.
And it's so exciting to see.
And so being able to do a huge hunt, man,
oh, I can't wait.
It's going to be so exciting,
especially to bring back some of these older varieties,
you know, and kind of hunt through.
And it's nostalgic, you know,
to have the bubble berries and the old blueberries,
the Romulan, the super silver haze,
all the stuff that like, you know,
that we kind of, you know, made all of our,
you know, that was like the thing for our whole crew,
you know, all these varieties
were our bread and butter back then, you know.
Did our guy go for another beer or what?
What's that?
No, I just got handed a fresh poo for my one-year-old, so.
Oh!
That I got to throw on the trash.
That's not a beer.
That's a strange brew there.
Yeah, that is, she loves making fresh poo for me.
No old poo, only fresh poo.
So we're three hours and 40 minutes in,
we got like 350 people watching.
So we're on the home stretch, let's wrap it up.
So can you give us, one of the things,
I would love for us to start doing more
kind of fundraisers and stuff.
And like, I know Josh and Nick are into that
and you're into that.
And first, can you give us an update
on what's going on with Duke?
And then I love the idea of kind of like
the cannabis community coming together.
It'd be like, someone's in need,
we're all coming together to help out.
Fuck you, rest of world, what are you doing?
So on Duke, I don't have any real specifics
on what's happening other than that,
everybody made him a lot of money
so that he can have the best representation for his case.
I'm not sure what the situation is with it at all.
I just saw how many people wanted to do something
to help him out.
And so I tried to facilitate a little bit.
And I mean, I think probably doing the auctions did okay.
And then just the straight GoFundMe,
I think brought in a bunch.
So the last I knew was just that they were getting him
a real hard hitting attorney
and that it was gonna cost some major cheese
and that if we could make that happen,
then he had his best shot.
I don't really know much else besides that.
So hopefully we'll get an update about that at some point.
And if I have any news on it,
I'll try to put up a post
so people know what's happening with it.
And thanks everybody that helped out with that.
Cause a bunch of people,
it was like an avalanche of support for him.
And I put up stuff little by little
and I planned to do it for a long time.
And then it got to a point where it looked like,
okay, well, it looks like we're straight for now.
So right at the tail end,
my IG started messing up all the comments
on the stuff would be out of order for me.
And then for the other person,
it'd be out of order for them.
Things weren't popping up when they were supposed to
and it wasn't refreshing, right?
So it was really hard to figure out
who was the actual winners
and what usually was a really streamlined thing
that took no work,
all of a sudden turned into something
that was taking hours to figure out.
And that was basically at the hardest possible time for me.
So luckily we were still able to figure it out
and everything, but that's where it's at right now.
Thank you for the update.
So Kyle, Brandon, Jackson,
any last words as I am smelling
some fresh poo right next to me?
Any deep thoughts?
Yeah, I was just gonna let your listeners know
that if they're interested,
they can follow on IG at rust.brandon.
And then there's a link to my company, Bokashi Earthworks
and the company that I work for,
Majestic Craft Cannabis out here in Oklahoma.
If you guys wanna see like what's going on
with the green waste recycling, biofertilizers,
the organic indoor cultivation facility that I'm running,
it's all there.
So it's pretty cool if you guys wanna check it out.
And I try to do education for people
and let people know about organic soils,
integrated pest management, all that stuff.
So try to help out the community
by giving out information for free.
So try to give back in that way.
So anybody can find me there.
Well, Kyle, you're on mute.
I said, I'll jump on that one too.
And I guess you guys can find me at caveage555
on IG or at 555 underscore genetics.
That's where most of my seed stuff goes on.
And most of Jackson's genetics are on that page that I grow.
And shout out to my work, the garden remedies team,
they're killing it over there.
And we'll get some Dr. Lime and other crosses
that I use Jackson's stuff in.
And hopefully I hear from some of you guys.
If you've got any questions, feel free to reach out.
All you mass holes, check out his weed.
Get it.
Go Pats.
Go Cam Newton.
Yeah, tons of respect to Jackson.
One of the first places I saw his genetics were in auctions.
And it takes a lot to put that much effort and time
into making these genetics
and then just releasing them for a good cause
rather than just profit for your pocket.
So big ups to you, man.
Thank you, dude.
Yeah, and I appreciate you too.
I appreciate you hooked me up with those seeds, man.
And I'm gonna keep doing my thing
and hopefully we'll be able to come up
with some cool stuff in the future.
Nice, man.
Hell yeah.
Yeah, I saw the Lime-a-rilla and I was like,
oh, well, if you'd like that,
then try some more limers and see how it comes out.
I'm sure it'll blend right in.
Yeah, I'm stoked.
I'm real happy with everything so far.
So keep up the good work, man.
I'm out of here.
I don't know, I gotta go pull tarps
in two minutes or something.
Yeah, I'll see you guys later.
All right, well, on that note,
I'm gonna kill the live stream
thanks to the 300 plus people who are still tuned in.
Happy 4th of July for everybody in the US
and everybody elsewhere.
Have a good weekend.
