I want to thank everyone for being here.
And I'm just wondering how many out there are home growers?
How many of you are planting seeds?
All right, great.
Well, thank you for coming.
Really excited that you could be here today.
Well, we're being joined by Nick from Green Source Gardens.
Welcome.
And we have Daniel here from Heart Rock Mountain and Forest,
who's joining us from Covalo.
Sunroots Farm.
Sunroots.
Sunroots Farm.
In Covalo.
Covalo.
In Covalo.
Nice.
So I'd like to just know a little bit about your,
from each one of you, just a brief introduction
about your farm, about the size of your farm,
a little bit about what you have growing there,
and a little bit also with your genetics program.
OK.
Well, I'm Nick from Green Source Gardens.
We are up in just outside of Wolf Creek, Oregon,
southern Oregon.
We're in the foothills that begin
the makings of the Cascades.
So the southwest beginning foothills of the Cascades,
I guess.
They're mountains, but they're definitely smaller.
We live on a mountain that is called Post Mountain.
We're at 22,000 feet and 42 degrees latitude.
And the mountain that I live on is really close
to a really big mountain in the area that affects
the climate in a wetter way.
We're on the wet side of that mountain.
Full sun, southern slope on this mountain called Post Mountain,
hidden from the agricultural lands, which
is nice for breeding purposes.
And we grow all kinds of stuff.
We are really interested in naturalized perennials, things
that don't take a whole lot of effort,
and integrating those kinds of plant cultures
into production gardens is the way
I believe we increase the water infiltration.
And so that's a big thing that we're doing there,
is working on the increased water infiltration
of the upper watershed.
And then from a genetic standpoint, cannabis-wise,
I've been collecting a lot of genetics over the years.
And every year I make a lot of seeds.
And I grow all from seed.
So even for the production commercial Oregon market,
I grow everything from seed.
And so I've had to really dive deep into that process
and how to make that available to the market in a way
that the market would receive it well.
And so that's just taken me on a journey
of kind of specializing seeds and directions
of all different types, but really looking
at acclimating seeds through that process,
as well as finding the dank that is easy to move on the market
and has to be that way at this point,
because it's super squeezed up there in Oregon.
There's a lot of producers and a lot of retailers
and not that many people.
So that's kind of the gist.
In terms of projects, I mean, maybe we get into that later.
I have so many different directions and ways
that I'm going that I'll just leave it at that.
Thanks, Nick.
I'm Daniel, and I'm in Heart Rock Mountain Farm,
and we're in Potter Valley.
I was born on that farm.
My dad started growing there in 77.
He did a crop before that in Santa Cruz in 76.
And 10 years before that, in 1966,
he kept his first seeds that he found in the bottom of a bag.
Now we have a 10,000 square foot cultivation license.
We have a nursery license that we've
been doing for two years.
We use it just for seed production.
It's fun.
I grew over 600 photo period plants
that were three foot to six foot tall for seed production
this year and the year before.
We have over 350 seed lots and five auto flowers.
And I'm a bit of a crazy person because I just
keep making more.
And just heritage strains that we interbreed them
with designer genetics and just keep playing around.
Hi, my name is Forrest.
I'm born and raised in Covalo, California in the mountains.
And now I have a 10 acre farm in the valley.
We have animals and fruit trees and all sorts of other things
growing on the farm.
The varieties that we grow are passed down
from my family for a while, and they've
been climatized to the region.
And we grow really big plants in full sun
that just showing their full expression each year
throughout the season.
Those are some big plants you grow.
What were you saying, 20 pound plant?
Really?
Covalo.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
We grow some big plants in Covalo, not just my farm,
but a lot of farms around me.
Yeah.
Covalo.
I wouldn't mind growing one of these big plants.
Can you just give, and for these home growers out there,
I mean, come on, six 20 pound plants.
OK, let's hear it.
Just a little some tips on how to grow some big plants.
It's all about timing, having really good seed.
It's really like the first thing that you
have to really think about.
What are you growing?
What are you growing for?
Do you brace them at all?
What's that?
Do you use braces or like kind of?
Oh, yeah.
I triple cage my plants throughout the growing season.
You have to or else the wind will pick up and take
your whole plant down.
So when they're small, I put a little small cage.
And then as soon as they start growing,
I'll put four fence posts around and put another seven foot
cage two feet up.
So they have.
Do they take a lot?
I mean, you'd think to grow a plant that big,
it must use a lot of water.
Is that what you found?
We're really blessed where we are.
We have a huge aquifer underneath the valley
and the wells that we use.
They're only 50 feet deep, right?
And they're like some really sweet water.
I can just pump them all day.
And whatever the plants don't use,
it just goes right back into the water table.
So I don't really feel bad about overusing water.
And the way we water our plants, we use little spaghetti tubes
every foot.
So there's dry spots and wet spots.
So the plant takes what it wants, what it needs.
And you know.
Do you breed for big plants too?
Oh, absolutely.
I want big plants.
I really enjoy growing full season
and seeing how big they get.
My brothers like to grow big plants too.
So it's really nice.
We're a little competitive family.
Who grew the biggest plant this year?
Speaking of that, your family is pretty prolific and known
in the area.
Maybe talk about some of the genetics that have come
through you and your family.
The jaw goo, that's one of my brother Mike's strains
that he crossed over 15 years ago.
Collaborated with his good friend Noel.
Probably a lot of people know Noel here.
But since then, we've just been taking those seeds.
And I've been just breeding what I like into them.
Like I like a Skywalker goo.
I crossed that with a goo.
And now I have a Skywalker goo.
And then there's the velvet perps that I grow.
I've crossed that into a lot of the other ones that I grow now.
So it's just really fun to see what comes out
of all the seeds, because you never really know.
It's so much fun to see what comes out of all the seeds.
One of the coolest thing about doing the Regenerative Cannabis
Farm Award and doing the site visits
is getting to connect with people
on all the different levels from the soil building.
But the genetic aspect, well, it gets me really excited.
I've been obsessive for 20 years on this.
And yeah, to see the work that you're
doing for a very specific thing.
What do you want for your outcome?
It's always interesting.
Like working backwards, and you want monster plants.
And you're in the perfect place to do it.
And you have the perfect water source to do it.
And these are legitimately 20-pound plants.
I've seen them.
Normally, I'd be like, bullshit.
You know how big a 10-pound plant is?
And the flowers are flawless all the way through, too.
But there's a lot of selection work
going on to make that happen.
And what I really love, too, is seeing the genetic sharing.
And then that cultural sharing, the background stories
of these different genetics and how
they came to different places.
And the first time I met Nick, I was with my buddy Ryan,
who does Humboldt Seed Organization, as well.
And we gave him some seeds, some black dog, and some cherry,
sorry, glazed cherries.
And he's made like five F-generations off of those,
as well as amazing back crosses.
And I get to see even those two combined,
as well as all kinds of things.
So I get to see stuff from so long ago
turn into all these other things.
And every year, we exchange a few other things
and get to see cool things.
And we just did the same.
But I love seeing the sharing between everyone.
And like Daniel, as well, just tons of people's stuff
all put together.
And I see your stuff, like a moon gazer,
and all over the place.
Like it's just really cool to see
the sharing between the region farms
when it comes to genetics, as well as all the information.
But Nick, do you want to tell maybe some stories
on some crosses and that kind of sharing?
Oh, yeah, maybe a little bit about that amazing, that pink.
What's that?
Pinkleberry?
Didn't that originate from Kovalo originally?
Yeah, originally, most of my backbone genetics
come from Kovalo, so definitely.
Yeah, so now, kind of some of the things I focus on.
So there's this glazed cherries that I get
that's just like the dank.
And we all know what the dank is.
That's why it's so good these days,
is because everybody who grows has an eye for the dank.
And the dank could mean many things,
but generally, it involves a lot of resin and a lot of nose.
And it's always that special one.
And those are the selections we, as breeders,
are always hunting to make.
But what I'm trying to do now is understand
kind of the technical components of breeding.
I grew a lot of vegetables, and I still do.
But I really just do it for the homestead
and for my community and sharing and not selling vegetables
anymore and focusing specifically
my work on the cannabis.
But we have inbred lines.
We have F1s, and we have polyhybrids.
And to understand these different terminology
is really important for a breeder.
So I grow all from seed, so I'm really interested in uniformity.
Not so much.
I've never grown a clone.
So I'm obviously not that interested in it.
However, there is some benefits to having some uniformity.
And as I go further with breeding, I look into this stuff.
And I do some research, and I try to understand,
how come the catalogs that you buy your vegetables from are F1s?
And then they're super uniform, and they have their own name.
And the reason that is is there's a technical way
to go about that process.
And in cannabis, you get an F1, and it might express wildly.
And then it's not really an F1.
So it's like, we have to start understanding the language
and how we're saying, here's this.
It's an F1, even though both cuts that were used to make it
were both polyhybrids.
Not really an F1, so you're not going to get that uniformity.
So I've been working on trying to stabilize and inbreed
further lines.
And that just means generationally sibling
crossing these plants with the selections
that I make to further whatever it was called when I got it.
And whether it was truly what it was when I got it or not,
it's hard to say in this culture.
However, the further we do continue
to inbreed those lines and then use those inbred lines
as our breeding stock to create commercial production lines
that are more about hybrid vigor,
that's when we're coming into, like, OK,
I want to grow all from seed.
Well, I want to grow F1s if I'm doing this for the market,
just because it's, from a business standpoint,
the most efficient from seed type of seed
to be running in your production field.
But I need to maintain these inbred lines
and as many varieties as possible
so that I can continue to create new F1s.
And now those F1s become the things that you name.
And then you have a lot of work to stabilize
that new variety into its own breeding stock.
So you might change the name of something
with a F1 cross in order to,
because the further inbred you go,
the more predictable the traits
in which you're breeding with become.
And so two inbred lines that are stable,
and I don't even really work with deeply inbred lines.
I'm talking F4, F5, F6, and I only grow outdoor,
and I don't use light manipulation,
so I'm not running multiple generations in a year
and hurrying that process along.
But the further inbred you go,
the more reliable real F1 you get.
So I think in agriculture, it's like you go to F9
before you create an F1.
And so you go to F9 with two very different things,
and that cross of those two F9s
becomes a new variety that's an F1.
And now you could stabilize that
and make that a different variety,
how many generations you gotta go?
A bunch, to F9 in agriculture.
So I just wanna share this information
as I learn it in the process,
help you guys understand what you're looking at
when you see these,
and ask your breeders more in-depth questions
about what are you talking about when you say backcross?
I'm trying to get to the bottom of this.
What does that mean?
It seems to mean something different to everybody.
How many plants are you talking about?
To when you're going back,
how many plants do you,
how many seeds are you planting,
and how many plants are you looking at
to kind of make these determinations from?
So I'm not working with huge populations,
but I have a 20,000 square foot production canopy,
and I pop about 100 seeds per variety each year.
That's a pretty good sift as far as I'm concerned
in comparison to what it has been.
Yeah, and also in terms of just observing
and what you can see.
I have a question for Daniel as we're talking about this,
and that is the intuitive side.
And now we could just run a bunch of numbers
and also go that route,
but then there's also just luck.
There's just the intuitive side of,
okay, it's there, it's gonna show itself,
and I'm curious how you work with intuition in breeding.
Well, you know, and it's also because my older brother
was the numbers guy,
and he read every book there was,
and he knew like, okay, I'm gonna take this,
I'm gonna cross it with that, I'm gonna get this,
I'm gonna bring out this trait,
and I'm just like, what do you want
to be pollinated with, plant?
And you know, but like Nick, I'm learning the science now.
And it's fun, but I've always considered myself
to be a plant whisperer,
so if you're the science people out there,
learn how to talk to the plants,
and if you're the plant people, learn the numbers.
And it's, you know, and so we've been just making seeds,
but it was like a branch or two,
you know, we were harvesting pollen maybe from eight males,
you know, pre-legalization,
and now it's 50 different males, multiple plants,
75 different males, and you know,
but I only seed maybe 10% of, you know,
growing out 10 to 40 plants per seed lot,
and finding one or two out of those
that is worthy of pollen.
Yeah, because each year when you back cross,
the expression is a little different,
and so one thing is just librarying
and holding on to some,
because then a few years down the road,
you're like, ah, you know, that one year,
that was the year that was really good,
and thank goodness I got some seeds,
I can go back and plant those again.
Well, yeah, that was, you know,
in taking your lines different ways,
so if you get down here to F6 and it's not good,
you have a couple other options to work with,
especially if it's something special that you like,
you might wanna try.
What about, there are so many things
that we could be crossing all the time,
and maybe, like, how do you stay focused?
I don't know, I just go for it, you know,
but it's also, you know, like Kelly
from Dragonfly Earth Medicine,
she uses her dowsing rod over the,
or the pendulum over the seeds,
but I'm just hoping actually to get more space,
so I don't have to pick and choose,
I can just start them all.
Dan really goes for it, by the way,
like I was walking through those plants,
it's like, there's so much variety,
there's so much, it's hard to fully take it in,
and I'm a total whirlwind with all that insanity too.
And I have an exceptional memory, like an elephant.
Well, proper labeling is really important,
so like, when you realize there's something like,
from four years ago, and you just had those right numbers
and letters on there to know that it was the one
that you're looking at later.
You can't have any doubts.
Label, label, label.
One mishap on a label.
Oh yeah, I'm starting to map out the family tree as it,
you know, before it gets away from me, yeah.
Forrest, do you wanna answer,
to respond to the question as well?
So my breeding, I don't do it very scientific either,
it's more of just what I like in the garden,
and I kinda just go with my gut and see where it leads me.
And so far, it's been, it's worked out.
Well, I mean, yeah, and just in-
I don't crack so many seeds every year.
The most I crack is probably like 500,
so, and I usually don't even plant that many
because I don't need that many.
So my breeding isn't as vast,
but I still have a lot of good stuff to breed with,
so I just go with what I feel really.
And for you, Nick, how do you find that balance
between intuition and numbers?
I think they're both extremely valid,
and we all probably have started
from more of an intuitive place
in just like selecting the dank.
There's no way a single breeder would like walk around
and be like, look at that crazy resin monster,
and be like, nah.
So, you know, that's the intuitive piece,
is like we all know what that is.
If we've been growing, you'll know.
If you haven't grown, you should grow some,
and you'll see one that stands out,
and you'll be like, well, that's the one.
And that's what we make seeds with,
or that's what we'll focus on really, elite lines.
And maybe that's what the elite line is.
You pop 40, four of them are amazing.
Those are your elite lines.
You're gonna wanna make seed with those.
I've just been doing that for a while now.
So like from seed, I could pretty reliably get a pretty,
and I've got, I can get just good numbers.
I can, you know, and the COAs have been helpful for that.
So like this whole marrying science and intuition,
it's really, and like Daniel said, you know,
if you're super scientific,
you should focus on balancing that.
And if you're super intuitive,
you should focus on balancing that.
Because somewhere in the middle is where the real magic
really starts to come together,
because even as I've gotten more, say,
into the language and terminology of breeding,
it's really made a difference from how I'm doing it.
So it's like, you know, I am a production farmer,
and I do provide for the market.
So there is a certain pressure of test results
maintained at a certain level.
Well, if I get a multi-pheno batch tested,
I get a good understanding of the potency of that genetic.
I might not know what every single plant is
in terms of its quantity of cannabinoids completely,
but I know that within that genetic,
I'm seeing this range of potency.
And then there's this important component
where you gotta work with the ones that aren't that dank,
but have unique characteristics,
because those are the ones that you're gonna wanna take
and work with those really elite things
to bring new, completely new expressions around.
And so if you're buying IBLs or inbred lines
for your seed stock, just understand,
those are probably bottlenecked pretty good
and have gone in a less vigorous direction,
but they're probably more uniform and stable
to some extent across the board.
But don't expect as much from them.
And if you really want to be expecting commercial,
viable uniformity that act similarly to each other
and have similar structure, then look at the F1s.
And that's just in general
how agriculture has been working.
So open pollinated varieties and F1s
are what you see in seed catalogs.
If you see, nobody sees F2, F3, F4 on beets.
That's not something that generally gets brought to market.
That's something that's being worked into something
that ends up bringing to market.
Cannabis right now, polyhybrids though,
are really important.
If you're just growing to find an elite cut
that you wanna just keep as a clone, get polyhybrids.
And they should be cheaper.
People aren't working that hard
unless they really have put time into some,
but I'm like, if it's a polyhybrid or a double polyhybrid
or there's multiple parents on one side
and multiple on the other,
like unless you were the one that created those parents,
you didn't do that much work to make it.
Because any of us can buy some seed from you
and some seed from you and then mix them
and make some incredible cannabis
and we should all be doing that.
That's really seed preservation work
is a lot of people doing that.
We can sort it all out any time in the future
if we have the seeds.
That's the work that we can go further into doing.
So I just encourage everybody to buy seeds,
grow seeds and make seeds.
And then our future should be more secure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's really cool.
Just one of the things is there's now
that we've entered this age of commercial cannabis,
there's kind of this wanting to just hold on
to what you have and not share it and whatnot.
And this culture of sharing that we have is important.
And I'm just wondering what your thoughts are
moving into the future, into this, just into capitalism.
And also we're sharing, but then also
how do we balance sharing as well as making a profit?
Well, it's interesting in the cannabis industry now,
people go, oh, big business and cannabis, what a shame.
I'm like, no big business, what a shame.
The whole world over and we're definitely
on the brink of destruction because of predatory capitalism.
But sharing seeds with your friends
and selling your best seeds to the community,
that you're gonna take something
and go a totally different way
than I'm gonna take something.
And there's so much creativity within a seed
that you can really go any direction with it.
Yeah, I feel the same.
Yeah, I really feel like sharing is the direction
that we need to go.
I just got some seeds from BioVortex
and then I just crossed them and gave them back.
Great names too.
He gave me the Voltron and then I crossed it
with my Velvet Purps and now he's got Velvetron.
Velvetron.
You know, and we're all stoked.
Both Voltron and Velvetron are in the calendar.
I mean, and there's Velvet Purps.
Velvet Purps.
And then there's Voltron.
There you go.
Grown by High Water Farms, dry farmed too.
Full circle.
The sharing is also important
because I've heard stories from other farmers
of how they've lost genetics
because they did not share them.
And then years down, they come back later
and they're like, wow, you've been growing this
for all these years?
Oh my God, there's that genetic that I thought I lost.
And so those are some pretty,
yeah, it's good to share and follow your heart
and find partners that share the same values.
In California on production scale of it,
I can't make enough of one cultivator to make a difference.
I got some Velvet Purp seeds from forest
and I'm gonna grow a batch of it out for production
and it's not gonna mess with his bottom line at all.
It's gonna help him get his name out there
because I'll give him credit for it.
And I crossed that with my auto flower genetics
and I'm gonna be happy the day I can hand them back
an auto flower Velvet Purps.
Yeah.
Woo!
Woo!
So, hold on, I wanna just jump on that
just because of the question.
Is just that this whole weird place
where it's like valuing your work,
being supported and sharing
and then the fear that comes in that people have about,
oh, if my seed ends up here.
If somebody's supporting you by purchasing
and they take your seeds and make more seeds with it,
that's like the biggest honor.
So, we should all be doing that and nobody owns it.
I'm tired of this greedy eyeballs over genetics.
But at the same time,
we need to value the genetics
that are being given all this work.
And so, we have to understand
how to support that process too
because not everybody's as obsessed maybe
as some of us up here around
how much time we spend with pollen.
So, there's a lot of tricks around that too.
And all the techniques to maintain less pollen drift
and to still have a viable crop
within a production zone for the market.
All this stuff comes into consideration as you're breeding
and you realize, wow, man, there's a few seeds over here.
Whoops, it happens.
But I've never gotten a single complaint in the market.
Everybody's only giving me positive feedback
when they found seeds.
But nobody owns the seeds.
We just take care of them and help them.
But the power is through nature.
That's what designed them.
That's what created them.
And we're just here to help them along.
So.
Thanks.
And the seeds too, they're not in track and trace.
So, share them.
You're home growers.
You can have your seed production going on as home growers
and sharing amongst yourselves.
So, yeah, the seeds are there.
They're free.
So, in the regenerative cannabis calendar that we do,
I get to feature all these farms
and get different information from them too.
I share my own.
But Nick wrote this really cool thing
on regenerative breeding points.
But the quote we have here is,
"'Somewhere something incredible is waiting to be known.'"
Just the potential inside of seeds is so amazing.
The value that comes out of a seed blows me away.
To see something you worked on years ago all over the world
and to see it on beautiful farms with polyculture
and to see that sharing with other people.
It's one of my favorite things.
It warms my heart as an artist and a human.
But I wanted you to read these regenerative points
if you could, because they're really, really thoughtful
and I appreciate you putting that together.
Yeah, so this is just,
when I think the term regenerative breeding,
I'm like, what is, that's such an interesting term, right?
Like, we're all trying to figure out what that is.
And we all realize we're striving for regenerative
and not really there yet.
As a culture, as a people, we've got a few generations
before we end up in this regenerative space
that we all wanna be in.
Just based on the infrastructure of society and capitalism.
And if you get involved in selling things,
you got packaging trail that's pretty long
and pretty much offsets
all your potential regenerative qualities.
But regenerative breeding points,
I say grow plants in the natural light cycle.
That's all I do.
I don't manipulate the light.
You don't have to start them inside under lights.
Wait until April.
They wanna wake up later.
If they don't start outside, it's because it's too cold.
You manipulate their light cycle,
you don't know what they do naturally.
So for me, regenerative is about natural processes.
So I'm only really interested in how they work naturally
with the earth and my climate.
And I just give myself to that whole process.
And even though it's hard and not everything works,
it's worth it.
So when we're talking regenerative,
yeah, is that the best technique in the world
for specific things?
Maybe not, but we're talking regenerative.
Make intentional breeding selections
by setting goals for desired outcomes
like mold and disease resistance, structure, color, aroma.
Have a goal.
If you're breeding, have some kind of goal.
It might be to make polyhybrids
and then you don't need to be that specific.
You meet your goal, you might make another goal.
And at some point it changes.
And so just as long as you have a direction you're going,
you can at least be making a selection
that's not just like, I think this one.
You know, use multiple males when collecting pollen
to strengthen the gene pool.
You know, this is important in the long-term seed making
of inbred lines, especially.
Many males gives you some more genetic diversity.
And after you've bottlenecked, you want to try to,
which is just reducing to say one male, one female,
you might start selecting more males
and you might start selecting similar looking males,
but more males is better than fewer.
So increasing that male population as it's possible.
The legality of all this cannabis stuff
puts a lot of restrictions on our methodology
in terms of what we can and can't do.
So, you know, I wish I could save a lot more males than I do
but such as the case, some day.
I say pollinate females mid-August to mid-September.
Getting past mid-September,
you're starting to run into that moldy time.
So seeds aren't gonna mature before they start molding.
So you just have less viable seeds.
Now you could still get some seeds
and for a home scale, that's great.
But if you're wanting to make seeds,
you got to pollinate that with like five to,
you want five to six weeks of post-pollination development.
If you don't have that,
then you just end up with a bunch of immature seeds.
And if you pollinate too late,
you have a bunch of seeds on the outside of the bud
that are immature, not ideal.
It's always sucks when you're cleaning seeds
and only three or four of the thousand you made are good.
We've probably all done it, I have.
Lower south-facing branches tend to be the best.
I mean, just full sun, best conditions, less mold.
And the north side of the plant and the seeds
make the buds tighter when they're really well-seeded.
So you run into more mold on seeded branches.
And so keeping those in the more sunlight
is going to be a better place to get more seeds.
Clean seed and low, oh, this is important.
So when you're packing your seeds
or making seeds for packs,
and you're just saving seeds, you know,
manage your climate, low humidity.
If you pack up a bunch of seeds in 85% humidity,
they're probably not going to be viable for very long
because they're trapped in some plastic
or something that doesn't breathe.
And the humidity is too high in there.
So just make it a point to run your dehumidifier
when you're packaging your seeds
so that when you package them
and put them in that sealed container,
those things are good when they open up.
I'd point to that too, if you're using glass
and you're refrigerating or freezing it,
like you need to make sure that that container
comes to room temperature and that room is dry
before you open it,
because it'll just suck all that moisture in.
Same is true with flowers and hash too,
but just be mindful of it coming to room temperature
and it being low humidity when you open it.
Yeah, pull your seed, if you store them in the fridge,
which I do, pull them out and let them sit for five hours.
Actually keeping a dehum on
before you even open the fridge is good too,
so no moisture goes in when you open the door.
And then final, just like you want to store your seeds
for long-term viability,
one, make sure they were packaged
or they're stored in low humidity,
and then they'll remain that way for a long time.
Cool temperatures are great.
You can freeze, not a big deal.
I wouldn't be getting into the practice
of freezing, thawing, freezing, thawing too much,
but freezing is probably the longest term
if you wanted to put like,
I want this seed bank to be available in 50 years,
it'll likely be just fine after 50 years
if it was put in the freezer dry.
Now for me, I'm mostly storing most of my seeds
just in a refrigerator and making sure
that they were packaged right before they go in there.
So, and I've changed my packaging over the years
and been playing with that.
And then the final tip is just breed every year.
It's really important because right now
the climate is changing rapidly.
There's a lot of information
that comes through the seeds every season.
If you just like keep one seed stock
and are always working off of that,
that's fine, you might find,
but man, what about the evolution of cannabis?
That's what I'm really interested in.
I rarely am jumping back into my old banks
and being like, man, I'm gonna go back and hit that.
I'm like way more excited about all these projects
and all the information that came with the season
that's wrapped up in that seed.
And then that's the medicine when we smoke
gives us the information that we need
from the planet in current time.
So we're trying to get our updates from our plants
as evolved as possible,
and especially with the changing climate
to continue that evolution as much as we can.
So that's some breeding.
That's fantastic, yeah.
Thank you.
And a good joint is a great tool for breeding too,
just knowing the flavor and the effects.
Oh, in a spray bottle.
A spray bottle for pollen collectors.
Just spray yourself off if you're messing with pollen
because I'll be in and out of the garden
and if I don't spray myself down,
then everything gets a little bit of seed.
I just have one thing to add to that.
We noticed going from making a branch
to seeding whole plants that,
just like a mom carrying a baby, they needed more food.
And so seeds for seeds, we sprout barley,
or you could do sunflower, whatever you have,
and about two ounces of sprouted seeds,
blend it up, add it to five gallons of water,
and you feed it to your heavily seeded plants,
and they will mature top to the bottom quicker,
on either side of the plant,
and shadier parts of your farm.
So give them those prenatals.
You know?
You wanna add forest to that?
Just some techniques?
I usually just pollinate one branch at a time.
Like I'll just select the best plant that I like,
and pollinate just one little branch.
So I'm not pollinating a whole big tree.
Okay, well I do wanna open it up to questions
from the audience, but before we do,
I was gonna have Daniel read us a poem.
Yeah, so this is my ode to Luther Burbank,
who was a local Sonoma County legend,
and probably worldwide plant botanist,
not with cannabis, but he's done amazing things,
and this poem is called Love Shapes the World.
Apart from scientific knowledge,
love accelerates evolution, Luther Burbank.
Do you know how he made the spineless cactus?
Listen to his words and I will tell you.
I often spoke to the plant to create a vibration of love.
You do not need your defensive thorns,
I would tell them, I will protect you.
And gradually, one generation,
the useful plant of the desert
emerged in a thornless variety.
Do you see just how love shapes the world?
Someday, the future we will inherit
is shaped by our collective thoughts and actions.
So speak wisely, step tenderly,
and love without measure.
And someday, when we are kind enough,
gentle enough, and every thought and action
is imbued with such love,
this world will drop its thorns.
Are there some questions from the audience?
Oh yeah, you can come to this mic here
if you have a question.
You got a tag.
Yeah, I mean, you have to,
when you harvest it from the mail,
you wanna pull out the plant matter or any bugs
and store it.
I don't like to take mine in and out of the fridge,
but it's only good for a couple months
and then you can freeze it
and then it's only good once
and usually you got like 20 minutes on there
and keep it not cold.
And yeah, I used over 45 different types of frozen pollen
on my auto flower project this summer.
Do you dry it just a little bit?
I mean, yeah, it dries.
Yeah, a little bit, yeah.
Because before you input it,
I input it in jars with moisture packets
because and then you'll find out if it wasn't dry
pretty quick.
Because it cakes up and it's no good.
And it's gonna mold.
Yeah.
Pollen's similar to seeds.
If it's humid out, you probably don't wanna collect it
and store it.
But if it's dry out,
you're likely gonna have a better storage result.
So also letting the pollen fall naturally from the flowers
and then making sure you get the flowers out of the pollen.
So waiting for it to drop on its own
is a really important step.
I mean, I know when I was really excited and starting,
I would like, be like, there's a flower
and I'd start milking that stuff out of there.
It's not the way to go.
Growing in a wet environment too,
like you really see how the males,
they choose their time to release just right.
Like they pay attention.
It's like, okay, it's about to be warm and dry.
We're about to get a breeze.
Just paying attention to it.
And a lot of times they're just like,
no, we're holding on to all this pollen
because it just would immediately be wasted.
And on a hot day, we definitely wanna be watching them.
They will pop on a hot day.
I was just wondering if there's too dry for seed storage.
Is it okay to get it super duper dry?
I don't know if too dry.
I'm always like go drier,
but maybe you know some more about that.
No, I would just go drier.
Dry.
I've never seen anything dry not be a good thing
in the seed department,
but I've seen moisture ruin seeds.
How about your pollen drift just in your garden?
If you're in the commercial market
and you get some seeds in your buds,
how are you separating that okay?
Or how is that going?
Pollen drift, you have to be like,
if you're actually bringing your flower to shelf,
there definitely needs to be a series of checks
on its way into your final bag
and on its way to the retailer.
And that's increased for us more as we've done it longer.
So that's important.
That gets caught likely in the trimming room,
but the way to prevent that
is to understand when to pollinate.
And maybe that's more crucial information really
is like you're pollinating,
I'm pollinating in the morning in calm weather.
And I used to do the evening,
but I've kind of like,
it seems like the mornings are nice and still.
So that seems to be the time that I've been working with it
and get away with less pollen drift.
I'm also again, the spray bottle,
I can't encourage and emphasize enough,
just the spray bottle mentality.
I'm a freak about spraying myself now
because of pollen drift in the past.
Is there a question back there?
What other controls do you guys?
Well, where my farm at in Potter Valley,
we're the end of a dirt road and there's a cattle ranch
and the national forest.
And we're close enough to the coast
where we get the prevailing westerlies.
So the males are way up there
and the flowers are over here and diligence too.
And you're checking your males in a hot day,
you're checking them two, three times a day.
And then once they open or start to open
or right before they open,
I'll cut them, jar them and take them inside
where they still get some light
and they'll finish flowering and drop a lot of pollen.
And then I get up early in the morning
and now they got the weather apps too.
So I'll get up and I'm pollinating, the wind picks up,
I check the weather app, oh, it'll be still in an hour.
And sure enough, the wind stopped
or check the weather app the night before,
four mile an hour winds, no thank you.
And then when you get on the still morning,
there's no wind and you dip your paintbrush into the pollen
and you can tap it, you can literally see the pollen
just fall straight down on the plant
and it doesn't go anywhere but right there.
So we live in the valley where we do get some drift
from other gardens, it's kind of inevitable.
So we do find some seed here and there,
but it's really not that big a deal.
One year it was a little bit more than others,
but most of all, it's been pretty good.
For my pollen production, I usually just keep my males
like off to the side, smaller,
and then just bring them in side right before they pop
so I don't get that drift.
So keeping them separate and maybe downwind
from the prevailing wind is important.
Having a good like wall of like plants or foliage around
or just any kind of block pollen is actually static charge
so it actually wants to cling to things.
And so just a lot of like trees or branches
or walls will actually stop a decent amount.
Do either of you use the biodynamic calendar?
Like do you maybe pollinate more often on a flower moon?
Have you seen that, you use the biodynamic calendar?
Or do you use moon?
I just go with the conditions of the day.
Yeah.
We do go by the biodynamic calendar for some things,
but for pollination, I haven't done it yet,
but maybe I will this year.
I have in the past.
In this year, I slipped a little bit.
I wasn't looking at the calendar as much as I usually do.
Definitely works for seed starting, I've found out.
Like I planted one of my gardens,
I have two 5,000 square foot gardens,
and one of them I planted on a root day
and one of them I planted on a flower day.
And the ones that I planted on a flower day
were just started to shoot up really quick
and had no, you know,
they were just sitting there for a month
where the other garden was actually sitting there
for a whole month before they even like started growing.
So, and the whole garden,
that whole garden was like predominantly larger
than the other one.
The biodynamic calendar,
it looks at different astrology and the signs.
So a flower is your air signs,
your Gemini and your Libra and Aquarius.
And so anyway, that's kind of the idea.
Just-
Part of the idea is the pushing and pulling forces too
that are happening at a certain moment,
like a certain variety that's gonna have,
be grown for roots or being grown for a green leaf to eat
or for a flower at the end,
that the pushing and pulling forces
that are happening all the time,
you know, I mean, we have our tides and everything.
So all these things are affected by these pushes and pulls,
but to pay attention to, you know, what the seeds do,
Maria Thun did a lot of work on paying attention to radishes
and documenting it and just showing that certain days
you just get a completely different production.
So it's as good to observe, you know,
the different days that you crack something
and write that down and see what, you know,
you can learn from it and look what other people had learned
from the biodynamic calendar.
Yeah, and it can give you a real basic sense
of just like how to stay in tune with the moon.
You know, so you might make practices
that aren't maybe following the exact calendar,
but you're at least in tune
with how the calendar functions off of the moon cycle.
So understanding the greater cosmic cycles
gives you a chance to not need to write everything down
because your calendar is working with the calendar of nature.
So the moon is growing, I'm planting seeds.
The moon is waning, I'm not planting seeds
and I'm harvesting.
Those are like real general terms
that aren't super specific biodynamic,
but come from that mentality around how to do things.
Are there any more questions here?
Yeah.
Okay, the question that she asked
was about the creation of seed banks.
It's happening.
Anytime you make seeds, you're making a seed bank.
I'm a big advocate of everybody making their seed banks
and the actual business of seed banks,
I think needs to be, you know.
Yeah, like a genetic preservation
where you can access open source.
That is happening.
Yeah, you'll have to look into it.
There's definitely people around with those ideas.
And it's an interesting one, you know.
I just say keep your eyes real open
on what it's all coming from.
But I would say that the farming community,
like this regenerative community,
like a lot of the people that you've seen here
through the weekend, like that is a seed bank.
Like Nick was saying, like breeding, storing seeds,
you're storing a seed bank.
And these are people that are sharing with each other
and creating stuff in the generations.
And now it's in multiple different places
instead of just one.
And all of us have some of our own ideas
and all of us have some of our genetics
in each other's library.
And, you know, just keeping growing like that,
I think is the way to get through it
because stuff like that can get kind of messy sometimes.
There's a lot of bureaucracy and sharks and strangeness,
but I think the really just keeping a community
is a really great way to preserve genetics and seeds.
So yeah, I just want to share a story from our farm.
This spring and summer, we did for the first time at scale,
open pollination, auto flower seed garden.
And the honeybees just went wild for the male pollen.
And their population was stronger all summer.
And it was just so much fun to witness that happening.
I mean, we have a lot of flowers,
just, you know, we're Dragonfly Earth Medicine,
but the cannabis pollen, they were swarming for it.
And also like in my neighborhood,
no one does early summer depth.
So I didn't have to worry about, you know,
messing anybody's stuff up,
but it was really beautiful to see that.
A lot of times people ask like,
oh, is the honey better from pollen from the, you know,
cannabis, the flower,
but it's the nectar that goes into the honey.
But the pollen is a great source.
We just had Aiden do the regeneration of the honeybee
and talking about the qualities of pollen.
And like, you know, it's over 50% protein
and it energizes you, it's a food source.
And you can collect it off bees in the hives
when they like go into the hive and knock it off,
but be kind of curious to eat some cannabis pollen though.
Well, yeah, I actually sent some to the company down in LA.
I've met him, he does like the,
and other things that's like floral wellness.
They do like the cannabis aphrodisiac oil
and he wanted research for pollen for, you know,
like a male supplement, you know,
I think pine pollen's like a natural male
testosterone booster.
And yeah, so I think we'll probably see cannabis pollen
as a super food in the future.
I think we have a question.
Yeah, I just wanted to comment too on something
we recently learned together is when we're preserving seeds
to not just preserve the seeds,
but also maybe just like you press a flower,
preserve the flower because that,
when you are thinking of starting a seed bank,
if you go to different types of seed banks,
they're gonna have a sample of the actual flower.
So you can see the qualities for yourself.
So there is ways to press a nug.
Yeah, so herbariums are a basis for botany
to understand a plant and to know like its morphology
and you're actually preserving the genetics.
So it's just making a pressing on quality paper,
keeping it dry and put some weight or pressure onto it.
And those get stored in an herbarium.
So it's like a resource,
but that is a great way to kind of preserve
the information from something that you're working on.
Canador is here and that's something that they work on
as well as genetics.
Yeah, and then also you could store
just making some hash from that
and the hash will store for quite some time
and you can go back and reflect
on those flavor profiles later.
Do we have any more questions?
Yep, in the back.
Yeah, yeah, so he's asking about.
Yes, he's talking about the value
of making your seeds outdoors
with one crop under the natural cycles.
Look for it from your breeder.
If they're doing that, they should be letting you know
because that's the nuance and difference that we need.
So I don't know how many people are doing it
in that strict of a methodology,
but I am and that's Green Source Garden.
So I try to make available
and I think it's every farm's responsibility
to make available literature trail or information
that helps you understand the ethos of that farm
so you can resonate with something that you believe in
and kind of follow that.
So as farms producing and in the market,
we gotta do the best we can to be mission driven
and ethically forward and transparent about our practices.
And that way you get what you read on the package
and not just a bunch of corporate bullshit.
Daniel or Forrest, do you use mixed light at all
in your genetics program?
No, but with the ruderallias,
I did something for the first time this year.
I made an F1 and then the F2 in the same summer,
which was fun.
And we're also in a little bit of a banana belt there.
Last December, I harvested Panama red seeds on the 15th
and some other land-raised stuff in a greenhouse,
but no, no mixed light.
Yeah, we don't use any mixed light either.
I feel like it's really important for all of us
to, if we can breed, do it.
Make more seed, share the seed and you know.
I do in my home grow, I do a mixed light
because I get excited about my new cross.
So then I want to plant the seeds right away.
So I'm going to go home from the Emerald Cup
and plant my seeds and start pheno hunting
and maybe I'll get some cuttings for the next season.
But yeah, I will kind of, just because I want to see
what the different, just what the expression is.
And I can only do a few.
It's very limited in space, but it's fun.
You should tell us a little bit
about your cultivation practices.
And you dry farms and tell a little bit about it.
Yeah, I dry farm.
I kind of have this philosophy of do nothing farming
and do nothing farming is really based on looking at nature
to guide me in what I do.
And I don't want to say I'm lazy,
but maybe that's a part of it too.
But I do, I also do a few, I make some crosses
and yeah, I have a home grow where I explore some,
it's like my research garden.
And so I'll do a few things in there
and I'll do some winter gardening and it's also temperate.
So I don't have to worry about heat and whatnot.
I just, but yeah, so that's just,
I've been seeing over time that some things do better
with the dry farming when you first plant,
there's some things that will take better.
And I also, I don't use like greenhouses.
I just put the plants under the sky
and the stars and the rain and in the nursery phase.
And I feel that that helps them
because they're right next to the garden
because the greenhouse adds a lot of different stressors
and different things and they start needing more nutrients.
And so without that, they just seem to grow better.
But yeah, I'm located in the Eel River Valley
in across from Shively
where there's some amazing dry farmers over there.
And my friend Jane from Organic Medicinal,
she is the one who turned me on to dry farming
and I just thank her very much for it
because it's through that
that I really found myself as a farmer.
And Bill Reynolds too.
Oh yeah, Bill Reynolds was a big,
I'm still, I grow all of his veggies,
the dark star zucchini and the melon and anyway,
but we're coming here to the end.
Did you find any varieties that like do better
in dry farming, have you found?
Yeah, but everything takes pretty well.
Yeah.
A lot of it is just getting a natural expression
of the land and just seeing what the genetics are
with as little inputs and interference on my part.
All right, well, we're at the close here
and is there any more closing remarks
which you'd like to make?
Some closing remarks?
Just, yeah, more love, more seeds, you know,
power to people.
Yeah, I can't express enough,
like it really is the most viable seed bank is with us all.
And so if we're connected to that source,
the future is looking good.
But if you're disconnected from that
and relying on other people to make all that,
it's not as secure for you.
So you can go in this direction where it's like,
it doesn't have to be a ton of seed
and it doesn't have to be cannabis.
It just needs to be this act of participating in humanity
that's been doing this for so long.
So let's reconnect with our ancient selves
and become close to this earth once again
and take care of it.
Yeah, you know, this really could be the Garden of Eden.
I think we have to clean it up first though.
Yeah, and keep making seed and keep sharing seed.
Yeah, thank you.
And do things with love.
Just do the things that you care about with love,
interact with your community with love,
breed with love, put that into it.
You know, like Luther Burbank was saying,
like it's powerful what that can lead to.
And it's like connection of love
that it's the guidance of nature
and our connection with love
that makes this beautiful nature
that we're learning from every day.
Thank you.
