So yeah, we're going to be transitioning now into the IP, intellectual property section
of the discussion.
IP is a very misunderstood issue in cannabis.
It's in flux.
It's very complicated in the United States when it comes to patents and plants, and the
United States system is very unique in this regard.
But one thing is that patents are kind of the elephant in the room, and everybody's
worried about patents.
There's a lot of discussion online about patents.
Biotech Industries LLC has applied for and received several cannabis-related patents,
some utility patents, as well as cultivar patents that fall under the same category
as their utility patents.
So this is something that's not very well understood.
There's a lot of confusion about it, and there's also a lot of facets that we're not necessarily
looking at or discussing online, things like trademarks, Appalachias.
There are lots of different ways of protecting IP, and we're lucky enough to have Sheila
here with us.
She's a patent attorney.
She has experience in this field.
So yeah, I'm going to kick it over to Sheila to give us a little bit of background on the
patent system in the United States, but also to help us start a discussion and start thinking
more broadly and rooted in the facts and what's really going on here.
What's misunderstood in this industry?
I think there's so much, and it's such an open-ended question.
I would start by saying maybe, yes, you can patent a plant.
In the US, like Trevor mentioned, it's different than most other countries in that there is
a system that's divided by whether it's seed-propagated or it's clones, asexually propagated.
And so plant patents that you see are asexually propagated clones, and those are just for
the clone, that one genetics.
So whatever else you see in the description that's all required in order to describe that
clone, it still only covers that clone, and anything asexually propagated.
So it would be identical genetics.
In terms of infringement, you'd be looking at genetic testing and finding out that, yes,
more likely than not, this is the same clone.
There's also utility patents.
Utility patents aren't limited by whether it's asexually propagated or seed-propagated,
and they do require a seed deposit, which currently in the United States, you cannot
deposit seeds within a US seed bank, but you can deposit in Scotland, and you can have
a utility patent.
That would be somewhat broader, and we can talk a lot about the scope of patents and
whether or not going for too broad of scope, which I think we've seen some of with biotech
industries LLC, might actually get you an invalid patent.
So that's utility patents, and I skipped over USDA protection.
USDA protection is the plant breeders' rights, and you see that internationally, that there
are programs set up around the world.
Each of them might differ slightly.
US differs right now because it is only for seed-propagated cultivars, but it is for ... They
are opening it up to asexually reproduced cultivars, but that's under USDA control,
USDA following the 2018 Farm Bill, and as most of you are aware, USDA hasn't set forth
what their regulations and requirements are going to be, but we hope they're coming soon.
The one thing about that is that you do have to make a deposit to get that type of protection.
Currently for seed-propagated, it's 2,500 seeds, and they go through DUS testing to
determine that it is a stable line.
So that's the patent and plant side of things.
And then Trevor also mentioned trademarks, and currently what I'm seeing, and I think
that there was some discussion today, if patents isn't the way that you're thinking about going,
you have trademarks as an option for protecting your brand, and that is that you are the source
of these genetics, and that nobody else can use that brand name because that brand name
designates you as a source.
That's sort of a very high-level overview of what's available.
There's also trade secret, and I guess if you're vertically integrated and you are not
worried about your clones getting out or any of your breeding techniques or things, you're
going to protect them with trade secret, you can do that, provided that everything remains
in your control and everything remains secret.
You do have to have precautions that would protect your secret, and you do have to be
able to establish that you have taken precautions to protect your secret in order to have any
claim for damages in the lawsuit.
That's trade secret, and then copyright is the last branch of IP.
Copyright is more for creative works, but can be used for logos, and the other thing
that I see a lot of in this industry, a lot of pictures of your genetics, whether or not
you're protecting those pictures, whether or not other people are using those pictures,
especially on social media, are they just reposting your pictures without your permission?
There are all of these different layers of IP protection, but the one that I see the
most talked about right now is patents.
The point there is that there's an incredibly complicated system.
It's in flux right now because it's changing literally right now.
The USDA is drafting the regulations with regard to how they're going to deal specifically
with hemp plant variety protections, and those are for seeds.
We have seed protections for plant variety protections.
This was created under the 1970s Plant Variety Protection Act.
Before that, dating all the way back to the 1930s, people could get protections for clone-only
varieties.
Essentially, the fruit tree producers lobbied the Congress to pass the Plant Patent Act
of 1930.
That's why clonally reproduced plants are held under a different sort of system.
This is why the United States is totally different than everybody else.
Everybody else has the PVP, plant variety protections apply to everything.
In the United States, we have two separate systems where plant variety protections apply
to seeds and plant patents apply to clones.
That is going to change.
That is going to change.
That's why so much of this is in flux and is really something that is a gamble.
People like biotech industries are seeing this emerging legalization and are pursuing
an IP strategy that is very similar and akin to what big tech was doing.
It wasn't big tech back in the day, but in the 1980s, Silicon Valley, people were just
gobbling up patents and patenting all sorts of things that may or may not have been unique.
They were setting very minute patents up and collecting all of them as an IP strategy.
Biotech seems to be pursuing a similar strategy right now because it's not even clear that
they could enforce or protect their patents as it stands today.
They may be able to in the future, though, correct?
Correct.
One of the things that's really interesting about the USPTO, we have a government.
I think that's something that's really important to realize is these are all different government
agencies and they're all treating cannabis very differently.
Even within a single agency, you have the United States Patent and Trademark Office
that is responsible for issuing both patents and trademarks, reviewing them, issuing them,
and they treat them completely separately.
Part of that, you'll hear a lot of misinformation about, no, you can't get patents because it's
federally illegal.
Actually, for patents, that's not even one of the inquiries of the Patent Office.
It has not been a hurdle.
In fact, patents have been issuing for cannabis for a long time now.
In fact, I think the government applied for theirs, I think, I want to say, like 1980-ish.
I don't know exactly, but the government does have patents on the life-protecting or life-saving
properties of cannabis, which is a biting irony.
That's not an inquiry of the Patent Office.
The Patent Office, what they want to know is, is it new?
Is it useful?
Have you described it in order to meet the statutory requirements?
Is it novel and non-obvious over what was already known in the art?
There is no inquiry about whether there's any moral or legal reason to not issue a patent
on that technology.
Contrast that with the Trademark Office, which is the same USPTO.
The Trademark Office has a requirement that you are using the mark in commerce.
In commerce has historically been interpreted to mean regulated by Congress.
The state can regulate what goes on within the state, but then once you move outside
of the state, then interstate would be in commerce.
That is the issue with trademark protection for cannabis, is that you can't show lawfully
that you are using your mark in commerce, not for anything that's federally illegal.
You can for ancillary parts of your business that are federally legal or that don't present
the issues of the CSA.
Now, even after the Farm Bill and once the USDA gets their regulations out and we're
able to show that we can use the marks in commerce for hemp, even still for CBD, for
example, the Trademark Office is still going to look at the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act.
Still, that would be something that you wouldn't be able to put that in commerce.
The Trademark Office is very literal in how they're issuing that type of IP protection,
but you have the same government agency, the USPTO, not worrying about that at all as far
as patents are concerned.
Mojave, you might have some experience here, at least observing how this has played out
a little bit.
In Amsterdam, there's been issues and controversy surrounding names and there's been IP strategies
predicated on trademarking names like White Widow.
How has that played out?
Yeah.
Well, I can't really speak to other people's trademarks, but I can ... There's three different
companies who have trademarks on plants that I've bred.
I don't have those trademarks.
People just went and preempted me and went and got trademarks.
One particular company actually acquired some genetics of mine and because they understood
that they couldn't trademark the plant, they just trademarked every possible package that
the plant would be in, from vape pens to bottles to baseball caps and everything.
Yeah.
There's been ... In Amsterdam, there was a lot of internal battle going on between seed
companies over the rights to these different lines.
Most of them didn't trademark them until it was too late.
There was also ... We could get into some nasty stories, but there was people who broke
into people's grows and stole clones and killed moms and then went and trademarked
that variety, essentially, or didn't necessarily trademark the variety that they killed, but
saw that there was this opportunity.
Sheila mentioned something really relevant, is that the trademark has more value in many
ways than the patent.
A patent is, as far as I understand, very difficult to enforce compared to a trademark.
Right.
I would agree with that.
Although a patent can ... You have more rights.
In terms of a trademark, you can prevent them from using your trademark, but a patent is
what would allow you to prevent them.
If you had a utility patent, for example, you could even prevent them from breeding
with your genetics.
If you had a plant patent, you couldn't prevent that, but in the case of having stolen, then
you could certainly ... That they couldn't use it or continue to use it.
Interesting.
What if ... I'm sorry, go ahead.
The point I was just going to make was that we need to be thinking, individuals, if you're
out there, if you're branding, if you've actually built a brand, start thinking about trademarks
now and start thinking about that ahead of time, because your brand could become hijacked
from you like so many have before.
We've experienced this, the Amsterdam experience.
We all have, to a certain extent, the benefit of having seen what's happened with other
crops.
We talked about that earlier, be it crops like apples or in the wine and the booze industry.
We also have Amsterdam, and we can look to there as a historical example for what has
happened and how to protect ourselves.
One thing I'm wondering is that what strategy do we have as breeders?
Because it seems to me the biggest issue is prior art and novelty.
How far do you look into the ecosystem to prove that there is prior art or that a variety
is novel?
I've been told that the USPTO is looking further every day, that they're gaining new tools
to actually look into this cannabis issue, but it seems that it's really just first come,
first serve at this point.
Yes.
There's a difference between...
Well, first you always have to be clear whether you're talking about a plant patent or a utility
patent.
For a plant patent, because that's only protecting a single clone or single genetics, then there
isn't much that you need to establish in terms of novelty.
In fact, the fact that you have produced this new clone, it's different, it's novel, it's
not existed before.
That's just accepted and there isn't that hurdle.
When you're talking about novelty, you're really talking about utility patents.
That is the biggest hurdle right now, is because we're talking about an illegal industry, there
isn't a lot of art to sell what was known in the art before, even though in the culture
everyone knows, or you probably have a lot more understanding of what was known, or you
see these patents.
You'll see companies like biotech industries, and I hate to keep beating up on them, but
they have this really broad patent coverage, and they were able to get it.
They were able to convince an examiner at the USPTO that this is novel and non-obvious,
and they have a patent.
What's more interesting is when we're going to see if they're going to be asserted, because
what happens once a patent is asserted is that defendant gets to, and typically one
of the first two things they're going to argue, one, is that they're not infringing, two,
that the patent is invalid.
If a defendant can invalidate a patent in court, that's just gone for everybody.
That's one thing, and I know we've talked a little bit, but I've seen you talk a little
bit with Dale about the recent case law, I think it's in Colorado.
One of the most interesting things to me is, and what I haven't seen yet and I hope
to see, is I hope to see the community band around that defendant and invalidate that
patent because it doesn't just help that defendant.
Just quickly, this is United, right?
Yes.
It doesn't just help that defendant, but it helps the community as a whole.
I do think we're going to see a lot of very broad, overreaching patents.
What I hope to see is I hope to see the community band around and help invalidate those patents,
bring forth the prior art that we could use to invalidate those types of patents.
Then I hope that eventually we'll see actual patents for true innovation because there
is.
There's so many people who've dedicated their entire lives to innovating in this field,
and so they deserve to be rewarded for that innovation.
Right now, it is a little bit of a land grab.
What they choose to do with that, we'll have to wait and see.
We've already seen that one that's been asserted.
My hope is that it'll be invalidated.
The other thing that happens is there is a lot going on behind the scenes as well.
They chose to pursue it in court.
The other thing is to try and make everyone pay royalties.
It isn't until you ask someone to pay royalties and they say no that you end up, typically
that's how it happens.
You end up in court.
One analogy is I used to do a lot of work in the pet diagnostics industry.
This was very early on that I learned this.
I was doing an invalidity opinion.
I was doing a search to see what sort of patents that my client might be infringing on.
Then I was giving an opinion on whether we had a non-infringement or an invalidity position
as to each of those patents.
There's one of them that was clearly invalid.
There was prior art all over it.
The claims were way too broad.
When I presented it to the client, the client's response was, well, everyone in the industry
just pays that royalty.
There is that.
That can happen if people decide that it's easier just to pay the royalty that they're
asking rather than deal with it in court.
This is the game that's played.
One of the things about IP and patents is that this is a game that is being decided
by people that have deep pockets.
Patent litigation is always a financial calculation.
For individuals, sometimes it's going to be worth it just to pay the licensing fee and
not to pursue litigation because you're up against a highly capitalized firm that is
going to be able to just draw out litigation and beat you.
Other times, there are certain instances where people are going to be pursuing this litigation
very actively and aggressively.
It remains to be seen.
One thing I would like to talk about is different models.
We've talked about biotech.
You've likened it to a land grab.
I've likened it to the Silicon Valley and the tech industry.
There's also Phylos.
Phylos is probably why I'm sitting on the stage right now.
They've pretty clearly adopted the Monsanto model.
They're looking at creating a plant production pipeline wherein they will create tons of
asexually produced plants that they will seek patents on and will then sell through
a licensing arrangement with different farmers.
The most likely easiest way for them to do this, we all know that they're looking at
powder mildew resistance.
If they identify genetics that have powder mildew resistance, they can take that powder
mildew resistant gene, introgress it into all of the existing clone-only varieties that
we have, Josh D's, OG, the chem, the cookies, et cetera.
All of the varieties that have large market share.
They could then create powder mildew resistant blah, blah, blah.
That is what looks to be their strategy.
They've written it out.
They've talked about it.
Mowgli's talked about this at the AEIC, which is a big biotech conglomerate where they all
get together and share their plans.
Is that model one that is here now that literally could be rolled out and implemented today?
Or is this a model that they're looking five years down the road where we could essentially
roll this out if we start now, be ready by the time federal prohibition ends?
Or is this literally today?
Could Philo start pumping out tons of clone-only powder mildew resistant clone-only varieties?
Not even genetically modified.
This is just traditional breeding.
This is marker-assisted back-crossing.
You say, we've demonstrated that this genetic is powder mildew resistant.
It's because of these specific markers that it is powder mildew resistant.
Now we take those markers, introgress them, cross them into these other genetics, and
then just back-cross it.
Do you know who's doing that work for them?
The actual work?
The actual work?
No.
I mean, to the extent...
There are people who we assume might be doing it, but we can't really say because they won't
come clean on it.
We suspect that there are certain individuals in...
I would say that possibly their intention was to crowdsource that information.
And this is why most of the people who submitted samples to Phylos, myself included, if it
came with no chemotypic data, no terpene analysis, no cannabinoid analysis, it really is of little
value to them for this breeding project that they're embarking on.
But boy, I'm sure they wanted it.
So if everyone who submitted a sample said, oh, by the way, mine is powder mildew resistant,
sure, they'd go searching for that marker in that sample.
Or looking for a common marker within all the people who submitted that, hey, mine is
powdery mildew resistant.
But most people didn't.
So it was a lost opportunity for them that forced them to embark on their own breeding
program in order to identify those markers, because the galaxy didn't fulfill that goal.
Yeah.
And that was really stage two.
The Discovery Project, as it's been dubbed by them, was specifically about this.
And I've read the contract that they presented to Heroes of the Farms, and it's very clear
from that contract that they were trying to identify powdery mildew resistant varieties
in his genetics, and they were claiming to be able to bring others to bear.
Now, they took that same deal to at least 16 other producers, breeders who have historically
been breeding and growing.
I don't know who actually agreed to move forward with them.
I know for a fact that Patrick at Heroes of the Farms said no way and never signed anything
with them.
But that's our concern.
Like real talk, a lot of people are concerned about Phyllos's ability, not only just like
to steal, not steal, but crowdsource and crowdfund a whole bunch of information and create an
opportunity across where we just put into their system.
But what is the possibility that they're going to now take the information that they have
and build out a Monsanto-type pipeline where they're producing plants that they're able
to then get patents on?
Is that something they could do today?
Absolutely.
Any time that you're creating a new clone or a new variety, then yes, absolutely you
can get a plant patent.
But remember, it is for that specific clone.
But the issue comes with big ag in that if you're talking about a commodities market
and they can grow it more efficiently and effectively and produce it, your genetics
with this resistance in it, that's where the Monsantos of the world come from.
They did it with genetically modified, but if you're saying do the same thing with marker-assisted
breeding, then yes, if you have something that if you eventually get it to a stable
seed line and you can distribute seeds and have everybody growing this more efficiently
than anyone else, then yes, they can get patent protection on that.
Now as long as you're not growing their genetics, then you don't have a problem from an infringement
standpoint, but you absolutely might have a problem from an efficiency and keeping up
with them standpoint.
This is a big concern.
The ability of the Monsantos or large capitalized ag, they're able to bring economies of scale.
The main concern is that we as producers, licensed cultivators, don't buy into the hype
of efficiencies and economies of scale, but stay true to what we've historically done,
selecting the thing that may not be the largest yielder, but is the best for our particular
needs and desires and what we're trying to produce and create here.
And so we need to recognize that while there are companies that are going to pursue these
IP strategies, we got to develop our own responses and not get caught up in the hype.
And we also need to not-
Don't you think they're going to just really select for size and yield?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Right.
I mean, over-
Yeah.
We'll think about Monsanto since we're talking about Monsanto.
What was the main thing that they sold to the world?
Roundup Ready.
Roundup Ready.
So it was, they said, hey, this is a seed that can take the beating from the pesticides
and all the crap that were the herbicides that we're going to also sell to you.
So it was a little bit of shame on you, farmer, for buying that dream, a little bit.
And it's the same thing with biotech and these patented varieties, is that if it becomes
the overwhelming, the cultivar of choice, where a lot of people bought into Monsanto's
dream who said, wow, I really have a problem with weeds and I would really rather kill
all these weeds and still be able to grow my crops, where the people who didn't mind
weeds and were growing biodynamically or organically, they didn't have an issue with it.
It wasn't until the drift thing when Monsanto said, oh, well, some of that pollen drifted
over into your cornfield and we tested your corn and it shows that it has our genes in
it and therefore you can't grow your corn.
So they get bigger and bigger and their impact becomes stronger and stronger and they control
a bigger market share of whatever crop they're producing.
But it's really resisting that is our strength at this point.
I see it a little bit differently, I think, with the Roundup Ready.
When you're talking about organic farming, I mean, that's a lot more expensive process
to do.
So unless you have a market who's going to pay for that, then you're forced to compete.
So I don't think it's necessarily the farmers.
I'm sure some of them bought into the dream, but I think some of them were forced into
it just from a pure survival standpoint.
Could they produce their corn at the same price and sell it and still have a profit
margin compared to all the farmers who were selling the Roundup Ready corn?
And so, I mean, I think that's an unfortunate reality of big ag.
And one of the things that you mentioned about the pollen blown into the crops, and I know
that's something people are very afraid of, and it's something that I looked into because
I wasn't sure very much myself, but I ended up reading the case law.
And where that came from was that was actually one of the farmers' defense when they were
sued by Monsanto.
They said that they didn't know how they ended up with this growing in their field, and that
maybe it was the wind that had blown it into their field.
Actually what was found out is they had bought the seed from the back of a truck, somebody
else's leftover seed, and it was something...
I've seen numbers between 60 and 90% of their crop was Roundup Ready, and that they also
knew it was Roundup Ready because they had sprayed it and noticed it was Roundup Ready.
So that's a little bit of a myth.
But that is really a good point.
What we're faced with right now is a proprietary economic model, and it is a predatory economic
model.
People try to maximize their control of the market share and leverage their economies
of scale in ways that are designed to try and push us out.
And so we need to be able to bring our own IP strategies to bear.
And part of that's going to be pursuing trademarks for our brands.
Some of that's going to be, in certain instances when it's appropriate, people pursuing plant
variety protection and patent protection.
Another version of IP protection that I'm not sure how well you're versed on it, but
I know that Appalachians of origin are something that the state has mandated for us to create.
So California is going to create Appalachias for cannabis, and they're mandated to do so
by January 1st of 2021.
Appalachians cultivators will be able to submit applications laying out standards,
practices, and varietals that are grown within a particular region that can apply for Appalachian
standards or status.
And you'll be able to essentially apply a sticker to your products and say, this was
produced here under these standards, these practices, and with these varietals.
And Appalachians are a form of intellectual property.
They're a collective form of intellectual property.
And so this is something that everybody needs to look into, read up on it, check it out,
get with licensed cultivators in your own area, and start thinking about these things.
And start thinking about them in a way where, what are the standards, the practices, and
the cultivars that are unique to your place?
What are the outcomes that are unique to your place?
Because I know where I'm at, we have a very unique environment that is very distinct from
up in Mendo or Humboldt or in other areas, because we're more inland, it's much drier,
much hotter, much more arid environment.
There are unique outcomes and results.
So if I grow a cultivar in my county or on my hillside, it's going to be way different
than that same cultivar grown up in Humboldt.
And this is something that could be very unique.
We could have people essentially saying, okay, Calaveras County, we grow OG, and the OG ends
up like this.
Over in Mendo, they grow the same cultivar, but it ends up expressing differently.
We're both protecting the intellectual property and the specific product that we're producing
that's unique to our areas.
And even though we're both calling it OG, it's different.
And it's different because of the environmental inputs that, you know, I mean, we all know
that phenotypes are an interaction between the gene and the environment.
And those environmental factors are going to produce unique, distinct intellectual properties
and product properties that we can hopefully protect.
And this is something, it's going to be rolled out by 2021.
We can start to organize around these ideas now and start to develop this as a more of
a communal or collective form of intellectual property.
So we've got individual corporate strategies.
If you've got a business, start thinking about trademarks, start thinking about patents,
start thinking about the implications that it has for you for better and for worse.
And also start thinking about linking up with fellow cultivators in your area to develop
an Appalachia system.
And I'm not as familiar with that, but it sounds to me like a trademark type protection.
So that would be like a certification mark where only, again, trademarks identify the
source of the goods.
So that would identify the sources coming from this one specific region, a lot like
champagnes, or even tequila is regulated now.
I'm not an eye to Dale.
No, I was the one who introduced Dale to tequila.
Let's set the record straight.
It was interesting with Appalachia because the challenge with an Appalachian is that
it can limit what you can do.
So let's remember that.
For instance, you mentioned champagne.
What is champagne?
Champagne is Pinot Noir or Chardonnay grapes grown in Champagne, period.
That's it.
Same with Bordeaux.
Bordeaux is, I believe, Cabernet, Merlot, Petit Verdot, and one other grape.
So if you want to grow an Italian varietal in Bordeaux, France, you cannot call it Bordeaux.
You can call it Sangiovese, but no one's going to buy it.
So Bordeaux, the Bordeaux winemakers and the Borgogna winemaker association got together
and mandated what can be grown in this Appalachian.
So it can go the wrong way when big corporate interests get in there and say, no, we're
trying to protect this Appalachian and this can only be grown here and it's the variety
that we happen to own.
That's absolutely true.
One good thing about this system is that it is driven by the licensees.
So licensees, it's a form of local control that we have.
It's probably the only decent form of local control that came out of Prop 64.
So if you are a local licensed cultivator, definitely be thinking about this and get
out there in front because all of these IP strategies, all across the board, have risks
and benefits.
There are ways that this could protect people in the industry and there are ways that it
could be used by other capitalized interests that are trying to push all of us out.
And so we definitely, we got to take hold of the tools that are at our disposal and
make sure that we're in there playing the game and not just getting pushed out.
But the Appalachian, it seems like what it would do is prevent, let's say somebody from
New Jersey saying that they are growing, you know, weed from here.
But I don't see the protection in the form of making sure that your genetics, your particular
genetics are protected.
And so it is a form of IP.
It is a trademark, right?
And so in that sense, it absolutely is.
But I don't see it offering the full protection in terms of actually protecting your clones
and actually protecting your life's work and what you're doing.
And in that regard, what I hope to see, and maybe that will be part of it, is I hope to
see communities start to pull together their patents and their IP.
And you've seen this in other industries where, you know, they will pull patents, either that
there's two different forms of it, either that you're all going to allow each other
to use each other's technology without the threat of having these patents asserted against
them.
So everybody brings their patents to the table, puts them in the middle, and everybody has
access to that.
You know, the other form of it, you know, in terms of you can use all of this patented
technology, the other form is everybody puts their patents together in terms of defending
against a lawsuit.
So we agree, you know, the four of us agree, if any of us get sued, you can use my patents,
his patents, you know, and because the best thing to do when you get sued is to have a
counter defense, to be able to counter.
Just quickly, where have you seen these two strategies played out?
So if you look at like Android technology, for example, the way that they've been able
to build that platform is they allow everybody from Google to LG to Samsung to use their,
you know, the different patents, they all pull their patents together so they can all
build on that platform.
And so, you know, there's a difference, though, with software in that software comes with
its own IP.
Software is protected as soon as you write your program.
It's got copyright protection attached to it.
You didn't have to do anything to get the copyright protection.
You should register it, but you don't have to.
It's a little bit tougher in the cannabis scenario where you would actually have to
file and get patent protection or your plant breeder's rights attached to it, but then
you would then agree to share that.
But you know, it's done in others, but that's the most familiar one that I can think of
off the top of my head.
When we're talking about patents and these sorts of IP strategies, what type of costs
are we talking about?
Are we, is it even viable for somebody like myself to consider pursuing a patent?
And break that down both in terms of the application process and also in terms of the defense or
the prosecution.
Right.
So in prosecution, I know to file a patent, I would ballpark that around $2,500 just to
file and that's to have the description in order in every way that you need it.
Obviously the person that you hire who's more experienced is going to be able to write it
more thoroughly and correctly in a way that you shouldn't expect as many office actions
and not make typical mistakes that I'm seeing in some of these patent applications that
are being filed, plant patent in particular.
So that's for a plant patent.
And then in terms of prosecuting it, you know, getting it from your original filing
all the way through, I asked Dale because he does more plant patents than I do.
Actually, I don't do any, I refer them to him.
I do trademarks.
And so he ballparked it, I want to say around $10,000 is what you're looking at over the
course of obtaining the protection, which could take a few years.
Trademarks is a little bit less expensive.
I typically encourage everyone to do a thorough search before they file for their trademark
protection and that's because trademarks, you have common law rights as soon as you
start to use a trademark.
So if I'm using a trademark here in California, someone in Florida decides to file their trademark
application for that same mark, I still have common law rights as far as I've used it and
established that trademark.
They can't shut me down just because they've now filed.
And so particularly in this industry where I see everybody using the same marks, which
by the way, don't.
Let's just start using more original marks.
And so in that way, you know, I do encourage doing a full search so that you're aware of
what are the common law rights that somebody else might have.
Even though you get federal protection, where are you going to be limited from using your
mark or where are you not going to be able to shut down this mom and pop shop who's been
using it since, you know, 1980?
So if you were to get the full search and the trademark application, you're looking
again at about $2,000 to file a trademark application for a single class of goods and
that includes the USPTO fees.
And then if you've done your search and you don't get these more substantive rejections
in terms of finding marks that are confusingly similar, then there's only a couple other
time points where you need to spend, you know, another $300, $500.
So I would say probably just ballparking $3,000, $4,000 to get a trademark if it goes through
cleanly.
Utility patents are much more expensive.
It's a much more thorough disclosure.
You don't have opportunities to amend the way that you do with a plant patent.
So everything has to be done right from the outset.
So utility patents, you can get depending on what your disclosure is, what your technology
is, how broadly you want to claim it.
If you wanted to just claim your deposit, that's obviously going to be less work than
trying to claim some broad formulation.
And so that can range in terms of filing.
I would say, again, probably starting at the $3,000, and I've seen patents just for drafting
a patent application go up to the $10,000, $15,000 to draft a patent application.
Copyrights much less expensive.
You can do it yourself if you care to go through all the tedious screens on the copyright registration
portal or what have you.
And I think it's $55 to register your copyright.
So some of your more prized pictures, your videos, I've seen people getting very creative
with how they're advertising their genetics, like register your more important stuff for
copyright protection.
And then I think I saw Dale quote the plant variety protection.
I think he said something about it's $5,100 just in filing fees alone.
So it's not inexpensive.
So just quickly, because we have a band that has to set up, for the two people on the stage
who have unique genetics, what's your strategy for protecting your intellectual property?
And go.
Well, my strategy was to not share.
I started breeding sage in 1994 in Amsterdam.
And I was just a young guy living overseas.
And plenty of people offered me money for cuts over and over again.
Seed banks, traveling American cultivators.
And I turned them down over and over again, over and over and over again.
And the few people that I did give plants, they were very explicitly told not to share them.
That this was a backup, that I need you to hold on.
And one of my varieties got out because someone stole it.
As simple as that.
Someone stole it out of a grow room and sold it to another group.
And that group sold it to another group.
So it's trade secrets.
It's protecting your trade secrets by not letting them go.
And since that happened a number of years ago, I have held plants even closer to the
chest than before.
And that there's some varieties that I think people should be enjoying that I haven't let
out yet because I didn't have a robust tool to protect them.
Because it's not just the physical security that they require in a facility, but it's
the ability to go out into the ecosystem and make sure that other people aren't utilizing
your plants.
So yeah, that's what I'm doing.
And waiting to do great things in the future.
I guess that's as much as I could say.
Yeah, man, for me, it's different.
I didn't create OG, but really more importantly, I think everybody should grow OG like as a
variety in their garden, right?
So that would make me, you know, more happy than anything right now is if it just ended
up all over the country, all over the world, and everybody, you know, had a piece of their
farm growing it, right?
Everybody should get a cut for that.
That's ridiculous.
But in the future, I mean, then the other side of it is like, holy shit, I better think
about this because I'm going to be paying a lot of money in licensing fees, right?
And that's just the irony right now.
But you know, so of course, we're looking into it.
You know, it's a strange thing.
But I mean, I just don't, for me, it's hard to come to terms with this, but we're going
to do some breeding projects in the future.
I mean, for me, it's all about the future, you know?
You know, and then we'll talk about patenting something that is actually something we created,
you know?
Going out to like, what are you going to go to a clone shop, somebody with some cash,
you're going to buy like sour D, all these things, you're just going to patent everything?
Spend like a billion dollars, like I'm just going to patent the whole library of everything
out there.
Yeah, that's...
And that is the reality also, since I mean, we talked about Phyllis earlier, and like
Phyllis is kind of, you know, they're the bad guy right now, because they came from
our community.
But the reality is, is all these plants are in, there are in the ecosystem, they're all
available at a shop or in seed form, anyone can go online and buy all the most amazing
seed.
And they can go to shops all over California and get all the most amazing buds and you
can buy clones.
So yeah, we're, we, it is about the future.
Because up until this moment, we were working under a different umbrella.
And now we're working in a totally different world.
And we're structuring things differently, breeding trademarks, patents, everything,
but the past is the past, you know, and Phyllis kind of speak spoke to that in a way.
And you know, they were the bad guy because they were from us, but everyone's doing the
same thing.
You know, there's, there's biotech companies all around the world and pharmaceutical companies
all around the world and people who go into the rainforest to exploit, you know, whatever
they can get their hands on, you know, so that's, that's the world we live in.
And with that, I'm told that the band that's gonna rock the house from 9pm on needs to
get on stage.
So thank you all.
Thank you, Trev.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Just a tiny background in how I came to cannabis.
I've been doing IP law for 17 years now, and I was in the biotech industry, not biotech
industries, LLC, the actual biotech industry, and for 14 years prosecuting patents for cancer
immunology therapies.
And by that came to cannabis via Canna Kids, Tracy Ryan and Sophie Ryan.
I began following them as part of my passion of finding a cure for cancer and became so
intrigued and inspired by what they were doing that found myself all the way into the cannabis
industry.
And in January of this year, decided to start my own firm because one of the hurdles I was
facing as a big law attorney was the limitations that my firm was placing on me about whether
or not they wanted to have cannabis clients.
And so that's a little bit about my background, but in terms of what I do, so I had a shared
practice.
Many of you might know Dale Hunt.
Dale and I had a practice together and so we've done biotech, plant patents, ag patents,
green tech, and then I also do trademarks and copyrights.
We've also done trade secrets.
So that's a little bit by way of background.
