And the problem with them is that they do phenomenal selection based off of vigor and
resistance and quality of experience.
But if your numerics are under 17%, that shit doesn't move at a stall.
And that's the problem.
So what I do is I look for very disproportionate ratios.
So I look for 300, 400 to 1 THC to CBD ratios with 5 to 7% in early veg.
And then I take those males and I find them in clusters.
Then I take that cluster, then I subsequently flower it to see floral formation, turp profile,
resin development, overall vigor.
And then I throw it into situations where I can test the resistance.
Once I have that, now I have a breeder male that I can use and then I throw it on anything.
I can get the numbers to skyrocket.
And so then I provide those males to other breeders in other parts of the country in
Europe.
And so this way what it does is it lets me do this hunt.
I can send it to them.
They can use their facilities, which has much larger potential for multi-thousand plant
sifts.
And then I can then get the cultivar back that's been sifted from these massive operations.
So then I get these outlier cultivars that were bred using the outlier males I find.
And so it's easier for me to chase it in juvenile.
And then I use sex testing.
Same thing, I use phyllis to sex test.
Because what it does is it used to take me twice the vegetative space to do all this
shit.
And so now as soon as I have my first coital lead and I get my first true leaf, I can then
take a sample, stick it in a tube.
I do the, there's little 88 tube sets.
Used to be punch cards.
Now it's an 88 tube sets.
I send it to phyllis.
Three days later I get the results back and it's accurate.
And so we've never had an issue.
There's been probably 150, 200,000 seeds done like that and we've never had a problem.
That doesn't indicate intersex situation though.
Intersex is still going to be based off of how much of the female chromosome remains
versus the male.
And as soon as we can get that haploid, as soon as we can get into a double haploid where
we're going only into the female, we can then remove that intersex capability.
So stress the shit out of it, it's only going to be a girl.
Because you have them though in your life as a cultivator, you have plants that you
consider bulletproof.
But the problem is a lot of them aren't these polyhybrids you're playing with right now
where we're mixing, we're taking Skittle and Purple Punch and Forbidden Fruit and Wedding
Cake and we're swirling that shit up and we pull out some Sexy Cut.
The problem is you have so much genetic material moving that you have no idea what's really
inside it.
You just know that the quality of the end product is desirable.
But it also has pathogenic prone tendencies and anything to do with cookie lines, this
is what we find from breeding them, cookie lines and Skittle lines has an incredible
intersex situation.
So I have two different Skittle hybrids that it cost $40,000 in work and two years in testing
but they both won the Oregon Concentrate Cup two years in a row with zero issues.
So they're absolute winners in terms of competition quality plants but with a high degree of resistance.
It was the Oz Kush out of 3rd Gen.
And so I had the Skittle, I know where the Skittle came from so I didn't get the Skittle
from 3rd Gen.
I got the Skittle from the guys that 3rd Gen. got it from.
Out of Visalia.
It comes out of Visalia originally.
It was out of the bay and then it got moved to Visalia.
Visalia is where the cut came from.
They grabbed it from them, we grabbed it from them and then I held it and then I released
it later.
And so I have a Sherbet Cut from Sherbinsky that uses the Skittle as one of the parents.
And so my Sherbet Cut is like they call it the Green Hulk because it has that rich Skittle
like flavor if you blow it into a concentrate it's phenomenal but it's a stunning flower
And so the Oz Kush though because you have an addictive response to all basically limening
terpenes and so tobacco companies did research on what's the most addictive terpenes.
They find that it's lemon, limes, oranges, pink grapefruits.
That's the most addictive response to terpenes.
That's why you see people dabbing heavy on the fruits.
They come back, they come back.
Why all of a sudden is there this incredible resurgence in floral terpes?
Why?
Because the OG terps are popular because primarily it's a myrcene is a heavy anesthetic.
So if you take myrcene and concentrate it, it's an anesthetic at a medical level and
it works as an opiate transfer.
So people that use opiates can use OG and get efficacy and treatment they don't get
from anything else because not much else has enough myrcene levels in it.
But all of a sudden everybody gets into fruits.
But why?
It's because fundamentally that's your most addictive response.
When you start to take fuels which have the anesthetic and then you mix them with florals
and fruits to get that high monoterpene signature in limonene, lemonene, mandarines and you
put it on them, they come back.
So when you see, what does my buddy call it, tree basers.
They're tree basers because they can't stop basing that shit.
It's just like, it's for real, tree basing.
But it drives a response.
My partner and I work with two other guys that are friends of mine on a private level
where they're both, I consider them fantastic sifters.
So one of them lives up in Oregon, the other one lives over in Willits about 80 miles from
me.
And so the guy from Willits has been in cannabis probably maybe 55 years and a brilliant legend
in cannabis where, no, no, this guy's name's Ben.
But Ben's at a level far different than all these guys.
Ben was a monster legend baller from the day who can't get out of cannabis because he's
addicted to it so much.
And so all Ben does is hunt genetics and because he's tied into the world so heavily, it lets
him access everything.
And because he has such a calibrated market potential, he's un-fucking-believably accurate
with quality of product.
So old Ben, me and this cat out of Oregon hunt.
And so if I can hunt and I get one new thing a year and Ben hunts one new thing a year
and my boy in Oregon hunts one new thing a year, we have three new things in a year.
Because basically people are like, I got something incredible, but if it's not better than the
parental, it's not better.
And so the Oz Kush is a good example of where we had to go all the way into the F3 on it
to find non-intersex capability under stress.
And then what I'll do is I'll send those cuttings in to check the level of female chromosome
present because we know that under no circumstances does it trigger.
Where we had to go through a full, you know, almost 18 months of work and about 40 grand
and blasting through this to find where do we find the outlier potential.
And so with Marker Assisted, it just allows you to move a lot faster.
And the bottom line is that there's going to have to be product differentiation.
And what I see with cannabis right now is primarily technology that's borrowed from
other industries that comes into our industry.
So when someone said I'm state of the art, that means you're using technology from other
industries and it's state of the art in cannabis.
But that doesn't mean it's state of the art because it's being used somewhere else.
And it's an application.
Yeah, you're a guinea pig.
But with genomics, genomics is where the state of the art is going to be because you're going
to be able to go into stuff that's never been manipulated, never been sifted, never been
driven.
And in that, to me, that's where we really go, because once we have a genetic based genetics,
you can't get around it.
And so I know with the human genome that when you have superior genetics, you can't, you
can't, you can't do it.
If you're genetically programmed to be an Elon Musk intellectually, you can read every
book on earth until you die.
You're still not going to have his capacity.
And so I know that that's really where we're going to go with cannabis is that I saw this
and I've been hunting varietals for age and decades chasing varietals.
But I realized that what I'm doing is I'm chasing and I'm hunting and we're sifting
and we're using, but we could compress that period and get a more accurate situation and
then start to really develop unique product lines for the respective farms and then develop
unique lines based off a location.
So indoors ISO, we can certify it anywhere we want.
I can do computer chips in Taiwan.
I can do computer chips in Silicon Valley.
We can control the variables in the facility, but that's not the truth with glass house.
And that's not the truth with outdoor because you're going to have environmental inputs
that are going to change it.
But no matter what you do, you're going to have fluctuations.
And so if you're high desert or if you're a valley, you're going to have radically different
situations that occur with your production methodologies.
And the only way to get around this to me is through genomics because what it'll do
is it'll allow you to be able to reduce infrastructure costs where it's not so imperative to have
so much cooling.
I'm not slaring off my terpene profiles.
If I'm having variabilities in my BPD, it's okay because the vigor of the plant's still
going to work.
If I'm having pathogenic problems, I should be able to have higher resistance if I can
breed plants that have a tougher epidural layer because that's what we see now.
We see certain plants, just like when you're running silicone at high levels, we can get
the epidural layer to toughen up so the proboscis can't make it through.
Well, why can't we do that on a genetic level?
And then I got contacted from doctors in Florida that had said, hey, do you want to work on
a project with developing medical varieties in Florida?
And a lot of it was specific chemotype profiles so they could use it for sublingual and topical
patch.
And they wanted to do it in conventional methodology because all this genomic stuff is brand new.
And so not everybody's aware of it.
They're aware of it for the human element, but not for cannabis.
And the thing was, we were tying into a Salinas operation to go test through hundreds of thousands
of plants, but I'm like, you're going to miss them.
It's impossible to pick the outlier when you have that many plants.
And so what you need to be able to do is use the genetic testing procedures to start to
locate what you're seeking.
So then you can then take that population and work with that population.
If I can find the person that's TB resistant and breed them, I'll get higher TB resistance.
If I can find someone that has higher genetic levels, you see it in families where you see
all the athletes.
There's a relative somewhere who transferred some phenomenal genetic material.
Isolate that person and reproduce that cat.
And that's what we want to do with cannabis and we're about to.
It's happening right now.
And so we started to work with some crews out of Santa Cruz so we can start to work
with some of the lines out of the Cookie Crew because we have access through Parker.
Parker is partners on the Lemonade line with Berner.
And then it allows us to start to take some of these highly branded varietals that have
exceptional velocity in the market, sift through them to find the true production varietal,
and then you can license them into facilities that can then sell this.
And so I have a large manufacturing facility we're building right now that's going to be
designed for terp stripping.
And so what you find is a lot of the terpene profiles you see now, I've been feeding these
companies terp sheets for years.
So it allows them to take my data and put together formulations to create plant derived
terpene packages because it allows you to have crude manufacturers help out.
And what it does, it lets me play with other companies so I can understand what you do.
So I share my stuff, I get data back from you.
It lets me keep myself moving continuously or otherwise I would only be me.
But if I can mess with enough scientists, enough other companies, and we keep our proprietary
We're not quite sure proprietary, but we work on joint projects.
It lets us do better.
I don't give a shit what terpene profile you put together.
It is not the same as a cannabis derived.
You can't get the complexity straight and you can't get the ratio straight.
And so ultimately the experience is diminished.
So what we realized was that if we put in commercial level terp stripping operations,
I can then have farmers who have locations that are optimal for higher quality do my
crude production.
And then I can have farms that have better situations to do my terp production.
And then I take your cannabis, I pull the terps, the rest of the flower gets blown as
crude.
So this way you make crude money, you make terp money.
The terps now can get infused with the crude from others because you're having a radical
amount of product that can be created from terpene infusion.
And so it starts to let me find how do we stabilize markets.
And for me, a lot of it is that I've been in Humboldt for almost 30 years and I don't
have any intention to leave.
But what I see is a tremendous number of people that were phenomenal career cultivators, but
they're not technologically aware because they didn't have to be.
It isn't that they're not smart enough.
They're fucking brilliant.
It's just that they've been very focused on what they do.
So they're biologically intelligent, they're cultivar intelligent, and they understand
how to produce using their specific location.
And that makes them vulnerable.
And so for me, what I've been doing for a long time is I gather these hot varietals,
I get access to them through a number of companies.
These companies allow me to take the varietal and push it.
So I got a hold of the cookie like nine years ago and I was the first one to put it into
broad scale production.
And what it did was, and it was allowed, because ultimately you can't build a true brand or
true market if you don't have a million people using it.
If only 10 of us have it and only a thousand people consume it, that's not a real product.
It's very niche.
And so for years I've been receiving products from breeders that said, hey, listen, take
this product from us and move it.
Because my nursery focused primarily on black market operations where it was legitimate.
So you had to come in with a driver's license and a 215, but I influenced up to maybe the
BOE figured that I was doing anyway between 150 to 175 million a year in influencing
the system based off of what was occurring.
So over the last five years, I might influence the billion dollars of cannabis production
through the United States.
Breeders recognize that because everything you touch blows up in other regions because
I do my research over the whole United States to find out what's in demand.
And then I take a look and then when you would come in to speak to me, I would say, listen,
and I'm not going to rat you out.
So people would give me the answer.
I'd say, what's your market?
And you'd be like, look, I'm moving it to the East Coast.
So we would find cultivars that move in that hot direction.
And then I would have sifted out cultivars that work on the production level for you.
And so what it does, it allows you as the cultivator to have a better level of success
because you can move your product.
And it lets me have plenty of people to play with to play the R&D game.
And it lets me test my hypothesis.
Am I accurate with my market analysis?
And you need it.
You need to be able to figure out, are you on point?
You can believe you're on point, but when you're moving that much material, you know
you're on point.
And so it allows you to reconfirm your hypothesis because you have to prove it twice in order
to make it real.
And so it lets me function in that level.
And what I want to be able to see is the development of varietals that work in the microclimates
of Humboldt County, in these low lying areas that have higher humidity levels, that have
a longer season, up to where I am up in the mountains where I have ungodly production
capacity and quality, but with a shorter season because the temperature range is a little
more aggressive.
And then we started to mess around with some of all the new indoor facilities that were
popping up.
And it's the same thing.
I feed indoor people now, but we want to say, hey, let's get varieties that work under your
lighting systems.
Let's get them that work under these environmental conditions.
What works optimally in rockwool?
What works optimally in cocoa?
And we start to mark those varietals that are outliers within it.
And we start to take a look at it and say, hey, these are the markers we see on those
plants.
And now you can start to go through your breeding projects, pull out the outliers, do the work,
fill out the gradient.
And now you really have a product distribution that actually makes sense.
When you're talking about the, you know, and I don't want to knock any of these companies
because I don't want to shank people on taper.
I'd rather not shank you.
But it doesn't make any goddamn sense.
It's arbitrary.
And so you're having an opportunity to develop an industry.
So we've been in this forever.
So cannabis is going on in the US since, fuck, the 60s.
But right now it's actually changing into this very accepted model.
So you're going to have this incredible increase in people coming in and you're going to start
having global trading coming in.
So I'm getting hit up from every country on earth to go play.
So I know this stuff is at a level that's nothing like we've ever seen.
How do we start to develop product lines that actually make sense, that you can own yourself,
license and sell to other facilities around the world as licensed product?
That's what our concern is.
You want to hold your product?
