Hey if I came on the show as a breeder and I wasn't smoking my own herb, what would I be doing?
I know.
Hey man, be proud to smoke your own.
Yeah I'm smoking some nose cherry today.
Welcome everyone, we got some Clinton Farron and some coffee and it's like the birds chirping.
People are hitting the dab rigs and coughing.
There's one, there's two.
You guys want to start us off with a rip?
Absolutely.
This is to you Mr. Tone.
And what are you guys smoking?
Um, ghost train haze.
Oh I love that stuff.
I grew that years back.
Scott did a killer job with that ghost train haze.
For our viewers at home, he's talking about Scott Reach.
Yeah who read that ghost train haze, Scott's a friend of mine.
Who's the guy that read that one?
Lair Dankness.
Lair Dankness.
Lair Dankness, Mr. Tone.
Mr. Moonshine.
Scott Reach.
Well again, happy morning to everybody.
It's another bright and shiny Thursday.
Unfortunately here, we feel like this weekend might snow like four feet.
So we're going to enjoy this day.
We're excited to have, in my opinion man, another legend, a breeder on here that's in the community's eyes.
Has always been doing it the right way.
There's a lot of stuff that I'd love to talk to you about today, Tony.
Kind of getting into just how many different aliases you have.
Just the vibe and the energy that you seem to have in interviews and on your social media and that kind of stuff.
I feel like our team over here has always been attracted to that.
It's just people that are putting out quality information.
People are taking the time to think through some of the posts that they're making.
And I feel like you exemplify that, sir.
So we're excited to have you on the show this morning.
Shout out to our co-host, Leighton Morrison.
He is a road warrior today.
He's going to be on the show, but driving safely as well.
As usual.
As usual, absolutely.
And again, always a shout out to Peter.
Putting out a platform, putting out more information than anybody really combined.
Just a workhorse in general.
And we're excited to be able to talk about this each and every Thursday.
Did we lose Mr. Togler?
We did.
Oh, all right.
I think the real beauty of bringing some of these people on is I want the viewers,
excuse me, for you guys to understand that it takes a long time for the, I feel like the right breeders,
the breeders that are actually doing the work.
Until social media, it took a long time for them to really establish themselves outside of the grower community.
And Mr. Toad exemplifies the fact that he is growing for his family.
I've heard you talk about, sir, how your genetics and your lines are named after your loved ones.
As you came on here, sir, I was just kind of talking about some of your background.
Yeah, man.
A lot of the plants in my early days, I named it to honor people that have passed away or that I loved or in some way respected through life.
The first line I ever put a name to would be Semper Fi.
It was a purple haze crossed to a green haze that I did in 1994 for my uncle when he passed away.
My uncle was a veteran.
He was a Marine.
He had traumatic brain injury and suffered seizures his whole life.
And as long as I could put cannabis in his hands, he would not have seizures.
He was a cat that drank his whole life.
And the only time he wouldn't drink is if he had cannabis.
And I mean copious amounts.
Like that cat could smoke a quarter pound a day if he had enough hours in the day.
He would chain smoke cannabis.
He was a cat that just, he did everything to excess.
So we would give him cannabis.
He wouldn't have seizures.
And after a few years, I started realizing he wasn't having seizures from the herb.
And when he passed away from cancer from drinking, him and my cousin Danny, I dedicated two lines to both of those guys.
So the first two lines I ever made, they were named Cry Baby for my cousin Danny Wah.
He raised me and he babysat me most of my early days.
So the line was called Wah Wah Cry Baby.
And then the other one was Semper Fi for my uncle, my uncle Butch.
And the other one was Larry.
And then later in life, I make another line that's called Bum Bud.
My uncle ended up living on the street for 26 years after Vietnam and after having such bad brain injuries that he couldn't really handle the closed in world.
He couldn't handle being on a schedule.
He didn't want to go to work.
He didn't want you telling him shit.
So he ended up basically doing what he wanted, how he wanted, and just lived his life on the street.
He spent many years in and out of jail.
He drank so much that he'd been pronounced dead legally three times and woke up in the morgue in a body bag knocking on the door, almost killed the mortician.
This cat took drinking to an excess.
So when later in life, when I finally got him to realize that cannabis was helping him, I started working on breeding more towards him.
He finally passes away.
I make that line.
And then later, I make another one called Bum Bud that's named after how hard a bum's life is because my uncle lived on the street for so long.
And it's a cross of Larry O.G. to my angel.
And it's just dedicated after him.
And again, two lines after him.
The line that's the male in there, angels, named after my father who passed away.
He was a veteran.
My dad passed away after being disabled through life from being exposed to Agent Orange.
My whole life has been about breeding for somebody that I cared about.
My grandfather died from cancer.
He had throat cancer.
They tried to remove his jaw and his tongue.
And we just took him home and let him live the end of his life using cannabis and doing whatever the hell he fucking wanted to do instead of being a guinea pig for science because that's all they wanted to do with him.
My grandmother, she passed away from stomach cancer.
My mother's had cancer twice and passed and actually survived cancer twice and beat it.
She's had two strokes of use for cannabis for my whole life has been dedicated to using cannabis to help other people who had some form of pain through life, some ailment, some disease.
And then in 2017, life struck me with the same kind of thing.
And I end up losing my leg.
I have a whole bunch of surgery on the lower half of my body and the upper part.
And I end up becoming one of my own patients.
So now I'm breathing towards my own specific needs to help me with those pains, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, terminal epidural necrosis syndrome, a lot of different reasons.
So that's what I gear.
Everything I do is towards medicinal purposes for folks.
And then I'll name them after people.
I've got Savage Kush and Nana Cookies named after my mom.
I've got Angel and OK Fine named after my father.
There's Chucky Brown, which is named after my grandmother that always called me Charlie Brown when she was pissed off at me.
I've got Metapulsa that's named after my grandfather.
There's Semper Fi and Bumbud that are named after my uncles.
There's Mudbone and Grease Lightning and Jojo Dancer.
These are all named for Richard Pryor, a man that I highly respected through life.
The reason I named Mudbone as such was because the man passed away from MS.
That line was bred towards patients at my club who actually had MS.
I had about 40 patients.
And we ended up running that line through them to find out if it would help them.
And that line seemed to help a majority of all of them that we ended up working with.
That was my Angel crossed to a pre-98 Bubba Kush.
And then I ended up using that to back cross into my Angel to make Skeet Skeet named after my father's best friend who was a Vietnam POW pilot.
He saved 17 different cats.
He picked up their body. He did not save 17.
He got 17 guys. A few of them lived, but the majority of them were dead when he saved them.
But that dude was a hero. Legend.
His name was Skeet. He was a preacher.
They called him Skeet Skeet because of the sound of the helicopter as it came in to save dudes.
That's the sounds you would hear.
That's how he got his name.
So through my breeding, everything's always been about passing honor from the plant to a person.
So that no matter what, for the rest of eternity, when somebody smokes on my lines, their name will be repeated and they'll live forever.
Yeah. I feel like that's why the community really respects everything you've done, man.
You have so many different aliases.
I feel like the community just loves the social media aspect of what you do, man.
And the whole feel the feel, can you feel the feel me?
People would love to know more about how you've kind of developed from.
You have the Boneyard Seeds, Mr. Toad.
Can you kind of explain all that for more and more people that are starting to understand about your work and your background?
Well, let's see. I got plenty of aliases.
I'm Brother Bone, Mr. Toad, aka Phileo Phil, Chiboy Johnny Paper.
That's what I usually post up all the time.
I've been Toad since the day I popped out of my mama and my dad seen me.
He gave me the nickname. Nobody knows why.
It's just that's how it is.
Bone. I've been Bone since everyone wanted to start making fun of me in school.
And it just ended up sticking on me. They used to call me Tony Bologna.
And from that, I just became Bone the Enforcer because I was bigger than every kid up until a certain point.
Like I was this big in fourth grade.
So everyone was kind of scared of my ass eventually.
And I ended up getting the name Bone.
I don't know how. It just ended up becoming that way.
I like to get Boneyard because I'm Bone and the seeds I produce come from my yard.
NorCal is where I'm at.
And I'm making seeds. That's what's on the card for everybody to see.
It's Boneyard Seeds NorCal. Let me grab one here.
I also have the DDA. So the Designated Dank Area.
There's my Boneyard.
The DDA stands for the Designated Dank Area.
When we were in high school, we used to take a pen or a paint can and spray a spot and tag those letters.
So people that we knew would understand, they could go to that spot and smoke without a cop catching them or an adult seeing them.
They'd be able to get away scot-free with smoking some herb.
And that, we've been posting up since I was probably 16 years old, since I had a driver's license.
We've been posting DDA up.
And that ends up becoming my soil mix and basically my tagline for everything that I do with cannabis.
This is the Designated Dank Area.
I've got my Designated Dank Accessories.
There's plenty of reasons why that comes in.
It's a throwback to all my best friends.
Peter's got one there. I've got one right here also to show everyone what they do here if we want to in a minute.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's a throwback to all my homies.
So everything I do is a respect.
So the DDA soil mix throws back respect to me and my brother.
Our two friends, Nacho and Casey, Tree Trunk and Rat Boy.
We were the original ones.
And Street Sider.
We were the original dudes that used to tag these lines wherever we went so other homies could smoke without getting their ass busted when we were kids.
We shouldn't have been doing this shit as kids, but when you're kids, that's what you do, man.
And it's either that or we start stealing and robbing and shit.
And all we wanted to do was smoke weed and go golfing, play some beats and chill the fuck out.
That's about all we ever did.
So we weren't doing nothing wrong.
And that's how I end up getting to the DDA.
We get Filio Phil.
That one's hard, man.
That's basically...
It's the spirit of the plant speaking to me.
And I don't know what it is.
So to me, it's alien.
And that's where you get the...
This...
Let me take it off.
It's on my hat.
That's where you get Filio Phil.
He is me and I am he.
This is the cat that brings all the ideas of cannabis to me, man.
He's got the sacred plant within his grasp.
And I don't know where he's from, where he came from, but all I know he does is puts the ideas in my head.
That's who Filio Phil is.
He's my alter ego.
Yeah, you can tell you're an old school cat, man, with just all the different aliases and they all mean something.
And then Johnny Paper goes back to me being the only cat in my crew that could roll a joint better than anybody.
Them cats were all smoking out of pipes.
And since I started smoking weed when I was four, I've been rolling and puffing on the joints since Cheech and Chong had bamboo in the fucking records, man.
I heard a word on the street was you started growing at eight.
I started to clone at eight years old right outside this window, right next to me here.
My uncles from the people that my mom's my two moms bought a hotel up in Humboldt County when we moved up here from early 80s.
We come from Southern California.
A lady gave my mom a piece of herb and told her it's Humboldt green, but it literally was barely enough to roll a joint.
And my mom smoked that joint and it changed her life.
Literally within the year, she moves us up to where we're at now.
We end up knowing some people up in Humboldt County and we start going up there on the summers to this spot where there's this hotel fish lodge.
It's over 100 years old.
And eventually my family ends up buying this place.
So I become the head chef there when I'm 14 years old because the chef doesn't show up.
And through that interaction, I become the cat that the locals know is trustworthy, right?
I'm giving them food that don't kill them.
When they come to my place and talk about the shit they're doing, nothing ever leaves my place, right?
They can bring me herb or I can get it from them and no one knows where it came from or how I got it.
So eventually they start trusting me.
They trust my family because my mom's about as solid as anyone could ever be.
Now, both of my moms.
So we become like pillars in the community where people trust us.
So some of the old timers up there start giving us some seed stock and clones and plants.
We start trading and bartering food for herb every month.
I've got endless supply of cannabis.
So the people I meet up there, when I'm around five, my other mother, her name's Shirley Kitchen, they call her Big Cat.
She knows some people up in the area.
And those people become friends with our family.
And when they come down here, they're the ones that end up passing the seed stocks that my mom ends up growing.
And the backyard back care, when I'm young, I mean, we start growing cannabis in 1981 here.
And I learned to take tissue or air layer technique on cannabis plants so that you can root them on the plant.
That way they continue to grow while they're outside underneath the vegetative light schedule that's naturally out there.
And then you take those and cut them off and pack them in a backpack and then take them up to the patches and they fill the patch in.
And that's how I learned how to grow.
It was 1981. I'm eight years old.
And that's when I began my career with cannabis, not knowing that every kid out there wasn't learning how to farm with tomatoes and cannabis and squash, like everything.
We had a hundred chicken. We had peacocks.
I had guinea fowl. I had cows.
I had pigs.
I thought my best friend's dad had three thousand acres where he had out here cattle acre.
I thought everybody grew up on a farm.
I didn't know that it was different.
And then I thought everybody grew up in the middle of the damn Emerald Triangle, even though not realizing there's only about 112 people on the whole fucking hillside.
So it can't be everybody.
What I was learning in that specific area was regional information.
The cuts I was passed, I was given seed stock that go back to the 60s that I still have.
60s, 70s, 80s and 90s from a cat that a brewer, we just use that as a name because we don't want to give out his real name.
He passed away years ago.
But this old timer, he ran the area where if you wanted to grow herb in that area, you would have to go basically lease it from him.
He'd guarantee your herb would go through.
You got a piece of your crop.
And basically at the end of the season, they would do some crazy shit back in those days.
Like they would have actual patches that they would call in to have rated on it so that everyone in the area that was a volunteer fire department or anything would be put on a job to go up there.
They would put fires on patches that they were sacrificing.
All kinds of shit so people could harvest their true patches out there.
Bring in all the herb that they needed.
I mean this town would not survive without cannabis, period.
For decades, 50 years at least.
60 years that I know of that without cannabis, no one in that place would survive at all.
It's really a family affair when you're starting out at eight years old.
My boys are five and six and I couldn't imagine even in two years giving them all that responsibility.
But again, it's a different world now where you're growing up like you were just describing.
I feel like it is a world upon worlds.
I feel like most of our viewers including myself wish we would have grown up on a farm.
That sounds like a wonderful experience.
Let me see. I can show you a picture of the first time I ever smoked herb.
My mom caught me when I stole a joint and a Miller.
She found me slumped down on the back of the porch when we were headed to a local street fair and shit.
It's called the Stagecoach Day Parades.
I got so high and drunk, man.
She ends up snapping a picture of me.
I have a picture of there. It's when I'm four years old, man.
I stole some basically pressed brick mechs.
My cousin, Lupisha, her name was Lupia.
I made a stream for her too. It's called Mighty Mouse.
I stole some weed from her and my mom and I went around the corner and I smoked that joint.
The Millers back then were like eight ounce cans, little tiny mini cans.
I pounded one of those.
My mom comes around and finds me. This is 1977.
This is the picture of me. I'm dressed like a cowboy because we were supposed to be going to the Cowboy Day Fair.
I got so high, I slipped off the back of the truck and fell on my face.
Until I was like 12, I had a red mark on my cheek that was in every school picture I had to remind my ass not to smoke and drink at the same time.
I didn't start drinking until I was like 16 again.
I was just a weed smoker up until that point.
I smoked every day for the rest of my life except for five days when I went to Texas once.
Then when I almost died in 2017, I was in the hospital.
It's the only time in my life I've never used cannabis.
Wow. I thought you had a fascinating background before we asked you to come on the show.
I feel like the more everybody gets to learn about you, sir, you just have quite a background.
I think everyone that plays with cannabis as deep as some of us do has to have a background that goes and has some crazy ass shit in it.
I'm just telling you guys little tops of the deep, deep roots of my history.
There's some of the craziest shit in the world in there, man.
I've heard some of the craziest stuff from cats in this field.
It's crazy what we've all seen, heard, what we've had to hide from.
There were helicopters flying 50 feet over my house for a decade because we got busted twice growing herb here.
Both times we got busted, the court papers say that we were growing cannabis for cancer patients medicinally.
We got 12 plants both times.
For decades, camps over here just...
You hear that sound, dude, your heart drops.
You're not even doing nothing outside.
You're outside swimming in the pool or something.
You're actually growing some tomatoes, but you hear a chopper and you want to run.
You want to hide, dude.
It's some serious shit, man.
The stuff that people went through in our area for decades because of things like Operation Green Merchant and camp flaws that were happening in California.
Make what's happening on Instagram today, like when people get mad because they've been banned for 24 hours, just seem like some ridiculous shit, man.
Some of us out there did some real fucking time, dude.
Some of us lost family members because we were growing plants for people that were dying.
And there's people out there that are acting like sissies because Facebook banned them for 24 hours because they didn't get to post a picture of a pretty ass plant that we all know is pretty.
But like, shut the fuck up and grow some more weed, man.
Help somebody out and quit crying.
There's way too many people out there to the degree of respect and need to be honored for the time and passion they put in the plant.
The amount of effort it takes to hold a plant in clone form for the amount of time some of us did.
Like, I held plants for 15 years until I ended up getting sick.
That's moms that I carried.
People in my area, they never cloned a damn plant, but were growing pounds and pounds and pounds of herb because they were picking up clones from me for decades.
Without me, they would have had to go to someone else and maybe get what they were looking for.
Because the reason people came to me is I was known for having exactly what I said I had.
I ended up building a reputation of being someone that was not going to lie to you with this plant.
If I was going to lie to you, it was going to be about some shit I might have did golfing or something.
I'm going to tell you I got an 82 instead of a 96.
When it came to the plant, I was never, ever going to lie to you about what this plant could help you do.
I don't know the power of this plant. I call her our ancestor.
She has the ability to speak to us on a cellular level that nothing else on earth can besides a drum beat and touching the ground with your feet.
She lets you know what's wrong in a way that if you learn how to listen and slow down, you can steer yourself in a better direction.
I went from being a drunk, crazy fool to a person that basically used cannabis to ease sick people so they didn't die in as much pain as they had originally been in.
I could have been a nobody and a nothing and just used my time for continuing that.
Or I could try to better myself and help others while I was doing it.
That's what I hope other people try to do with this plant.
It's not something that you have to do, but when you get touched by a plant that you have receptors in your body for that can keep you from having your leg...
I got a missing leg. If you guys have seen the picture on there, it's me in a wheelchair.
I have ghost pains 24-7 and without cannabis, I get cramps in my legs so bad that it's hard to explain.
It's like having a charley horse 24-7.
It just gets tiring.
But with cannabis, it just doesn't happen.
And certain strains it doesn't work with, like my haze doesn't take the actual ghost pains away, but it makes my head get to a position where even if I can't get to some of the more narcotic pain-style cannabis like cannabis,
like Deep Chunk or Bubba or some of the Afghanis, that I can get my mind in a better position, which we all know, better mental, better physical.
That's just always better for a person.
That's part of my breathing process.
Absolutely, man.
Layden and I talk about that almost seems like every show now about how there is a metaphysical side to cultivating things.
When the entire team is at each other's throats, a large commercial room will show that in just a few weeks.
Your story is really inspiring, man.
There's a lot of things I feel like all of us that have done this in the past have gone through, but I definitely wasn't smoking weed at eight and stuff like that.
You have a unique perspective, I feel like, from understanding the plant as a child.
Let's face it, eight years old is still a child.
To be smoking cannabis at that age and then on your own, I think seeing that at least drinking wasn't where you wanted to go until you got older.
That could have been a real dangerous path at four years old, bro.
Like I said, I was drinking at four.
I had drank, by eight, I had been stealing beer out of the keg when my parents were partying.
My parents partied their asses off, man.
My mom was a rock star when she was younger.
Until she really found cannabis.
My mom wasn't a drinker, though, but she partied.
She found cannabis and that's all she ever wanted.
It helped her, just like me, mentally.
But since I started at eight, I didn't have the wherewithal to understand why I was using cannabis.
I didn't understand that I wasn't able to fit in because I couldn't cope mentally with situations.
I felt like people were staring at me.
I felt like I wasn't good enough, right?
I was failing and shit.
But I smoked some herb and none of that would enter my head.
And the next thing you know, I'm getting the highest score in every class.
I win the science fair.
By eighth grade, they have me doing the speech for graduation because I had the best grades over the whole damn time I'd been in school.
I get into high school and until I find drinking, I'm a 4.0 student.
I was a smart kid, but drinking is what took me apart.
Same thing with everyone in my family.
As soon as we started drinking, we didn't care about anything but ourselves.
We'd become egomaniacs, basically.
We want to feed the pity.
We want to feed the positivity, whatever it is, the adrenaline, whatever it is that's the sole basis of why someone in my family drank.
We wanted to feed that.
Me being smart, I saw what was happening because everyone in my family that passed away, my uncle, my cousin, my grandfather,
eventually my grandmother, my other mother, everyone in my family,
somehow, from some form of drinking, decided to waste their life away because the drinking for them was better.
And one day I wake up in jail.
I don't know how I get in jail.
Finally, when I break down the story, it was because I drank too much alcohol at the bar and I decided to drive to work
and I pass out at a red light with my foot on the brake.
And I'm there for an hour and a half sleeping and the cops find me at a green light.
And they eventually take me to jail and give me what's called a wet reckless.
It wasn't even a DUI because they couldn't prove I drove there.
I could have said that someone put me in the car.
Stupid.
But when I wake up in jail looking at the yellow line, that's the last day I ever touched alcohol.
And this was in April 24th, 1994.
It was the last time I drank alcohol.
And that's when I start breeding for cannabis to make myself feel better.
And that's why I used my uncle and my cousin Danny as inspiration.
They were what told me, don't ever drink again.
And my grandfather, don't smoke again, don't drink again, and just stick to cannabis.
You've never done anything wrong with cannabis.
You graduated school highest in your class.
You can keep a damn job.
No matter what, as long as I got cannabis, I'm cool.
So I just start breeding cannabis and breeding cannabis and growing cannabis and trying to find cannabis.
My mom starts using cannabis and goes from being...
She was using pills for depression at the time.
And when I start using cannabis and breeding it for people and start realizing, not drunk,
what's happening to people when I give them the herb, that I start trying to find...
One second.
I try to find lines that are helping people for what's going on.
Because every time I start giving my mom specific strains that people are claiming are sativa or indica,
at that time, that's all I knew about herb was the definition of sativa and indica.
One would get you higher and one was going to be more on your body.
That was the early days.
So I started looking at it medicinally.
I don't care what you name it, does it work for my mom?
So she's the person that's right there with me.
She's got pain in her body.
She's got mental issues because of me being a crazy ass kid.
Every parent has them.
So you got to deal with life.
You start giving them cannabis that helps them.
Or some people will use drinking to steer the pain in a different direction,
which numbs you to it instead of helping you coping with it.
Cannabis can make your mind calm down and help you deal with actually what's happening
so that it's not as much of a issue that you're making it.
It's just a chemical reaction in your brain that's making what's happening
happen on the level that you decided to make it happen.
So it's not really as big as you think it is.
It never is.
It's never as great as you think it is.
It could always get better.
Everything on cannabis becomes more focused for me.
I learned this through all my patients.
This is exactly what's happening to them, but it's more of a chemical-driven phenomenon.
I can't just give someone plant X to everybody and it's going to work for them.
It doesn't happen that way.
I started learning this over time.
Eventually, I get to a club one day.
Me and my mom, after she's been busted twice and our families had to go through
the throes of illegal cannabis, she decides she wants to go see a legal cannabis club.
This is in 2008.
There's three of them in my town.
We go to the first one.
It's not open.
The second we go to, there's a guy with his baby in a crib upside down and a dog pacing
back and forth.
We're like, what the hell is this?
A drug addict rented a place and he's just fucking selling weed?
The third place we go to, it looks like a shop.
They only got four strains in there.
There's three dudes working the place.
The only thing they know about weed is it exists and they're letting them sell it.
They don't have any answers for nobody.
People are just throwing shit off the wall at them.
I need this.
I need that.
I've got cancer.
My grandmother had a stroke and the guys at the counter don't know what the hell to say.
Never have.
About a half hour into meeting and my mom's standing in line waiting for what's happening.
I just start answering people's questions.
Did we lose him?
I think we got a frozen screen.
Bad time to take it back, stay dead.
Wow, I got mad respect for this man.
Yeah, that's why I know he's been on the show, Peter, but I feel like we can really, like
this guy could teach the community a lot of things.
And I don't know if you've seen on a lot of the social media, Peter, but some of the
respect and some of the things that used to be kind of like the rules of the way things
were done so that business would continue.
That doesn't exist on social media.
And so there's some people out there that want to kind of create some of that.
And I feel like Mr.
Tote is one of them.
I'm definitely on board with some of that as well.
So hopefully we can get more people on the platform that have come up through the ranks
and done it the right way.
Unfortunately, have had a lot of misfortune in life, but continues to churn out cannabis
and cannabis seeds in general, really with like cultivation from, you know, for lack
of a better word, like the guys actually creating these seeds from love, like it's in a
an honor and in a memory to his loved ones in general.
So I feel like his genetics have just always seen praise from that, for lack of a better
word.
Leighton, have you seen any of his work?
He's back.
I got bad interviews.
Are you guys hearing a crackling for me?
Yes.
That's why I keep muting.
I don't know what the fuck is going on.
Maybe I should hop off and try to come back on.
Leighton, are you wearing Bluetooth earbuds?
Tony, Mr. Toad, continue.
Oh, I'm sorry, man.
I can't even remember where I was at.
My damn Internet's, I'm out here in the woods, man, for real.
So my Internet is real finicky.
We were kind of talking more, you know, when you fell off there, we were talking more about
the fact that you're creating these genetics in memory of your loved ones.
You put care into it.
There's more love behind this than you're just pumping out seeds for profit kind of
stuff.
You're putting this out.
You're putting your heart and soul into it because it is in memory of your loved ones.
One of the ones that I know stood out, like you had mentioned before, was that angel male.
Can you kind of go in?
I don't know if our viewers necessarily understand breeding as well as they should from the male
standpoint.
How do you define something like that?
How you can kind of create almost like a brand for yourself or your name for yourself?
Can you kind of go deeper into that?
Yeah, let's see.
My angel, it all starts back in 2003.
The story of that.
My partner's getting married, right?
Him and his old lady are planning to go to Amsterdam for a wedding and for their honeymoon.
And they're doing this in 2004 is when they go.
They start planning it in 03.
So I start getting the idea that if I got a friend that's going to Amsterdam, I'm giving
him as much money as I can work up to buy me a bunch of seed stock from an area that
isn't local.
Right.
Even though I got tons of seed, they start getting old and I can't pop them anymore.
And the cops took a majority.
Like I had I had tons of seed in the cops, stole so many of those.
So I'm thinking I want to buy some seed stock.
And so I ask him about it.
He says yes.
He goes in 2004, comes back with a whole bunch of seed stock.
We sent him over there with he had about accumulated around a thousand dollars between me, himself
and another friend.
So.
I.
Hold on one second, it's about my vehicle.
I might have to answer when they call back.
One second, guys, it's about my car.
One second.
All right, Leighton, are you there, buddy?
All right, Leighton, you got to unmute yourself.
Master of the unmute.
Well, like I was saying, guys, you know, I feel like, you know, we have certain here.
Oh, there we go.
And it's just crackling.
My my my fucking phone.
Sorry, my phone is crackling like fucking crazy.
I don't know what it is.
I've jumped off and jumped back on.
But for whatever reason, it's just crackling.
All right.
So I'll stay now.
Now it seems to be all right, but I'll stay here in the background.
If it starts crackling, I'll mute myself.
But, Tode, mad respect for you, brother.
Mad respect.
And, you know, thank you.
How different strains.
Yeah, different strains do different things.
And, you know, I've been encouraging all everybody to use the endocanna help to get a get a test
and find out what works best for you.
It's an amazing technology.
You're doing a great job.
And it directs you to the strain or cultivars that are going to most benefit whatever ailment or issue you have.
And, you know, it's great that you're getting this word out there, Tode.
And again, just do mad fucking respect, brother.
Mad fucking respect.
Thank you.
Well, let's see.
I can continue with my angel.
Here's what Leighton just said is the reason why I created that line.
In the beginning, it was called Space Kush.
Again, the idea was to create a line that was a little bit more like a space.
That line at that time, my company was called 215 Farms.
I was a different company when there was a cannabis.
This went legal in 1996.
I ended up going down to San Francisco, Stockton area, Sacramento.
I had a bunch of friends down there.
I set up 17 gardens with a bunch of seed lines that I had.
We actually had a an agreement with Dennis Perrone's Cannabis Buyer Collective down there.
And we were offering our cannabis to them.
So I've been started since the beginning doing it that way.
But what happens is after we get busted and I have to buy those seed lines,
2004, my buddy comes back with the seeds.
And my mom had been smoking every clone or local seed that I could find.
I'm trying to help her with arthritis, depression, basic energy.
I've also got myself that anything I can smoke helps me period be around people
because I just can't stand being in big groups.
It makes me feel claustrophobic.
It's something that I found that I ended up becoming something similar
that I found in a lot of veterans who have PTSD from being actual in combat.
They came back and said a lot of the same things that I was feeling.
I was little about how cannabis was causing them to feel,
like I said, claustrophobia.
People are looking at hard to control emotions.
I was having all these issues that a lot of people actually find a cannabis have.
But with 2005, I've got clone Romulan.
I've got a white widow, white rhino.
I've got a bunch of other cuts that I'm carrying around that I'm trying to find stuff for my mom.
I ended up finding the Blue Dream, the Bubble Kush and Fire OG.
And my buddy brings back a bunch of seed stock from Amsterdam.
I start sifting through there.
My mom ends up loving the Cataract Kush that came from DNA Genetics early
with that regular seed form and the Romulan, 1996 Romulan cut that I carried.
We had to track back to an old timer that he passes away and we cannot get it any earlier than that.
So that's why I call it the 96 Romulan.
It's not because of anything other than that.
I'm not trying to predate anybody.
It's just the date the dude that passed away ends up being able to track it to where he came from.
This very original old timer in our area.
As long as we know that dude had it since 1996.
I crossed those two plants with the hopes of being able to make seed stock
that will carry the medicinal properties that my mom's after in those two lawns
because I only got a certain amount of seeds from the original company.
And I only have this one clone of Romulan, which I could die at any time or I've been busted twice.
So I don't like having a lot of plants around.
I'm scared as hell with getting in trouble again.
So if I can put it in seed stock, I know I'll be able to pull out the medicinal properties
by just running out of seeds and rolling out of joints for my mom.
And that's the one we'll use that one again.
In the old days, that's how you all did it.
You would grow some lines out.
We had an Afghani line that we had from 81 all the way till 94
when the cops finally took everything from that line.
I still have some seed stock from it that I found stashed away,
but they took a majority of everything.
That was the best herb I ever had.
In my area, everybody knows that that was the best weed that they'd ever smoked.
And not knowing that I'd smoked weed from the people that gave me that seed
that made that weed seem like it was regular.
That weed was great weed.
Man, some of the greatest weed we'd ever smoked.
Even the cops wrote that down when we got busted.
It was the best weed they'd busted in our area.
Both times we got busted, that's what they put on there.
And it was this Afghani line that came from a small town up in Humboldt County.
It's a town called Orleans, California.
That's where we used to own a hotel and fishing lodge.
But what happens is I make this cross and I start,
all I'm doing is diving into breeding because I want to make more seeds
for more people because I want to make sure that anyone that asks me,
I can give them either a clone or some herb or some seed
so that if their loved ones die, they can have a place to go.
So that if their loved ones dying or they're dying,
they can do this with less pain, with less issues.
I want their life to be easier because I know everyone in my family
that's passed away that used cannabis, used the way with less pain.
They did it, it was easier for them.
My other mother, my grandfather, my uncle, my everybody.
If they used the cannabis in the end, almost everybody,
they knew me to be in the cannabis cat.
So they all would come to me eventually at the end
to ask me for something that would help their grandmother or for themselves.
So that's why I make my first original seed line.
I call it Space Kush.
It's named after Cheech and Chong's Space Coke.
It's a scene in one of their movies when Chong comes back from space
and they fly off and land in the joint and fly off in space.
My line's dedicated to that scene.
I couldn't call it Space Coke, so I called it Space Kush.
My dad ends up passing away in 2009.
When he passes away, I named the male that I've sifted through
all that line over that time and used for, I reversed him.
I've reversed all three of the Sistafinos that I've kept.
I've inbred it up to an F4.
I've back-crossed it six times on himself with different out-crosses.
I've used a Blue Cheese, a Larry, a Bubba, a Romulan.
What else have I used?
The Icarus OG, Rugburn OG.
I've done so many different back-crosses on him
to see what that plant could do for me in breeding.
When my dad passes away, the only thing I can do to honor him
for the rest of his life is to make sure...
I'm sorry.
It's all right, bro.
I mean, that's...
Shit, man.
You know, man, my father just passed away recently.
Everybody on earth will remember my pops from the duty work.
I want his name to be carried on every line that I put on him.
That's what I did.
That's why everything that says Angel goes back to my pops.
I'm sorry for that, man.
I love that dude more than cannabis, dude.
I love him more than everything besides my mom and my dog over here, dude.
Those are the only things I love.
The same as my family, my pops.
That dude was...
Everyone that met him, he was his best friend.
He did whatever the hell you needed.
If he said he was doing it, he did it.
Dude was a veteran.
He fought for all of our freedoms, man.
Him and all his friends.
He was the cat that taught me that cannabis helped veterans.
I just thought he was smoking all the weed and shit.
Then one day, he's like, dude, I'm giving all this shit to all my homeboys up in Oregon.
Like, there's one cat that's got seizures.
There's another dude that fucking gets so fucking angry, he wants to beat up his wife.
He's like, there's me that never can sleep, dude, but you give me that weed, and we all can make it.
Like, we all make it through the night.
And that's when I started giving him all the weed and all the hash I could think of.
And then he eventually dies from a heart attack from exposure to Agent Orange.
And like, that month, I get the paperwork saying he's 100% disabled.
But they want me to return the money for that month because he didn't make it through the full month.
He didn't make it through the full month.
I'm about to lose my shit because my dad did everything for this country, and this country's like shitting on his ass.
So, I just dove in, and everything was going to be about my pops.
So, all my breeding, I eventually do 144 crosses to that plant, Angel.
I learned that plant forward and backwards.
I could close my eyes and tell you what was going to come out of half of the crosses, period.
It just didn't matter. I knew what was going on.
So, I used that line to cross to everything I could.
I only released 24 lines out of the 144 because it's not about the money.
It's not about flooding the market.
It was about passing honor to my pops and making sure what I put into that plant and the hybrids that came out of it
helped somebody specifically for some reason.
Every single one of them.
They weren't just made so it sounded funny.
It didn't have a name because it was cool from a cartoon in my childhood.
It wasn't because I remembered some cereal or some shit.
It was because somebody I loved passed away or somebody I knew's best friend wasn't here anymore.
This plant was telling me that if I didn't remember humanity and humans, I was going to lose that myself.
That's what it taught me itself.
This plant saved my life multiple times until eventually when I lose my leg
after I go to Kevin Jodry's Wonderland Seed Series in 2017.
I come back and I end up sick two months later.
Kevin's thing is the last thing I did.
Kevin treated me like a best friend.
That dude, man, he's more than just knowledge.
That cat, that's a dude. That's a real dude right there, man.
He's a legend, bro.
Me and a few of my friends, my buddy Eric, we were his people, man.
We eat at his house, we meet his family, his whole crew.
We're up there.
I come home and life is like I'm on top of the world.
All I ever wanted to do in the cannabis community was meet some of the cats.
He'll be back.
Yeah, it just sucks when he's speaking from the heart.
I feel like that's what a lot of people wish that they could really see
from a breeder standpoint, is somebody that's going to put a lot of effort into that.
For a lot of you that are newer to this industry,
newer to cultivating in general, not everybody does that, man.
That's the real sad truth of it.
Again, shout out to him for sharing something like that.
I'm coming back. Sorry, guys.
I babbled into that.
Kevin's a legend, man.
Kevin's a legend where I was leaving off.
What happens is I come back from there, I'm on top of the world.
I've met cats that I respect from the community.
That seed series introduced me to a lot of people that I'd only talked to online.
I've been doing that for my whole career, just speaking to everybody in forums,
on Facebook, on Instagram, the ICMAG420, everywhere, man.
Anywhere I could speak about cannabis at my club.
That's all I ever did was just talk about it,
either online or quickly in line at the club.
I never had time to sit down and speak to anybody.
Then I start meeting these people.
I'm going to the Emerald Cup.
I'm going to the High Times Cup.
Kevin is inviting me to places to do stuff.
I start feeling like what I'm doing is being understood.
Then I end up getting this sickness here where I have
terminal epidural necrosis syndrome that I get from working at the club.
That ends up affecting how the blood infection I get
after I come back from that in May.
It ends up leading to me where I'm at now, where I get so sick
that I'm basically told I'm never going to get out of a bed for the rest of my life.
I start believing this shit.
They send me home, I'm in a bed, they got nurses coming here,
flipping me over, dressing my wounds.
This is going on for months.
A partner sends me some auto flower seeds.
I'd never been a big auto flower cat.
To me, auto flowers didn't grow enough herb to smoke on.
They cost too much electricity to grow if it was doing it indoor
because I had to run the light schedule on 24 or 18 hours,
which was just increasing it for me.
It was taking up space because I was a clone guy.
I was breeding and I couldn't keep the line alive if the plant worked.
For me, they weren't working in the beginning.
Roberto sends me these seeds.
What happens is those seeds give me the ability to just put them
in a hydroponic setup and just get up in the morning
and make sure that the water is still running,
the pump's not dead, the light's still on.
I end up deciding that every day I'm going to make sure that plant grows.
It ended up saving my life.
It got me out of the bed.
It made me realize that I was not going to be a
a good auto flower cat.
I was going to be a good plant.
I was going to be a invalid for the rest of my life.
Cannabis spoke to me once again to tell me,
get your ass up.
There's somebody out there that needs it.
You can do it, brother.
Just give it a shot.
This time it was for me.
In 2018, almost 2019, when they let me out
and I started growing those seeds,
I could not lay in the bed to die no more.
I just could not do it.
So the plant saved me again.
I couldn't even smoke it.
They were testing me.
I couldn't smoke no cannabis when I'm over here growing this shit once again.
All I could think was,
what would I do without the plant?
Besides just let life wrap me up
and turn me into a pity party.
I'd end up jerking myself to death
or doing something stupid until I wasn't here anymore.
You know, partying my ass off until the
only the good die young.
It's just bad stuff.
That's all I could come up with without this plant.
Once I have her,
she steers me in a direction that's always positive.
Always.
I feel like a lot of us can relate to that.
A lot of us probably were more like misfits or outcasts
where everyone's telling you that cannabis isn't going to help you.
But for me, man, it was not taking
basically speed, taking pills for ADHD, Ritalin, Adderall.
That kind of stuff.
Same way.
So trying to explain to your family that this plant is better.
They look at you like you're a loser.
Like you're going to choose this plant over what the doctor said to do.
But at the same time, my parents would never take one of those pills
so that they could experience it themselves.
There's just a lot that goes into it, man.
The fact that you're sharing what you did,
I think a lot of people really just resonate with that today, buddy.
I really appreciate you.
You're sharing some deep stuff.
Like I said, man, my father just passed away
and I noticed some other people were saying in the chat that that's gone.
So yeah, we're just all trying to find a way through.
I say respect to your father if you tell me that 100%, man.
It's a hard thing to lose your parents,
but we're all going to go through it.
Eventually, you got to get over it and keep going.
Or it could be anything in your life that just lets you wrap yourself up and die.
My parents died to help us learn that we can deal with everything.
We don't want to, but we can.
I learned even more of that from when I died, came back and lost myself.
We got to give up on the ego and the shininess.
We got to give up on wishing that we were winning
because all that stuff is part of life.
You can't get to where you're at without losing somewhere, somehow, at some point.
The more you pretend that you're not,
eventually the fall from that is going to be harder than you ever come upon.
So just learn to deal with that shit and get on with it.
Once you learn that, you can pass that knowledge on to the next person
so that they can use some of that to help themselves.
Because there's never no right answer for anybody.
But if you have the tools to get the situation handled,
you'll be able to handle it more efficiently.
So that's where giving advice to people,
be it from life, like I'm talking about my experiences here,
or with the plant breeding, which I try to share everything I can about the plant
that I learned.
Not because I want to look like the guy that knows everything,
because I want to be able to...
In my day, you couldn't ask somebody how to clone a plant.
You couldn't ask somebody openly,
what lines are you using to help your grandmother from dying?
You were going to get your ass busted in the days I grew up.
You couldn't talk about cannabis with nobody.
My family got in fights over cannabis, even though we're all using cannabis.
Because cannabis was such an evil entity in the world
that it had gotten into our own heads that it's fucking with us too.
When you get busted by the police,
eventually you're yelling at each other because of the weed.
And then when it finally comes down to it,
the last yelling we heard about weed was my grandfather screaming for some of it.
We didn't have any to give to him because the cop took all of it.
That's why my life got dedicated to offering medicinal cannabis to people
in a form that was affordable eventually.
Because I used to just give the seeds away in the club
until the veterans forced me to put a price on them.
So after that, I made sure that my prices were always going to be affordable
for anybody that could afford them.
I give them away if I have to, to people that really need them.
But it costs money to grow the stuff.
You got to put stuff in the packaging because people won't buy it unless
they recognize it or somebody they know said to go buy it
because they don't do enough research on what the plant can do for them
or who it's helped in the past.
So that's where my club came in, where I was able to take the lines I was working with.
Let's tell everybody real quick where they can get your seeds buddy at Dag of Love.
Dag of Love.
Those are the two places that you can get them.
I'll be sending more into Dag of Love here in the next week or so.
I'd have to get some stuff packed up.
I'll be sending a few more lines in there.
Dag has my seed lines and my clone shipper that we mentioned earlier.
It's a shipper for plants.
It's able to keep the plants safe.
It comes with a light.
It's 3D printed, biodegradable.
It fits a solo cup.
Let me pull this cup out of here.
It has the ability to keep a grown man from crying.
So you've got a light on the inside.
The light lasts 72 hours.
You can use it for shipping safely or for display.
It comes with an extra light too.
Yeah, it comes with an extra light inside which is made to...
You pull this one up out of it.
You pull the back open and you take the lights from the spare
and put the batteries inside of here.
Don't replace the whole light.
Just replace the batteries and slip them back in and you're good to go.
It runs off two watch batteries.
So it's easily replaceable if you have to buy more after the two I sent you.
Or you can always hit me up and I can get you some in the mail for shipping
and the price of the light.
And that's on the website as well.
Yeah, that's on DaggerLove.
I believe he's going to have them up there.
Right.
By the way, Tony, are you sending more Savage Kush?
I can if you'd like, yeah.
Yeah, no, 100%.
I'm going to send you more Savage Kush.
I'm going to send you more Savage Kush.
I can if you'd like, yeah.
Yeah, no, 100% because they're out of stock.
So the Haze for days, I have a couple packs left.
I was going to send some Savage Kush.
I believe I was going to look through some of my Redwood Kush crosses, the F3s.
I have a few stuff.
I might send in some of the Ghost of Port Royal crosses with a Ghost OG Kimdogg Special Reserve mail crosses.
There's some of the stuff that I've done.
That's the mail line that I got from Kevin in 2017.
It's a Ghost OG Kimdogg Special Reserve number four fuel mail.
That thing breathes all fuel, man.
That's a gnarly plant.
I put that on a bunch of plants.
And you're offering it for the community for 50 bucks, man, and you give everybody 15 seeds.
I want to throw that out there as well, man.
Yeah, so the 44Ds and the Haze for days were 15.
The Redwoods are 10 because the plant doesn't produce as much seed as some of those other lines.
So on the Redwoods and how limited they are, I don't do mass production on the Redwoods.
I only do a certain specific number of those packs and then that's it.
I don't remake them and I'm not making them again on the F4s.
Everyone wants F5s. I won't go to F5.
I stop at F4 and that's as far as I take a line to offer to the public.
For me, I think after F4, I put in so much work that at 50 bucks, I'm kind of taken from myself at that point.
So I just let people take the F4 and do what you got to do with them.
If I go to an F5 and start charging more money, my soul don't feel correctly for trying to ask people for extra cash for seeds
just because I put an extra year into producing the seed, the stock, and digging through the line and pheno hunting.
And then now being in this wheelchair, it gets hard as hell to take a line all the way to an F5 with a limited space,
the ability that I can get in and out.
Right now, I'm only working the one Space Cheese line.
Before, I would be working multiple lines through my angel.
So I might be testing him on a whole bunch of different girls to see how she's going to produce
and be introduced into the other male system so I know what they're going to give me.
I always appreciate the time.
Hey, Mr. Tone, can we talk about that?
That's your new project, the Space Cheese project.
Can we kind of go into depth more on what your goals are with that?
And I know that a lot of people, sir, would like to know more about the lineage of your genetics
and then what that's going to help with, especially some of the people on Instagram were talking about MS.
So if you could answer that, it's kind of like a two-part.
Well, the MS, man, my best line for MS is going to be my  they're both not available anymore.
I'm thinking about digging into them and continuing them out farther just for this purpose.
But the reason I can't make them is I lost my angel male when I had my health issues.
But it's a pre-98 bubble cross to my angel male.
That line helped more people with MS than any other plant that I had given to anyone in my club in seed form or clonal form.
And I carried 176 moms at one point.
So we weren't just digging through eight or nine plants.
I seriously was doing 4,400 cuts a month by myself, offering it to 17 different clubs in my area locally.
Even when I was running my club, part of my business was I did edibles, I did clones, and I was a vendor to these places.
I only brought certain specific stuff to my club to be just to us.
So we'd have stuff that you could come there and get.
But some of the lines, everybody got in town because that's just how I was doing the shit.
There's no way they were going to keep me from making my money because they were losing money without me in the place.
So I take that pre-98 bubba and everyone that's telling me what it's working for, I start thinking,
I need to put this into my breeding project and see if it's really going to do what I think it's going to do with my angel male.
Because I know what he can already do.
So I cross him to that and I start giving the cut of the bubba to people unlabeled along with crosses of what I call my mud bone.
But at that time, I was just calling it Bubba's Angel.
So I take that plant and I give everyone the seed stock and the clones or the cutting from the seed stock that I think is going to work.
I give them to them numbered so that they don't know what they have.
That way their brain can't tell them this one's working and that one's not working.
I just tell them, try these. I believe these will be what's working for you.
The clone will be free. You can grow these along, whatever else you want.
I'd let them take, because they could have six cuttings.
So if they would take two for me, I'd give them four for free.
That way they could have whatever they wanted from my clone library along with these two plants.
This would help me with my breeding.
They come back with the information from the cross and tell me that plant A did this, but the one plant B didn't do anything or it worked even better.
I knew that the cross that I was working for was actually doing what I wanted to.
And I could keep staring towards that direction with the breeding project that I'm doing.
So the next season, I'd give them.
I worked there four years. So I had four seasons of working through some of the same patients with the same medicinal lines for what they were doing.
What they were looking for.
They'd come to me and say, I want you to buy these seeds from this company.
Because I heard it's great. They'd read about it in the magazine.
But they don't know what it does for them medicinally.
I would always ask them, what are you looking for?
What are the troubles that are ailing you?
Is it for you? Is it for a child?
Man, it seems that we get about a good 30 minutes or something.
No, it's got to be less. 20 minutes and then it freezes up.
He's used up his bandwidth allotment for the hour.
Living in the sticks.
He'll be back.
I feel like a lot of people could just relate to this, especially the ones that have been farming for probably at least 10 plus years.
There's a lot of things that the people that have gone through that kind of stuff have seen and done.
Sometimes when you remember that kind of stuff, it can bring up tears.
Go ahead.
He's back.
Sorry, this is the internet out here.
Well, anyway, I'm staring through all the patients.
So someone will say they got MS.
I got another person that's got a traumatic main injury that's having seizures.
I'll have someone else that's dealing with depression.
I had one lady that was trying to come off opiates so bad because she was missing an eye.
We didn't learn this till almost the end.
She finally comes in one day and wanted to know what strain I was giving her because it was working better than the opiates that they were giving her.
She's like, I need that back because I'm literally, she's like, I'm not making this up.
She just reaches up and pulls her eye out.
She's like, I'm blind.
I can't see a damn thing.
This stuff helps me with the pain, keeps me off the opiates.
I was like, why didn't you tell me this shit years ago?
You'd get all the weed I have for free.
That helps you.
I'm not making you decide whether or not to buy your medication or some food this month.
I have growers that will produce what you need for free.
They're part of my system.
My vendors have to give me a percentage of their grow that I vend.
Not their whole grow, but if someone gives me five pounds through the year, I need to have a percentage back from them.
Not everyone's going to have the same either because like a dude that's growing 100 pounds, he's going to give me 10 to 20% of what I'm selling.
Then a guy that's only produced five pounds that year, I might only ask him to give me one ounce to give away for free for the whole season.
That gave me the ability to have lines that I needed for specific patients that were dying, that had a child that was trying not to die.
I got seniors that are on fixed incomes, veterans that are getting money that is not enough to stay a fucking life after all the shit they've been through.
Minimum wage, everyone in my town's fucking on minimum wage.
I don't know how you're supposed to be able to afford a $25 gram when you're working for six fucking 50 an hour and shit.
I got a way to give you some fucking herb.
You can come in twice a day and get a joint for free.
You don't got to buy a damn thing.
Just come say hi to the crew.
We'll give you a damn joint if you remember.
Whatever it takes.
I can steer you with the herb that you need.
If you come in and you do need my cross and mud bone, I'm going to put it into one of my grower's hands.
I can produce, if I need 10 pounds that year, he's going to be able to produce 10 pounds.
That way I can sell it and have something to offer to the club for free.
If I need to have the blue dream for some people, then this guy's going to grow a specific amount of blue dream.
I even got guys that want to grow whole gardens of some of the specific gardens because they know they're going to be able to move it in our area.
Because in two 15 days, you had either people that were buying whatever the hell you got, or you got people that learned that lines that they were using were doing specific things to their body.
They were looking for those specifically.
I learned that early going through Dennis Perrone's club because he was working with so many people that were dying from terminal diseases.
It wasn't just people going down there in the early days because your fucking toe hurt or because like me, you couldn't handle being in a big crowd because you yourself couldn't deal with what was going on.
Even though it's a medical condition in the early days, they didn't care unless you were sick and dying.
You had to have AIDS or you had to have forms of cancer.
They were not giving you prescriptions for anything besides being a dead human being.
I learned this from passing the plant to people that were actually dying.
I find out that a lot of people were using that Afghani line.
When I see the bubba and I see the resemblance to the old Afghanis I grew, I knew immediately that I could use that plant probably in some of my breeding to get some of those traits back in plants medicinally.
I didn't have my original Afghani stock.
The cops took it.
I'm trying to steer lines towards that direction because that's what I knew.
This is something I try to tell everybody when you're breeding.
Don't try to breed for what everybody's looking for.
Try to breed for what you understand.
Say everyone's looking for bubble gum and you've never had bubble gum and you try to breed bubble gum.
The only thing you know about is what you're reading online, descriptions and what someone tells you about it.
You don't remember the effect it gave you.
You don't remember the memories that are stored in your brain from the first time you smoked it.
I remember smoking Afghani right in my back to school.
There's a field here that smells like clover and mint.
Every time I drive by that field I can remember being in fourth grade no matter what.
Cannabis does the same thing.
That's why we all have a memory of our first cannabis we ever smoked.
It's locked in our head as a scent, as an experience.
It's not just a name that we read about.
It's not something we've been dreaming to get our hands on.
It's something we experienced and it was during a time when more than likely we were having a good time.
You might have gotten in trouble afterwards but the first time you smoked or in that time period,
you were having the best times of your life with the people that were giving you some of the best experiences of your lifetime.
That's when you started to evolve as a human being and become the person that you are.
When you started to like the music that you love.
When you started to decide that these are the kind of people I want to be around.
Or I want to drive this kind of vehicle.
This is when you started to steer yourself through your experiences in life.
The cannabis that you smoked, if you were people like ourselves who are connoisseurs of this plant,
you remember specific lines that you used.
You're starting to look for that again.
You either keep those plants in clonal form like a lot of us have and risked our lives doing,
or you spend too much money trying to buy seed stock with the name of it because you're hoping to find it again.
I've done that myself. I spent $12,000 one year digging through seed stock
just to try to find some stuff that wasn't in those seed lines because they weren't what I had.
They weren't what I had experienced.
They were what they said on the pack.
I wasn't finding it again. It was gone.
I'm not going to find something 15 years later and seed from someone that didn't make the original stuff I had.
Even though he could be working with the same seed stock, he's done line bred it to a different direction.
It's going to be different.
If I waste all my money searching for a dream,
there's so many patients that could have died with me steering something that I already had that I had experience with.
Someone comes to me and says, my grandma's dying. She's been using our plant for years.
Will you use this in your breeding to give us seed stock?
Will you make a reversal of this so we have seed stock of it?
That's how I started becoming a breeder for other people at my club.
I mentioned that video earlier here.
Those guys, I was doing some breeding for them, Ross Attitude and Danny I.
They passed me some plants from them and I started breeding for certain directions for Danny's wife who had brain cancer and lung cancer
with a line that she and Danny had been carrying around with them for a few years.
It was called OGP Bud.
They called it the P-Dog.
I took that line, crossed it to Angel and we made something called Zion Lion that we gave to her
that she was using at the end of her life when she ended up passing away from.
She had a massive, what they called an angry tumor in her head.
It was almost half the size of her brain.
It had metastasized through her whole body.
She had cancer everywhere.
The only thing that was stopping it was cannabis.
She smoked cannabis like it was going out of style.
I had met her through the club.
She came in with Danny.
Danny's explaining to me that she's using cannabis for fibromyalgia and other pains.
She didn't know she had cancer at the time.
He's only had a specific amount of money and wanted to know if we'd cut him a deal.
I'm like, dude, if that's what she has, let me just, here, take these samples.
You tell me what works.
When she comes back, we'll work out prices with you guys.
I ended up sending her home with a bunch of my edibles, a bunch of my hash.
Some of the early days, we were doing oil at that time.
I sent her with a package of everything.
Then I let Danny spend his money on his herb.
He's only buying a gram.
He comes in and spends $25 on a gram of weed.
We give him a whole eighth of weed because he's a first-time patient.
He's stoked out of that.
His wife goes home with edibles and her herb, a gram or so of some of the concentrates.
When they come back, he's telling me certain lines were helping her more than others,
especially through the edibles.
Whatever's in the edibles working for her, like the candy bar stopped most of her pain.
I'm like, well, that's got my space cush in it.
All my edibles are made specifically with only my space cush hash, bubble hash,
that I either get my trim from my growers that are running it and they don't know it's that line.
I would tell them, here's six plants.
I need those in your garden.
All I want is the trim back.
You can have 99 cuts from me for free if I can have the trim from those six plants.
I'd end up taking that.
I'd have it tested out.
I would have my grow.
I'd have some of the grows from those guys.
All that stuff would go into my edibles when I had 215 farms.
I'd tell them exactly what's in there.
I start giving her that herb.
Eventually, that's what she's starting to use all the time to help with what eventually becomes cancer.
She didn't know she had it.
She just thought it was fibromyalgia because of the pain she had everywhere.
It was the fact that cancer had metastasized and basically every organ in her body,
she was dying slowly and did not know it.
The cannabis is what helped her.
She eventually, Danny and her end up moving to my house and become good friends with my family.
I meet them through 2010 Cannabis Cup that I won for edibles with first, third, and fifth with my edibles.
That's how I met Danny.
I invited him to my club, found out his family was sick.
That's how I met the Ross families that I know and ended up breeding for them.
That's how everybody I knew I met through a sickness that was taking someone from them from their life.
All they wanted them was there for a little bit longer.
I call it the home run.
It's a baseball bat that we all have to be hit with to get the idea that cannabis is what we need in some form.
It doesn't cure everything, but if you can change your mental attitude from negative to positive,
even if it's just growing a plant like I did when I put those autoflowers in the ground and wasn't even smoking,
to being able to offer the chemical properties of the plant to someone or even the fibers or any part of this plant.
It's got positivity attached to it.
That's what I steered everything for.
With the Ross seeing that through me, that's when they started offering me some of their genetics they were holding.
They were like, we would like you to breed through these.
That's how I ended up sending a bunch of my hays to Jamaica.
I sent over 200 packs to Jamaica for them to do some breeding there at the University of Jamaica.
I wish I would have known you back in the day when you were giving cuts for trim.
I would have gave you.
We could give you 99 plants in the two 15 days at my club.
Literally, my town made us write down on the bylaws that you could have 99 plants if you had a script.
As long as your doctor wrote something on there specifically, they made us actually write weight down.
We got people coming in with terminal illnesses that say 9999,
which means you could have an endless supply of pounds of cannabis, hash if you wanted.
You could have endless counts of plants in your car as long as they weren't in flower.
In our county, we could do at one point 99 plants.
People would come in and I literally could sell every patient that came in that day 99 clones.
We would have people come in and place orders.
I'd make you put an order in two weeks ahead of time.
You'd come in or call the day that it was ready to find out if it was in there.
I'd tell you to come in.
I'd have five boxes packed with 25 cuts in each one with one of them missing one of them.
You got 99 clones and you'd go out the door with boxes of cuts all the time.
I'm throwing cuts away nonstop because I have too many clones.
What do I do with them?
In my brain, I'm like, fuck, I have specific plants that people want me to make tinctures with.
Some people wanted me to make tincture with haze and blue dream.
I've got people passing me those trims for my tinctures.
My candy bars and most of my edibles are all Space Kush.
I've got myself probably 75% of all the Space Kush came from me.
I've got a few people that I allow run it like the owner of the club.
There's some seniors that I would give them.
Any senior that wanted free clones would get my Space Kush if they take them.
They just didn't get labeled besides the number on them.
I knew which Fino they got, one, two, or three.
Then I would give it to veterans if they needed it for free.
As long as they would bring me the trim.
At that time, a lot of people didn't know that you could make hash out of trim.
They thought you could only make hash out of bud.
They were just starting to read about making bubble hash.
People that just come in here don't even know how to sex a plant.
There's a lot of information people don't know.
That's why what Peter's doing and what you guys are doing is awesome for spreading the knowledge of the plant through experience and through education.
Sometimes education is better to know the science.
Sometimes experience is better to know the actual emotional connection to the plant.
There's no way the doctor is ever going to understand how the Bubba helped certain people with MS.
He himself is never going to get MS and try it to stop the MS that we're trying to stop.
They don't go through the process of trying something else besides what they've already been told works.
You go to the doctor.
They're told this is the pill you take for that.
Until they find out this pill doesn't work as they said it was and now they bring you a new pill.
They don't actually find out what works before they give it to you.
They're more about the profit of it than the efficacy of that product or the plant.
It should be more about what's really happening.
You find that out through people.
If you're going to offer cannabis as a medicine and you know people are going to die,
give the dying people that shit for free and let them tell you what's going to happen.
Why does it work? Why did it not work?
Find that experience out through the patient instead of through the science.
Then add that to the science so you can now line breed what you're after more efficiently.
Instead of just guessing at stuff.
That goes back to breeding with plants that you understand and have experience with and know.
Instead of breeding with stuff that you read about in the book and you're going to buy and now you're going to breed with.
You don't know what the parents were.
You never had experience with them.
You can't line breed towards the mother or father side.
You don't understand how that plant handles moisture or handles feeding.
Some people buy seeds that are already making seeds off those and want to round them.
There's no way you've had that plant activated to your area.
You could be growing it indoor and outdoor.
You have done nothing but take what you bought and tried to extend those in a seed form, which is great.
But if you're going to start offering those to people and trying to say that they do specific things
without ever having the experience of finding out what they do.
It's just hocus pocus.
Now you're playing with people's health and their life.
Like my space cheese line.
I have six of those out right now testing with some people.
I've got another 14 of them that I've crossed in here that are an extension of six of those.
I'll have another eight that will be going out and testing as soon as this is done.
They'll all be tested.
What I'm trying to do is send the mother out.
That's the mother to the cross along with the actual cross that they're testing.
That way they can test the progeny with the original P1 mother parent that comes from the line.
Then they can tell me what they believe is coming from it.
Is it as good?
Is it better?
Are the terpene profiles passing across?
Is there something happening that's making the alleles line up with some recessive genetics that are causing
homo-phedic or minocious traits to pop out of the plant?
These are things that you should run through multiple different gardens, not just your own.
If you only do it in one place, your plant's only giving you the expression of that one environmental stress issue.
If you only have it in one garden with one type of light source, it's not going to tell you what's going to happen
to the guy that likes to put 15 different lights in the room.
He's playing with different lights.
It's not going to tell you what happens when the person puts it outside at different latitudes on the globe.
How is it going to finish outside?
You should send it to different places besides your own.
You should run it in your own garden also.
If you can get that experience through at least two different rows on one different line,
you end up bringing more experience to that to be able to offer to folks.
If you pass it to someone that's using it medicinally,
then you were already knowing that the mother does this for people.
You put your male on that or you cross your female to something else by reversal.
You find out that your line's more efficient at helping that medicinal property.
Now you know what you need to do.
You take this plant and either give it to people that are sick like that
or continue to lion breed it so you can offer those seeds to people that want to buy that.
For me, it's never about taking advantage of the folks.
I just want to try to get that plant to be as medicinal for certain properties as I can
for as many people in that group that's having those issues.
It's not going to work for everyone.
A lot of people that have, like me, ghost pains.
If you have ghost pains, you can start using specific cultivars
that are going to help with that issue.
It does help.
They're going to make your life a little easier.
It's not about just getting high but calming the nerves from shooting signals to each other.
What's happening when you lose a limb is your body is trying to send a signal out
to the limb and it wants that signal to come back to tell it everything's okay.
When it shoots a signal and nothing comes back, the body thinks there's something happening.
It's trying to send an electrical pulse down there just to make sure that it's actually there.
What's happening is it's not there so it's never getting that signal back
and it's coming back to you as registering as pain because it's a foreign experience.
I cross the Redwood Cush to the Deep Chunk line.
That line works extremely well for me.
It's deep too.
A line that I dedicated to Richard Pryor also.
I use that line along with the Deep Chunk itself to help me with my ghost pains.
It also helps me with my ulcerative colitis, my Crohn's.
Anything in those heavy Afghanis, they work extremely well.
Masters, Hindu, they work killer for me.
One of the things that we like to do on the show is provide gold nuggets.
Your perspective in life as well as from breeding, I really appreciate it.
Thank you, man.
I think that's what we all should do.
If we have some kind of knowledge that we can share with people like that, we should all offer it.
I keep going back to you could not get any information in the 80s, in the 90s about cannabis from a medical standpoint.
It was not happening.
Just because you could pick up High Times Magazine didn't mean you were being educated about anything about cannabis besides what they wanted to tell you at that time period.
You were going to get in trouble offering information, writing it down with cannabis at that time period.
Until the federal laws started to change around 1996 in California and even before that in Alaska.
If it wasn't for Alaska, we would not have legal cannabis.
Alaska decided, you know what, screw you back in the 70s.
It's a plan.
We're going to do what we're going to do with it the way we want to do with it.
And then California being the economic powerhouse we are, once we get it here and do it, it was just a matter of time until cannabis becomes legal everywhere.
Which is now going to be a worldwide phenomenon, which a lot of people don't understand is coming.
There's a thing called the 1961 U.N. Gas Treaty on unconventional narcotic drugs and opiates.
It's a treaty that many countries around the world sign that dictates our federal laws on these drugs that are scheduled one, two, and three.
They tell us where we're supposed to have cannabis, where we're supposed to have heroin, where we're supposed to have other opiates.
The psychedelics specifically are on there.
It was supposed to open up in 2019.
They postponed it.
Coronavirus hit in 2020.
And now they're about to start to reconvene here.
It should happen around April.
It might be this year or next year.
But they are going to release different laws worldwide on cannabis, on how it's going to be used as a worldwide commodity.
This is what's coming.
The only thing that's slowing it up is trying to steer the pathways for these things to actually happen.
They have to have a bank to send the money.
They have to have a shipping yard that's going to accept the hemp from one place to another.
We don't have those already.
You have to have areas for it to be grown in specific places.
That's why places like Humboldt are putting in no hemp laws for outdoor grows.
You need to be able to guarantee that the products you're growing in those areas cannot be contaminated by specific things.
So when you can take an area and guarantee that you don't add foreign inferior pollen from hemp to a photo period high THC line,
you're guaranteeing that that product now can be insured to have the qualities that you say it has without risking outcrossing to some foreign line.
They do this with all agricultural things.
This was the system that's coming and people aren't seeing what's happening.
They just want to be high.
They want their legal cannabis.
They're going to bring us more regulated cannabis.
It's going to come with more stricter laws for it.
The people got to be ready.
That's what's coming.
The size of your garden is going to be, if you've got a small tiny little garden, you craft cannabis.
That's the only thing you're going to be.
You're never going to be able to take over corporate cannabis, which is what is coming.
The amount of herb that China produces and Canada alone dwarf anything anybody in the United States is doing at the moment.
Period.
Where are they growing all that cannabis in China?
Man, that I don't know where they're growing it, but I do know China is the largest exporter of cannabis in the world.
They hold over half of the patents on the plant.
They have over 300 patents registered to China internationally on cannabis from different lines to specific ways of how to grow a plant.
There's a possibility that with it going federally legal and being rescheduled worldwide that you would have to follow patent laws,
which would mean that you would have to pay for the ability to grow something in a specific garden setup,
be it a specific hydro setup or maybe a type of organic setup that you've put in because they've already went and registered patents on these.
There's patents on names that we already hold from different lines.
Once this stuff goes legal, there's so much money in enforcing patent laws.
It's going to be crazy.
People are going to have to steer away from calling their stuff anything that has to do with somebody's registered name.
Just use Gorilla Glue, for example.
We all know what happened there with Gorilla Glue sending cease and desist paperwork to the company.
You're not going to be able to name your stuff, Captain Crunch.
You're going to have to be a little bit more thoughtful.
Creative.
Yeah, you got to have a little bit of idea in there besides it rhymes with the parents.
I remember that when I was seven.
It's not going to work that way.
It's a medicine, right?
That's what the register of the patents is going to do.
It's going to enforce laws that we don't want on the plant, but it's coming.
That's just what happens when you decide to have regulated legal cannabis and you want it to be everywhere.
I see people in here talking about boycott China.
You can't boycott a worldwide system.
We live in the world.
Trying to boycott part of the world is kind of a crazy idea.
There's going to be something coming from China that could help someone over here.
Why boycott the plant?
The problem is we've put too much worth in the value of the plant dollar wise.
When you want to say boycott China, what you're trying to do is boycott the profits that they may make off the plant.
They were smart enough to go and put these patents on these processes that we are going to use on a plant
that we've decided that we want to be part of our worldwide commodity.
From paper to fuel to food to our medicine, what we're growing here.
It's going to be the next industrial revolution.
Cannabis is going to be what's going to change economic classes around the world.
If people are smart enough to take advantage of that, that's what's going to come.
We can't argue with the fact that it's happening.
You're not going to stop people from profiting from this plant.
The only thing you're going to be able to do is steer what you want to do with the plant in specific directions.
Do you want it to be medicinal? Do you want to be a profit?
Do you want it to be something that you can use to teach people?
This plant has so many things to offer you and other people.
Instead of using it to be negative to anyone else or any other country, use it for positivity.
Don't boycott anybody. Just do it better than they're doing it.
Do it better than you can. Eventually, that becomes your specific thing in life.
With me and Angel, for 15 years, breeding that plant on 144 different girls, I understood that plant better than anyone could ever understand that line.
Even if I gave you a thousand seeds.
You were never going to take the time to breed it to 144 girls.
You're never going to take the time to reverse it on yourself to find out he had 11.54% THC once reversed.
You're never going to back cross him on himself six generations so that you end up with a plant that's got Angel in it seven times.
So that when it reproduces seed stock, every seed comes out of there looking exactly the same from there.
And now it can be used as a P1 parent.
It's just not going to happen.
It becomes invaluable.
You become the Michael Jordan of your situation.
Not that you're the greatest in the world, but I'm the only one that knew that plant the way I knew it.
It was a slam dunk when it came to that with me.
So make what you want to do and what you want to be that passionate in your life.
Make your situation something that you're trying to master.
Not that you are a master, but if you try to master the failures, you end up becoming someone that fails less.
That's what mastering something is.
You're never going to be perfect, but if you can be less of a failure of what you're trying to be,
you become someone that can offer that information to other people so someone else does not make those failures.
You can tell someone that when you cross this plant with that plant, you're going to get this result.
I've done it multiple times.
You can tell somebody that no matter what you want, you're not getting orange out of that plant.
Those terpene profiles are not present in it.
You might have to breed 14 generations to finally find the outlier from that one line,
and you've wasted that many years trying to pull a terpene profile from something that does not exist in it.
When you can just go to a cultivar that has it and outcross to your plant and now produce a seed line
that's line bred towards the direction that you want more efficiently,
be it for cannabinoids, terpene profiles, plant structure, whatever you have.
Don't look for it in something that doesn't have it or that you don't have the experience with.
It's very easy to breed.
It's real hard when you're fighting the feeling.
Quit fighting the feeling and let the plant steer you in the direction that it really has to go for what you're after.
She holds everything that we want in cannabis.
If you want orange, there's something out there that's orange.
If you want something that's short and fast, it's out there.
If you want something that helps with cancer or Crohn's disease, or if you have traumatic brain injury, it's out there.
Do the research. Use that to line breed towards those qualities.
Instead of line breeding towards a cannabis cup or for just one specific leaf structure that isn't helping anyone,
use that leaf structure because it carries a cannabinoid or a chemical makeup
that isn't expressed in the line that you want it to be expressed in.
Well said, man.
Breeding with a purpose.
That's what makes you a breeder.
That's what makes you a breeder is the purpose behind it and to be able to drive it.
Otherwise, you're just chucking pollen on plants and there's nothing wrong with it.
It's not a bad term. Everyone takes it negatively.
But if you're just trying to make an increase of seeds with no purpose at all besides making more seeds,
you really haven't had a purpose.
But if you take some plants that you know are helping you or someone else,
or even if it's because this plant produces a very novel leaf structure
or it has a smell that nobody else has around you and you're breeding for that,
you are now breeding.
That's how other breeders with plants made the cultivars and the varietals that they passed,
like Gregor Mendel and Luther Burbank.
Luther Burbank made white blackberries because he searched through blackberries
until he found these outliers and then line bred them towards being white blackberries.
Now you have a plant that you can go buy that someone took the time to create
that was found in a process of sifting through a hundred thousand different seeds.
So he makes that. He also made spineless cactus.
So there's the ability to breed something for a purpose.
And then there's also the ability to just make seeds.
There's nothing wrong with making extra seeds.
But to call yourself a breeder, you should have a purpose for what you're doing that for.
It should have an outcome.
It should. Yeah.
Luther Burbank, if you want to know anything about breeding,
read anything by Luther Burbank or Gregor Mendel.
Then after that, just start staring towards people that understand some of the stuff you're after.
Like reversals. When I share information about that, I tell people to look up H.Y. Mohamran.
Him and Set did a lot of work with cannabis reversals using silver and cobalt, GA3,
different products that help basically replace copper during the production of ethylene.
If you can add that silver instead of the copper when it's supposed to produce that ethylene,
the ethylene gets restricted in the plant and produces less of it.
Now you end up with a plant that starts to show a stamina and flower
that will produce pollen for you to breed with.
So when you're reversing a plant,
all you're doing is altering the ethylene pathways in the plant.
And you can do that with multiple different chemicals.
If you look up H.Y. Mohamran, Set, R.A.M., and Cannabis Reversal or Ethafon,
a lot of stuff will come up.
So that's steering your information toward specific areas that you're looking to breed towards.
Not just plants in general.
When someone wants to breed plants, you can read about all kinds of plants.
Be it rice to corn, anything with a leaf on it, you're going to read about.
But when you want to breed towards specific plants,
you want to breed for a photo period,
you're trying to breed for different chemovars or different structures,
now you need to start reading into people that have done something similar
to try to cut down on the time that you want to put into your own breeding project.
You can't waste all this time when you could actually help yourself and someone else
by just sharing that information and utilizing what's out there.
Like what you're doing here, Peter, this is so awesome, man.
I'm telling you, every day I go through and re-watch some episode that's on here
because of something that I'm trying to do.
So I want to go back and double check something that I'm working on soil.
I go looking back at Layton's stuff.
I go back and look at Brandon Rush's stuff.
I'll go back and look at Wendy's stuff.
I want to combine everything they did and maybe a new idea pops up in my head
that maybe none of them as a single entity has came up with yet.
And I can expand my, that's how each one of them learned something new that they knew.
They took something someone knew and it dawned on them that,
wow, man, I could probably try to go this direction with that information
and find out if it's going to do something specific to my situation or not.
And if it does now with your platform here, we pass that to the next person
and someone that's sitting at home scratching their damn ass like a dumb monkey
sitting there going, what would happen if I did this?
Can actually find it because it's already been done.
And now they can repeat it to see if it's going to be repeatable, which is science.
Or they can just decide it actually works because enough people have repeated it already.
And you can go in another direction.
Breeding is a great example of this.
How many people have used the chem lines to breed with?
And we know specifically the terpene profiles and structures that will come from those plants.
You can find out which ones are giving you bad expressions from reading some of the logs
that the breeders have put up from different crosses to find out that this one did not react well with that one.
Or the terpene profile I was after didn't come out of this.
Kind of like James Loud when he was talking about using the wrong sour to steer one of his lines
and he had to go back into it in a different direction.
That's just breeding right there.
You find out that when you put this plant in an F5 generation together,
that all of a sudden you start losing all the sour terpene profiles
that you've been spending generations to breed into.
And now it's gone because one of the cultivars you picked was a recessive heterozygous plant
that did not carry the alleles for the traits that you were trying to express.
But you just thought it did because it was an F4.
An F4 has got to have it.
But you found that one outlier that wasn't breeding true for those traits.
And you only found that out once you crossed it and made the next generation.
And that's a whole six months process of making the seeds, curing the seeds,
growing the seeds out and finding out those seeds didn't have what you thought were in them.
And that's all through breeding.
It takes a lot of breeding to know that.
So I write that down and I share that with information.
It used to be on the forums.
And then the forums got took down back in the day, the overgrow forums.
So we lost all that shit.
And now it's all spread out.
So everyone wants to have their own forum where they can go put their shit here.
Now I got to go dig through 100 different places to try to put together three stories.
And it just people are like, fuck that.
I'm tired of looking.
So they look at one spot, believe that story.
And it could be 100% wrong.
It could be right.
It may not even have anything to do with what they're looking for because it's so damn spread out.
They have to go to YouTube and Instagram.
And then they got to go through ICMAG and the UK420.
You're digging through every damn place you can to try to find this little tidbit of information.
And now we have a spot like this where we can condense it.
And all you got to do is search the channel and look at the title of it and see what it's about.
If you're looking for a breeder, are you looking for soil structure?
Are you looking for how to be a regenerative farmer?
There's so many things that you guys are offering on here that it comes down to so invaluable.
And the leaps and bounds of the evolution of our cannabis scene that's going to come from this is,
that's why I say it's the industrial revolution that's coming.
And the people that look at it correctly are going to be the ones that can steer this in a positive direction
or keep it in a negative direction.
We can be the ones that decide this is not going to be the Masanto plant in the future.
That this is going to be what actually is the regenerative plant of the future.
What will help steer everybody's knowledge of Mother Earth and what's below our feet.
Just because we see what's above it, that's just a result of what's below it.
If we can teach people that through cannabis or a tomato plant with our youngsters,
the next generation is going to be better than we are today.
And that's what it's all about.
So like Peter with your daughter, I see your video, you showed her outside helping plant seeds and stuff like that.
This is how you make her want to be a farmer for the rest of her life.
Not because she loves tomatoes, but because she loves her daddy and the experience she had with her through a plant.
And as she grows older, even if she never touches cannabis,
if you show her that video, she's always going to remember planting those seeds with her dad.
It's going to be a positive experience.
It's going to always make her feel better no matter what.
And it's there forever because of your platform.
As long as she has access to the internet and the computer,
she can go back and see you forever doing something with her.
For you, I know I can see just the sound in your voice.
And the fact that you're doing is something that is one of the most important things that you could have done at that time, period, in your life.
And she's going to go back and look and see that and understand that you used a plant to grab her attention
so that you could spend a little bit more positive time with your child when she might have been running around crazy playing
and not even cared what you were doing.
And it all comes down to using a plant in the earth to help ground ourselves in our family,
in our life, in our experiences.
We have to share that with the next people.
And someone's not going to think they're a farmer.
They're just going to think they're the steward of the earth who's passing information.
It's knowledge. It's a way to help someone shine.
It's teaching someone how to fish.
We just pass it on and they'll pass it to the next person.
The chances of your daughter giving up on plants, being positive in her life,
is going to be very difficult when it started off exactly as you started it.
Something extremely bad would have to happen with a tomato plant from your daughter to go,
this is terrible, man. I just don't care about it anymore.
She's always going to remember having fun with the pops, playing with plants.
That's what I remember, being eight years old and learning how to clone cannabis.
I remember those times.
I remember people giving me the chance to feel like I was an adult, that I belonged,
that I had enough experience for them to share their experience with me.
I felt like finally I fit in.
That's what the plant first did for me.
When someone else decided, hey, Keith, come here.
You want to learn how to do this?
They didn't teach my brother. My brother wasn't going to pay attention to the plant.
He didn't care. He hated cannabis. He didn't like smoking cigarettes at the time.
Drinking was stupid to him. He was smart.
I just wanted to have an experience with anyone and most people didn't like me.
When someone took a liking to me and said, hey, you want to learn how to clone?
My uncle Dave, this guy named Dave that my mom knew, my family knew,
he's out here showing me how to do air layer technique on the Afghani plants we have.
That's how I found worth in the world was through a cannabis plant.
When somebody else took the time to give me their experience, they used a plant.
I remembered it for the rest of my life.
I've used it to steer that in a positive direction.
I try to always go positive with the plant and give it back respect because
that's what I learned the very first time.
My first lesson with a plant was someone giving me respect enough to offer that lesson.
Can we dive deeper into that?
I feel like Leighton's just even put out more content here on the show of the soil horizons.
That's become the O-tech I've seen some people start to use on Instagram.
I feel like you've done the air layer tech, if you will, kind of thing.
Can you go deeper into what that is and the thought process behind it?
Actually, just quickly, Tony, before it.
Gemma, you made a cameo.
Gemma, how you doing?
Do you like working in the garden with me?
Yeah. Are you my little sidekick?
That's awesome.
So just quickly, we talked about seeing information everywhere.
My only two cents there is test and verify.
Even if you think who you're seeing it from is an expert in whatever the topic is,
a PhD, a big title, don't immediately implement what they're talking about at scale.
Test it in a small area and then scale it.
Don't scale first because that's when disaster strikes.
I would add to that, Peter, real quick, in my opinion,
also follow people that are currently cultivating cannabis,
that are putting out cannabis.
If you really want to listen to somebody at some level,
because there are a lot of PhDs out there that when you really talk to them
behind the scenes at these expos, that kind of stuff,
they've actually never even grown cannabis.
So to sit up there and lecture a bunch of people about how they should use certain things,
usually it's more products that you need to purchase to cultivate cannabis.
A lot of us are now seeing through a lot of that bullshit.
Yeah, that's why I brought up the efficacy of the information
that goes through PhD or through patient experience.
That's why my breeding went through both of them.
I had people in there that some of my members, they had botany degrees.
So they knew about plants, they knew nothing about cannabis
other than what people had told them.
And then they came in and started talking to me
and the information that I knew came through 4,400 different growers.
So I'm passing information as opinion and information
and also some of it as fact that I know.
When I can describe to you the type of trichome,
the hairs on the plant and all this stuff,
and they don't understand none of it,
I can bring up the reference to the picture
and show people that it's there through peer-reviewed studies.
This is a way for them to understand that
what they know about this plant can be carried over to this plant
and it comes to experience from other growers, not just one guy.
But exactly, what Peter is saying is true.
Don't ever take, like if you're going to replace a room
because someone told you this cut does that,
don't fill your whole garden with that cut.
You should have that in a very small percentage of your room
to find out if it's actually what they said it is,
that it's doing exactly what it does.
Unless it's somebody that's like 100%
and even then, not everyone's 100%.
I always tell everybody I'm probably wrong about everything
and half right about what I'm wrong about.
So double check everything.
Don't believe anything anyone is telling you
because of the profit of this plant.
People will tell you anything to make money off this plant.
It's easy to go ahead and just check it out yourself.
It really is.
That's what I was bringing up about trying to dig through forums
to find out the history of a plant
because people never passed it before.
So you have to go through and dig up a story
and line it up with another story
to find out if the information told to two generations
about the same plant from the same source
is the same or is someone else from that same period
telling the exact same story
and they don't even have a relationship
with this other person.
So those stories now lock together
and help take the information that you learned
and make it become canon for that plant.
So you end up finding out that a plant breeds a specific way
because like I said,
I use the Kim's because of so many people
that have used Kim.
You can understand that if you do have true Kim,
you're going to get specific expressions
out of the progeny of those plants.
Or if you're going to breed with a GMO
or if you're breeding with the cherry pie,
there's plants that people have used already
that are going to show you the expressions
that are going to come out of that plant
which are homozygous to those cultivars
if you truly have that cultivar.
So this is a way to find out
if the plant you're dealing with,
your new male that you're introducing
to say some of these elite cuttings
that are out there
is going to breed specific traits
that you are after in that line
without having to do a genetic test
to find out if it has homozygous alleles
for the specific trait that you're after.
Is it on the exact spot of the DNA chain
that you need it to be
so that it can steer that plant in a direction?
Is it homozygous recessive
or is it homozygous dominant?
Is that plant literally what you think it is?
It's easier to tell by using plants
that other folks have already used
or that you know and have experience with
than to just get two random plants
and cross them together
and think that you're going to breed
because you read about them in a book
or even saw online here for real.
You should have that experience.
It should come from people that you trust.
There's a lot of us out there
that have ran these lines.
Like over time,
I've had 176 elite moms
that I've kept in there.
I've bred with 144 plants.
The plant I know about was my own line.
I won't tell you I know about
all those other lines
like I know about my line,
but like I said,
I don't know about that line specifically.
So when people pick those up,
I can tell you what they do.
I second that Chatterbob.
Every time this man talks,
I feel like he's been able
to have more and more of a platform lately.
He's breaking down information.
Like I said,
there's so many people in the industry
that have co-signed on this gentleman
that I felt like you, the viewers,
if you didn't know who he was,
I'm glad that we can,
Peter, if you could even put up his Instagram,
follow him and kind of see what he's like.
His vibe is fantastic.
You obviously can tell from his backstory
and that kind of stuff.
And then if you're in the market for genetics,
a lot of people are,
then go support the show by going to Dagalov.
Am I pronouncing that right, Peter, by the way?
Is it Dagalov?
Yes, unless we're in Southern Africa
and it's more like Daka.
Daka.
All right.
And that's what I really,
we want to give to you guys,
is to minimize your time and effort
so that you guys can understand
the quality of genetics from day one.
Now you understand from a variety
of these different shows
how you can cultivate cannabis.
A lot of different minds
have already been talking about
how you can cultivate cannabis
on a variety of different levels.
And that's why lately I've been trying
to bring in more of these breeders
so that you guys can see
that there is a thought process to this
and it needs to be more of a chess game.
That's not what you want to be at,
especially if you follow this show.
You should be understanding behind the scenes
what it really takes to put out quality genetics.
I'm 100% with that, man.
Exactly what you're saying there.
Put something in that passion besides profit.
Steer this plant with knowledge
that you can gain from the community.
We're out here.
We're all willing to answer questions.
The ones that don't maybe are the ones
that are too busy.
There's cats out here
that are spending far too much time
of their day offering you information
when they could be hanging out
with their children or hanging out
with their wife or taking the dog out
for a walk.
But for some reason this plant's
told them that they need to dive in
as deep as they can and offer that
information to people.
Even if it's some jerk off that's on here
and I don't mean on here but on the internet
that's giving you the wrong information.
But even if it's one of those persons
full of dookie, man,
it's going to tell you what not to do, right?
You can learn from the positive
and the negatives in life.
Everyone thinks that I lost my leg
and it was the worst thing of my life.
I actually became a better human being
after I lost my leg.
It had me into a perspective
that I thought I knew
by steering cannabis through patients
until I became a dying patient myself.
Did I truly understand
the levels of relief
person could gain from a plant before it was just mental,
which is one level, but when it come down to being
one's own existence and the plant could fix that,
it gave me a whole different outlook on this plant.
It just made me understand something more deeply.
And that's what I think all of us should be striving for
when we're breeding with the plant,
or if we're gonna actually call ourselves healers
and use it for medicine.
It's not everyone that touches the plant,
but if you decide you're gonna breed and offer
something to somebody else, another human,
for a specific reason besides just having a plant
in a mylar bag, right, some seeds,
then you should have something behind that
coming from respect, coming from experience,
coming from passion.
It should come from multiple different directions
just to steer you to stay better at what you're doing
than to try to just say, fuck it, that's what I got,
and this is what they're getting, right?
This plant should give you the ability to be better
than you were yesterday,
because that's all she wants you to be.
She's a living entity that doesn't wanna die,
and she can only continue to procreate
in the world we have if we play with her correctly.
We can't just leave her out in the wild anymore.
We've decided to take over the wild.
We are everywhere.
So her future comes through us remembering our history.
We have been destructive with everything
we come in contact, and we have the ability now
to rewrite that history with a plant
that only has positivity in her.
Almost every mammal on earth, fishes, lizards,
I mean, people, we have receptors for this plant
to help us with betterment of our life,
from oiling our joints and our body
to keeping our arthritis down,
our mental issues at bay, you know?
There's a reason an animal in wild
walks by and chews on a leaf.
It's the same reason we're over there
playing with the plant.
Respect the plant.
She'll come back to you positively every time.
Every time.
Yeah, and if you're breeding,
I mean, that's gonna show,
that shines through in your work as well.
Just quickly, I was gonna have Kevin Jodry
make a cameo to say hi,
because you were talking about it.
That's my buddy, Kevin.
He was out walking his son,
and he has a conference call coming up,
so he sends his love to you.
Right on.
I miss Kevin.
I haven't seen Kevin since 2017.
That's a good man right there.
I hope his family's doing well, man.
Yeah, he's a cute little baby, man.
He's like a jackrabbit.
He's multiplying.
I see Cheddar Bob in here.
Cheddar Bob's my homeboy.
How you doing?
He's actually one of my testers.
It's hard for me to see this.
The chat's going by so fast.
I'm just barely catching everybody,
and I'm a jibber jabber.
Don't let avocado, hey man,
I'm not dogging the avocado tech, brother.
I just pass a little information with it, man.
What you guys are doing is great.
I see Blutech over there.
He's trying a different,
what does he got, the squash that he's using as the vessel?
I mean, I bet that like.
He's using one of those like street drop.
Yeah, I'm not dogging the technique
when I pass information about avocados, man.
I do that with everything, dude.
I didn't tag nobody in a post.
I'm not trying to dog nobody out,
but even I mentioned cannabis's water levels,
like how much water does it takes
to grow a pound of cannabis?
We as regenerative farmers should be conscious
of the choices that we make.
So if we decide to use something
that isn't sustainable for us,
we all teach that to each other not to be that.
Just like Layton tells everybody to use pit moss
instead of peat moss
because of the sustainability of the product.
When you rob from the earth
that we claim to be stewards of,
then we're robbing from ourself, basically.
The earth is gonna be here long after we are.
The only reason it's not gonna be here
as long as it needs to be
is because we're pulling off dip shit and shit together.
So if we can make our system better, then we do it.
So like I said, I only talk about myself.
I try to do what I'm doing better.
That's how I learned how to make a soil
that could be reused repeatedly.
My designated dank area soil mix
that I have a video on YouTube about
shows people how to build the soil mix that I have.
I've been doing that for 15 years.
I've altered it over the generations now
because some of the products
I would not wanna put in there from the blood meal
to some of the bone meal products.
I've shifted those over.
There's different sources for you to use
for nitrogen and phosphorus and potassium, calcium.
There's reasons why we all do what we're doing.
So like he says, don't show me the avocado tech.
It's just because me and him
talk about different things online.
Like for me, like what Peter said here,
you need to be able to repeat it
in other people's garden, test it out.
That's all I'm doing is testing it out.
Testing it out isn't doubting anybody
or claiming anything other than I'm testing it out.
That's all I'm talking about, brother Cheddar.
Yeah, I feel like that went viral
even just a few years ago, the avocado tech.
People could see with their own eyes how it worked.
Well, worms breaking down organic matter
is the basis of what's happening in mother nature, right?
They're giving enzymes out of their body.
They're making what goes in them
seven times more available to the plant.
It's more nutritious.
It's better for the earth.
So what the worm's doing is it's working, right?
So the only thing that I question is
how much difference is happening
between what's happening in that small amount
that you put in compared to if you didn't.
I'm not saying it doesn't work.
I just wanna see the actual outcome of what's happening.
So I would wanna grow a garden with the technique
and without the technique is how I would go about doing it
instead of putting it in all my gardens
because then I cannot register what's happening,
especially if all my plants are sharing one soil bed.
I could have one plant that's making a connection
with the endomicrorisal population
that's in the rhizosphere
that's now connected to all the plants that are in that bed
and it itself is helping what's growing,
growing there more than a technique
that you've decided to add to it.
So I would just wanna test it.
It's not me doubting anything.
It's just me picking up information.
That's all I'm after
when I talk about that technique, brother.
Hey, let's throw blue on here if he wants to come on here.
Sure, that gets to the test and verify.
It's like growing almonds up here.
Almonds take so much damn water up here.
People have quit growing almonds.
You're yanking out walnut trees in my area
because we don't have much moisture anymore.
They quit raining into my area for a few years.
We're in a drought situation.
People are either gonna lose their farms
or they need to replace what's there.
So there's a place here that my mom almost bought
when we did move here instead of where we're at
and it had a walnut farm on there.
And about four years ago,
they chopped every walnut tree to the ground
and just ground everything up.
And it's just there bare now
because they would rather not put money
into growing walnuts than waste
what they consider wasting cash
trying to keep growing the walnut.
Even though, and they're directly on the Sacramento River.
Literally, you can throw a rock
from the edge of their property into the river.
They're pulling water straight out of there.
But because of the water laws here,
they're not allowed to pull out enough
to keep the trees alive.
So now they got to try to buy water
to bring in to put on the crop.
But now it's not worth it
because of the amount of water it takes to grow one almond.
I believe it's like 72 gallons to grow one almond.
So it's not just cannabis.
There's so many plants that like in an area regional,
if you don't have any water,
it's not efficient to grow that plant in that area.
It goes back to just like if we're farming cannabis,
if you wanna grow CBD or THC,
you don't grow say triangle cush
in a garden that you're trying to pull CBD out of.
You're not gonna get enough of it.
You're probably gonna lose your ass
and the business is gonna go under.
If you're trying to farm CBD,
you're gonna look for cultivars high in that cannabinoid
so that you can fill the garden with it.
So at the end of the day,
what you pull off that plant comes out as much as possible.
Your garden becomes as efficient as possible.
So that's what being a genitive farmer
is kind of based on.
Trying to reproduce what you can in your area
for as little money as possible
giving back as much as you can
to the area that you're farming in.
That's that to me,
that's what the regenerative side of farming
and farming in general should be about.
I'm talking about cannabis.
It keeps us from monocropping.
It's gonna keep us from doing a lot of crazy things
that are killing the earth.
Well said man.
So there was a question about,
and she says she did not mean to yell in all caps,
but can you tell us what's in his soil?
Like when you made your recent raised beds,
kind of what was the,
what's the Mr. Toad mix?
When I do, it's called the designated,
it's the DDA soil mix.
It goes back to the DDA.
It's what it's called.
There's a video on YouTube on my channel,
four four big bone four four.
It's called the DDA soil mix.
The video is 23 minutes long.
It'll walk you through the original recipe
from 15 years ago.
It's different now.
That recipe at that time had a blood meal, bone meal,
crab meal, shrimp meal, fish meal,
activated charcoal,
green sand.
What else did I have in there?
Worm castings, human matter.
There would have been mushroom compost in that.
What else, what else, what else?
There's, it would start off with a peat
and either coconut with a type of aeration
and a form of compost.
Or what I show in the video is how people can mix it
with soil that they can buy at their local
like landscaping yard.
You can go down there and have them mix your own soil up.
Because that's what I usually would do.
I would go down there and have them start with a base
and mix me up my base for me.
And then I could have that shipped to my house.
And then I would make my batches in 60 gallon batches
that were then stretched to 120 gallons
once it had all cooked up.
Because they're hot amendments that are in the original one.
You can switch now to non hot amendments
that won't raise the compost temperature
when it's composting.
So you could basically plant directly into the soil.
But I've used that salt mix for over 15 years,
designated ink area.
It would have some of all of those.
If I'm going in like my raised beds,
there was no blood meal added to it.
I would rather use a fish bone meal that's in there.
So that's gonna offer me a little bit of nitrogen
and a little bit of phosphorus and potassium
going to a fish bone meal.
There's amino acids that are gonna be adding in there
in the form of either fish aminos
or a soybean based amino acid.
So it's got a natural form of nitrogen
that's gonna help with protein synthesis in the plant,
which helps cell division.
That's what's gonna help.
Aminos and enzymes are what help build all the cells
in the plants that you're making.
So if you have a readily accessible amino acid in the soil,
so when the roots finally do set,
they're gonna be able to become available
from the enzymatic action of the worms that are in there.
Or if you're using a product,
something like BioAg's Full Power.
Full Power, hell yeah.
It's gonna help create the actual organic nutrients
in the soil and help that pass
through the root tips of the plant much easier
and make it more readily available.
You can also use that when you're doing your foliar sprays
to add to your plant
so you can add any kind of micro deficiencies
that you're dealing with.
Sunshine in a bottle.
Peter, we need to get them to sponsor the show, man.
We talk about their product every week.
It seems like he's muted.
You guys wanna take some questions?
Oh no, he's frozen?
Yeah, he's frozen.
Juggling, eh?
He'll be back, but yeah, let's cue up the questions
for when he does come back.
Brian, you tell a joke or something until he comes back.
I'm definitely not a comedian.
I will say, Blue, I'd love for you to come on, man,
because I feel like the reason why avocado took off
is because it was simplistic.
We just started off breeding worms.
That's really the basis of it.
And then people kind of just assume certain things about it.
I feel like it's so basic that when people try it,
that's why other people have continued to do that.
And the regenerative aspect of it,
I think when you really think about shipping worms
or the amount of money that it costs
to try to get worms going
compared to buying one little avocado is a drastic difference.
Sorry about that.
I had to get my charger, my damn charger.
Thing's about to die here.
Yeah, long form.
It's the long form podcast.
Yeah, no, sorry.
You had just mentioned BioAg,
and I have tons of their samples here,
and they actually just sent me a bunch more,
and I'll be-
Yeah, full power.
I think their stuff will be on the Daga Love website soon.
Yeah, it's killer product, the real BioAg,
not the one that Monsanto tried to front on,
but real BioAg, the full power.
That's some of the best.
It's a big white one underneath that bag, man.
Should be there.
If not, it's okay.
Sorry about that.
I'm trying to get some in the Brimming extension cord
with my mom.
And it has a nice gold color to it.
That's why it was always on his sunshine and water.
You can use that.
I used to use a humic soil in my soil mix,
so instead of having to use BioAg,
you can use a humic actual soil,
ancient, real old-ass soil.
It's killer shit.
Peat's actually gonna be a good process
to have some humics that come off it
just from the processing of the plant and how old it is.
They help create the natural organics
that you're gonna put in the soil,
along with the worms.
Worms are key to what's happening in organics,
along with the fungal matter,
the nematodes that are coming in there,
everything that can be coming from organics.
People are afraid of organics
because they see movement in the soil.
They're seeing bugs.
They're seeing pests, and they don't know what to do
because they come from a system that's hydroponic.
That was one of the biggest drawbacks of people learning
when they came from synthetic grows
to where people are starting to grow organically
and show people how you can get a far better product
from an organic plant if you let mother nature
do what she's supposed to do
instead of trying to pile drive that thing in there
with either plant growth regulators
or plant growth retardants,
because a lot of people are trying to steer that
by adding different hormones at specific time
to get a plant to do something
instead of using the natural process
that the plant can already do.
You can build that in your soil.
You can do stressors naturally,
kind of like what Sasquatch was doing
with the axiom, hairpin proteins.
There's ways to use jasmonic acid
to increase the systemic required resistance in a plant.
There's many different things that you could do
to get this plant to produce
on a higher level more efficiently
if only you just had the information.
Thank you.
Yeah, shout out to Sasquatch
because he isn't really like anybody.
So when we could get him to come out of hibernation,
it was fantastic to hear from him.
Yeah, that show was killer on there, man.
Seeing the herb that he did
and the levels of terpenes that he's hitting
based on just using knowledge, right?
Not one system, but using multiple systems
to get the result out of a plant that he's after.
Not just because somebody said it
because it actually works, right?
And it's a process that if each one of us went
we can start to replicate and get results that are similar.
Maybe you won't start hitting 10% terpenes on your plants,
but if you go from 1% to 3%,
you just made a 200% increase right there.
You have a far better plant than you used to have.
That's from using information from someone that came on
that, like you say, doesn't like to be as open publicly
as some other people do.
But when it comes on, you get these,
like you say, those golden nuggets.
You get information from somebody
that has spent so much time trying to figure one thing out
like him and like Brandon, and I guess like myself,
and Kevin Jodry's ability to take in the information
passed to him from other growers and other farms
and to keep that in his storage banks up here, right?
Where he can access that information like that
and give it back to a grower that needs it.
And then if they can use that to steer the car
that they're trying to drive in that particular direction
and handle their business,
they're gonna get there more efficiently.
It's going to happen better.
It helps a patient, it helps a business,
it's gonna help the economy.
There's so many different stages of what's about to come
with this plant from the knowledge that we're all sharing.
If we just all use this as a community, a real community,
and I don't just mean cats
that are sharing pictures on Instagram.
I'm talking about people that are trying
to save each other's grandmother, not just your own.
Like my grandpa's dead and I'm still trying
to save someone else's grandpa
from not screaming for cannabis because mine did.
So if you can remember that before it happens,
then less people will have to go through that.
You know what I mean?
Like if you understand that why I started putting pollen
on a plant was because my grandfather screamed for cannabis
and we couldn't give it to him because we had been busted.
And the reason we had been busted was him.
He had turned us in like it's full circle of life.
I could have said, fuck the old dude
and let him die in pain.
And instead, until I could, I went and stole cannabis
from my friend's house.
Like, I don't mean steal it, but I'd be like,
my grandpa's sick.
I'd tell him a story, they'd give me the weed.
If I had to actually go out and sell something of mine
and go buy it, I'd go buy it.
But every time I had some herb, I came back
and stuffed it in a cigarette until the very end
when I did not have any.
They were coming here every day
because my mom was on probation.
So every day they were coming to check on her
because she went to a fucking store she wasn't supposed to
to buy my brother a shirt one day
when she had the fucking ankle bracelet on
after she was on probation.
And now they're coming every day
so we couldn't have any herb in the house, period.
So the old man dies screaming
10 days after my mom gets out of jail.
So that's all the time she had with my grandfather.
So people remember that perspective about cannabis
that it could be the worst time of your life,
but end up becoming what becomes your life's work
all because of a situation that you had no power over.
I could not change the fact that I wasn't able
to give my grandfather cannabis,
but I could change the fact
that I could offer somebody else's.
And that's what I took my life's work into doing.
That's why I gave them away for free
until the veterans were like,
we ain't taking this shit for free no more.
You're gonna give us a price and we're gonna pay for it.
We don't take nothing for free.
They literally came in my shop,
homeboy whipped out his buck knife
and sticks it on the counter
and he starts yelling at me and shit.
I'm like, John, big John, check it out.
You guys are bringing me invaluable information.
I should be paying you guys.
The fact that I'm giving you clones and plants
and bud is just minuscule to the fact
that you guys come in here and tell me
that you yourself who has superior anger issues, brother,
like you're in here with a buck knife,
but if I give you the specific cannabis,
you can control that shit, right?
You gave me information I'll never be able to know
unless I met you and people like yourself.
I have to know a dude that wants to whip a buck knife out
in the middle of a conversation
to be able to offer him cannabis
that might make him stop doing that shit, man.
And I've learned that from you and your friends.
So no, I won't take your money from you,
but if I have to offer it in my club for a price,
I'll gladly do that.
If you guys want to see me put a price on them in here
so the people that are really just coming in here
to smoke weed pay for them fine.
I said, but you guys are never gonna pay
for a seed or a clone from me.
And if I can afford to give you the herb,
you're getting that for free too, man.
And I'm gonna buy your herb back when you grow it.
Everything I can do to help support you
because you support me.
That's what my club's about.
And that's how I ended up getting
everybody's respect in my area.
He started bringing me all these veterans.
Every veteran he knew came to my club
because of that conversation.
When I didn't back down from his book knife
and I told him that the only reason he was my friend
was because I respected the information he had,
he took that in and now he had a positive experience
with a plant, kinda like I brought up
with Peter's daughter earlier.
He went from being pissed off
because what he was pissed off about mostly
was he came in about a plant that had a name
that reminded him of his dead friends.
We had Agent Orange on our bud counter
and my dad died from complications of Agent Orange.
He knew men that died from Agent Orange
and he was pissed off.
And he thought we made the strain.
He did not know that it came from another breeder
and the reason why they made it,
named it that for dedication to the father
that passed away from Agent Orange.
All he knew was that that name reminded him
of his dead friends and he was pissed off.
So he had came in with a reason to kick my ass.
And what I ended up doing was sending a email
to the breeder that made it and told him
we were gonna change the name to Orange Cream on our shelf,
but still let everybody know what it is when they ask
because we don't want to bastardize the plant.
It's only the herb, but I got all these veterans
that wanna come in here and scout my ass
because it's bringing up negative energy.
But when I changed that to a positive energy
by telling him that his information was invaluable
and that what he was going through was a positive
in my life, even though in his life was the negative,
it brought respect to both of us.
And we ended up becoming friends until,
until I ended up leaving the shop
and I didn't see him anymore.
That's what the plant can do.
We don't have to smoke it.
We didn't have to grow it.
All we had to do is offer some information to each other
as a conversation and treat each other as humans
for the plant to fix a situation.
That's all we did.
We just spoke about it openly to each other
like we were humans instead of like he was my, my custody.
Man, I wasn't selling him shit.
I let him come in my club.
It was free.
He got his joint for free.
If he came in for clones, they were free,
him and his whole crew, period.
But they were getting pissed
because they thought we were using them
or having pity on them.
And I'm like, it's not about that, brother.
Like everything you know,
teaches me something about life that I need to know.
Your experience is helping me drive my breeding projects
along with other people, the seniors that come in here
that use the cannabis topically.
Like there's no way for me to know how cannabis is gonna,
like I had my legs in, I had guys with the amputations.
I didn't know how cannabis was stopping ghost pains.
I couldn't understand that.
So I wasn't using the topicals for that reason.
Until that happened, did I really understand?
That's why I said I didn't truly get it
until the medical conditions that were about to take my life
kicked me in my ass.
Literally.
It just, it dawned on me far too late.
That's why I offered this information to everybody
when I get the chance, when Peter asked me
and when you guys asked me to come on here,
I wanna offer my experience with plant
only because it's gonna help someone not fail
like I did with it.
I failed a small amount on myself.
This is a way to stop others to possibly going
through the same situation I did.
Yeah, that's why we reached out to you, buddy,
is because we wanted to give back to our viewers
the real experience of what it's take.
Not only are you a farmer, but you're a true breeder.
And I feel like that's what a lot of the beginners
might not appreciate until a few years in
when they've really been cultivating.
I know myself, when I was about two or three years in,
man, you couldn't tell me nothing, dude.
I thought I was Mr. fucking weed, right?
And then of course I got rust at mites
and everything got back to perspective
of what it really takes to be a full
and whole rounded cannabis farmer.
Yeah, it takes a lot, man.
And it's not just farmer, it's a human in life.
If you don't experience enough life,
you become locked into your own truths
as being everyone's truths
and you're not the best version of yourself.
So for me, it's always about trying to be
a better version of myself.
If I can understand even a small bit of your situation,
I don't have to live it.
And I can take that experience with me.
I may not understand it as you did,
but I know it more than I used to.
And that's what compassion and humanity is all about.
That's how we get past,
instead of being locked into the negatives
that we all carry negatives,
there's a reason why I lost my leg, right?
There's a reason why somebody else
is taking advantage of someone
because they don't have the knowledge of the plant.
We know tons of breeders out here
that are offering some fake ass bullshit to people
because they can.
Every day on Instagram,
there's somebody that has stole someone else's identity
to try to post up packs that they claim they have
from somebody in the community
that's done shit for years, right?
And it's only because of the uneducation
of the actual consumer.
So with this product,
what we have here, Future Cannabis from Peter,
people are gonna be able to come on here
and see that information.
Like if they doubt me as a breeder or a human
or my experience,
they can come on here and see me
look directly into the camera
and give that information to them as my truth.
It doesn't have to be everyone's truth.
Not everyone's gonna get sick from touching the plant.
Not everyone's gonna start smoking when they're four.
But when you can see that I can talk to you
and explain to you about homozygous
and heterozygous alleles in a plant,
when I can talk to you about photoperiod
or non-photoperiod,
if I can explain phototropism, photoperiodism,
if I can talk to you about different amendments
and what they're gonna do in the soil
or some of the life that's in the rhizosphere,
you can understand that even on a small scale,
I know some of the information I'm talking about.
I'm not one of the guys out there
that's just typing some shit
that they copied off of Instagram
or they found on the net and put it on their post,
which it could look like.
If you didn't see me do this face-to-face
and wasn't able to say these words as quick as I do
and come up with the information that I have,
I could just be lying.
And that's what's wrong with the internet age of cannabis.
In the old days, none of us were lying on the forums
about the weed.
We were trying to figure that shit out, right?
So you went into a conversation with the guy
that was talking about that, that you thought you had.
So you and him would converse for a couple months on there
with aliases, right?
So you're on there talking to a dude
that you only know as fucking Jim Joe,
the bag boy or some shit, right?
You've never seen him, you don't know shit about him,
but he's got pictures of a plant
that looked just like yours, with the same name.
And he starts putting up grows of it
and telling you how he's breeding with it.
So you contact him back through the forum
and ask him, does it do this?
Where'd you get it?
And you find out that the source of the plant
came from the same people.
You start locking in information.
And that's where hustling your ass with the plant comes from.
That's when the dedication to being a breeder
really starts to take place.
And then you start to house lines for multiple years.
Like how many people are carrying a Kim cut or sour diesel
for two decades, right?
The plants have been out here for 30 years.
It's take dedication of growers to keep a plant that long
for people today that are just starting to smoke or grow
to witness some of the progeny or those actual cuts.
And they all come from dedication of a farmer.
Like that plant is an annual, it was gonna grow,
it was gonna flower out and it was gonna die.
And some man or woman decided, you know what?
That thing's beautiful.
I'm gonna learn how to manipulate it
and how to keep it going as a perennial.
So we didn't start to manipulate it.
And that's a beginning of line breeding.
Even if we just keep it in clonal form every year,
the plant, we have changed some of the traits
and the genes epigenetically steering this plant
to do what it's doing, right?
If we'd have left this S of V,
if it was able to pop up in nature,
she would have disappeared if we didn't go back
and continue to water and find it.
Like in my area, every 30 years,
we get a drought that kills all kinds of stuff out here.
This plant ain't making it, right?
So it comes down to a human being deciding
what to do with the plant.
And it takes a lot of work.
There's electricity, there's gardens you gotta set up.
You gotta learn how to do soil structure
or even just doing nutrients.
You can't just keep copying somebody's nutrient system
without learning about nutrients.
Because one day the company goes out of business,
you don't have that nutrient anymore.
Now you've got to figure out how to replace the nutrient
that's not available.
And since you didn't know shit about nutrients,
now your whole garden dries up and dies
and you're not the dope man no more, right?
So it comes down to do you know anything
about what the fuck you're talking about?
Or are you just passing shit to people
that are looking for something?
So everybody's looking for something.
So you should be looking for what you want
from people that actually have it
instead of looking for what you want
because you think it's there.
There's differences in realities.
There's a lot of people pushing reality out here
and a lot of people pushing fake.
And if they're gonna willing to come on here
and talk to you and show that,
it's easier for you to find that out.
Way easier.
Well said, man.
I think a lot of people out there
wanna pick your brain a little bit
with some questions and that kind of thing.
Yeah, anytime.
I've been trying to read this chat.
It's so hard on this computer.
So if Peter throws him up there,
I'll do my best to look at him.
Chat's giving me a headache right now.
Everybody just chill the fuck out.
You have been repeating yourself.
If I look through this chat and the last show,
you've said a lot of similar stuff.
Let's point out that today is Thursday.
It's during the day work hours.
You're a grown man and you seem to come on and troll.
I think that says a lot about you, bro.
Let's move on.
So I think it'd be fun to,
give me one second.
Hey, I'll answer anything they wanna ask me, man.
If you can walk us through what you wanted to,
the teaching, the lessons you wanted to show in this.
Let me see if I can, let me make this bigger
so I can see it here.
Come on, man.
Flora Nugs, come on, man.
I also told him to shut the fuck up too, okay?
Let's see, the homozygous.
I told both of you to chill.
Homozygous is going to be a plant
that's carrying pairs of alleles,
different loci on the plant
so that it can breed that trait
that you're after into the progeny.
So a plant's gonna carry two of that allele.
It has the ability to pass one every time when it's breeding.
If it only carries one of those alleles
in this heterozygous,
it only has the ability to possibly pass
one of those alleles to the progeny,
which means that the other parent,
the other P1 or the F0,
is going to have to either carry two of them
or also one that's recessive
that you just get lucky to line up
in certain phenotypes during that cultivation.
So every seed's gonna be different.
Once it's popped out of there,
you're gonna have to grow it.
And just because it looks purple
doesn't mean it's gonna breed for purple.
That's where you come with dominance
and recessive in the trait.
Homozygous dominant, homozygous recessive.
It comes to for breeding.
You're not gonna make every trait
in that plant homozygous.
People think when you make an inbred line,
every trait in that plant passes.
The cannabis plant has the ability
to pass around 27,000 traits when it passes.
It has 32,000 that are available
on each mother and father,
or each female and female crossing.
The megabase of the plant is larger in the males.
This is why I believe breeding with males is important,
even though using fem lines is not wrong.
It's also a form of inbreeding.
If you take a male plant and start to introduce it
at some point into your breeding,
you're offering genetics that are not available
in the phenotypes of the females
because they do not have the same size megabase
of genetic information to pass when they are breeding.
So if you're looking for purple in a plant
and say your female and the crosses aren't giving it to you,
but when you made a cross with the male,
it started to show up 25% of the time.
It's showing you that that male now,
even though recessive, is recessive
and carrying one of the traits you're looking for
that you can now find in an F2 generation,
an F3 generation, in a back cross generation,
or you could do an out cross to a plant
that is either not purple to find that extremely rare one
that pops out or to a actual purple plant
that breeds with the purple.
And now you're going to guarantee yourself an increase
in the amount of progeny
that are gonna show the trait you're looking for.
And I'm only saying purple because we all know purple
and it's right here on this.
If you really wanna breed for certain things,
it goes back to what I was talking about.
Use what you are after with experience
that can do what you're after.
Don't look for purples in a plant
that does not have the ability
to offer anthocyanin production.
And it does it extremely low in the phenotypes you're after.
You bought a 10 pack of seeds
from a guy that made a million seeds
and all of a sudden people think
they're pheno hunting a line.
Those 10 seeds are a very small representation
of what's in there.
And the possibility of you getting that one outlier
for the recessive genes that you're looking for
in a particular line,
instead of digging through them
for the homozygous dominant,
just means you don't understand breeding yourselves.
You have to go through a line
and look for what's available
instead of trying to steer what's in that plant
from the outliers.
The outliers are great,
but you could probably find that outlier in another line
where it's not an outlier,
which makes it a more homozygous trait.
It's gonna give you the ability
to lock that trait into a line with less breeding.
It makes what you're doing easier.
So I could repeat it a hundred times.
It's not because I'm trying to repeat
just one set of information.
It's truth.
That's what happens.
That's how you line breed.
You go for a direction
and you do that direction based on the progeny
that pop out of there.
You don't just keep breeding the green one for purple.
If one of them turns purple and you're looking for purple,
that's what you breed for.
You do not start to steer the wrong direction
and call yourself a breeder.
You're just a dude making seeds.
Like I share a lot of information out there for people
so that they can go look at the same source that I went to.
It's not my information.
There's been people messing with plants
and document it as far as we know.
I mean, cavemen were painting plants on the side of a wall.
You think he did that shit
because he didn't look at the plant?
He had to observe it.
He was trying to figure something out.
So the information I offer is the information
that is true for me, that's my experience.
Doesn't mean it's the only set of experience.
I'm willing to talk about it with anybody.
So I'm not trying to hide anything if anyone thinks I am.
I haven't been even reading the chat in here.
So what I say is you can get ahold of me 24 hours a day
and we can talk about stuff
as long as it comes through as respectful
and you're not just telling me I'm a jackass.
Like we're humans, right?
Let's do it.
Let's talk about it.
What's wrong with that?
It's how I learned.
I think people just wanna troll the troll, man.
What I was saying is this show is all about
just really information.
So all the little drama and stuff,
I wanna make sure that we keep that out of it
because the entire point of us doing this on Thursdays,
everybody here is given their time, right?
Is to give the audience, the viewers, the gold nuggets.
That's the be all end all
of what we are trying to do on Thursday.
So there's little distraction bullshit on the side.
That's why when Peter comes out,
I feel like we're all trying to dip that shit in the bud
because we don't do that here, man.
That's not where I...
You wanna go to Instagram for that, my friend.
That's where you can eat that up to your heart's desire.
Yeah, I try to put that.
Every time I see it in the chat,
I try to tell people to give Peter the respect he deserves.
He's taking his time out of his day.
You saw his daughter walking there.
He 100% has a better thing to do
than to hang out with a bunch of stoners
that don't wanna be cool.
Like smoke some fucking weed and chill the fuck out
and ask a question that might enlighten me or yourself
or someone in the chat or one of the guys on camera.
Let's help each other out instead of being clowns, right?
Cannabis isn't for clowns.
Go get some peanuts and hang out at the circus.
Well, for me, it's less about me and more just like,
all the people who regularly show up in the chat
to just kind of enjoy themselves and talk to each other.
And then when one person's just like negative, negative,
negative, negative, negative, it's just like,
dude, come on, everyone else has to,
I don't know how to say it.
It's like, it makes the chat less enjoyable for me
and I assume for a lot of other people, so.
I hear you, man, I hear you.
I mean, like the chat's not gonna make my day get any worse.
I'm a one-legged jackass over here.
I'm dealing with trying to stay alive
so people can say whatever they wanna say in the chat.
I'm just like, whatever, homie.
You keep on doing you and I'm gonna do me.
But I do believe that they need to offer the respect
to everybody on there,
because again, we all are on here
and could be doing something else
and we're all offering our realities to folks.
Like me being a dude that's missing part of his body,
that's my reality.
It doesn't mean I'm an asshole
or trying to force anything into anybody else.
Like, how about homeboy come on here
and tell us how bad his life is.
How many limbs are you missing to make you a jackass
the way you wanna be in the chat, brother?
Come on and talk about it.
Just chatting up stupid shit.
If you know more than me, come in school my ass
so I understand something.
I only learned because someone knew more shit than I did
and I sat there quietly and listened.
I'm always down to listen every minute of every day.
When I'm not on here, I'm on my computer reading.
I'm trying to figure out something I don't know.
I'm trying to make the information in my head better.
I'm down 100% to learn, brother.
So come on the show and let's do it.
Well, let's get back to the learning.
We've made our point.
My only point was everybody else
has to watch every chat message.
So here's a question for you.
When you keep moms going, how long do you keep your moms for?
When I was in my club, I would keep a mom
for roughly 90 days before I rotated her out.
The mom is going to get too root bound
in a specific situation and she's gonna start
having troubles with the amount of endogenous hormones
she's gonna produce.
She's gonna start to change the amount of ethylene
or gibbereck acid or...
or abscisic acid.
And that's going to affect how she's gonna start to clone
and actually the progeny that are gonna come from her.
So what I do is I try to keep that mom as fresh as possible.
I want the tissue to be very turgid.
This is gonna offer me the correct hormones
for specific situations of a plant.
Like re-vegging a plant's very bad for breeding with it
and for trying to actually get the weight
that you want back out of that same plant.
You start to change the amount of hormone levels
that plant produced naturally
in that specific stage of growth.
And she's gonna start to alter some of the traits
that she is using to steer herself during its epigenetics.
So putting a plant in an area for a specific time
changes which traits are gonna be on and off in her
for if she needs to have the ability to fight off UV light.
This is going to be something
that you're not gonna be able to steer indoors
because we're not putting enough UV light on the plant.
So she starts to reduce the traits
that help her actually fight UV.
So you get a plant that once put outside
doesn't work well in a place
that has extreme amount of UV light.
Or if you're breeding for say mold resistance,
if you put that in a area indoors
that's completely temperature regulated,
that never sways with the moisture level,
your plant doesn't learn that it needs to battle
those specific environmental issues
and doesn't start to steer its own self
through epigenetic steering
of the traits that are locked inside.
So some of those traits
are going to be able to switch on and off.
Some traits are constant all the time.
So you're only gonna learn that
through breeding with the plant really
and doing genetic sequencing.
Genetic sequencing comes down to being too much
for the average grower.
So it's much easier for the average grower
to get one male and run six to 10 different females on him
to learn what that male and those females do.
Now, once you do it once, you grab a second male,
cross it to those same females,
look at the differences and what comes out of the progeny
and start to see what's happening
with the two males that you've chosen to breed with
and the females that are coming through the alliance.
Now you know what the females are offering,
what the males started to offer.
Now you've educated yourself of the simplest form
on how to start to line breed those plants
in the direction that you want.
You could steer, we could give 10 seeds to all of them
to the chat.
Okay, we need to start a reboot.
Yeah, 20 minute time out.
Yeah.
Now we have some good questions
that I'm ready to queue up.
Chris, I told Gemma she's gonna cut my hair with the,
I cut my own hair
and I told her she's gonna hit me with the beard trimmer.
Which I have like all the different settings.
So like I do the shortest setting on the sides,
the longest setting on the top.
All right, we'll wait for,
we'll let his bandwidth catch up to the conversation.
Sidi, I see you're quite up, here he comes.
Oh, no, there he just disappeared again.
All right, let me just queue up some of these questions.
I like what he was really talking about on overgrow.
I overstate that a lot myself,
but I don't think a lot of people
realize how long it used to take to get information.
And now all that information is deleted.
So that's why I think like this matter.
There we go, I'm back here.
Sorry guys, this internet is terrible.
Okay, you ready for a...
Go ahead, yeah.
All right, hold on.
So we had,
what was the most impactful literature
you've read on plant breeding?
What are some of the books that you've read?
That are on the, in the Toad library?
Oh, well, like I said,
reading everything from Luther Burbank and Gregor Mendel
is where I kind of started with reading.
When I was at the club, I used to,
I'd have free time.
So I just sit there reading everything I could
on plant breeding.
Those guys were kind of the basis of breeding.
And then from there, I just started staring into
some of the books that really aren't about cannabis.
Like I start reading stuff about
roses and chili peppers.
I just started reading everything about plants,
but my real information came from me talking to farmers
that came in my club and asking them about
other plants they grew besides cannabis.
I was trying to learn everything I could
as quickly as possible through experience
with the plant from people that had it.
And so that's basically how I learned most of my stuff
about anything besides cannabis.
It was by trying to take that experience from other folks
that would come in.
Like I said, I had a few patients that were actually
botany majors that would come in
and they would talk to me about plants.
They were surprised at my knowledge of
what I did know about plant,
even though I feel it's extremely basic.
They would tell me that I knew more stuff
than a lot of people they knew,
which would help me know that what I was doing
on my own was correct.
The fact that I could understand some of the stuff
I was reading without having an actual instructor
teaching it to me, told me that not only could I learn it,
but I can teach that to someone else.
So that's when I started offering that information
to other people.
I used to do classes in my club so patients could come in
and we'd do 20 or 30 people at a time
and we'd start teaching people how to clone.
We'd run through people with some of the breeding practices
we were doing and how to find different cultivars
to steer what you were looking for in your own garden.
So people would come in and say they wanna grow plants
that taste like blueberry or something, right?
So you tell them which way to start steering the plant
that way to get more of that terpene profile out of a plant.
A lot of people didn't know any of that information
back in the day when we had started our club,
they were just coming in and knowing they wanted weed.
They didn't know they were gonna be able to come in
and actually grasp information.
We were known for that at my club.
We were known for being the place that you could come to
and ask the question and we would find information for you.
So it didn't have to be us that gave it to you.
If we knew club X across the way carried the cultivar
that you needed, we sent you straight over there.
So our town eventually became a community like that
where it wasn't just battling for everybody's dollar,
but we knew that a lot of us were carrying,
like if you had bubba on your shelf,
probably every other club in town had bubba on the shelf.
So during the week you run out of bubba
so that your patient would not just leave you,
it would never come back.
You tell them where there's some bubba at
from the same vendor, even if it's at another club.
Now they respect the fact
that you weren't just selling them something
and that they actually meant something to you
when you sent them somewhere else to use their money
and they didn't even spend it there.
You give them a free joint and tell them club X has the bubba
go pick it up over there.
They'd go pick it up.
They'd end up coming back the next week
because of what we did.
And you end up building a community.
The other club knows you did it.
We'd call them up and tell them,
we got this person coming over.
They're already authorized.
So they just looking for specific strain.
They'd find out that information.
The person would come in.
It made the experience quicker and easier.
So the bud tender already knew what to start to explain
to them about the process of what they were doing
and what they were getting.
Was it a concentrate?
Was it a flower?
Was it a clone?
The person wasn't just in there as a customer.
So we tried to steer our medical stuff
in 215 towards medical, man.
The new stuff that's here is all about your custody.
It's about what's on the package.
It's about the regulation of the package.
It's about what color is your package.
It's about what name you put on the package
but it doesn't have nothing to do about the backbone
of why you put what you put in the package
which is actually the patient, the person that's smoking it
the stoner, the sick grandmother, the grandfather
that's dying from cancer, right?
The one-legged jackass that's your buddy, me, right?
Those are the backbone to why you're breeding
what you're breeding and putting in the packs
and offering them to the people that you offer them to.
At least that's what I'm doing.
The next one was, let me make it nice.
How do you regenerate stem tissue
from woody to succulent on your old moms?
You're going to have to start removing
some of the actual rhizosphere
and starting adding new fresh soil to that.
You need to change the amount of light on there
so you can start steering different hormones.
Once it started to become woody like that
that started to build up a lot of abscisic acid
in the plant.
The abscisic acid is what's going to keep the plant
from starting to drop roots as much as possible.
You'd want to start switching it with,
you could actually add different hormones
like ethylene or cytokine in the form of kinitin.
That can be foliar sprayed on the plant
to increase the amount of the auxins
that you actually need in a plant
that's in the vegetative state in the earlier growth.
The plant's going through multiple stages
from being a seedling all the way to being a plant
that you're going to harvest.
And each one of those stages has a different amount
of endogenous hormones that is going to be in that plant
specific to that cultivar and phenotype.
So the older that plant gets, the more woody and pithy
the plant becomes.
The pith inside is xylem that starts to die away.
It forms different seeds inside,
seed tubes that allow the fluid to pass through
that we all see as gutation that can pop out in plants.
That's going to be what you're seeing
as the older part of the plant.
It does not have the ability to hold the hormones
that you're after to actually drop roots.
That's why you need a more turgid tissue on the plant.
You're going to get that from changing lighting schedule,
lighting spectrum and nutrition on the plant.
So those three things will help you revert basically
any plant from being old to new by using different,
different micro life in the soil.
They're going to help open up actually what that plant needs
to revert back to making the proper hormone levels
in that actual stage.
It's easy to revert.
We can see this by doing a reveging on plants.
You can grow a plant from beginning to end and revege it
and grow it again and she'll grow.
If you give it enough time, the proper light and spectrum,
she'll make it a hundred percent.
Increase the amount of 470 nanometers,
increase the 660 nanometers.
And that plant's going to start to slowly come out of
flower because you've changed the photochrome far red
back to photochrome red from inactive to the active form,
which is one of the major drivers of that plant staying
in veg or going into flower through photo periodism.
Bars.
It's starting to become a problem here.
That leaf septoria, that mold is pretty jacked up.
You're going to have to remove all that part of the plant.
And you need to remove a lot of the soil underneath the
plant because the spores are on the soil.
And then I would start treating the plant with some type of
bacterial inoculant.
And what do I have over here?
I can't remember.
Tinnit.
Tinnit would help you with getting rid of sephoria and
fusarium and gray molds.
Then you can re-inoculate the plant and start helping
fight that stuff off.
It's better to, if you know you're getting that in your
cannabis and you have a cultivar that's susceptible to that,
I would remove it from my stable.
I would want that plant out because it's just having issues
in that area.
And there's a possibility of that actually just continuing
to spread in my garden to where some of the other plants
that will end up with issues with that same plant.
If I leave it in there long enough, that's,
that's why we start getting powdered mildew everywhere.
A person brings a plant in with that.
It's in your garden for two years and you just keep battling.
You never get rid of it and stop it.
And it's just constantly dropping more historia in there.
There's more spores dropping.
It's just an endless cycle of something constantly going,
I got powdered mildew.
I need to get rid of it.
But once you see it, it's already in there.
There's almost nothing you can do without going into
clean everything mode.
Quit trying to grow buds and save the system.
In the six traits, if you have 20 seeds,
would you open pollinate?
Yes, I would.
Dream 77.
If I got 20 seeds and I'm trying to breed with that line,
I would definitely try to do a seed increase to go from 20
to say a hundred or a thousand, whatever I can.
Even it doesn't have to be 10, 20,000 seeds,
but 20 seeds isn't going to give you a very good
representation of what could be in that line.
Especially if it's a polyhybrid,
if it's a work line, it would.
A true F1, you could work with those 20 seeds,
but if it's a polyhybrid with what is on the market with
most everybody's stuff today,
20 seeds does not represent that seed line in breeding.
It just gives you some phenotypes out of that F1 pack that
you made, that F1 hybrid.
They're all going to breed slightly different.
You can plant them directly.
I've seen seeds pop out of buds during,
if you leave them on the plant too long,
but what you should do is dry your seeds between nine and 12%
humidity,
and then those should be stored in cold storage with a
desiccant packs.
It should be stratified,
which is a simulation of winter.
So you want that plant to go through a cold period so that
you can induce seed dormancy,
is going to help that plant stop trying to use up the
stored nutrients that are with inside that seed.
And that way the plant,
the seed won't start to go into a reproducing and
man, I'm stuck on the word right now.
Protein synthesis,
which is the division of cells in the plant until you soak
it in enough water and imbibe it.
And it swells up basically three to four times its weight.
And then you introduce that to soil and give it the correct
amount of light she's going to pop.
You got to, you have to dry them.
You have to stratify if you really want to have good seeds
for storage.
Okay. Hold on.
There was a,
city asked a while ago,
I'm curious if Mr. Toad has had success with any other plant
medicines aside from,
or in combination with cannabis for his helium.
Other plants that I use.
Yeah. Oh man.
Not really.
I'm mostly a cannabis person myself.
I really haven't, no.
Cheddar Bob and his wife would be someone I would talk to
about using other plants medicinally.
They are his wife, Sage Moon does some killer stuff with
holistic medicine.
My whole life has been basically cannabis.
Like I said, I started the early four years old,
smoking the joint drinking,
which led to me ending up in jail,
being a drunk and stopping to becoming a cannabis.
Wow.
Four years old.
Like I said, my uncle had been pronounced dead three times
and woke up in the morgue and shit from drinking.
Like he had seizures so bad that he literally woke up in the
morgue, in a body bag, in the,
in the refrigerator three times from having a seizure in
jail because he used to drink so much living on the street,
the cops would find him basically dead in the street
somewhere. Someone would call him in.
They'd take him to jail.
They'd throw him in the drunk tank.
He wouldn't wake up.
They'd have,
they'd call in and say he died and shit.
Cause they couldn't find a pulse.
And then like an hour or two later,
he would literally wake up in the morgue and scare the shit
out of the mortician.
He did that three different times,
three different times, man.
It's crazy.
And then one time they found him this,
this church that was like this cult church.
It was called word on the street.
They found my uncle dead.
They thought he was dead in a parking lot.
He had had a seizure and fell over and hit his head.
And he was laying in the parking lot.
They picked him up and carried him back to their church.
He woke up three days later and they told everyone he was
Jesus, man.
And for a,
I'm going to show you a picture of my uncle.
And for a year,
they had all these old people thinking my uncle was Jesus.
And they were taking all their money and medication,
feeding the medication to my uncle and using the money to
just Jack, all these old people.
And until one day when I show up and I'm like,
I'm looking through the town for my uncle and everyone
keeps telling me he's at word on the street.
I've never heard of the place.
So I go to this place called the stage coach where my
grandma used to work.
It's across the street from this building.
And as I'm sitting there on the curb,
I look up and it says word on the street above the building.
And I'm like, what the fuck?
So I walk in there and my uncle sitting on the couch in
there just dazed out of his mind, gone.
Man, he's gone.
He'll be back.
This dude had a wild life, man.
Four years old, starting out like that.
I have a five-year-old in me.
And everybody in the chat at the end of this,
we're all going to hug it out.
Hug, hugs all around.
Yeah, we are here to learn.
And I got a couple more minutes before I got to
go give some love and attention to two small humans.
Yeah, someone was asking about red buds.
All right, he just left.
Now he'll be back.
Oh, all right, here we go.
Three, two, one.
And he's back mid sentence.
Sorry guys, sorry about that.
Hold on, I'm trying to get this picture of my uncle to load.
Well, anyway, I go there and tell them cats,
this is my uncle, right?
What are you guys talking about?
I'm trying to take him back to where he lives.
And they're like, you can't do that to our savior.
And I'm like, savior?
What the fuck are you talking about, savior?
And they're like, he's our savior.
They tell me the story of where they found him.
And I'm like, no, man, that's my uncle.
His name's Larry.
We call him Butch.
He's coming with me.
I don't know what you guys got him or doing with him,
but you guys are tripping.
They tell me they're going to call the cops on me
because I'm trying to hurt their savior again.
And I tell them I'm gonna have the savior.
Like, does a savior have a Mexican nephew?
What the fuck are you talking about?
Like, this is my uncle.
You guys are tripping.
And the old people hear me saying this
and it starts to daze on them
that they've been getting used,
using my uncle, thinking that he's Jesus Christ.
It's a fucking crazy story, man.
They kick me out of the building.
I go to get my mom and my grandmother.
We're gonna come back and get my uncle.
And the place is gone.
And my uncle's outside on the curb,
just like fucking dazed and confused out of his brain.
That's how I ended up finding my uncle back from,
after a year of missing.
They were using him as a deity and shit.
It's crazy, man.
Crazy.
I'll show you a picture of my uncle right now.
That's insane, dude.
Anything.
This is him when he was a Marine.
This is what he looked like when he was cleaned up
and busting his ass.
My uncle was, he was the smartest man I ever knew.
But Vietnam and a traumatic brain injury
really messed him up.
This is what he looked like
when they found him on the street.
So they literally had a dude
that slightly resembled pictures of Jesus.
And they were using his ass to take advantage
of old people until I showed up and shit.
I'm like, does Jesus have a tattoo of cores on him?
And Snoopy, what the fuck are you talking about?
The people just don't think about shit.
And he's the guy that I made Bum Bud for.
That's the artwork for it.
It's a picture of a bum that's walking away from drinking
and dropping cannabis as he leaves.
So all the other bums and all the other people
can start to smoke herb.
It represents this bud that's hard as a bum's life.
There's a picture on YouTube or a video of me
running this stuff over with a van.
It's called the tire test.
And I run the buds over.
You can't crush it, dude.
It'll break your grinder.
This is the gnarliest, hardest bud I've ever seen.
Ever seen, period.
It's called, it's Larry OG across the angel.
You can go straight on YouTube and type in the tire test
on my channel, 44BigBone44, and you'll see a video of it.
It's gnarly.
I could probably show you guys.
I don't know if I could send it to Peter,
but I could actually pull it up here.
Tire test.
You said it's on YouTube?
Yeah, it's on my YouTube channel.
44BigBone44, and it's called tire test.
So what do you think that combination,
why do you think that is making it so strong?
That's the Afghani side that's coming through
both in the Larry and my angel.
The angel's grandfather is a LA confidential.
And when you pair that up with the Afghani
that's in the, what I believe is in Larry OG,
it pairs up crazy.
That plant has got the stiffest stems.
Like I seen that plant stand up to 70 mile an hour winds
and barely tilt like three degrees.
You can't break it.
It trims itself.
That bud I showed you was untrimmed.
All you have to do is let it dry and drop it on the tray
and it trims itself.
It's crazy.
It's-
It's got a little selling point right there.
It's extremely stiff.
And then I used it to,
I did a back cross to my angel using the bum bud.
It's called Hobophobic.
It's a song by No Effects
about being scared of bombs and shit.
It's a play on the bum bud.
But it's also a dedication to my uncle.
Let's see, I'll show you.
Here's the tire test.
Where is it?
Tire test.
It's probably gonna be the last video.
There it is.
Tire test.
It's a minute and three seconds.
What's the YouTube channel again?
4-4-Big-Bone-4-4.
4-4-Big-Bone.
Oh, singular bone.
Okay, there we go.
Yeah.
Today we're gonna do a little experiment
with some bum bud.
This is the hardest bud I've ever seen.
What we're gonna do is,
we're gonna back over this thing.
Let's see what happens.
Let's see.
Go ahead, man.
I think-
I challenged every other breeder
to let me see the hardest node.
Nobody took-
I'm gonna challenge after this video.
Keep going.
Boom, stop.
Look at here, guys.
She's still thick.
She didn't even go down all the way, y'all.
I could queers aluminum cans better than this.
Fucking trademarks in the bud.
What y'all know about that?
Bum bud.
It don't break.
Hard as the bum bud.
Ah!
Hardest bud on earth, baby.
Tried to break it.
Boom.
That's the bum bud right there.
That stuff is-
Yeah, I challenged everybody.
Let me see their-
Let me see you drive over your bud,
and if it doesn't crush, we're good.
But nobody took me up on that offer so far.
Alex wants to know why it didn't stick to the tire.
I don't know, man.
Ask the tire.
That's an odd question.
Why didn't it stick to the tire?
All right, well, why don't we end on that?
I got the small people are getting agitated.
Restless.
They're getting restless.
Yeah, we'll let them go.
I bring out the worst in some people and the best.
That's just me.
Trust me.
All right, well, Mr. Toad,
thank you for, we're now three hours deep,
and you can pick up his seeds and-
Clone shipper, yes, dog of love.
And some more stuff will be in stock shortly.
It's the totally lit bone clone for you right there.
Dual walled, insulated, extremely strong,
snaps on a cup, holds your cut extremely well.
Upside down, you're turning me right there.
I'm telling you, they work well.
Boom.
3D printer, right?
Yes, indeed.
I got a whole bunch of them in here.
Hot off the printer.
It's like Edward Scissorshands, but with cloners.
That's my actual middle name too, Edward, so.
That's mine too, man.
That's my middle name as well.
Well, right on, man.
Good shit right there.
All right.
Smash the like for Peter, Toad.
Shout out to DeGearForce, they're always putting together.
If you guys could see all the work
that it took behind the scenes to set this up.
And again, shout out to Peter every single week.
How many hours a week are you doing?
Do you have any idea?
I have no idea.
Each week's different.
It's, yeah, sometimes I just plow ahead.
But yeah, every week's different.
All right, well.
Alex asked if I've seen the kind of plastic for printing.
I actually do have some right here.
I've got a roll of hemp plastic right here.
So yeah, I have seen it.
I use it.
But most people, when they tell them the price
of the product because of the, how much this costs,
this costs three times as much to make
than normal PLA plastic, which is biodegradable plastic
and food safe and plant safe.
But when people go to this,
they wanna know why it costs more.
And it's the company, man.
I use hemp and I also have what's called,
where is it at here?
It's made out of recycled carbon.
So they burn trash and they sequester the carbon
out of the trash and actually embed it into the PLA plastic.
So I can make it out of sequestered carbon
or I can make it out of hemp.
I can make it out of both if you want it.
But this is a ways that you're using the earth
to return to the earth.
Cause we're gonna use plastic,
but if we got the shit to chop it up
and add it to some herb,
this stuff's actually grown in the United States too.
So the hemp that I'm using is grown, processed
and sold in the United States.
And then I'm making it here in the USA.
So I'm trying to help as many people as I can
in our own country,
which I would ask everybody to do in their own country.
Like if you can keep it regional to your area,
people have a job,
you're cleaning up your own area better
and it just helps everything out.
So that's why I always try to say
that I'm using stuff from my own country.
Amen, man.
Everybody wants hemp until they find out the price.
That's for sure.
Especially when it comes to hats and clothing.
There was someone who's in,
I mean, this is irrelevant,
but in Nevada who wanted to be one of your testers,
I would assume if someone wants to be one of your testers
just to hit you up on IG and-
Yes, hit me up on IG and a direct message.
Just make sure you got more than three or four posts
about cannabis on there
if you're asking to be a cannabis tester.
I need to know that you've been about the plant,
not that you just like the weed.
That's just something I ask
because if you wanna be open about it,
I'm gonna be open with you.
And I will be, about a month here,
I'm gonna be looking for testers
for probably about eight more lines here.
So I will need some testers.
So I prefer to people that be using it
for medicinal purposes.
They don't have to be the best grower in the world,
but they do, I wish they would have experience
with at least one grow.
And that's about the only things that I asked for
and that they actually send me pictures back.
Cause a lot of people take testers
and don't do shit with them.
But Jack, I've had so many people take the seed lines
and start passing out clones of the test line,
or they use it in their breeding project.
It's like, that's not what testing was for.
I could have sent you gear for that,
but the testing was to find out if it does
what we think it was gonna do.
Does it pass some of the qualities from both parents?
Is it got the structure that I'm after?
Do the seeds germinate on a proper ratio?
There's many different things of testing
besides just showing pictures on Instagram.
And everybody in the chat, give yourself a pat on the back,
a round of applause.
Yeah, it's a cheddar.
Hard work.
You can't be a racist, fuck, you said that.
Oh man, that's something from,
that's an inside thing from some jackass I did.
That's a given.
That's a given.
Everyone have a good one.
I appreciate it, thank you for letting me on.
Or a good Friday in Australia
if you're tuning in from there.
Crazy, it's worldwide.
See you guys.
Thanks guys.
