Well, I actually grew up in Boston, so I moved out here, you know, eight, eight, nine years
ago.
From Boston?
Yeah, from the East Coast.
Oh, cool.
So I was in New York for about 12, 13 years and then, and then moved out here and we're
at 72 and sunny every day.
All right, so we are live on YouTube.
Welcome everybody.
Sunday morning, we'll call this a brunch and learn with Aaron Shiner from ATG Acres who
pulled this all together.
So thank you, Aaron and Clackamas Coot, otherwise known as Jim Bennett.
So that is me, Peter Shineri and Aaron, take it away.
Thanks Peter.
And thanks for joining us Coot.
And of course, my internet connection is unstable.
It keeps telling me so off the bat, apologize for any of that.
And if I get cut off visually, that's, that's going to be why.
But to start it off, I think, dude, I get, I get, oh God, I'm having some kind of issue
with my YouTube stream.
Okay, back at it.
So I think I get two or three messages a week.
Just random people that I've never met or that I've never interacted with before that
say what happened to Coot?
And I think it's all just because I've been interacting with you a little bit and people
are curious where you went and why you went.
So I want to start the interview off just by asking you why you left Instagram and feel
free to be as descriptive or, or non descriptive as you feel comfortable.
Oh yeah.
It was no big deal.
It's just, you know, at my age, I worked to be set financially in my retirement.
So I live in Oregon.
One of the biggest industry here is tourism and then agriculture.
So I don't have to go anywhere except 85 miles this way.
I'm on some of those beautiful coasts on the entire Pacific coast from Alaska down
to South America.
Go the other way, I'm at Mount Hood, you know, year round skiing, salmon fishing.
And most of the people that I interact with on IG came from 12 years of first service
forums.
And then this is all before social media as we define it today.
You know, the weed forums, I see Mag, Grass City.
I know they're a bunch of them, roll it up.
I got banned from all of them.
So because I piss off the advertisers.
And my favorite thing was to take when the digital cameras got better and better on the
phones, they'll take a picture of a label that would have what was in it.
And so I tell people how to make it yourself for about 10 cents on the dollar.
And you know, the boards are there to get more hits they get, the more they can charge
your advertisers and you got this clown in Oregon who wouldn't buy anything anyway, just,
you know, pissing on their parade.
But all I'm saying is, I mean, I've done this for so long, you know, I can answer I already
know the questions, put up a subject, you know, you're gonna get this, you know, I heard
somebody told me, you know, that kind of stuff.
And just one night, it was Sunday morning, I got up early, I usually get up like four
o'clock to read and then take my dog out about five, 530.
So I went into my Instagram account, and I just scrolled down and said, delete account.
I went, yeah, why not?
You know, I mean, it's not like the people I hang out with go, so what's your follower
count now?
Or, you know, what just, yes, so enough was enough.
I mean, it was fun.
But you know, I'd rather go to the coast and play with my new drone and cameras.
Yeah.
So.
So, so to sum it up, it's, it wasn't worth your time.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, we all have to allocate our time, as we see, as we feel is going to benefit
us.
Physically, see it's an exercise program or spiritually by reading good books, trying
to, you know, learn some new things.
But I really don't want to discuss cation exchange capacity of core versus sphagnum
peat moss ever again, for any reason.
It probably doesn't make sense.
But yeah, you know, I just, you know, and you know, all the scams and not, not with
the people.
I'm just saying like, who owns it?
You know, Zuckerberg.
It's just that there's, there's the capitalism in the cannabis industry tends to leave a
bad taste in your mouth when it's like, when it's so deeply rooted.
And yeah, and it, you know, yeah, I was here to be malicious.
Yeah.
I was active in the medical scene here when we got a pass back in 98.
With the help of a great man.
Guy that wrote the Emperor wears no clothes.
Jack Herrera.
Yeah.
And his son has one had one of the oldest head shops here in Portland.
So he was and he was really active in getting the signatures, Jack, the father and the son.
And so and at that time, it was just medical, but we had one of the best I thought in the
country that politically, okay, nothing's ideal.
And the law basically had 10 areas of diagnosis that would qualify you to get a car.
And that could appeal to other states.
And there were other states that did like me too.
We'll do organs thing.
So an organ increased it from eight diagnosis to 10.
These other states followed.
So that's how it worked.
And you could have six plants in flower and 18 in high school, or you want to call it
and then clones didn't count.
It counted as plant material, which was anyway, you get the idea.
It was, you know, it was workable.
And nobody got screwed with here because we have a long history of growing cannabis
in Oregon, going way back to the 50s.
This is where the beach started it read college up in South Southeast Portland.
So it's always been a really active counterculture, wherever you want to call it, and then you
have families down in Southern Oregon, near the California border, they've been growing
for I mean, families, you know, going back three or four generations.
So then this the push came in wasn't passed by voter initiative, it was passed by the
legislature.
Well, so the consultants and the money people just took it over.
We were the only state that allowed outside money.
So we had Asian banks, we had European banks, Canadian banks.
And they accomplished in the first year, basically, the price dropped almost 70%.
So you planted it in May, whatever, with this kind of expectation, and it was they still
have stuff in cold storage here.
It's insane.
He did all that.
And then you said, Okay, every household, not person, but every household and grow for
plants.
And let's be honest, there were a lot of people that had medical cards, they got it, so they
wouldn't be legal.
So they just grow some personal, they weren't trying to finance a car.
You know, it was just so for plants, so I thought was a Yeah, sure, why not?
I know what I'm doing.
Give me some, you know, 600 gallons, smart pods and my soil.
And for plants and you know, probably do better than a lot of these guys with their greenhouses.
Excuse me, light assisted.
The greenhouses are determined.
Supplemental lighting.
Yeah, I've never seen I've been around the nursery.
And so
I'm sorry, my connection is so bad.
I think I think my my when I talk it lags for you guys, because I get a I get a lag
back.
And it seems like I'm not it seems like I'm interrupting, but I'm not I'm certainly not
trying to.
No, no, you actually sound fine.
The one thing I tried to send you was if you have the YouTube stream going kill it, because
that's competing with your bandwidth.
You can even pop out of the chat.
You can keep the chat going.
I think you just you can pop out chat by hitting those three dots on the upper right.
But anyway, chat.
Yeah, and then kill the video.
Got it.
Okay, cool.
Thanks.
So Jim, quick question.
I love, you know, people who can kind of give historical perspective.
When you talk about, you know, Southern California, I assume we're talking 60s and 70s kind of
what were the genetic like, what were you smoking?
And then kind of what was the evolution, you know, in the 60s to 70s to 80s to 90s of what
you were seeing and where you were geographically from Southern California kind of migrating
up the coast?
Okay, well, in 60s and 66, 67.
A group called the Brotherhood of Eternal Love was formed is made up of about half surfer
course, there were 13.
It had to be 13.
Right.
I think it was like six surfers and seven bikers.
And this formed this group called the Brotherhood and they began importing, it was all imports.
And so the first stuff that I thought was next to God was from Sri Lanka.
And Sativa, of course, that thing didn't get going for another 11, 12 years.
Everything was Sativa.
Do you look at all the strains that get discussed of that era, 60s and 70s, Thai stick, Panama
Red.
You know, anything, it was all Sativa.
And I'll leave that discussion for others.
But to this day, if a person had legitimate heirloom Thai seeds and knew what they were
doing as far as breeding and not try to recreate something they read about on Grass City, they
probably make some really good money.
Because of the psychoactive components of those strains that don't exist and that I
can never find.
But anyway, I was just going to say they're completely gone now.
Yeah, they're mongrelized.
I used to have this as a tagline on my posting on the forums.
Once you reduce a wolf down to a chihuahua, there's never there's no going back.
All right, so you did it.
You proved you can create a shitty strain.
Good for you.
You know, you can make a domesticated dog in 10 generations from a wolf.
Exactly.
So in that period, then there was LSD flying around.
A lot of stuff, purple haze.
Excuse me, excuse me.
The orange sunshine would come later.
But the stuff that was coming out of allegedly bear, you know, and all that whole scene.
And so in Laguna Beach, guess who shows up once the LSD did?
None other than Timothy Leary.
And he became like this googer or something.
And his son managed the head shop in Laguna owned by the Brotherhood called Mystic Arts World.
It was a scene.
And with Timothy Leary came obviously a lot of federal surveillance.
And I remember walking down to the beach and sitting there looking at the waves and a guy
next to me has got white socks and, you know, wingtips and slacks on.
That's not how you go to the beach.
And there was just people crawling all over that place.
And so it all came down.
The Nixon administration, you know, going to bring law and order, get rid of the big,
he called him the hippie mafia.
And so the party came apart.
Look it up sometime, the Brotherhood of Eternal Love 73 and look at how many were made members
and associates that went off to federal prison.
And then about that time, a little bit earlier, all it came to LSD of which it wasn't really,
but Orange Sunshine, if you do your homework, you'll see that it was not LSD 25, but another
ergo, right ergo, ALD 52.
Was it LSA?
Oh, okay.
Okay.
ALD and LSD.
These all came from Dr. Hoffman.
I'm just saying because the other one was more stable.
And by this time they were shipping them out around the world.
I mean, you could go to Goa and buy Orange Sunshine for Christ's sake or, you know, wherever.
And so things kind of mumbled and stumbled along.
And then in 1976 Christmas, the Brotherhood got in the first shipments that I ever saw
of tie sticks and they came in 10 kilo, let me see.
Yeah, 10 kilo packs.
So by the way, just quickly, I'm showing Orange Sunshine graphic.
Yeah.
That's Nicholas.
He was a writer for Orange County Register.
And then from those, a series, long multi-year series, he put an anthology here and excellent
sources.
And I'll leave it at that.
I mean, he really was talking to the real players.
Yeah, the real deal.
So these tie sticks come in and so you got 20 pounds of sticks and then two pounds of
untied tie that later became known as, I love this one, Buddha Buds.
So that was like the first widely distributed cannabis that knocked you on your ass.
I mean, they're always like the surfers that smuggle stuff in their surfboards.
Okay.
And there wasn't the scrutiny like there is today, you know.
And so they could bring in three or four pounds maybe.
It wasn't like big shipments, but the tie stick thing opened it up.
And people, once they had the real deal, it kind of set the tone for the next several
years.
And they were taking seeds down to Mexico, growing it there.
And you can always tell because like the sticks, the actual sticks that was a section of bamboo
were precision cut on the tie, the ones from Thailand.
And then the string that tied the buds onto the stick was always silk.
I mean, it was the real deal, but the stuff from Mexico, I don't know, looked like the
sticks were cut with a pocket knife.
And it was like something off of a sewing machine as far as the string, you know, it
got bastardized, I mean, right away.
And that started, I mean, there were things like, look up Tie Power, the hash oil maker,
circa 1978.
This one, yeah, you'll laugh at this, but we had 10 of them.
And you take the shake and remove the seeds, of course, and then you can take that shake
and turn it into oil, such as it was.
By today's standard, you guys will laugh your ass off, but you know, we were simple people.
And this new agency called...
Certainly it's gotten more complex.
Oh, absolutely.
I don't even, yeah, I don't get it.
I guess that the art of actually growing cannabis has kind of gone.
So when this load of tie came in, in Christmas of 76, that following summer of 77 was the
first time I grew outdoors.
And there wasn't any books, there wasn't fertilizer, I don't know.
I just, I knew you needed water.
And we did 800 plants down off of San Juan Capistrano area before it was all built up.
It was a former avocado grove.
So it had well water and water distribution system.
And of course, you know, Sensamea was still two years away before I even heard the term.
And all I had, otherwise we couldn't have grown tie.
I mean, there was a shitload of seeds and a tie stick.
And I think a lot of people that got growing, they probably started on tie for that reason.
This was like the first cannabis that you got your hands on that you'd want to duplicate
or replicate or something.
And the seeds were right there.
Did you start any, did you start any genetics with any of those old tie seeds?
Yes, that's the one that I'm known for, the TO.
The mom of that F1 still around was the 76 tie and a 1970 Kandahar right before I went
off to save the world, to make the world safe for democracy, for the army.
Some guy says, Hey, look what we found inside some of the kilos of hash.
He gave me like five seeds or something.
And I just put them away.
You know, I didn't think about it.
And then years back in the 80s, it was in the 83, 84 when I created this hybrid and
I used the Kandahar seeds and got a male and the female came from the tie sticks.
So that, that strange still remains intact 36 years later.
I haven't tried to fix it or anything.
That's incredible.
Yeah.
That's why I kind of laughed and stuff like, well, you can't sell a dispenser because you're
not registered.
I said, why would I want to write that?
What?
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Have fun.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, the regulations shoot the patients in the feet more than anybody because it,
you know, they restrict access to true medication, true, you know, people that are growing true
land, race strains don't oftentimes want to intermingle with the legal market.
And so it leaves them in the, in this, this gray area where you kind of have to be sub
legal to access.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I support full legalization and that means no licenses, no permits.
But anytime you set it up for this group, somehow it's dominance over that group.
It's open to corruption, price, pricing issues there.
And you know, I remember when it first got legal, I went to a couple, invited a couple
meetings and I do ask a very simple question.
So who's the agronomist here?
Oh, you know, it's like, let me look that up.
What does that mean?
You know, on there, it was just, you know, it was just spreadsheets and you know, slacks
and loafers, you know, reminded me of you know, the frat boys just annoying and too
much money.
And you know, you know, the type I've not been impressed with any gross store type.
Well, yeah, just, yeah.
You know, they're going to be on the cover of something or go to one of these silly
conventions and not conventions, but oh, you know, like a can of con, at least he got the
name right.
Indo Expo.
It reminds me of carnival barkers, you know, you got those microphones on and it's faster,
it's bigger, it's give me a break.
Use car salesman.
Yeah, or worse.
The people that show up on Saturday morning want to sell you a copy of Watchtower.
I don't know.
Just I don't get it.
I mean, this is this is somebody's weird idea of legalization.
Down the end of my street is the main drag deal town and suburb I live in in Portland
and they have one of those tent, a frame signs, you know, and it says ounces $48.
And I'm thinking, that's what we charged 42 years ago.
I mean, give me a break.
It was probably, you know, the Mexican swag.
Hey, I'll dig through the seeds and sticks at that price.
Yeah.
I don't know.
What was there any, you know, in the 60s and 70s Vietnam War kind of any influence of genetics
coming in through the Air Force bases or the Naval State?
Oh, absolutely.
In fact, some of the I didn't know this till four or five years later on an episode of
60 Minutes, the news thing.
They were talking about this group in San Diego that was busted and they started out
moving tie sticks out of Thailand, obviously, on Air Force jets that would go back and forth
to the mainland for whatever reason.
So, you know, it was all inside job.
And then once you get the.
The attention of the what do you call it?
International money, then everybody's involved, you know, not a bunch of knucklehead.
E4s and E3s working on the airport tarmacs in Thailand and where wherever else.
You know, Cambodia, the CIA was all you heard of Air America, the one here in Portland that
was a CIA contractor.
They're just weren't even numbered.
They have them on display right here in McMinnville, Oregon.
You know, it's there's the shadow government thing.
It's not it's not just paranoid.
I mean.
You have to have agencies, I guess, that will do things that you can't.
But I don't know.
I'm not a strategist.
Careful, you're getting into demonetization talk here.
I just I look.
When Oregon passed what they passed, I'm not moving anywhere.
You know, you won't be finding me in Kansas or something or Nebraska.
I grow four plants and you've seen my pictures.
So, you know, I'm not exaggerate when I tell you that four plants I could easily pull 30 pounds.
You know, give me my my soil, my, you know, 600, 800 gallon pots.
The reason we do that is that you want to line the bottom with the chain link fencing.
And it's kind of a deterrent, not much, but somewhat of a turn again.
Small voles, gophers, that kind of issue, you know.
Brown, you know, I've had really luck.
I started lacing my trenches and pots with quarter inch hardware fabric.
And although it's kind of not super malleable.
It's not super malleable, but it keeps freaking everything out, man.
I mean, there's it's it's as close as you can get to to a fabric, but, you know,
it's got quarter inch holes in it.
So there's high drainage and stuff.
And actually, this is like a perfect segue for me to jump into the reason I got you on here,
which is, you know, your soil mix, your inputs, your information on vermiculture.
You know, you're you're sort of like a one stop shop.
Grow, you know, knowledge source.
And and for that reason, I look up to you big time.
And I think a lot of people do because, you know, a lot of people just want to be growers.
They don't necessarily want to be expert composters or expert lighting consultants.
They just want to they just want to have a proper garden.
And you are the guy that crowns that, you know, that mountain.
So I want to get into that a little bit.
And I wanted to start with barley.
I think I got more questions from people wanting to know about barley than almost anything else,
just because it's such a hot topic right now.
Sure.
And I thought because you know so much about it, I was hoping you could give us a little
rundown on like, you know, the history and the uses of barley in the past and, you know,
the types of barley and their significance and that sort of thing.
OK, so I just want to lead off by saying I'm not trying to step on anybody's beliefs,
religious or whatever.
I'm going with science and that's the best I can do.
So barley was the grain that turned the human race from gatherers to produce food producers.
They could actually plant a seed, grow a plant and harvest those seeds, keep some for next,
you know.
So that was the very beginnings of the human race producing their own food.
That was an important development because it allowed the human race to gather in cities.
Anyway, you can see how that transitioned if you were in control of your
feeding the masses.
And when it was discovered that when you allowed the seed to ferment in water
and what a crude introduction to beer, I guess,
people didn't die when they drank it.
So in that process of brewing beer later,
you think about it, more humans have died in our history over bad water than all the wars combined.
So barley was at the core and then it branched out into other grains and
other parts of the world like rice in Asia and India and China.
As diverse as sorghum in parts of Africa and Asia,
and then of course you have the whole maize crops in North America.
I mean those were like tectonic changes because people could live longer because they had a
relatively stable source of food and the side effect if they made this brew and allowed it
to ferment, people didn't die when they drank the water.
So we can trace our history back.
The side industry of that was bread.
Barley was at the core of bread baking.
Wheat didn't arrive for another 500 years.
So literally this barley, you could say, or grains,
kind of were the core of our specialized evolution,
like kind of where we were able to live longer and be healthier and grow bigger brains.
Would you even?
Well, there's a whole lot of things.
Look at McKenna's work, Terrence and Dennis McKenna,
the intelligent ape and some of that.
Yeah, I mean there's a whole lot of contributed factors.
But I think at the very least we can attribute the rise of civilization,
without getting into getting into that,
where you had large groups of people to then focus their energy and become good at
this or that, like shipbuilding or, you know, there are all kinds of
directions that it went in good and bad ways.
The tail of the hunt probably wouldn't be on everybody's,
you know, person you'd want to go have for dinner or something.
But so the way I got into it is,
I knew from bread baking, what we call artisan bread baking here in the United States,
is this, in particular, it's almost limited to French bakeries.
They add what they call, what is called, diastatic malt.
I never questioned what it was.
I couldn't tell you what, at that time, what diastatic meant.
I didn't know what malt meant.
I had some remote idea that was old-fashioned ice cream drinks in the 40s or something, you know.
So one day I'm out hiking in
one of our national forests up here, ancient forest,
and there was a clearing.
So I saw that I had some email and I just looked at it, see what it was.
And then I started thinking about this diastatic malt thing.
So I looked it up and it was barley malt.
And what all malt means is that you allowed the seed to germinate,
to germinate as opposed to sprouting.
There's a difference I learned.
What's the classification?
Is it like less than a quarter inch or half an inch?
Yeah, it's, as soon as that actually, in the commercial malting houses, and here's how precise it is.
Even the big companies, when they were in business, Anheuser-Busch subcontracted their malting.
Malting houses, there isn't any food item that humans consume
that is done with the amount of precision as malting grain, because
you might like a shitty beer, like some beer that's not very good, we'll say.
But damn it, you want to taste the same when you go on vacation, right?
It's got to taste the same in Miami as it does in Portland.
And the only way that you can control that phenomenon
is by having absolute scientific control over the malting process.
And for example, the biggest malting operation in North America is Great Western Malt.
And I believe they only have like four locations.
One of those is here in Portland, well, actually across the river in Vancouver, for the Asian market.
So the beer that's made in China that comes from Oregon and Washington grown barley,
this is barley central, you can look up the website barleyworld.org.
That's a portal from Oregon State University.
That's how big the crop is, because the human race drinks a lot of beer.
And you got to have good malting high enzyme levels.
And so when I started digging around the science on what enzymes were in these grains,
the one that stuck out to me was chitosan.
And because of its properties, as far as a defense against insects in the soil,
just deconstructs the shell, preventing the larva from developing.
But there's others in there like for proteins, urea, phosphatase, phosphorus,
phosphatase, phosphorus, you get the idea.
There's over 360 different enzymes and
approximately 50 identifiable strains of fungi and over 200 identifiable strains of bacteria.
And in the soils, those enzymes in conjunction with the microbes,
deconstruct the organic materials and it's their feces, exude, whatever you want to call it,
that's what worms consume.
And when it goes through their digestive tract,
it's turned into castings and not manure.
And those castings are covered literally with a slime of calcium carbonate.
That's why people who use worm castings, you'll never hear them complaining about
pH.
It arrives correct pH in the form of the worm castings.
Hey, you're okay.
You just gave out a lot of information.
I want to tell one and all of it really, really good.
I want to take a step back and identify one of the things that you
started talking about because I don't think I fully understand it.
So how do the enzymes like amylase and cellulose and chitinases and
phosphatases and how do these things on a molecular level
break down sugars or proteins and stuff like that?
And wait, just quickly before you start,
can I want to troubleshoot your audio is a little choppy sounding.
Could you kill the earphones, like disconnect the blue suit and see if just talking into the iPad
changes that?
Okay. How's that?
All right. Keep talking.
Okay. So I'm looking at the magic mouse box I picked up from Apple store yesterday.
All right.
It does sound a little better.
Let me do something real quick. Hold on.
I want to turn the air pads off.
Okay. We need our like hold music right now.
I picture in the office space when that lady is answering the phone.
Thank you for calling.
Please hold.
Thank you for calling.
Please hold.
Okay.
Just to make sure I'm putting them in the case that should show them.
These are new.
So bear with me.
Yeah. Actually, this is sounding better.
Okay. So yeah, they turned off.
Okay.
Okay. So the enzymes are cofactors that work in conjunction with the microbes to accelerate the
deconstruction.
So amylase converts the simple starches in the plant material, right?
Into a form that the simple sugars that the roots can absorb because roots have to work on a
molecular level on everything.
They don't absorb or accumulate compounds.
So when we add as an example, a calcium carbonate, so you have one calcium ion, you have one
carbon ion, and then you have three oxygen.
Well, those are broken apart.
Does that make sense?
It's the plant doesn't take up calcium carbonate as a compound.
Yes, that totally makes sense.
Okay.
So your urase urea.
Go ahead.
No, in the case of urase, that's where we get the ammonia smell, obviously, and poorly
constructed compost.
A way to fix that is to add a lot of barley to your urase.
That is to add a lot of barley to your marginal compost and move it from a six to an eight,
or maybe nine, with just the addition of barley malt.
And some of the other enzymes in there, the protein, all the things that were in there,
what you're probably starting with manure, that's a most typical, probably the path of
least resistance, is to start with a manure or manure base compost.
Add the barley, and now it's ready to go through the worm bins, because you've removed those
agents which are going to suppress the worm colonies.
I see.
So are there certain enzymes then that suppress the worm colonies, and then certain enzymes
that benefit the worm colonies?
No, because worms, contrary to the mythology,
worms can't eat anything.
They lack teeth, and more importantly, they lack a stomach.
What they have is a digestive tract that works with other enzymes that they create, and some
that come from the materials as it's moving through.
They also exude enzymes to trigger specific microbial reactions.
And in that, what they do is they suck in the bacteria, their manure, their exudes,
whatever term we want to use here.
So in that tract, in the worm's digestive tract, through enzymes, that manure now is
converted to casting.
Not all worms create castings.
That's where they, there's composting worms, and then there's earthworms.
You can't keep earthworms.
They'll die within a week.
On the same token, if you put composting worms into your garden, for reasons that escape
me, their chances of surviving or thriving are really marginal.
It's best to put them in the worm bin, because that's where the action is, and get that item
perfected.
And if you get to a point where you have more worms than you know what to do with, and I
don't, let me explain how fast worms reproduce.
Okay, you're never going to have perfect conditions, but let's say that you did.
A pound of worms today would be a thousand pounds a year from today.
A thousand pounds.
Every worm produces two cocoons a week, and each cocoon has four hatchlings, and they're
sexually reproduced.
Four hatchlings, and they're sexually mature in six weeks.
So, I mean, think about it.
And they live four and a half to five years.
You said, you know, purple, perfect conditions don't exist anywhere on earth, but even under,
you know, moderate conditions, they're going to produce moderately close to that and do
really well.
And then, so you said something that was really cool, and I wanted to talk about that too,
which was, you sort of said in one way or another, that which benefits the soil bed
does not necessarily benefit the worm bin.
In that the worms don't necessarily, aren't necessarily going to be as happy in your soil
bed as they will in a worm bin, where there's a, you know, a really high level of organic
matter, like above 50%.
And you have really, if you're doing things correctly, which isn't difficult, you have
extreme levels of microbial action.
And by adding barley, okay, one of the, not complaints, but one of the facts that there's
always pros and cons of any process as we approach to make our soils better, composting,
composting, vermicomposting, and vermicomposting is definitely a bacteria driven process.
So that you could make the argument, a fair one, that it's lacking in fungal and other
microbes.
And that's fairly accurate.
That can easily resolve with the addition of barley.
We're getting over 50 strains of fungi that can be identified, not just these silly plate
counts.
Well, I saw something move and so I'm going to count it.
I mean, like a legitimate, you know, plate count with a real, with a real microscope,
not one from Toys R Us.
And yeah, like, you know, like, I mean, I wouldn't say you don't need an electron microscope,
but you need something that's more than just 20 or 50x.
Yes.
But I'm not even sure that's important.
Okay, this is a real life, real world example.
The guy that I was his first customer to answer and add in Craigslist, dug at Northwest Red
Worms.
I was the first person to show up and at that time, he sold worms and made really beautiful
worm out of plywood boxes for your patio or what have you.
And he's really tight.
He doesn't buy anything.
Everything that goes on his piles of manure is, you know, throw away stuff from the produce
houses and stuff like that.
He's also on the call list for the Oregon and Washington State Police, their highway
patrols, that if there's an accident and it's a food item, he's one of the people that can
be called a salvage, you know, come out and get it off the highway.
So one...
What a cool thing.
I never even have thought about that.
That like, you know, I've seen like orange, like, like semi trucks full of oranges.
I've heard of them like toppling over on the highway.
And then I'm like, what happens?
Do they just leave those there?
But no, there's like a guy that collects them and composts them.
And then your bill.
Okay, so the trucking company gets a bill from the state after they've had the books
from the contractor.
The contractor.
So you own the truck.
So you go out and get off the highway, you charge, I'm just throwing out a number 10
grand, the state's going to tack on another five.
So the owner of the trucking company gets a bill for 15 to 20,000.
Anyway, so he calls me Sunday morning at seven o'clock.
And I just buy worms from the guy.
He goes, do you know anything about Great Western malt?
I said, well, yeah.
He says, well, I got a whole truckload of it off the highway last night.
After he loaded.
Anyway, he got an accident within three miles of after he got a full load on going wherever
back east.
So I go over there and it's, yeah, two row barley, the real stuff that you would buy
at a home brew store or go to small micro breweries.
This would be a product of that.
That's the stuff I just paid $2.10 a pound for when really shouldn't be paying more than
a dollar.
Right?
Correct.
Yeah.
You got to go to a home brew store.
And even though I went to a home brew store, I made a post about this.
Some people just suck at business.
And just because you go to a local guy who kind of knows his stuff doesn't mean it's
perfect.
But nonetheless, source it locally.
I'll send you some sources, National.
Because, you know, can you imagine how much barley is malted every year?
I mean, and it's going all over the world.
You can't even comprehend it.
They have my picture in the board of directors room, garland of flowers around it because
I created a new market for them.
You know, first time I went in the oldest brew store in America is here in Portland.
And the first time I went in there, I said I wanted barley mold.
And should I get it ground up because I want to use it to feed plants.
These guys are looking at me like, OK, they've been around for 100 years.
And but anyway, so yeah, when I first went in there, they were selling like 100 pounds
a month of organic to row.
And within six months, they were selling 250 bags a week.
I thought who mail orders barley, you know, I mean, tell me a city in America that has
more than a thousand people that doesn't have a brew store.
Anyway, anyway, whatever you get a feed store to.
So don't worry about, you know, like, dude, I don't have a brew store.
I don't have a brew store near me.
I had to drive an hour to Auburn.
I'm in I'm in like Eldorado County and in my in Placerville Diamond Springs area.
Well, I said the first brew store in America was here in Portland.
We have the Brewer's Festival every year, the organic Brewer's Festival.
One time before this coronavirus virus, there were 55 breweries within the Portland
55.
I mean, in the Portland metro area, not all good.
I mean, who puts raspberries in their beer or blueberries or, you know, whatever?
Now there's like seltzer.
There's like these shitty seltzer beers everywhere.
Yeah, it's kind of like the weed in the dispensaries.
I mean, yeah, who smokes this shit?
Yeah, but but interestingly, I feel like there's an explosion in kind of hop cultivar varietals
that are adding kind of new kind of taste profiles to beer.
You know, hops are interesting.
There's currently two major areas of the United States.
One's in Washington on the east side of the Cascades, which is like high desert.
And then there's one down near me about 15 miles near Mount Angel, like they have the
annual Oktoberfest.
And this is hop country.
They even has a railhead.
I mean, that's how big the hop industry is.
They go to Europe, Germany, England, all over because the hops here.
And I want to put a myth, kill a myth.
That's my that was my big focus for the morning.
But anyway, hops are you drive around?
They're grown very unusual ways.
They're grown on strings that are attached to wood frames.
And so they'll be like, oh, I don't know, 20 feet long.
I think of a cola 20 feet long.
And those are harvested and they go into the drying rooms and and then are not just dry,
but then cured, dried under specific conditions to bring out their their flavors.
And because it's I forget the name of the plant, but I know the last part is sativa.
There was a myth floating around years ago, you could cross cannabis with hops.
And let me explain the word sativa.
It was first created and used by the British Empire in the late 19th century, specifically
in especially India.
So any wild plant was indica.
So as a direct in the name tree, it would have the name indica, but it has nothing to
do with another plant called indica.
That makes sense.
There was just a way like a group classification, a wild plant from India.
And the word sativa means.
Yeah.
And if you kind of examine.
If you kind of examine the nomenclature of botany, you will see sativa so many times
that you will get numb to hearing it and it no longer has that novelty.
Oh, sativa on it.
I mean, it's like everywhere.
All it means sativa simply means that a seed was put in the ground by a human and it was
planted, it was cultivated.
Like, for example, alfalfa is medico sativa, right?
That doesn't mean you can cross it with a haze or some silliness or the OG or the 918.
So, but yeah, I mean, so yeah, the word sativa just means cultivated.
That's all.
And yeah, you're right.
You get in the world of botany and I would imagine, especially in grains and such that
sativa probably represents 70% of having that part of their identifier.
But then, yeah, it's.
Sorry, go ahead.
No, go ahead.
I was just going to second that.
That it's everywhere.
Oh, yeah.
70% seems like inaccurate.
Yeah, I mean, we start talking legumes and grains, not all, but some, you know, I mean.
Yeah, there were politics involved.
I mean, there's a whole bunch of.
Yeah, the thing that Howard got absorbed by the cannabis community is almost.
Laughable.
I mean, you can call it whatever you want, but.
What if it was a wild sativa?
Does that mean it's no longer a sativa?
See what I'm saying?
You know, when the word, the origin of the word was to mean cultivated.
Somebody planted it.
Physical effort, put the seed and cover it with some soil and water.
Whatever.
Yeah, let's go back to Burma culture because here's the whole key to a.
Oh, yeah.
I wanted I had a question about amylase.
Actually, this comes from a buddy of mine and yours, I believe.
Jeremy on Instagram, his name on Instagram is unwary gundogs.
Really good guy.
Oh, yeah, buddy.
That follows and highly active.
He actually asked, what's the deal with like sugar alcohols?
You know, as as sugar gets broken down, as starches get broken down into sugars and then
sugars broken down into alcohol, is there a risk of the alcohol damaging microbiology?
And secondarily, is there a difference between a homogeneity of of ingredients versus a top
dress in this regard?
OK, well, let me state, first of all, almost every seed contains amylase.
That I could possibly think of because it's a think what goes on as a seed hydrates and
then begins to germinate, create a taproot.
Imagine all the physical changes as well as the enzymes change.
As an example, a seed is encoded with enzymes to keep it inhibit its germination.
Otherwise, a drop of water and a seed would instantly within a day or two begin to germinate.
That would be very problematic.
You didn't store it, for example.
So when you hydrate that seed, either in water or in a wet soil, that activity begins where
the seed begins to change this enzyme into that enzyme.
So I just want to explain that it is an ongoing change as the taproot begins to emerge.
And that's why you want a good, rich soil, not a make believe soil from the garden store.
If let's say that you could only afford some amount of legitimate worm castings, we'll say.
If you just took your rooted cutting and surrounded it with a layer of worm castings
and put that in the soil, that would be enough to give you a dramatic
benefit and certainly a motivation to get busy and make more worm castings like the one you bought.
That kind of thing.
Because if you have good castings, your problems are over.
Period.
You've got an intense amount of microbial colonies that work in conjunction with the
enzymes and cofactors to deconstruct materials into their molecular levels.
That's why adding pumice is a good idea because it has holes and we call it nutrient sequestering.
And so that's where when it gets into the soil mix finally, roots and especially
mycorrhizal inoculations, those can get inside those pieces of pumice and remove
those things that would normally be wouldn't be touched by the plant.
And the other thing is that barley...
I'm glad that you brought up...
Go ahead.
Oh, barley is the only grain that produces both alpha and beta forms of amylase by the way.
And that's important.
Ah.
Yeah.
That's why you can make beer with barley but you...
Well, you can make beer with barley.
So just quickly, we have a special guest since you mentioned him.
Can you see who just joined?
Oh Doug, Northwest Redwood.
That.
So anyway, keep going because actually you're getting into something I was going to ask,
which is, you know, is there something special and unique about barley where you couldn't really...
other grains couldn't do or can't do what it is capable of doing?
No, it's not.
It's not.
It's not.
It's not.
It's not.
It's not.
It's not.
No, as a matter of fact, I tell people all the time, if you go to your local brew store
and they have oats, we'll say,
malted oats on sale because they overordered,
buy it.
I'm not, you know, I've purchased everything that was available at slime bars including rye,
red wheat, white wheat,
oh god, different forms of barley, oats spelt,
and then I started out malting my own grains because I didn't know you could buy such a thing.
I actually used to go to Bob's Red Mill and buy raw
this and raw that and then, you know, do it in a
mason jar with a lid, you know, one of those great lids on it so I could breathe.
And somebody said, why don't you just buy it?
They make this stuff already?
Oh yeah.
So I never sprouted another seed since, you know.
That was over.
Yeah, it's super convenient.
When I walked into, I ordered 100 pounds of barley and I walked into the
the guy's shop and he's like, come on back here.
And he points to his mill and he's like, here's the mill.
And so I, you know, you just, you pour it in and it's the easiest, most convenient thing.
Yeah.
Before we move on with this topic,
you brought up hummus a second ago and it kind of paralleled with the comments.
A buddy of the show, the other show that I'm on, growing with my fellow growers
and a buddy of mine, the American one, Tao, asks, can you elaborate on your take on azomite?
You have said in the past that you don't like it as much as other rocks and
that he also asked if you could comment on the paramagnitivity of rock dusts.
Okay, the only two that I know of, and I'm pretty confident on this one,
the only two paramagnetic rock dusts are basalt and granite, which is a subset of basalt.
The other ite's, you know, your bentonite, zeolite,
and azomite.
Now that's a brand name, azomite.
It's owned by a company in Utah.
It's actual name is, starts with an M-O-M-O-N-T, something, it's a clay that was found in France
centuries ago.
And if you've ever seen French bread ovens, they're beehive shape with a tiny little door
on the front where they move the bread in and out.
It's made out of this clay and they make wonderful bread ovens.
I'm not sure how that plays out in the soil.
But if you really want hardcore science, go to a website, it's a not-for-profit called
Remineralize the Earth.
And it has an archive that'll blow you away from around the world, studies by international
groups, universities, and what have you.
And like I said, it is a not-for-profit.
And so you're not going to be ripped off or anything like that.
And it's just really good science.
And the premium, this is interesting, the two premium basalts on this planet come from
Hawaii and Oregon, and it has to do with hardness.
And I know that sounds counterintuitive, but the harder the material, the harder the
benefit, because it's not a question that microbes can deconstruct a piece of basalt.
It isn't like that at all.
But what can be produced is that the enzymes produced by the microbes, that's what is the
benefit.
Let me give you an example, chitosan.
Chiton is found in a lot of things.
It's in the walls of fungi, as an example.
It's also in the shells of some anthropods, or all of them, lobsters, shrimp, crab, even
the ones in the south, what they call those, the red ones, crawdads.
Okay.
In their shells, they have layers of chiton, which is a polysaccharides, like a second
cousin to glucosamine.
And the only thing that can deconstruct that material is fungi, but bacteria, some
bacterias, in a weak attempt to do that, create what scientists would call chitosan, or
chitonase.
Chitonase.
Chitosan is produced that way.
You take chiton, and you hit it with massive amounts of bacteria, and you get a commercial
product called chitosan.
Well, we get the chitonase, and so it's the chitonase that you want.
The chitonase is what deconstructs the eggshells in the cell, so by adding barley, we're
getting chitonase, and you don't have to go through all the expense of getting crab meal,
or shrimp meal, or lobster meal, what have you.
You can use your good old limestone, hit it with a good amount of barley, and you're
dancing.
Buy your barley.
I love the idea that, I love to pretend that there is some fucking farmer out there that
is using lobster meal on their, like they're like, I'll have lobster and steak tonight,
and then they crush up their, like they're a sustainable lobster eater, or something.
Like that's freaking funny.
Actually, you know, it's a, all shells on this planet are made from limestone, excuse
me, calcium carbonate.
That's all limestone is, accumulated seashells over millions of years, and so like there
isn't a dime's worth of difference between using oyster shell, but it sounds cooler,
that's why I started using it, and it was cheaper than limestone, that was the other
reason.
And it all comes out of San Francisco Bay by a company Pacific Pearl, and they put it
in racetracks and stuff, and I mean it is a big use for it, but it's not like the shells
from Happy Hour at some restaurant.
It's, they're only about the size of your little fingernail.
There's some ancient critter.
They've been hauling it out of there since the 20s, and first form, and still goes on,
if you look at chicken feed, it'll always have oyster shell in it.
Well, the calcium carbonate, that's what.
So these, these are micro oysters, like for like ancient micro oysters.
Right, and they do it to keep the Bay of San Francisco dredged, because otherwise it's
going to fit not with that, but that's just what you have to do that, and so when companies
started back in the 20s, not only do they get paid for dredging, they now have a material
they can work, and they have a number of products, and not the least of which is poultry.
It makes the shells harder, so there's less breakage in transportation and shipping them,
and so we've been doing that for like 100 years, so.
And then, yeah, but it's all calcium carbonate, you know, and the only thing is that these
certain seashells have this titan.
Well, you look at the price of crab meal versus limestone, and you know, you wouldn't even
care what you paid for that barley dust, because it's going to be, I mean crab meal is like
up around 45, 50 dollars for 50 pounds, and limestone is what, 10 bucks, or probably lower
if you're buying full bags or something, and so to get up to the same level of chitinase,
you might have to, like say per cubic foot, which is seven gallons, 120, 112
cups, just give you a frame of reference, so add two cups of barley, not even two percent
to that amount, and you have the same benefit from, I'm just talking about the one, the one
enzyme, titanase, just that one. Yeah. But you're getting all the other benefits. And then,
right, see, I knew my connection sucked. Every time I talk, I'm interrupting you.
Oh, go ahead.
Um, that, that's my fault though, it's my stupid internet. Um,
um, somebody had a really interesting question that I also had when I was researching this stuff,
you know, a couple of years ago, um, in terms of like the differences between
gypsum and oyster shell. So oyster shell is calcium carbonate, gypsum is calcium sulfate.
Yes, and there's a unique, and so if your soil is in need of, right, right, I was just going to say
if your, if your soil is in need of sulfur and calcium, gypsum is your choice. If your soil is
in need of calcium carbonate, then oyster shell is your choice. Would that sound somewhat close to
what you would recommend? There's a difference in the form, it's really important. Uh, in the
calcium carbonate, obviously it's a compound of calcium, uh, carbon and oxygen. And that's a good
thing. In the case of gypsum, it's calcium sulfate, but, and this is a good thing, it's elemental
calcium and sulfur oxide four, I believe, don't hold me to that one, but, uh, and which is water
soluble. So that's a good thing. So as soon as it's hydrated in the soil or soon, um, the sulfur
will break off from the calcium, leaving you with elemental calcium. And so that's going to mean
it's going to be, if calcium is what you want and you do, it's going to be faster acting. So I would
say both. I would do something like, let's say you're going to add a cup, one cup of calcium,
liming agent for, I would make it half of each, a half a cup of, uh, oyster or limestone, whatever,
it doesn't matter. And, uh, a half a cup of the gypsum. I mean, they're both certainly inexpensive
enough. And the other, a lot of people, this is a perfect, go. Well, you want sulfur because sulfur
is really integral to most metabolic functions on this planet. Not the least of which is the
production of terpenes, terpenoids, and ketones. Have you ever heard, uh, or you read online a
complaint by core growers that my cannabis doesn't have any flavor or aroma? Right? Pretty common.
Yes, I have. Yes. And they don't get, they don't get the white ash that we get in living soils.
Okay. Here's part of the reason is that core has zero, sub-zero levels of sulfur. And all you have
to do in a cubic foot of core, as bad as it is, and I can't believe I'm saying this, but you can, like,
fix most of the problems with about half a cup of gypsum. And just make sure you buy it in the
garden section, not the home repair. There's two forms of gypsum.
Is that kind of like you're turning it into buffered core versus unbuffered, which kind of,
I feel like, like it's, it wants to compete with the plants for the nutrients and absorb things
that it's lacking.
Well, I have to be real honest with you. Other than some horrible potting soils that I was asked
to test that had it in there, they were like proud as a rooster or two peckers.
You know, we've got core and peat. Oh, good. Well, I don't use either, but yeah, let's try this.
And we got to day 24, 25 before I took a machete and took it down. It was too painful to watch.
National brand too. That should put a lot of confidence. I was going to start my five worst
potting soils that I've tested, but maybe I won't. Anyway. So yeah, you can fix a bad core.
There's an oxymoron for you. Yeah. It was some gypsum. Gypsum. That easy. I think it's $6 for
25 pounds at Home Depot.
So, Jim, when you say you can fix the core with the gypsum, is this because of the sulfur
and the available calcium or is it something else?
Probably, but it's definitely the sulfur because sulfur, unfortunately in the cannabis world,
sulfur means one thing, fungicide. Were you around when they had sulfur burners?
Okay. Dude, I'm embarrassed to say it. We used to burn at the indoor spot like in 2014,
13, we were burning sulfur on flowering plants. Okay. Right. Yeah. Right. Right.
What people don't understand is that sulfur dioxide, like acid rain stuff.
What I'm talking about is sulfur oxide. I believe it's SO4. I'm pretty sure that's right.
There's two components to the sulfur. There's the sulfur and the, I guess it's a catalyst
or some sort of emulsifier. Is that what you would call that? Yeah. The secondary chemical
in the compound.
I just get some sulfur and stick it in the back of the garage and add it as such. I don't high
dose anything. The only thing I feed my worms is on a regular week, I'd say weekly, seven to 10
days is neem kelp and some rock dust. The rock dust acts as a fungicide. It's a fungicide.
It's been around for 400 million years. It's highly unlikely that six weeks in your
worm bin is going to do much to the deconstruction of the basalt.
And so back to, okay, so let's do cation exchange because that leads in
to the paramagnetic reaction. So, I'm going to do a little bit of a,
I'm going to do a little bit of a, I'm going to do a little bit of a,
and so back to, okay, so let's do cation exchange because that leads in then to the paramagnetic.
Your cations are like calcium. If you were to ask a chemist, what is the symbol for calcium?
They would write a uppercase C and a lowercase A. Fair enough. If you were to ask a soil biologist,
they would do the same thing and they would add two plus signs to indicate that the calcium
ion has two additional exchange sites. And in the subsoil world,
hydrogen is used as a form of payment. Think of it like a banking system. So,
this calcium ion can grab and hold on to two hydrogen atoms, right, releasing it to the root,
the calcium ion. And that's where it comes into play is that if you were to use,
okay, so magnesium, same thing. It might only have one, I think it's one exchange site,
but you get the idea. Your phosphorus, your magnesium, the macronutrients.
So, there's a lot of electrical current in this whole thing because they have,
you have positive charged ions and you have negative charged ions. And paramagnetism
is that the basalt or granite, they're the only two in the world
that I know of. I'm pretty sure I'm right on that.
Or paramagnetic can carry a charge into the soil to keep, there it is, this magnetic,
okay, just put up the, right, the magnetic field. That's probably a better way to.
Is linear field and rather weak, is that what you're referencing? The linear structure?
Yes. There you go, right there. Due to unpaired electrons in the material.
So, it organizes itself in a way that is organized.
Right. It brings order because in the soil,
let me explain this one. All right, in the literal sense of the word, soil is only has two
components. It's, well, actually three. Decomposed or, no, it's decomposed organic material, which
is either animal or plant, right? And the other one was shattered rock. And the shattered rock
got there through lichen. And it peeled off pieces of rock over millions and billions of
years. We get the idea that's what soil is. Everything else is an amendment.
So, the magnetism was already there because those were, the earth was covered pretty much,
at least in this part of the world, with basalt. Still is. If you go down not so many feet,
you have swaths of basalt that will boggle the mind. You know, 600 feet thick. I mean, it's insane.
I live on a basalt ledge from an ancient flow. It's certainly a renewable resource.
Absolutely. And when you look at the website that I referenced, Remineralize the Earth,
you'll see how critical it is in the tests that have been done that adds nutrient density to our
fruits and vegetables, which is, you know, the issue is we got to feed a lot of people. Advances
in medicine lead to more humans. And we need better food. This alarm was sounded back 84 years
ago in 1936 by Albrecht. This isn't anything new. And we got really bad after World War II. We got
a whole bunch of ammonium nitrate laying around from making bombs and what have you. That website,
I, I, it's also the, it's the cloak that Monsanto uses to shield their work.
Is, we're feeding the world in the future. Yeah. Well, at least their archives are good.
It's, they've done some great work in India. What website did you have pulled up there? Was that,
was that this, what, what Jim was just talking about? Yeah, that's it right there. Oh, there it is. Yeah.
There's one other one I'd like to have you look at. You might want to bookmark it. It's
called seaweed.ie for Ireland. Okay. That's Dr. Michael Gary,
one of the world's leading experts on marine algae. And if you go to, on the left, go down to
nutrition. So this table here shows you there's three forms of marine algae. There's red, which
grows mostly along the shore. There's green and then brown. Brown's the one that we use in our
gardens. The S-escophylum noticum on the left, that's the one we buy when we buy kelp meal.
And as you can see, there's some alginic acid, which is one of the most important compounds in
this, is only found in brown kelp, marine algae. It does, it's not found in red or green.
If for no other reason, that's why you wouldn't want to go down and pick. Well, they do Irish,
you ever heard of Irish moss? That's a red kelp. They use it in ice cream
as a thickener. I can't remember, collagen or something like that. Okay, so if you go on down,
also brown, marine algae, brown kelp is the only plant on the universe that creates alginic acid.
And it's also important because it can hold 250 to 300 percent of its weight
in water. So it helps to maintain a more consistent hydration level in our soil.
And the other one that's, oh mannitol, that's a chelating agent. You'll see that it's only in the
first three columns, that's your brown kelps. So that's the read on, and humans have been pulling
it out and burning it as potash for at least five centuries. Most of the kelp that's produced in
North America goes to animals, racehorses, show dogs. If you want a healthy animal, you give it
kelp. You want to be healthy, you should eat two teaspoons a day, just raw kelp.
So this is, the resources at this website are extraordinary in terms of videos and
where the, how it's harvested and everything. This is a very sustainable, the brown kelp that we buy
is very sustainable. If there's a, because it's controlled by international treaty
and backed by the two big hot spots are Norway, which is where maxi crop originated back in 51,
and Acadian sea plants in Nova Scotia. It's all hand harvested, sun-dried,
and then milled to a consistent size. It's minimally processed. I only have two.
Well, somebody in the comments said, do you want a combination of those three? But I think you
were specifically saying you want brown, the other two, whatever, but you want brown.
That's the one. And so you have to be really careful when you buy stuff from eBay, look at
country of origin and hopefully they'll give you the species. And if it's, go and look it up on
that website and you can look up that species and get a coherent analysis of the nutrition levels.
I wouldn't use red. I mean, it costs a shitload of money. I mean, I, you, I get the bro deal
on the kelp. So I'm down around 55 cents. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I don't know. A dollar, a dollar
five. Yeah. A dollar five a pound. I mean, I, in the last month, well, last month I sold a
10,000 pounds of kelp to two customers, commercial operations down South. So yeesh.
Wait, wait, do you, so you're a vendor for, for, for a producer or?
No, I just do favors for people.
I mean, I, you know, all the online suppliers buy from one source, concentrates.
They're grand, like in the Northwest, I'm not talking about Oregon. I'm talking about the
Northwest. They're grandfathered in with the Acadian sea plants because they carry it when
nobody else would. So if you're selling it or, you know, repacking it in the Northwest, they
get a fingerprint. Pretty cool, huh? That's what, you know, loyalty before there was a long,
a lot of reason why this is true. There's all kinds of assault here, but not in the form of
rock dust that came later, too long a story. But anyway, there was a, from guy, a green company.
Vikings. Huh?
Vikings.
Vikings.
Vikings.
Well, Vikings is how rock turns to dust, right? Just to, that's just the other story you were
going to, you know, it's another day's story, but.
No, no. When the earth was being created. Okay. So now, okay. Here's why we now have the salt rock
dust on the Columbia river, which is a major transportation thoroughfare ocean bound ships
coming in, getting unloaded, reloading, going back to Asia. So rivers, you want, you want,
so you have jetties every so often it slows down the, so the ship isn't going from left to right.
Stability. How's that? Well, not that they wanted to cut them into cubes, but all the rocks had to
be of a consistent size and you know, what have you. So they found the mine and when they began
mining it, they would have to shave off some pieces or sections to, to comply with the
requirements of the contract. So they brought in these machines from South Africa, the mining,
a diamond mine thing. And these machines can take the particles, get knocked off and turn it into
a retail product or a commercial product. I wouldn't say retail, right? How cool is that? So
when rock, when they used to sell concentrates one year, their last year, they had it,
no competition. The stuff out of Grand Forks, Canada, Canadian rock dust,
which is, I'll leave that one alone. Okay. They sold a quarter million.
Yeah, a quarter million pounds. That's a lot. But when the, the local stuff from Cascade Minerals,
that's the one you want because it's Oregon and Washington basalt, really hard.
It blew everybody away. The results are just, because you're increasing the fungal colonies,
if nothing else. But also because the paramagnetism is adding order,
as that article pointed out, it adds order to the, to the action in the soil.
Which is why... This is a perfect opportunity to talk about your soil mix, I think. You're like,
literally, I want to run down the ingredients for everyone so that they can like, have that,
write it down. Okay, so this is by volume. The first thing, the main ingredients.
You can adjust it. It's not, you know, cast in stone. But anyway, I like to use one third
sphagnum peat moss. Sphagnum peat moss comes in 3.8 foot bales. You can get them at Home Depot.
You can get them through Ace Hardware. If they don't carry them at your local, you can do ship
this store so you don't pay any shipping and handling. And it should be cheap. If you buy it
at a growth store, hey, you kind of get what you deserve. All right, it's not necessary to spend
50 bucks. It's necessary to spend like 15. And that 3.8 will bulk out to about five and a half
to six. We're talking sphagnum, not peat moss. So it has structure, it has strings, it has air
passages for water and air to get down into the soil. Really important when you're trying to do,
create an aerobic soil. Is that the difference between sphagnum and traditional peat moss? Is
the stringiness, the length of the fibers? Okay, you weren't around, but back in the 70s,
you'd say that sphagnum is like the tops and peat is like the shape.
When you get a bag of pot, you know, to smoke. The tops is perfect. Perfect analogy. And it's
alive. It's microbially alive. Because here's the beauty of the 3.8. They're cut when it's frozen.
They're wrapped and shipped and they go down and the small amount of water is, you know,
allowed to remove. So it's not processed. Peat, it comes in and first of all, they
run it through a layer at 150 or 60 degrees to, what do you call it, sterilize it. Because you
don't want bugs in your soil, right? Now it comes down to a process. Oh, I don't want bugs in my
soil. No. Now you go, now it comes down to a processing plant and nobody, and I mean nobody,
I don't care what they say, pack their own soil. As much soil as Miracle-Gro, they don't own a
single processing plant in North America. It's all done under contract, mostly by the companies
that actually harvest the peat, like Sun-Gro. Sun-Gro does black gold.
Sun-Gro does black gold.
Dude, I talked to a, side note, I talked to a guy, I won't name drop, but he's a
huge soil producer and this was back in 2016 probably. He was doing a conference talk on
the good stuff that he sells and he said at the end of the conference,
after all of my other soil is packaged up and I have my tiers of top tier, middle tier,
bottom tier soil, I then sweep the shop floor and package that and sell that to Miracle-Gro.
Yeah. I'll tell you another one. Nevermind. I won't be buying black gold potting soil
anytime soon. Okay. I'll leave it at that. It's right up there with Fox Farm Ocean.
Funny. I told you I wasn't going to name drop, Jim.
Yeah. Okay. All right. So back to the soil. So we've got-
I'm just kidding.
We got this sphagnum peat moss and now we're going to add the same amount of volume
of aeration. And I like to use pumice. And there's a lot of reasons because, excuse me,
yeah, pumice. I don't like perlite because it moves around. Remember, the soils that I mix are
going to last four or five years. So the last thing I need is a top layer of perlite so the
next wind that comes along, I see my money going down the street. So but perlite, it's inert,
it's volcanic glass, it does nothing, it has no- it's glass. And those little holes is where
microbes sequester their feces that can be accessed by roots and in some cases require
microhyzopundra. So that's why I like it. It stays where you put it. You get it mixed right,
that's where you, you know, it's how you like it. And then the final one is, you know-
And that comes from your- that comes from that pumice versus perlite argument, that comes from
your commercial experience with Japanese lacemakers.
Correct. Correct. Right. In fact-
And those live for years and years and years.
Well, they require- first of all, before you get into market size,
you're looking at four, four and a half to six years depending on the particular cultivar.
Okay, so one of the biggest costs or expenses in the commercial nursery is what we call knockovers.
The container gets knocked over by wind, you know, usually that's- obviously wind,
and up here when it rains and the wind, it's not- we go out, say- well think about this,
one acre is 36,000 plants in the number one pot. And if you're a big producer and you're selling
like a quarter million plants a year, okay, you might have eight or nine, ten acres in production
of container plants and, you know, you can't have them bouncing around.
So that's where you need the-
Yeah, so-
You need the soil stable to the extent, you know, I mean-
Stable and you need- you need it to not move around within itself.
Correct, yeah. It's- it's interesting to go- there's a show every year, I don't- it's not
going to happen this year with all the things going on, but it was called Far West and it's
put on by the Oregon Association of Nurseries. And this is not like your home and garden show
where you got massage tables and, you know, jacuzzis. This is like producers, machines.
I mean, if you saw how mechanized the nursery sector is, it's mind-blowing.
There's some places back in North Carolina,
God, what's the name of that? Bobby, Bonnie, something like that. You'll find them at
nurseries, their plants. It never- human hands never touch it until you grab it off of a
shelf at Home Depot. The whole thing is robotic.
Dude, these machines are crazy. I think Andy Crawford is the guy's name. I hope I'm not
mistaking him. He sells these horticulture machines that literally- they will repot for you.
Oh yeah.
And they'll do tens of thousands of plants in a day.
Yeah, I mean, I used to laugh at- okay, think about this. This is just Christmas trees. Oregon
sells seven and a half million trees a year. Seven and a half million every year.
They're all grown from clones. They don't call them that. Only stoners call it clones. They're
all grown from cuts. Okay, so think about this for a minute. If you're selling seven and a half
million a year, you have to create at least 800,000 for diops and other issues, right?
So that's four or five years from now, you'll have another seven and a half million, right?
I mean, can you imagine what it would take to do seven and a half million cuts a year
in easy cloners? I mean, what, a 600,000 square foot warehouse somewhere?
It's- some of it's really funny. Yeah. Yeah. Just because you have a lot of money, you can buy a
lot of neat toys. Doesn't make you a producer, as we learned up here in 17.
Did we lose Aaron? So just one thing, people in the chat had mentioned Black Soldier Fly and
and one question I have is, you know, we've talked composting, vermicomposting. Have you
explored kind of, you know, insect frass and- No, but Doug at Northwest Redworms got heavily
involved in it and sells the larvae and the reactors or whatever they're called. And I,
yeah, it's incredible. It's amazing. And there is some chitin. It's another way to go, for sure.
And the frass, I've been given some by a commercial company or two. And I ended up adding
it to my worm bin because I kind of believe from experience, and I've been working with the same
soil mix for several, almost a decade now, you know, a tweak here and there. But I run everything
I can through the worm bin because then everything's chelated. Everything's bioavailable.
So that when it goes into the soil mix, people go, don't you cook your soil? I go, what, with a
bechamel sauce? I don't- no, I just fucking mix it and, you know, I put a plant in it. I mean,
I don't know. I put all my effort in the worm bin because it pays back in spades. And you can go to
YouTube and look up Cornell University, which is one of the oldest horticulture schools in
the United States. And their research there on vermiculture is an eye opener. To give an example,
for several years, it was known that castings, worm castings, provided a high level of fungicide
protection. That was- that's established. And then five years ago, maybe six, a woman by the name of
Yasmin Cardoza was doing her doctorate under the auspices of Dr. Clive Edwards, who holds a degree
from Oxford and a degree from Michigan in entomology as it relates to composting worms.
She established that the worm castings also provide a high level of pesticide by inhibiting
eggs from hatching because of the diversity. And that's why diversity in your worm food is
integral. Can you grow it from kitchen scraps? Yeah, but it's a dumb way to go
since most kitchen scraps are 99% water. And worms are really magical, but they can't convert
water to castings. You know, you need bulk and that comes usually in the form of manure,
horse or cow. I think cow is better because maybe it does open in. And then of course,
making your compost. And another avenue that I've kind of gotten people around here
is there's a place here in Portland that sells what I would call a serviceable compost. Is it
great? No. But you can make it great really easily with some kelp, some neem and some barley and give
it about four weeks and now you've got, you know, a nine plus on a scale of one to ten.
And going into a grow with that level of
diversity and nutrient density, you're ready to rock and roll.
Perfect. So that's like a perfect like description of all three things that are the foundation of
your soil. You have Canadian stagnant peat moss, one third and put on that one third of an
aerative input. So pumice is what you recommend. Sure. And one third vermicompost. And this is not
just kitchen scrap vermicompost. This is black leaf mold. You know, you're paying a lot of
attention into what you're making sure you're not. I think everybody should be using water based
inputs. Yeah. I mean, there's a way to work with recycling. I'll get in on just a second. So now
we're down to the soil and we're only going to add three or four materials. One of those is going to
be rock dust. Now a cubic foot is 7.2 gallons or something like close to that. So we can call that
112 cups. So I just want to put that in perspective how little inputs you're actually adding. So you're
going to add a couple cups of salt or granite. Okay. Remember now all the castings and that's
why we call it vermicompost. It takes two years to make pure castings. So anybody that tells you
they're selling pure castings is running a scam. So that's you have an immense amount of calcium
carbonate, right? That's bioavailable right now. So we're going to add to our mix a half a cup
of gypsum and a half a cup of some calcium carbonate, oyster shell, limestone. The easiest
one is probably for most people just go over to Home Depot and grab a 25 pound bag for nothing.
Or if you have a feed store it's probably going to be around 10 bucks or 50 pounds. I mean
somebody asked me once, don't you worry about it going bad? I said, well it's been around for about
20 million years. I doubt that a couple of years in the back of my shell.
So anyway, so now we have our aligning agent. Okay. How do we get there? And then the final
one is a cup of kelp always mandatory. No seaweed extract. You want raw chopped kelp.
The kind they sell at a feed store. Stay away from down to earth unless you got a lot of money to
burn. Kelp is another one. Kelp will probably last you know with a minimum amount of care
probably at least three years. I mean you know invest, plan ahead you know.
And then the final one and I know this one. Dry storage is a great thing to have.
What's that?
You got to have dry storage for nutrients for fertilizer. You know it's like you got to have bins.
Yeah. Yeah. And then the final one and I don't really care about
certain unqualified people that call themselves
consultants. They should emphasize and put in bold the con.
A cup of neem and if you had the luxury I'd do a half a cup of neem and a half a cup of
karanja. Now karanja is interesting because that's actually a legume. Even though it's a tree it's a
legume. And what that neem and karanja add is nitrification holding the nitrogen in the soil
rather than allowing it to vaporize and float off into the atmosphere. That's kind of a neat concept
don't you think? Off gas. Yeah nitrogen off gases and leaches so easily that if you can have a
nitrogen fixing nodule in your soil there's nothing better. You can't feed the plant that much nitrogen.
Yeah well that's where either and or nitrogen and karanja. So
if you need a source contact me. I've got some of the best sources for some of the best neem out of
India out of Mumbai. It's really really good and we'll take care of you. And then what about
aloe vera powder? That is another question that okay. I always like to shout people out
when they ask a question. I think it was Walter. Let me see.
Oh coconut powder
was a question I got from Salt Walter. So do you have any experience using coconut powder
instead of like a the coconut water? No because I really studied the coconut deal
and I'll sum it up real briefly. The coconut is a seed and so the young coconut the type that you
find in Thai food stalls and what have you is you can cut it with a knife and when they pour it out
you get close to 12 ounces of water right. So that's the embryo of a coconut seed and as a
as it matures if you left it intact the water builds up on the inside of the shell and the
shell develops and now it's a fertile seed. You'll notice that the type we harvest to eat right.
So you notice that when you bust that one of them you might get a couple what tablespoon maybe
or two. You don't get much water. So we want the water because this is imagine the benefit in barley.
Imagine a live seed with the coconut water. It's an amazing thing to see and it's well worth a trip
to a Thai food store or sometimes Hispanic and get them. You'll see they're white and they're
usually been trimmed kind of in a cone shape and they cut with a knife because the shell hasn't
materialized yet. That's the real thing. You want to grow good personal. Those are delicious.
Yes yes they are. By the time it ends up in a can at Costco.
I don't know. I like to grow really good weed. I don't buy anything in a growth store. I buy
everything usually from food markets and places. Food that's what I feed my plants is food.
So the. Isn't that interesting. Isn't that ironic. You feed your plants food. Yeah.
Now the aloe vera is was the first plant that was domesticated by the human race as a medicinal
plant and predates the most ancient kingdoms in Egypt. In fact they used to use the aloe vera to
prepare the bodies for a modification. Then it moved to India at some point and became part of
the spice trade which spread. Plants all over Europe and Africa and what have you.
And so when we look at the history of the aloe vera plant it's one that goes way back
into this day. You would be hard pressed to go and get a off the shelf item at a pharmacy for
your skin that didn't contain salicylic acid. If you were given a prescription for some kind of
treatment it's going to contain probably pharmaceutical grade salicylic acid.
Salicylic acid is the acid is common ingredient for acne treatment. Absolutely. All right. And
then the assembly form is aspirin. That's where a bear made all of its money to be the criminals
that they are today. I mean they made Monsanto look like girl scouts. Especially in Africa.
But every plant produces some amount of salicylic acid. And here's where we're going to get
back to the barley. In plants what we in humans or our pets we call immune systems.
In plants they use the term pathways. And one of the most important pathway in a plant is the
chitinase hyphen salicylic acid pathway. And wrap your brain around that one and you'll see
the importance of adding because no plant produces the amount of salicylic acid that an aloe vera
plant. It's almost like scary. You don't need a lot. You're using fresh. And where you live brother
you can grow all the aloe vera you want. Try growing it in Oregon in the rainforest.
You know the plant came out of Egypt for Christ's sake. And spent a few centuries in India.
Within two. I don't know if you'd be able to see it but I actually have. I actually have two aloe
plants. Where the hell are they? Right outside my window. There's one. Can you see it? Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. You should have one. They're thriving. You should have one in your kitchen in a pot so that
if you burn your hand as you're cooking you want to cut a piece of the end off and rub it on your
burn. And more often than not you won't even end up with a blister. So it's this plant. I have not.
It cleans and it removes anaerobic materials in and around our roots.
It's almost the first time I used it I was cloning like I always do in rock oil fumes.
All right. And so I made more. I always make more than I need. And I had the last one and I said
I want to see how long I can take this thing. So as well as trying to see how long it could sit there
because they had some aloe vera juice in the bottom and I would like change it every other
day or so. So it was in liquid and I let them grow to 18 inches these roots. And there wasn't one
brown spot on them from this aloe vera. And I said to myself I'm on to something. This is really big.
And I know that salicylic acid is a big one in tissue culture propagation. So it didn't take
me long to like put A and B together. And then I came up with like cheapest. This one is like
really stupid. So the brand you want to buy in the United States is Lily of the Desert. The reason
it's called that is that aloe vera is a lily not a cacti. And almost all of it's grown down on the
Rio Grande River. All right. So they make products and one of them it has to do with the preservative.
They make an organic gel aloe vera gel Lily of the Desert. So it's you can get a liter not a
liter a pint. Yeah 16 ounces for around eight bucks. And to that you're going to add you'll
love this one a tablespoon of kelp meal and a teaspoon of fulvic acid from BioAg in Lebanon,
Oregon. Shake it up and let it sit outside for about out on the shelf or kitchen shelf
for about two days and then put it in the refrigerator. Now you got gel
that costs less than ten dollars and do at least a thousand plants. There's your rooting gel.
Another easy one is honey. No no no I'd rather go pay
seventy dollars for two ounces of clonex. Thank you very much. Yeah clonex.
Yeah the really bad one out there is and OK so all of your all of your
commercial are going to be either S.A. salicylic acid I.A. and oleicidic acid or I.B.A. which is
endo three butyric acetyl acid. OK so that's the one that you find in Dip and Grow which they cater
to the nursery excuse me Christmas tree industry. It's said that you can actually clone a popsicle
stick with Dip and Grow. So the other one is I.A. and that's all like your Olivia's and you know
Olivia's and you know aren't we cute and stuff. But the one you got to watch out for is N.A.A.
naphtha acetic acid. It's an artificial compound first created by Monsanto back in the 50s. It's
a it's a fungicide. It is a fungicide. Why would you use a root because it's got a cute label
like Johnny B. Stone or you know I mean some idiotic growth store you know label
and a picture. It's insane. Now you want to talk about well you know somebody said there's a lot
of potassium in kelp. We used to we used to clone clinics. OK. You want a different not
different. You have a easy corner on the old one laying around. Pour in like I have a knockoff
like like an aeroponics type cloner. I met that like saying zero. Yeah. Yeah. OK.
Use aloe vera in the water. Watch your watch your roots explode.
It's also anti-bacterial and anti-fungal. So you can actually there it is. There you go.
You can actually like you can actually use it instead of like if you use hydrogen peroxide
or chlorine in your water you can use aloe as a preventative. Correct. Correct. That's right.
Yeah. Yeah. Just try some get a good I don't liquid or gel. You have to figure that part out
but make sure it's low. It does it may have it comes down to the preserve.
And so on the organic ones you get the ones that are not like phosphoric acid.
You know that's silliness. But you know usually a citric acid is the most common preservative.
So there you go. Oh so back to the soil. So there you go. That's the same. So I feed the
same thing to my worms. Then I'm going to use my soil mix as far as neem and kelp and barley
and aloe vera. Like you with the old fresh you could use get the gel out or whatever.
And the barley is where you're getting the fungal activity from. Absolutely. Absolutely.
Because the more you we can put a good fungal colony development in our soils are the earliest
possible part of the process. Right. That's going to carry through for several years.
A living soil means that a living cell not that I was too lazy to go to take care of business.
You know you got to do things that feed the soil. And how do we do that. Well we add more biology
to our soil. I put it up. I'll send it to you. A five year old soil that is off the charts on
the macro. Well minor. Little down on the micronutrients. That's what helps about it.
Here's why kelp is so important. The NPK thing is based on the law of minimums.
All right. So basically you can make a plant survive.
But plants use 83 elements. Why do we know this. Well that's how many are in kelp. Because it's
a plant. But more importantly it's in the right balance. It wasn't some gross third jack off.
Well we need more magnesium on this thing. Or oh I want boron. You know or whatever the latest
you know gig is. It goes in cycles. So when we add kelp we're adding a material that has
accumulated all 83 elements in the right proportion. That more than anything. The major ones being
copper, molybdenum, iron. There's a whole bunch of. Yeah it is. And the idea that after World War
II that we can manipulate agriculture and we could bend the sciences of botany and make a
horrible definition of agriculture in this country and how we were producing our food.
I guess it doesn't matter if you're going to turn your grains into
pop tarts or you know some kind of idiotic chicken pot pie from Swanson or something.
The TV dinners. That was a generation I grew up on. TV dinner is lovely. It's not bad enough to
have meat though. But now it's been frozen and made in a plant somewhere in you know
pigs knuckle Arkansas. So the it isn't you know what I try to teach people is not this. This isn't
about cannabis. This is about growing plants for your health. You want you know you want a real
tomato you better grow it because you're not going to find it in the store. And now that's
what we've done to cannabis. I mean some of the stuff I've seen come out of these dispensaries.
I mean it's appalling. Appalling. Even the worst Colombian which most of it is bad.
You know from the late 70s is better than this. And that's really saying a lot.
You know we missed a question. Yeah. Jessica are you going to get the aloe vera the age one.
So just quickly wrapping up that I was going to St. Bernard's observation booth asked any comments
on aloe plants having to reach a certain age before they are really effective.
Absolutely not. I received a book from Jeremy Silva at Build a Soil an anthology of articles
by two researchers and it's too in-depth to go through here. But these are articles dating all
the way back to like the 1810 excuse me 1910 in that era. World War unfortunately wars create
opportunities to study things and that's medically and pharmaceutically. And that's the same thing
that had aloe vera became a big deal with as you mentioned with the dermatologist.
Anything you get from a prescription for a dermatologist is going to have
uber levels of salicylic acid. Here's another one for you can buy like a kilo
of pharmaceutical grade salicylic acid a kilo for under 50 bucks.
That'll make like 50 gallons of rooting gel. This isn't right these guys these companies man
this they're not rocket scientists. You just got to learn how to read the label.
You know inert ingredient that's water and stretch out.
So you basically need a plant that that has reached enough maturity to develop those
viscous innards. Yes I mean because it's one of the fastest growing plants
if you're on the right where you guys are California Southern California even
up around Sacramento. I mean the amount that it grows in a few weeks is mind-boggling.
It's just it's almost like a hydroponic plant or something. I mean is that fast enough to
it's almost like a hydroponic plant or something. I mean is that fast of rate. So
I would you know I couldn't even imagine I buy them from I buy that they're called fronds
fronds at the Mexican supermarkets because it's widely used in kitchens for burns
and or sunburn or anything you know like say you get a bit by a mosquito you put aloe vera piece
of the gel on your penetration side of the insect and it draws the poison out. But doesn't the same
thing in the soil is that and this is really a bad way to phrase it I'm going to beat up on this.
But basically it can wash your roots and get rid of decayed material. It cleans house in there
and the big one is the salicylic acid is the big player here and the amount of data out there.
See a lot of things that I started using in talking about I had to take a material that was
mainly like aloe vera used by humans but then I found some veterinary links. So now I could
establish okay so there's a medicinal value here that exceeds just because some people drink it as
a with the ulcers stomach ulcers. Yeah I mean it's a wonderful wonderful plant to have around
and that's why the human races embraced it for almost 5,000 years. So I felt pretty comfortable.
It was cool that you mentioned aloe cleans or washes the the root space. Is that yes is that
was that what you said? Yes. It reminded me of something else that you mentioned. Oh go ahead.
No I was just expand on that if you want. Oh no just with all the when you have a really active
soil especially like when we use the air pruning pods like smart pod allow a lot of oxygen
into our root zone. We're going to get more massive root development and that's where cleanliness,
house cleaning, it can be helpful. But the other side of it is is that in the world of plants
something some plants are identified only by a compound or two and that's really disingenuous
not to mention inaccurate. So in aloe vera there are some plants though that accumulate the entire
range of macro and micronutrients that in the world of botany kelp is probably the best.
Another one is alfalfa. In fact old timers like even in my time I can remember old timers
referring to alfalfa as field kelp. It was that good a material.
Well aloe vera is also a bionutrient accumulator and when you really start studying
look for the gibberellic acid compounds that are part of the aloe vera and that will help you
get a good feeling or understanding of what's happening when we use it especially in the
rooting process. It's one thing to get something to root and it's an exciting thing. I get it.
But it's another one to pull up a cutting and you've got this mass of root development
ready to go into this soil that you made and created carefully and always selective about
what you used. I'm just looking through the questions right now. The American one asked
We missed one from... Go ahead.
I was gonna do the one from the American one about...
Yeah so the American one's questions. What elements are most detrimental and excess in
a soil for plant growth? Are there some to be careful with more than others about overdoing it?
Yeah the big one comes to mind is magnesium. If you look at the molecule of chlorophyll,
chlorophyll-2 which is the most common on the planet, there's one magnesium ion.
There's four nitrogen ions and I couldn't even begin to count. I'd have to look it up but
carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. One magnesium. Where the myth started about these magnesium
hungry plants? I mean what does their chlorophyll need two magnesium ions? So
magnesium like when you were a child or maybe your own children when they would get upset stomach and
had diarrhea or something you might give them milk of magnesium and that would solidify the
and that would solidify the digestive system and stop the diarrhea right?
Well this is the same thing in the soil. It tightens up the soil and restricts air and water flow.
So why it became this
cannabis thing?
You don't get I mean you do I mean legitimate soil test and it's almost never a magnesium
deficiency but that's like the instant cure for everything is epsom salts. Epsom salts you know
calcium or whatever it is a magnesium sulfate. The most benefit coming is coming from that as a sulfur.
So that's the main one for me is magnesium. That's why I don't use dolomite lying
I don't even understand what CalMag means. I haven't ever had anybody. It's very interesting
when you look at it you were just talking about the magnesium in the chlorophyll and it was very
interesting to me when I was doing research on RSO trying to remove chlorophyll from the extract
in a post-process process. I was researching the chemical structure of chlorophyll and it looks
like a key like a hole with a line and magnesium sits right in the right in the keyhole. There it
is. That's not much magnesium. Now I'm not sure if you're talking about the magnesium in the
if you look up a red blood cell what you would find is it's all it's scary science fiction scary
how close it is to chlorophyll but we have iron. So iron is the anchor in a red blood cell so you
know iron poor blood and all this bullshit and but now we have magnesium hungry plants which
I've never been able to get any botanist or even somebody online what is this CalMag thing?
Oh well you know I use it because yeah we're off to wishing and hoping. So yeah the other
that one's the worst in my opinion. We especially with cannabis people they're just obsessed about
oh that and phosphorus you know but. Tal the American one specifically asked about
sulfur because he's worried that maybe using the langmanite plus the gypsum is going to be
too much sulfur. In my experience you it's hard to hit to sulfur toxicity but that said you do
want to monitor with some sort of you know if nothing else arbitrary understanding of what
your inputs are but at best soil tests. I mean I wouldn't use both. The one I would
probably not use is the langmanite and go with the sulfur but I'm really
set my ways probably old age or senility or something but I really like I'm going I go back
to basics. I'm going to use basalt and I'm not going to use zeolite or calcinated bentonite. I
mean a lot of this stuff is just what they call label building in the growth store world. The
more crap you get on the label it sounds like you really know what you're doing
and so kutzmix couldn't do anything because there's nothing there.
That's funny. Yeah right. Well really what they do is they take things that are working in nature
and break them down to their constituent components and try and upsell these individual
components. Sure. Well I would say couple that with the American mentality that if something's
good more must be better. Yes yeah yep. I believe that one alone. Yeah this isn't rocket science.
To set up a large let's say okay throw a number at me. Let's say a person had was
is 100 plants commercial? That's a question not a comment or yes. Low end commercial. Sure
depending on big plants it would be yeah. Okay and so what amount of
gallon size what size of pots would you think a typical 100 plant grower would use?
It depends on who you're talking about but I mean they should probably in today's modern day
probably using 10 or 20 gallon fabric pots high turnover small plants. Oh geez okay I'm used to
guys you've seen pictures on my feed you know 800 gallon smart pots and they're pulling 10 and a
half pounds you know that's okay so let's all right let me do it my way then. So let's say
we have a hundred gallon pots no 50 50 gallon pots and 100 of them so that's what 5,000 gallons?
Yep. Okay so if a third of that is worm castings what would that be?
1,700. A lot. Okay let's make it 2,000. Okay so 2,000 gallons and divided by seven
because that's how many I can't do the 7.25. I divide by 785.
Okay so that's 200 cubic feet and divide that by 27. We're talking 10 yards.
10 yards. That's nothing. Okay just to put just to give you a visual when you go into a home
depot and you go to the garden section they have the the pallets of soil that's two yards.
Okay so think of that and we said how many yards? 10?
Oh you get the idea so that's why they call them two yard totes.
So that's a pallet a full pallet is two yards.
So we're not talking a lot of material and to set up to make your own
I mean you could do that on a a city lot.
What 50 by 100? On a Sunday afternoon. All day long.
All day long.
Yeah. It's not difficult and the less you screw up there
people ask me what's the most important thing in vermicompost is called patience. Leave it alone.
They don't need you to look at them. They don't need you you know to just leave alone. You know
they got it down. They got this down. They don't sleep. They live for almost five years.
They reproduce twice a week. They eat and screw. I mean it's like having your brother-in-law live
with you or something you know. All right so Glowtree asks can we get Coots thoughts on
gypsum not supporting soil biology? I think there was a soil scientist that came out and mentioned
this some time ago about gypsum not supporting microbiology. What do you know about that?
Nothing. I mean you know I've never heard that. I've never heard research that supports it. No.
Look I'm not saying I have a perfect soil mix. What I can say is that
every person has ever used it and didn't try to assure it would go to you know grow storm by
the worm factory or something. Actually made an effort to get some real or even good compost.
I'll tell you a little secret. I watched a very intensive it was translated from
Mandarin Chinese to English a documentary on growing tea in China at the original
area where the first tea was first produced for the emperor. And you know what they feed their
tea plants? A handful of worm casting once a year. They put it around at the base like a you have
two handfuls you know and then you put it around the base and tamp it down and that's it.
If you were to watch it for a king huh?
Fit for a king huh? That easy. That's all. I promise you that if you watch at least 10
videos at YouTube with Cornell University and vermicompost in the title you'll know more than
90 percent of the people you're going to meet.
You notice I'm very careful about using the word castings versus vermicompost.
Okay you got to start with good compost because you're not going to turn all of it. You want about
a 70-30 split. There's a lot of reasons for that. It has to do with diversity of the microbes. It
has to do with development of fungal colonies and we can accelerate that with barley. That's what
we found exciting. Back to Doug. Okay so Doug gets this call up calls me at seven in the morning.
Says I got all this barley. So I go over there and look at it and he's got you know 20 pallets at
55 bags on a pallet right? There's a lot of barley and so he said can I use this? And I said yes but
just do me one favor because he grows in what they call windrows. All right they're like 60 foot
long I guess. I said give me one windrow and don't amend it in any other way other than
using the barley and I said put it on thick. So he did. A couple months later he called me and
said I've never I've been doing this 40 years. I've never seen material get you know flipped
and the amount of worms that I'm getting I've never seen this.
See I mean it was massive. Like you take a pitchfork and lift it up and it looked like
something out of a science fiction movie. This wasn't like oh there's one over here. Here's a
cool. Yeah that's incredible. I mean so it's really cool. I've been a fan of yours for a very long time
but I have just started to to kind of like open the book of science that you've created on all
of this stuff and I've created my own organic soil over the last five or six years and
and it's killer. It works wonders in my garden and my plants love it but this this next cycle
I'm actually using the barley and corn sprouts milled as a top dress. Oh yeah. Only. It's the
only thing I'm going to use. I'm going to amend first and then I'm going to do weekly top dresses.
So this will be kind of a standalone examination of how the barley and corn sprout
influenced not the worm bin but specifically my my soil bed. I haven't been there since the
Gnarly Barley product was released but I would imagine there's some pretty glowing reports
from the early users. There are. I've definitely lagged on sending them to you. I meant to
but there's there's people love this stuff man and they're and they're chomping at the
bit to get more and they there's you know Jeremy doesn't have enough I think.
Yeah I don't get involved in that. I what I can tell you is the first time that I tried it. Now
remember I have a luxury that most people don't. I have a strain that I've been growing for 36 years
and I wasn't always an organic terrorist. I was a grocery store asshole. I mean I actually used
to buy a Fox Farm Ocean Forest because I thought it was good and then I sobered up and some other
things happened. But what I found is that to grow this strain correctly a minimum of 12 weeks
and I've gone as much as 18 just to see but 12 is the usual one and we were able to reduce that by
20 percent down to nine and a half weeks and I don't care what you're growing. If you're a farmer
of whatever it is and you can whack off 25 percent of your time required in the field
that's pretty amazing and as it relates to cannabis it did not diminish the potency
or yield. So you got for just using barley you got 20 percent off your flower time.
Pretty cool huh? That's incredible man. I mean I've had rounds where I've had flower finish in
six weeks that usually takes seven or eight and I didn't know why. I just oh I just got lucky that
round but you know I think there are certain inputs that I used that I didn't even understand
that I was creating this growth hormone regulation system in the soil that allowed the plant to
move much quicker. Well I don't want to bother you but I'll be more than happy to send some of
my PDFs that I've collected over 15 years in the realm of biology or botany in general and soil biology.
Send them all man. None of that stuff bothers me. Especially as it relates to barley because
when I hit that one I thought this is really important and more important than cannabis.
I'm talking about producing food. That's the biggest issue facing the human race is food
and I know in my own little garden we grow every year. I have the nicest tomatoes
with the biggest fruit set and people say what do you put on there? Calf meal and barley.
No no really. What do you spray with? Some neem oil once in a while.
I'm not that involved. I couldn't be a production manager at one of these
cannabis factories. You didn't see me on film at 11. Man goes berserk and
shoots his co-workers or something. I mean I would go out to these things and just look at them.
I remember one guy he was big shot. He told me yeah we got we're well funded. We've got at least
two and a half million dollars in reserve. I said good deal because you're gonna need it.
They never did get a crop out of the ground. Never did. Oh yeah it was a joke.
I'll tell you what. Oklahoma's got a prospering cannabis economy right now and I'm setting up
out there and my contractor's working on some indoor grow out there and he's telling me he just
had to set up this facility where the guy didn't even have a well drilled yet and he had plants.
He had 500 plants and no well and I mean these people have no idea what they're doing. It's
unbelievable. Well think about this. We're not the biggest in the country but Oregon
does about 1.7 billion dollars a year in nursery plants. The kind
including mostly like you find outside of Home Depot or Lowe's or you know the bulk stuff.
Arborvitae is you know.
Yeah whatever. So there's a lot of production here. If you were going to set up a cannabis farm
do you think it might have been helpful if you would have sought out people that had
oh I don't know 12-15 years experience and running a nursery instead of the guy that was the manager
over at indoor garden center. I mean it was a joke. That's a problem man.
Yeah you can count the brain cells on one hand. Yeah I just walked I stayed away. I told one
well he this room this this no it wasn't a room it was a greenhouse. It looked like a room because
there was mold on the ceiling the walls the pots everything. And he said well what do you think we
should do? And I said I would go to an army surplus store and buy 10 machetes and get your crew
and chop this thing down and then have it completely sanitized by a professional company
because you're just going to anyway they didn't. And so they had two more cycles like that and then
I put them on go to email not go to voicemail automatically. I didn't want to even answer
the phone or something. You know you can't fix stupid. Yeah you can't. I came out of the nursery
sector. I had to make money. I didn't you know I mean on this plant I had to take care of it
because you were paid by the amount of root mass. These are commercial like for
architectural landscapers that you know for resorts hotels that kind of stuff. So that
plant better be perfect. And when they cut that pot off that's why they're made out of that type
of material. They look at the roots and that's kind of like your paycheck for your five years
that it sat on your property. So you got to do it right. You know it's just in volume. We'll make
it up in volume. How many people out there paying wholesale five thousand dollars for a
lace maple you know that kind of stuff. So back to Alavera. Some dimwit got on a podcast and said
you shouldn't use it because it doesn't have any oxen. Well I'll leave that one. I'm not going to
embarrass him any more than he's already embarrassed himself. Come on give it to us.
Well if you don't count what 13 different growth hormones.
That's not you know I bet you he doesn't know the difference between an oxen and a hormone. I'll bet
you that all oxen are hormones but not all hormones are oxen. And it has to do with
it's kind of like that difference when it turns. So oxen are neat. I recently did a little bit of
research. When they're in complementary levels they prevent axillary bud growth which is something I
was calling epithelial bud growth. Remember when I texted you about that. Yeah.
It's axillary. It's actually so it's a growth that happens when there's not enough
of this of this oxen in the plant. Right. Which if we go back to the vermicompost
the better job we do in putting together this we'll call it substrate. Betty whatever term you
want to use. The better job we do then the end result is going to be that much better. If I add
a small amount like say we'll take like maybe for your personal vegetable garden. Say you got a
30 gallon pot. So we all know what size that means. And I would add say a cup a week of kelp.
And so that when I apply that vermicompost to my newly planted starts that I got or grew whatever
they're off to a roaring start. And the faster you get that root system developed the better
stronger plants you're going to have. That's why I don't like easy cloners.
Because at the end of the day once it roots and you have a lot of roots that's pretty cool.
And I go to plant them I'm going to lose some energy on that.
For several days. Major man. There is a a major slowdown. I've even heard it called water roots
versus soil roots. And I don't think that that's an accurate technical term but I think what they
mean is roots without dendrites. There's no like sub colony of roots coming out from a main.
Yeah. Like it'll be a main root and then nothing on the sides.
So let me make my case for grow down rockwool cubes.
I'll repeat that grow down.
Are you plugging a big company right now? I am because of history. They invented for this discussion
hydroponic growing in Holland as we know it today.
The reason that rockwool cubes perform like they do is they're made from the salt.
And it's heated up to 32 or 3300 Fahrenheit. And like you've seen cotton candy when you're a kid.
You went to the fair or something. Well when you heat the salt up like that it comes off in strands.
And those strands are collected and then formed into the products that you and I have used and
products that you and I have used and seen and used.
So that means that this is the salt nothing else. It's been sterilized beyond
you know I mean 3200 Fahrenheit that's really hot.
And it also has the perfect balance of water to air. So that's why it's so important in rooting.
Is that you have that perfect balance. And those roots are going to develop all up and down the
shaft from the top of the cube to the bottom. We've seen that. You let them go a few more days
now you got roots coming out of the sides right. So that when we put that into the soil and gently
pack our soil mix around it. It still has that integrity that was developed inside that rockwool
inside that rockwool cube. So there's my speech. Now one person online said well I don't like them
because you know they don't break down. You're right it's basalt. You know it's been around for
a couple hundred million years. What did you want it to do? It's literal rock strand. Yeah.
Why wouldn't that be a benefit because we are talking in an aerobic environment right.
Because it doesn't look pretty. We won't get on Cannabis World magazine this month. I mean
I don't know. Of all the things I worry about that. That's a lot of.
I've seen pictures of roadside garbage dumps of like of old grows where they just literally dump
like 20 or 50 you know cubes of grow Dan on the side. And I think for that it has this bad sort
of connotation. People assume that it's not a renewable resource because people throw it away
and don't reuse it. But it is rock at the end of the day. Rock strand. I think between the three
of us each of us has gone on a pee break. So Jim will be back with you shortly. Yeah. But I think
I'm loving the conversation. I think we have like or last I checked there were like 270 people
watching. So I appreciated everyone. Man. Seek One said what is the best nitrogen and best amount
to use in flowering stage for female cannabis for peat and perlite. I think this is sort of
a complex question but the best nitrogen depends on what. It's complex for me because I don't do
the NPK shuffle. I make good vermicompost. I mix it with this and I grow plants that produce
really really strong weed cannabis whatever you want to call it. And so I'm of the old school
that if it works I don't want to fix it. I didn't want to cross it with the cush. I didn't want to
cross it with. Oh no I got this one from Dragon. Oh really. Good. How about it. You know maybe you
can find the guy that's got the magical aqua poke of gold that never existed. Yeah. But you
you can only think like that Jim because you actually are so highly aware of of the inputs
that you can sort of like keep it in the back of your mind and know OK I have enough cow manure
in my compost to have good nitrogen levels later down the road. I think other people just look at
it in this really basic you know single dimensional kind of way where it's like I need nitrogen input.
I need phosphorus input. I need potassium input and I need calcium input. So they're looking for
one individual thing for each of those and that's not necessarily the case. It is for sulfur for you
but it's not for nitrogen and phosphorus and for so many other complex macro nutrients. Well that's
why OK that's to answer your question directly then is that both mean meal
and kelp meal are bio nutrient accumulators. So that's before we can get into a discussion about
compounds that are present hydrocarbons and what have you. Right. OK. So the kelp meal gives me
their correct balance of macro and micronutrients. In my mind that discussion or concern is over.
Then when I add the neem I'm reinforcing that plus like we already discussed nitrification
and what have you. OK. So here's what I learned over almost 44 years now growing wheat.
The less concerned I was about it the better.
The more science I put into it the better it was and not what I like to call stoner science.
I know when you cut the plant down man you want to stick it in boiling water because it pushes
you know the THC out of the stock into the leaves. You have terpenes in a stock. Wow.
Where'd this come from. Some you know some far away Tibetan bro science man.
See you must have missed the memo. There was a whole book put out where we all learned this fake
information from the Internet and we all grew like that for 10 years. And then some people
made a fucking career consulting people based on that information. And that's what they do for a
job now. Yeah I went. I don't say this a lot of pride. I attended one of Danny Danko's
abortions up in Seattle the High Times Cup where of course Kyle Cushman won.
You know it's my stream. No it isn't. But anyway I went to the first. I can't.
I went to the first. You get that. Hold on. Hold on.
Fucking you just called the High Times Cannabis Cup an abortion.
Oh it is. It was a joke. Explain this to me. How does a guy. I love it.
Who's the. How's the. How is the guy who's the editor. Quits one day.
Name of Kyle Cushman. I like to see the birth certificate on that one.
How does he start winning cups everywhere. High Time Cups.
Huh. Oh and then he comes out his own product line.
The Gannix. So a friend of mine and I and I'm majoring. We're going to make. Yeah yeah.
And I busted him. Not him. He had a stocking horse that would go around on that. And this
is back in the forum days for social media as we go. I'm really good at research and stuff.
I found a factory where it was packed in China on which ship it came over on the last
where they received it. And you're talking about his product. Yeah. Was made in China.
Oh yeah. Wow. When I appeared one time one of the first times I appeared on a deal like this
was with Adam Dunn and really nice show. But here is the lineup. You didn't think this was cute.
We had Kyle Cushman. We had the rib with his layers and spikes. You know book sound like a
weird name for a bar somewhere. And and then me. So I defaulted and said I'll go after the other
two gentlemen. So they nailed Kyle on. Is your stuff organic. Almost. It's 95 percent organic.
I kept thinking is that like being almost pregnant or you know what do you mean almost
organic. It is or it isn't right. Or shoes and hand grenades is what my mom used to say.
Yeah. And so they Adam I think it was nailed him on who actually owned that
string with strawberry copper. I don't know some silliness. I think it's strawberry cough.
Yeah. Anyway so they nailed him on that. He didn't actually create it.
He didn't actually create it. He he sourced it and got famous for growing it though. Well that's
what that's what Adam Dunn was. That's what Adam Dunn was calling them. Yeah. Yeah absolutely.
Yeah absolutely. And I didn't know anything about it because I don't between you and me.
I couldn't care less. I already knew the story in 86 when Sam the skunk man
and his skunk number one took first place and how that deal came down. So yeah. David Watson
looked that one up sometime. David Watson and skunk number one have fun. Well so can you give
us the Cliff Notes version of it. Oh yeah. Just look at David Watson and skunk number one.
The international pharmaceutical that he works for just you know goes on and on like
never mind. I'll leave that one alone. I don't think I think I think Jim wants to
to bite his tongue on that. I know he does. I'm trying to tease it out of them.
No I go. Well it's funny is that this happened on I see man where he was the assistant moderator.
I should state up front that I've been bounced off every cannabis board that there was and is
there aren't many is is. In fact one one is a grass city. The guy who's the head moderator
the Graham Cooper. He and I are personal friends in real life. So he called me one time. He goes
don't you have other playgrounds. You see how much crap I take from your destruction. So anyway
anyway sounds come and he asked a question. So you know who knows the origin of the sea of grief.
So I piped up I said well actually it was established in China about 5000 years ago
where they would plant close on center what we now call bio intensive gardening today. John
Jevons at the Ecology Center. I said some stoner read about it in the late 80s and all of a sudden
you guys invented it called it the sea of green. And I said as far as the other silliness this
grog I watched my grandmother put up nets and grow green beans you know 65 years ago. So I'm not sure
why you're strutting around like you guys really contributed something you just took things that
existed and renamed to rebadged it. And you know it's like getting out there.
Peter we were sure we need to name this series who shits on idiots.
I know it's like the TMZ. This is where we're going cannabis industry TMZ.
Yeah yeah.
Very insider stuff.
Yeah I mean I'll give you an example. There's a product that was $1,000 a gallon I guess it's now
down to 700 you know whatever. And the city of Portland when it was plotted back in 1910
people that were involved the common term I really hated the city fathers made sure that there were
parks everywhere. I mean if you look at a map of Portland it's like green spots everywhere and
they're real parks not just a slide and some swing set you know. And what the crown jewel is this
rose garden goes back to 1918 that's why we're called the city of roses that's why they have the
roses are a big deal here because it's one of those flowers you can grow in a cooler climate.
And it's a big deal this and this garden has like 800 plants 800 rose plants.
So this Jackoff a soil consultant you know he attended all the conventions and everything.
So he's out there and they're trying to get rid of an insect. This is why Google you know make
Google your friend right. There's in the soil breeds in the soil and then climbs up the stalk to do its damage.
So don't you think that'd be a really good idea to apply something to the soil
to eradicate it from the beginning instead of trying to shoot it off the leaves with
whatever some kind of horticulture oil or whatever. That's my thinking anyway. So I got called in
like can you fix this because we're going to have trouble selling this to the city for you know
thousand dollars a gallon. I said well I'll promise you it ain't going to happen.
But you know hope springs eternal. So I went up to look at it and I looked at the situation
and it was on a specific plot at the garden. So I excused myself and drove down from the
garden to the home brew store Steinbart's and bought two and a half gallons of barley
and had them what I call shatter. You know as you work with brew stores there's different ways. You
don't want it like a flower. You want to what I call it looks like you took a hammer and smashed it.
I think it's listed as point zero four on the mill. There's two
when I went. It said point zero three two and point zero four. Point zero four is the shatter.
Point zero three two is the crushed or whatever. So I went back up there and I just put my hand in
the bag and you know distributed with my hand. I didn't have any equipment or anything. And
later when they did analysis of the soil the guy who'd been in charge of the garden for 42 years
imagine that they had this one like huge park obviously 800 plants and overlooks Portland.
We stand there you can see the whole skyline of Portland. Beautiful spot. A lot of weddings
that kind of place you know. And the guy was blown away when I got the soil results back.
He said your plot me and when they gave me just exploded with new growth and it cured the insect
problem. He goes you didn't even spray it. I said no the cure was in the barley because of the
chitinase and that's where the insects live and breathe. So I thought it's probably a good idea
to attack it there instead of going out there every day at five o'clock and shooting you know
millers in horticultural oil or something. Yeah anyway just to show you the power that
especially when you're growing new seedlings because they're unique to cutting in one sense
you really want to make sure that you have some small amount of barley in the soil mix.
Because remember we're back to a cubic foot a cubic foot's 112 gallons for this discussion
and I only advocate adding two cups so it's not even two percent. This isn't a huge amount
though I do have a friend that that one picture that you saw the 10 and a half pound plant
I was down there that year and he asked me if I could pick up some barley for him. So I said sure.
So I said how many bags do you need? He says well as many as you can load in your car.
I said oh whatever. So I get down there and he takes me out and shows me this plant and I said
how much barley are you putting on this thing? He says oh 10 pounds a week.
So we kind of decided that there is no
toxic I mean 10 pounds is that's like a lot.
Dude one of these days I'm gonna I'm gonna sprout some barley put it in a 10 gallon fabric pot and
grow a plant in it and and I'll get back to you. I yeah I mean okay so here's how I discovered it
that day that I looked up diastatic malt. In bread baking you use yeast right either
a commercial yeast or a wild yeast and yeast is a fungi so they would add malt barley malt
specifically to the formula and it would it enhances because I also I'm a artisan baker
so it also enhances the quality of the bread and the rise in the spring and all that stuff so it
looks like the bread you buy at a legitimate bread you know shop bakery. And so I just I
figured out I said well you know if there's fungi in the dough and it you know it really enhances it
then why wouldn't it enhance the fungi in a soil just like it does in a bread dough.
And that's you know how I figured it out not exactly a little scientific.
Pretty simple stream of logic but like I don't think people think for themselves in this
in this fertilizer realm they just tend to like they're so afraid to mess
mess stuff up that they just try to find some pre-programmed.
Yeah and the myth is that if you don't follow this clown's protocol at the CannaCon
I love that name CannaCon
that you know you're an asshole. It's like I remember the days when if you didn't use
Ocean Forest and Tiger Bloom and all their bullshit you know you you just I'm gonna have
you know bank bankity bank well I'll risk it okay I'll throw caution to the wind.
I keep having to mute because my dog is sitting over here tapping around whining his ass off like
we might we might have to call it due to dog days here soon.
It was just a minute my wife came in she's gonna take her out.
So actually last night with Josh Rutherford and Nick Risen
Nick had sent a puppy of one of his dogs to Josh so we're doing this and the dogs could hear and
bark back and forth at each other over Zoom. It was sort of trippy it was like the mom barking
and her puppy recognizing the bark and then like barking back.
This knucklehead was a gift.
Somebody I knew I don't you don't know anybody but somebody I posted with over at the old Icy Mag
and that was like the epicenter just in the organic soil section they used to get 2400 posts a day
in threads and stuff and so I was a big participant over there and
I'd help some guys and I'd help some guys and I'd help some guys and I'd help some guys and
I'd help some guys save some serious money on sourcing an org and
I said you're paying how much? Oh here I'll tell you where to go. So fast forward like a couple
years I first day I was ever at IG guy had a video of a bulldog litter they were running around in
their setup you know and I wrote something like that's too cute or something like that
the guy answered back he goes if you want one it's yours for all the help he gave me.
So I knew there was a message so I sent the guy and I go who are you?
He goes oh I was so and so over on Icy Mag so he remembered like years later
they've started using a recipe that was pretty much you know what I would do and they had really
really good results so I've been you know continuing it for another eight years.
See that's the thing I'm moving into now is using mycology mycelium to deconstruct the
so-called used soil and the way we do that is we cover the top of the after you've harvested your
plant leave everything intact and you could cover that with a cleaned straw that's not that's a
little more technical it needs to be you want to have a good straw and a lot of ways of getting
there and then you're going to inoculate it with the spent blocks the what do you call it an
agricultural waste product how they grow mushrooms commercially and so you lay pieces of that on top
of the straw it inoculates the straw the mycelium moves on down into the the soil and it's going to
deconstruct all the roots and the stock releasing all those nutrients that were accumulated while
the plant was alive so there's no need to throw it out and start over like you don't need I love
that term fresh soil I live where we have ancient forests that predate the human race I'm not sure
what advantage there would be to call in the Corps of Engineers and rip everything out and
replace it with fresh soil whatever that might mean so it's I mean think about that say you had
a big farm with 200 plants and you had 100 gallon pots we'll say and you could get that ready in a
matter of a few weeks with just some waste that you get from a commercial mushroom drawer
just completely release everything back and turn it into better than far better than it was before
if you you know play your cards right especially like you're in LA
I mean there must be I don't even think I'm exaggerating at least probably 30 producers of
mushrooms you know like the oysters I yeah no and I and I meet a lot of them at the farmers markets
and I'm like exactly I want to hang out yeah that's exactly that's exactly where I met my
mushroom cultivator was at a farmer's market and she has every every Monday she puts out
and adds to this pile of spent fruiting blocks one Monday five years ago I pulled my truck up
to that thing and loaded like a yard and a half in there and I mean to do it again but yeah
it's killer well I've been growing the way I got into it was to treat lifelong problems with
depression microdosing and so I you know I've been doing mushrooms off and on very more off than on
for 52 years and most of them have been very horrible experiences they're not dried they're
slimy like Jesus Christ man you got a clue so I decided to grab the bull by the horns and
set up to grow any kind of mushroom now lion's mane oysters
um yeah just uh some not a lot of success yet but getting there with the
uh the Japanese uh culinary mushroom
oh shiitake and my talk and my talk is another good medicinal mushroom
and then of course there's you know so just a quick shout out to Mick uh who I hope is still
watching he was watching earlier but uh is the best mushroom grower I know what's that
that there's a guy there's a guy there's a guy named Mick uh who's watching who's an amazing
mushroom grower I just wanted to say hi to him so carry on with the conversation oh cool yeah I um
yeah the power of uh the microdosing can't be overstated and uh
having spent you know a lifetime of the usual uh prescriptions you know the SSRIs or whatever
you call them they don't work that's just the sad reality for every person so well I know somebody
yeah and I probably I could name a hundred people that you know including a family member so my
daughter so uh and it's something we can do I mean I just finished a tub as it's called a monotube
and uh at the amount that I do which is only a gram a week um I've got enough for two years
supply and with proper care and you dried them correctly they're
you know they have a really long shelf life so
if people are having issues with bipolar I can't advocate that but if we're talking anxiety uh
especially addictions including alcohol and cigarettes you know look at the science uh
behind uh microdosing it's a big issue here because we're gonna vote on it this November
that will allow legitimate research um we'll be the first state to do so oh in the entire state
not just in a like I know like Oakland right right yeah this is Denver or something this will be
statewide and uh we've had a lot of input and help from Paul Stamets up at uh fungi.com and Olympia
and uh the heavies have come out to help uh nationwide uh Faramon and other authors from the
late 50s early 60s stuff at Harvard and um it's pretty exciting you know that this could happen
it's not gonna be legalization it's not decriminalization it's strictly authorized
research because when Nixon put it on the uh what do you guys call it uh schedule one no medicinal
value so that really that stopped research right then and there 50 years ago so this stopped
everything and because there's been a lot of research in the 60s at major universities like
Harvard and Yale and Berkeley and what have you in the 60s with psychedelics in general and
psilocybin especially if you don't know the story of psilocybin it's pretty exciting there was a man
I can't remember the name but you'll find it easy enough and he was a Wall Street vice president for
JP Morgan I believe it was and on some excursion in Mexico near uh Oaxaca he discovered this uh
shaman and the story of the magic mushrooms and so he tried him
came back and went down a couple more times in the next you know like three or four years
and then in 58 he wrote an article that appeared in Life magazine which was a big deal then that
would be like I don't know some really huge national publication today and he described his
experiences and it came to pass that some spores were smuggled into a French lab
where none other than Dr. Hoffman, Albert Hoffman was assigned the task by his employer which was
the pharmaceutical company that where he had invented or created LSD so here it was 15 years
later and he's in France and he's the one that gave the two compounds the name psilocybin and
psilocin the same guy I just find that remarkable so we can thank him for both uh
really important uh misused perhaps but that has nothing to do with Dr. Hoffman in fact his book
I really uh advocate it is uh titled LSD my problem child and uh well worth the read
because all the players are in there you know the you know the pranksters and you know uh
all the people from that era from the uh the 66 uh psychedelic uh explosion because remember up until
63 November it was still legal you could order a kilo direct from uh like in uh
Sandoz labs in Switzerland yeah Congress didn't make it illegal here until uh yeah 63
you gotta love it I was just a kid but I just knew that because you'd hear reports about Berkeley
this radical school up north near you know Oakland and it's always been a radical school
and that was the free speech movement and people were doing this radical drug and people were
dancing in the Golden State Park and society was freaking out man you know they didn't quite know
what to do in this crowd yeah cool times I for me LSD changed changed my life I mean you know
I and it wasn't microdosing for me it was just these really in-depth therapeutic experiences that
that really uh helped me understand myself yeah I okay I I read and later
actually did but in uh Huxley's uh Doors of Perception and the story on that is that he
was going to take and did take a peyote mescaline which is a different alkaloid
and he had his assistants with him and they would uh repeat the questions that he had written down
before he ingested the material right and so he had wrote the questions and then I don't later
in in in the episode uh they were able to ask questions of their own what they wanted to answer
so that's the that's the uh the what do you call it that's the setting for the book Doors of
Perception and uh you gotta remember Huxley was wasn't affiliated with them but was a close
associate of many of the beats at Kerouac and and those guys the ones that really revolutionized the
50s scene the beatniks the forerunners of the hippies in the 60s and you know here's Huxley
this intellectual like you wouldn't believe I mean you look at his track record academically
in England and it's like you know he graduated from Harvard Yale and then did another doctorate
at Berkeley just for shits and grins kind of thing and um
so this book
opened my eyes to like the other side of psychedelics there was the recreational side
such as it was but then there was also this spiritual side and um he had dabbled in Buddhism
Huxley had and so he has some questions that in buddh especially zen buddhism he's what they call
these what they call koans you know well if this than this then why kind of you know questions
okay the one that in the book is the most famous one wherein lies the dharma body of the buddha
and that's in goes back centuries in in zen buddhism uh so that's why he asked the question
because he was familiar with the question or had to put it down for his associates to bring it up
right and uh I know this sounds kind of corny but with great clarity he realized that
the tiniest plant at the bottom of the garden is where you'll find the buddha in other words
you'll find the buddha and wherever you want to I know it sounds like yeah it's kind of esoteric but
that's like a big moment in in zen buddhist life is to come to that
not the only understanding but it's an important one is that is that like an examination of the
fractal nature of everything top to bottom being the same yes or is that just simply like a
religious no no it's no this is as far as the american definition of religion now zen buddhist
is more about clarity and in fact uh self-realization like paramahansa yogananda
his organization the self-realization fellowship probably one of the first ones in america
dating back to like the 1920s early 1920s he has set up ashrams in several areas uh
what down in southern yeah I mean you ever heard well peter have you ever heard of swami's
what swami the person you don't know the surfing spot uh no okay well anyway it's in north
san diego county and uh yogananda's ashram was built there by a uh devotee uh financier guy
and um so the surfers it's a really hot surfing spot and so the surfers way back in the 60s gave
it the name swami the swamis so that's what that connection is so anyway that's a really
beautiful ashram and uh there's one in fullerton and one in hollywood and one in
pacific palisades so i mean i know the bay area so
but that those books were really important yeah there you go not no i was gonna say not this swami
yeah right right that that's what i was thinking and when you're like do you know swami i was like
i know swami yeah it looks like one of my plants
like one of my plants
i i wish i you know i should have sent them to you but uh
yeah aaron's seen pictures of it i mean the comment i got from a so-called expert was
well it looks like it'd take a lot of work to trim that out yeah that's kind of the point dick
what you don't grow yeah i hope you got a lot to trim yeah isn't that kind of the idea that
yeah yeah seriously look at this tiny plant i grew i hardly have to trim anything
yeah dummy you also have a an eighth of weed to smoke
yeah it's like you know it's even goofier up here in oregon what's changed now but at the time when
it was legal or excuse me it was just medical like say 2000 whatever if you had a card a medical
card from the ommp oregon medical marijuana program you could have on your person meaning
in your backpack you could have a sitting in a seat next to you in your car a pound and a half
it was legal yeah it still is any adult can have no i think i restricted it but
i don't have a medical card anymore but uh yeah a pound and a half and i remember a guy
got pulled over on the freeway and he had some like 20 25 pounds of weed and so uh
the da had to reduce one and a half pounds because he was legal to haul that one but not the other
23 pounds or whatever so they literally subtracted it they just subtracted it from the charges yeah
that's cool why you're in california you can't travel with more than an ounce and i can smoke
and i can smoke an ounce in a fucking day so that's bullshit
yeah so what's the big soil now with the kids you gotta have a special dude i'm i'm
i don't know i'm out of the loop man i've been making my own shit for five years i just don't
care anymore no well you know what is it like royal gold you know who's big
patrick king royal gold yeah yeah there's and some of that stuff is okay it's not terrible
but like it's all just this same sort of starter material oh i know you can
yeah look if you just you know the person not you but i'm saying if a person would just do one
thing and one thing only well actually three things is go get some viable castings
you know it's going to cost you a little bit of money but it's going to reduce all kinds of costs
on wheat plants you're going to have plants that thrive not just survive are there brands you
recommend like none okay so each of us is on our own in terms of finding a quality source
yeah that is good advice if you don't make yourself and some kelp and some uh basalt rock
and if you were to add all that and put the castings aside for a minute and at the time
that you transplant your rooted i do like a one gallon or whatever it is okay so dig the hole out
and then line that mother with castings the good stuff put your plant in there and just gently
press the sides in and you'll have wonderful plants and you'll have the motivation to get
to get as many castings as you're as you can for the next season i promise you that that's a promise
and you're in la if one of there's like four places on the west coast that i would buy
castings from and one of those is in uh san luis obispo and it should be under san luis obispo
worm farms they used to be under the name of black diamond yeah and i see black diamond vermicompost
there you go if you buy that you'll be in the driver's seat all right i'm gonna reach out to
them hi i can't recommend them like i said there's only four between canada and mexico
that i would buy from and they're one of them and for you aaron i don't know what happened in the
fires but look for uh what's the wine valley starts with an s sonoma yeah sonoma uh valley
worm farm or vermicompost oh yeah you told me about them i think i started that research
he has videos at youtube also he's really famous he's uh the second well you wouldn't care about
them but uh vertical flow through beds where you feed from the top and harvest from the bottom
and if you're just gonna shout out jeremy um unwary gundogs our buddy again is bill he
commented a ways back i wish i could probably be hard to find but um he said he's working on a flow
through design um and he's gonna pass off the results as soon as he's done damn it i'm i'm
miswording what he said but no i bring it i bring him on really knows what he
yeah i gave i think i tried listen i tried to get him
yes you were you were you gave him the plans i was trying i've been trying to get him
i've been trying to get him to do a live with me but he's he's kind of low key he likes to like
not put his face out there so i can respect that but you know maybe if we all nudge him we can get
him on here we can do audio audio only no face or i'll send him a mexican wrestling mask i have a
bunch of those that design that specific design was done by dan holcomb at oregon soil corporation
yeah so i actually i emailed dan to come join you and he uh wanted to but uh is like out or
something right now cool because he's like a dude good good job peter you're doing it man
i've been emailing people non-stop as we're talking about subject like the
the women from nc state i emailed both of them
doing the very like i sent you that shit two days ago i think that those names that you got
just a day or two ago and you've already done all that research and work amongst
hosting and doing all these videos it's incredible yeah with advance notice i'm
like oh my god i know what we're doing like let me see who i can reach out to who's yeah
sorry go ahead jim oh no i was just gonna say uh the other thing that barley added to the
okay so the first time you remember i'm germ i'm buying seeds at bob's redmill
the bin you know book section and uh i came home and you know sprouted him like we've all done
with mung beans or whatever which is a good thing because you know you can't get a lot of
sprouted them like we've all done with mung beans or whatever which by the way is one of the best
beans you can put on your plants is mung bean juice yeah i'm a fan of mung beans yeah as a
fertilizer yeah like what that's what black like fermented black beans are basically mung beans
right i think so yes yeah i i i cook with them all the time i love like szechuan pepper and
oh yeah black beans yeah for sure uh and so anyway so i i had sprouted these uh
barley because you know just because and so a couple days later i put them in the peri
food processor i guess you call it and then added it five gallons of water and i sprayed two plants
the soil with it right before it lights up so the next morning i get up and the lights had
already come on so i unzipped the tent i'm really small time you know i'm not a major producer at
all um unzipped the tent door and all the leaves and branches were pointing towards the light like
they were praying so that's what i end up calling was praying hands and uh i remember some kid on
one of the farms you sure it's not a boron deficiency yeah i'm pretty sure it's okay but uh
i i love when you imitate the accent or like the the tone of whoever is asking the dumb question
yeah that was okay like so i put up a picture of uh aldous huxley now keep in mind aldous
huxley at the age who graduated he got a phd when he was 23 from oxford this wasn't like clackamas
county community college and later in life he became personal a really strong friendship with
krishna murty who came out of the theosophy i'm going to tie this all together in a minute in a
theosophy group which produced none other than rudolf steiner who was the head of the theosophist
in germany long before he became mr biodynamic he was a theosophist and that's not good or bad
it's just you go to their website blow you away there's some really heavies and so
huxley and krishna murty remained friends for 25 years until uh huxley's untimely death
on the same day that john kennedy was uh assassinated november 23rd 1963 so if you really like
mid-century fiction but really deep get anything by huxley
doors of reception was a as far as his writing career and aberration brave new world
that's the one you want to read or chrome yellow uh yeah definitely get a copy from the library
you'll be hooked i have i think i have 20 of his books on my ipads so
i could wake up and read a couple chapters of brave new world
jim just quickly you don't use biochar do you
do you uh yes with this qualification
when i look at a product and consider a product
i like to look at both sides of the discussion
and um i think some biochar producers have over
said okay there's you know there's a lot of promotion and mine's the best and you know
that kind of thing and i understand that you know it's merchandising right but here's my problem
with biochar i can make the argument on both sides for using it and not using it and so when i'm that
way with a material i i'm inclined i just forget it doesn't you know register with me because i've
taken you know over and over and over the same stream so i know what it's going to do at this
point of the cycle right and say four plants and two have biochar and two don't
and there's an a dime's worth of difference
there is a usage though that i'm going to investigate in the next week or so is to take biochar
and soak it and something to activate it whatever you call it uh maybe some kelp meal and water
right and then add that to the material the substrate for growing mushrooms and replace the
and replace the vermiculite the main reason we add vermiculite to a lot of recipes
is for moisture hydration level control inside the substrate
um i guess i would say that you don't find a good supplier and uh if they can tone it down
on the bragging that would be helpful not everything is going to save third world countries
you know what i mean sometimes it's just a nice amendment i don't know i i think with
with the living soils as long as the biochar is as they call it charged so you soak it with some
sort of nitrogen-based fertilizer and water and then put that into your soil it shouldn't be an
it shouldn't be a problem if anything it's going to be an errative input it's going to be a humic
eventually organic matter chart i know a process
yeah i know of a process where they're making biochar from mycelium blocks
that's pretty exciting wow yeah so that's kind of cool well like especially many not all but many
mushrooms that hobbyists like myself grow i find a grain spawn to be the path of least resistance
i can get a good colonization and get a garden up
up so you have if you do it in some kind of commercial love you're going to have a block
about half the size of a shoebox we'll say and so be able to take that like you found out erin
you go to a mushroom company and ask can i have the blocks they're going please i mean this is
like a big issue for them getting rid of them and that's kind of what i hope to do is to introduce
something that's the same way for both sides it's the same way with the horse manure and cow manure
a lot well sometimes not cow manure but horse manure specifically on the same day you can go
pick up spent fruiting blocks for much from a mushroom farm and then go to a horse farm and
pick up their composted poop piles and mix them together and that is a suitable
compost starting material absolutely absolutely and there's another a really good book called
mushroom cultivation not a very exciting title and it's digital and printed i'd suggest getting
the printed but this is about how to grow mushrooms in our vegetable gardens alongside
your tomato plants uh big ones like wine caps and i mean we're talking huge mushrooms well it adds
tilt to the soil and you know the whole bed if you will plus it's producing food and every year
it's going to get better and better and better so this book breaks down okay like you might want to
consider growing oyster mushrooms here and over here because you got this brassica yeah there you
go that's the book uh highly highly highly i've even bought it for four or five friends
and you know ship it to them it's that good of a book and uh it covers everything
but the most important in my frame of reference is uh that shows you how to use it in your garden
am i doing next level graphic work by the way for the audience
that's great killing it peter yeah it's a wonderful book though three and a half hours
in and you're still crushing it we got yeah what do we have like uh yeah 300 people watching
and i love that he's gonna tie all these he's gonna tie all these
stray conversations together into one grand conclusion soon okay i'll do it right now real
simple here's the coots mix get the best compost and or vermicompost you can
spend put your money on the table get some scratch in the game
blow off anything in a grocery store you can't get it the feed store
i don't know move you know i mean it's it's available california for example is one of the
largest uh horticultural states so you're gonna have nursery supply houses not grocery stores
you get the idea get kelp into your regimen
and basalt or granite probably basalt because we have a lot of volcanoes in our state
probably basalt because we have a lot of volcanoes in the western states right
basalt is probably expensive in oklahoma we'll say but you should be able to get granite
tombstone industry is good one for that because when they cut the letters into the piece of the
slab you get powder well that's what you want this ain't rocket science oh
yeah yeah your ground level knowledge is incredible your your feet on the ground
and your head in the clouds dude it's insane it's the micro dosing yeah
i think i think um
i'm not trying to be political i can be but it's not pretty um
i think we're going to enter a time
i think we're going to enter a time that people are going to value what it takes to earn a dollar
and they need good information on how to grow their own food and not get ripped off by
well he's such a nice guy over there k-mart or you know target or something um i'm just going
to continue doing that because i think it's important you know that i can help people
grow better plants and produce better food for themselves and their families
and their neighbors you know like uh that program plan a row put an extra row of something and give
it away you know there's there's really need for things like this and i think it's going to get
more so in that direction
i just i don't know i didn't want to be political but i think you know just on a human level
all of us can do things that will benefit our neighbors and our families whatever
i agree and don't and don't buy gross store uh soils there isn't a good one
i okay you if i told you my top five number one and number two
i never got a plant past day 23 before i chopped it i i mean i'm flabbergasted
the most expensive soil you can buy
i remember i'm in the middle of it this is where okay like roots organic they're
raw innovations okay cute packaging i like the claims about yucca being a rare
desert plant really ever been to yucca valley california
go to the midwest it's everywhere they pull it out it's a invasive plant of course it is
i mean this is a rare plant okay what all you're wanting is the surfactant qualities
or in a soil we call it a wetting agent but if we spray it on the leaves it's now a surfactant
you want really good surfactants man get soap net shells from mountain rosers
and make the most powerful pesticide you can ever use because it deconstructs
the eco-skeleton on many insects how's that one and it breaks down within 36 hours
pretty cool huh and here's the best part say you buy incredible i don't know say you bought
five pounds or something you know and to make a batch you'd want to put in
like say a quarter cup i'm just these are round numbers in one of those paint bags
that you get a strainer okay put that in five gallons do not do not aerate or look like a tv
comedy show where the washing machines explodes you'll have foam up to the sea i'm not joking so
don't aerate it just stir it i've done that i've done that with other yeah yeah okay so just stir
it you know every time you walk with every three or four hours something like that right no no big
deal so the next day you pull the bag out and you hang it you want to let them dry like they were
when you put them in the bag because you're going to be able to do this five times so that's how
much you should get out of it this thing has a ppm of 250 000 ppm of saponins that's 25 percent
now you just pour this into a tape in 1949 model uh sprayer chapin 1949
wouldn't look at them the other day they're about 30 on amazon the best spray you'll ever get
uh no plastic at all none it's all brass steel epoxies it's the real deal
and you spray it on your plants want to do it at evening time always never put pesticides
whether they're by like whatever always put them on as late as you can in the day
certainly not in the there you go that's it i made them famous
that's their concrete sprayers that's all grass look at that
that's killer so traditionally i've i've sprayed in the mornings while stomata is
open before the sun comes out to interact with the plant in a trans trans um what is
that called translaminar way or what it enters the tissue but not systemically
what are the advantages of spraying an evening
what are the advantages of spraying an evening the biggest one is that
in the daytime okay plants produce terpenoids and terpenes as defenses against a book you have to
read is what a plant knows this is by a highly acclaimed real legitimate phd at university of
tel aviv i believe what a plant knows this will explain terpenes and terpenoids better than you're
going to hear at canna con let's say that a plant will produce we'll take one that's most well known
for unfortunate reason um little little okay the one of the biggest producers that is of course the
i can't even say these words a culinary lavender as opposed to medicinal which has
no lint little bit has camphor that's the one that's really beneficial because
camphor plugs up the air vent on the egg so the larvae can't breathe and they explode the first
time i did it i looked at the underside of the leaf it looked like a nuclear bomb went up there
were just exploded eggs i almost cried you know it's touching uh that we'll take linoleu so the
plant that's what the orchid man comes in a synthetic form of linoleu comes and sprays
at your house on contract basis so it's an effective pesticide not going to question that one
but it's nighttime and the plant is more susceptible to
a fungal invasion the plant can take that linoleu car uh hydrocarbon and deconstruct it and turn it
into camphor in about 15 minutes that's how active the plant is in its defense systems so all the
silliness about it you're going to control terpene and terpenoid productions because
terpenoid of the week or something by adding canadian butt hairs is insanity i mean you've
got 450 million years of plant history all right up against you the some rules you can't undo
or you know reimagine that would be a good one but so at night
so at night getting that saponins is a not only is it a good pesticide but it's an amazing
fungicide even in the soil use it as a soil soak so that's my uh
that's my claim to fame on saponins i learned that from the uh there's a big uh japanese
excuse me chinese garden in vancouver bc not the one across the river important the one in canada
it's world famous and they have staff most of them were trained at uh beijing university
in botany not oh no you got a calmag issue or how about a bar magnesium deficiency
or you know whatever we're doing this week so
they use saponins exclusively in big uh areas of the park as a pesticide and fungicide
that speaks volumes to me
finally had to do the dog thing sorry wait what just happened
i stepped away and you stepped away at the same moment all right so so let let me uh the
matthew uh xanthanol question do you see that that i put just posted what it what is it in so yeah
what is go ahead so nuts deconstruct that deconstructs exoskeletons
so basically how do saponins deconstruct exoskeletons
well it removes the protective coating i mean think about this is it the
is it a kite kytenolytic effect yes
okay there that was his specific question was good question by the way um yeah he that's a
that is a smart dude right there matthew uh xanthanol if any if anybody's not aware of him
check out his uh his youtube channel xanthanol one of my good buddies and uh and mentors as well
so another question well just quickly because hash asked like the same question
well just quickly because hash asked like the same question like four times
how much granite per granite powder per gallon
well it's more uh two two cups to a cubic foot and a cubic foot is 7.2 gallons let's just call
it seven and a half you know okay so uh gallons so that's gonna put you about 115 cups and so
you want to add two cups of your basalt or your granite uh rock dust now remember the soil that
i'm helping you build is going to last many years so this is a one-time hit you're going to easily
be able to do five years and probably longer because it is truly a living soil it's not living
because you added this silly concoction or that this is basic microbiology
it's not so if we want fungal colonies three cups or two cups of two cups i'm sorry three cups or two
cups of rock that's two okay because on on the on the blog i think you have three
well yes if you're using basalt cascade minerals you don't need to use that much
i'm even exceeding their okay recommendation but this is really the quality stuff if you saw the
machinery that turns the chunks into rock dust i mean this is really high tech this is like
yeah i i've always wanted to see that and how they do it they're really cool the one gentleman
that was there i don't know if he was their consultant or co-founder but he spent 45 years
with the u.s geological service based here in the northwest and i had an opportunity at a trade show
to spend almost two hours with him and he was explaining the geology going back a couple
hundred million years and why things are the way they are in the northwest or at least the part of
that's why we grow such good barley here it's the volcanic soils over in eastern
oregon and washington that's why we grow some of the best wheat in lagoons uh in the pelouse
country so it's the volcanic soils that it makes you look around the world they talk about hawaiian
coffee why because it has volcanic soil well that that that's what i was going to ask you how good
would the rock dust be from like the black hawaiian rock if you're living there oh yeah
you're down in la um it comes down to uh your shipping cost the the big one here in the
northwest is cascade minerals in redmond oregon and i'm sure that they're distributing it
i would check with places like orange county farm supply and testing
um you'll find it it's not uh it's a lot easier today than it was when they was first released
four years ago or five or whatever it was right highly recommended uh getting basalt or granite
that paramagnetic magnetism in the soil like you read and posted uh
puts things in order and keeps them in order
oh yeah and don't check ph or runoff that one boggles my mind i mean
and ask somebody that's advocating this do you know what ph even stands for
potential hydrogen yeah
you know i i guess i have it's the it's the money exchange system in the in the soil it's it's how
everybody pays everybody else exactly that's all cation exchanges based on hydrogen
yeah you know it's just i don't know
so the one person responsible for all this information i can point it back to 1979
and every grow book that cop or when it came after copied that gibberish
okay and so the stage was set for insanity that's why the first commercial i don't know
about california i can't speak to that but man the first commercial ones in oregon here in 17
but it was what a disaster i've never seen such silliness i've been around a lot of greenhouses
i've never seen someone as advanced as the ones i was in i just look them right there and say have
you ever done this no but i have a friend whose brother is you know that's true gonna do it by
cell phone we're gonna test each other pyrobotanist man you know i mean come on so so a while ago uh
the american one asked uh please ask who's to comment about some you know peers so like he
mentioned john camphor laning um are there people out there that you've been following and uh respect
on a recent level the main one because i attended his school back in the 80s is uh ecology action
and his name is john jevons
and he will show you how to 800 square feet 800 square feet will feed a family of four including
grains you're not going to eat any meat but you know i mean we're talking about a sustainable
diet he wrote the book how to grow more vegetables in the smallest amount area than you ever thought
possible some title like that and it's a biointensive where you plant things on center
very closely together what that does is the more roots you have in your soil the better
the hydration level uh will stabilize because most water we feed our plants goes up as evaporates
um the other thing is that you water from the top down with misters so that you limit the ability
of weed seeds to get launched down in your soil level i mean i can't go through the lung but those
are some of the uh and that's where the stoners took off with the sea of green it's off this which
is based on the french technique which goes back to china 4 500 or 5 000 years ago
so nothing's new just uh rename things it's a very good way to grow vegetables to produce a lot
of food in a small amount of area and he really gets into companion planning things that are going
to reduce uh insect problems what have you speaking of companion planning because we were talking
about this the other day uh what what do each of you like to to put in with the the cannabis
i guess in season and out of season
i like using fenugreek you available at an indian
okay personally i um if i'm companion planting um it's a focused banker system for like swarski
so if i have peppers in the garden it's for swarski i and cucumaris um if i have marigold
it's to till in to prevent um harmful nematodes um i don't use trap plants because i think that
that's just that just brings pests into your garden i know some people do successfully
that's just not something i do um yeah that's that's pretty much it let me add uh neiman
caran d'or meals they're completely unrelated neem is a mahogany family and uh caranja is
closer to an alfalfa plant so legume both of them contain high levels of
compounds that destroy pathogenic nematodes so there's that you won't be dealing with you put
some neem into your soil mix or caranja and you won't be uh dicking around with the
outside indoor or wood container or row however you're growing that's i can't stress it actually
never encountered pathogenic nematodes but it's just always something i've been aware of because
i've heard such horror stories but i've always i i tilled marigolds into my soil a long time ago and
maybe it's maybe those compounds still exist i don't know so randomly we also have a uc davis
nematologist uh coming on the show uh well i think in the next week
no that's amazing i'll be sure to tune in well you should probably jump on with me because i
don't know enough to to ask intelligent nematode questions yeah just shoot me a shoot me a link and
i'll if i'm free i'll do it sure uh all right so do we have any other uh any other questions from the
peanut gallery or uh yeah i think that's it should we close with that
dude you know what three hours you know what's ironic i had like a i had like this this uh
dude i think we're at four out wait 10 i almost at four hours um so
uh i had this thing i wanted to tie in while we were chatting and it's kind of ironic that
i don't there was never a point that i could tie it in because i was gonna say just quickly before
before you tie it in uh jim if you can everybody wanted to get the pdfs you were mentioning of the
research that you've been into so if you can share it then we'll get it out there for everyone
absolutely absolutely and everybody appreciates it listen this is peer-reviewed not some kid that
mommy let him grow a plant in her garage you know and all of a sudden they're a consultant or
you know i mean there's bad science but this goes this goes beyond the pale um
you know i'll give you an example okay neem and garage are both fungicides
okay so the the read is well they're fungicides and they'll destroy the colonies in the soil
okay nothing could be further from the truth i use neem and karanja in my mushroom mix i'm growing
fungi and if this was like killed was a broad spectrum fungicide i couldn't do that
what it does do is suppress the pathogenic
uh molds and what have you and keeps your substrate clean for the one you're trying to grow
so widely used in asia i mean you know does anybody ever read a book or you know before they
start just posting stuff i mean it just blows my mind i know what you're talking about you're
talking about the one the one guy i think somebody asked about you know neem killing
the soil fungus and you know that's the problem is there's just this this information isn't out
there you know that's why that's why we're waiting for your book when is that shit dropping
soon i learned something about on an ipad set up as a laptop
tablets as good as they are especially the ipad pro series all right as good as they are
they're still a tablet and there's some functions they're just a lot easier to do
on a mac os where i can run bb edit you know encoding and do some things like that because
there's just so many restrictions on an ipad at the end of the day it's a tablet
and yeah it's great for you know hitting instagram and whatever
um but i wouldn't use it to run a business you know so i'm i'm gonna i was i'm gonna
probably go buy a computer uh because it would be a lot quicker but you know the bottom line is uh
know your ingredients choose wisely don't get let off the you know this and that you know i
don't care blood meals what what's the npk is like 12 something something there 22
zero zero or something like you know so what i mean so what uh
you know when you cut that plant open and dissect and do an analysis on the chlorophyll
this is it any different did that nitrogen like do something special see what i mean it's just
i don't know you could i guess take a dog a hunting dog when you paid like fifty thousand
dollars for it which believe it or not is not at the top end of that world believe it or not
believe it or not and you know you could bring it home and feed it uh wonder bread with oscar
meyer bologna that's your right i guess or something you know under the articles of
confederation or something but it's a poor use of the animal the training and what went into it and
what i see going on in the cannabis scene has gone and the fifty thousand dollars you spent on it
yeah yeah uh yeah that and but in the cannabis world it's like we're just gonna piss on everything
and we're gonna do something that's better it's faster it's you know it's gonna say third world
countries or something you know i can get 10 rappers to use it i can get my own you know
youtube channel or something but uh you know just i don't get it you know uh
i'm glad i'm at the end of my uh cycle you know and uh have fun i uh
i couldn't even imagine turning over a pound of weed that i grew to somebody for 500 dollars
i mean i do something else get a job as a greeter at walmart or something you know or
run security on the chuckie cheeses you know in downtown oregon city or something yeah
fuck you i'm not gonna go because it's a lot of work to grow good plants i don't care what you're
growing i don't care if you're growing tomatoes or there's work involved it isn't just well i
planted it so this should work you know you got to do some things right you got a home and you gotta
you know keep things under control and uh and then eventually you gotta stop and you gotta
enjoy a book about it yeah and you got you know you gotta enjoy it gardening should be fun
it shouldn't be this uh exercise in chemistry that and that's i think what annoys me more than
anything is that that industry which disappeared in oregon and yahoo the grocer industry they
sold it this was a a process of chemistry and it's not there's chemistry involved with it's
about botany it's about agronomy and just because you think because somebody came out
i yeah and read a label i mean i'll give you one this is this one is a freebie
there's a product called turpenator love the name great graphics uh you know okay the turpenator
and uh all you need is arnold and a you know after three day drunken you got it down right
and uh for the voice so i look at it one day in a growth store and it says sulfate a potash
potash well that's a widely used mined material approved for organic food production right
it's just like limestone or you know it's no big deal okay and that's what's in this
and so i called over to concentrates the organic uh farm supply here in portland
and ask him what a 50 pound bag was and it was around 21 before your
friends friends and family discount you know so i went back to the jug
in this growth store out of business now by the way and um i figured it out and using their label
i didn't file this they did right there was less than 75 cents worth of sulfate of potash
in this 75 or 80 jug and inert ingredients that's water that's a freebie that the congress gave
food and fertilizer manufacturers they could didn't have to call it water here's how you make
that for free yeah and and here's how you make that for free you burn some wood from your land
or your area then you take you take the charcoal and the ash and you soak it in a bucket of water
overnight and the next day filter the hard stuff with a sieve and the liquid you feed your plants
and guess what you just made turbinator for free yeah i mean really you know i and the ones that
used to really give me where the liquid silica products they're all made with the same thing
from the same company ag sale uh i forget the number but anyway it doesn't matter and it's a
potassium silicate i mean this i don't care what the label says i mean or the one was it from that
uh guy up in vancouver uh oh yeah big mike and his uh
advanced nutrients which is neither okay advanced nutrients yeah okay so
company that puts advanced in the name because they're basic they're not even that they're just
i mean what a joke but um you know and i don't care if you call it wet betty you know it's still
potassium silicate you know and you can imply that she's got a a proof of a date you know in
our car i mean you know i mean come on i mean this is too much cartoon 1980s cartoon and rooney
you will go into a grocery and it's like walking into an auto parts store
just plastic jugs of bullshit
i mean you know making an investment yeah i wrote a big mic off
what's that i wrote big mic off when he was i wrote big mic off when he was snorting cbd crystals
on instagram i wrote him off when he was here in portland before he was from kentucky some uh
podunk town just south of louisville and uh so i even know how to pronounce it i lived there for a
while in my youth before i sobered up and um so he was here in portland had some scam going on some
program and then all of a sudden he met up with the romanian investor and thus was born advanced
nutrients and they later was a worn out interpol for his partner the investor for a child uh
rape in romania so he had interpol looking for him nice uh nice group of folks huh
yeah
all right you know i just go ahead and i was just gonna say you know you can make this you can make
anything stupid it's not difficult you just need some uh sock puppets and you know but we're talking
about gardening this really isn't that difficult i proved it yeah at the end of the day we we we
are examining the complexities but we're looking for a simple solution and that is a perfect segue
into what i wanted to say about how we never really got the chance to break this down funnel
this back down into what is the the solution what we did we did actually but that is sort of what
represents ultimately is the the jack kerouac saying um quote one day i will find the right
words and they will be simple but here we are for now i just posted milling through the complexities
i know and here we are now milling through the complexities of of this stuff but really all we
want to do is get to the simple bottom of it right well i wrote this when i was 21
and uh you know we're all anecdotes of non-freedom we struggle with our minds to rationalize
functionalism and in the end we vex the simplicity of our life
and i honestly feel if a person believes that cannabis can and be a medicine
that then and it has spiritual properties
then i guess what i'm saying is that i don't want to consider using something because
it sounds cool or some solution in search of a problem
that's what i feel about magnesium for example calmeg what does it even mean there used to be a
search engine called uh i don't it was scribe or something like that and it was strictly science
it was strictly science there were no blogs there was no blab sheet from uh manufacturers
it was strictly peer-reviewed studies and i so i started typing in stoner terms one day just to see
what i could see so i put in calmeg lockout nothing i mean nothing and these were archives that went
back to the middle 19th century okay when the brits built the first uh true greenhouses we know
it today and london's still standing the botanical society look it up sometime i'll blow your mind
but um i once downloaded a book from uh one of the sites that has free books and the title was
dealing with uh molds and greenhouses so i thought well this is good and then i opened it up a digital
book right so i opened it up and it was dated 1870 so i'm just saying some things don't change
the same challenges and if you know i always ask the people that are promoting this stuff you know
if you guys are so good why aren't you sitting in front of the un taking billion dollar contracts
because they need to feed people it's not about johnny getting his dank on
okay what are you contributing to the world of agriculture and they don't have an answer
it's all about well look how much we sold yeah do you get any repeat business but but i think the
scary thing is some of them have convinced like i think the monsantos of the world have uh
you know at points convinced like you know third world countries to get on the uh
you know the the dependency and the fertilizer companies too and then and then i think you
eventually have a backlash of the farmers sometimes in places where they're like what
the fuck did you hook us on yep and the issue with the synthetic fertilizers and
the agricultural sectors like you're talking about is that you're required to add more every year
um yeah it is almost like being addicted to heroin or something so this i mean look at the soils
what we've done to the soil since the end of world war uh two so that would be uh 75 years ago
and that was when in the 50s all the monsanto products that came online it's they're still here
you know like i said naa i found in some uh retail garbage uh
rooting compounds is is a fungicide not the acetic acid i mean
i mean the others may be synthetic but at least they're based on
real world plant created compounds like endoacetic acid what have you
you probably read it early in your career about taking and growing and not growing but harvesting
willow shoots and use that as a rooting agent well that's how it was first created 100 years ago down
at oregon state in provales and they did it was a multi-year project and thus was born salicylic
acid rooting agents which are still used at the commercial level you're not going to find it at
home depot or lowes you got to go to a source and um you know on willow branches side note on willow
branches um setting up land in oklahoma have to put in a well the well guys come out they pull two
willow branches out of the bed of their truck to which to find the water cool and i'm sitting here
like i think it's the salicylic acid in the willow that's finding the water i think i figured it out
and they're like i don't know what you're talking about but it works and you know it's cool no no
that makes yeah you know it's amazing the first time that i actually started doing it after
i don't know a couple weeks into the gross cycle applying aloe vera
gel i would just go like i said go to the mexican market buy a frond and then i'd get two batches
out of it and just put that into the water and hydrate it overnight and i'd add kelp to it also
a quarter cup of kelp or five gallons and then a little bit of fulvic acid i'm real big on
fulvic acid the good stuff be careful there's a lot of garbage out there
and what i saw immediately i don't measure everything like well how much more was it
oh this time i got 130 you know whatever the deal is um i look at how healthy the plant did
did it cause any problems no did it weaken its defense system that's always the big one for me
i mean i've kind of fine-tuned this down to where why would i want to use something that would
degrade those materials that i worked in some cases over a year and a half to create
you'll see when you become a worm head you become a wacko you'll see you know you're thinking like
you know you're thinking like two years ahead world you know how you can grow it
but you know if you took all the worms out of the you know like some if the worms disappeared
tomorrow the world would have less than four weeks to before a complete collapse
so they're important in our gardens and they create the most high highest quality
material you can use in your here's another reason why a grow store wouldn't want to sell it to you
because the other way to sell you a problem right and then you keep coming back for a solution to
the problem what if they actually sold you a soil that was well thought out and use quality materials
what would that be worth to i don't care what you're growing
strawberries on your deck or a culinary you know herb plot on your deck or something
you wouldn't care about the price would you especially if it was better next year than it
was this year but they wouldn't be able to sell you anything well it's an investment it's a long
term it's a long-term investment that's why it's called soil building
soil building doesn't mean we'll dump it out we'll get you to get fresh soil i still don't know what
that means but uh having been around a lot of processing plants where soil's packed uh
if you went to one you would never buy a bag of soil again that's a promise
it's like how no one would eat hot dogs if they saw what was jammed in there
exactly exactly well here's my favorite one okay so in the uh mixers are turbine
mixers horizontal mixers and they have these big comb bottom tanks and as the technician
puts in the batch number whatever it is it automatically drops the material down from
you know so much of this so much of that into this uh auger type system eight minutes to mix
an entire truckload eight minutes does that give you confidence so then it goes into a bagger
area and it's transferred because you got to run another batch i mean you got trucks lined up
all this stuff to home depots and costco's and all around the country right during the springtime
so at the bottom of these mixers you build up fines really extremely like powder stuff
so several years ago fox farm came out with a product called light warrior
and it had these really large hunks of perlite i'll get to that in a second and it had some of
it had some of this powder that they give away but it looks like you know there's like
humus in there or something you know visual
understand if you look up uh the perlite institute it can validate what i'm saying
there's actually an institute called the perlite institute and it's used in like say a costco those
tilt-up walls in those concrete walls it's added as a insulation so there's like factories
everywhere it's cheaper than shit and people were paying 22 for a bag of this perlite with some dust
uh peat moss dust and it said fox farm on their bag it was part of their moonshine mix
um they had ocean ocean forest it had happy frog and a bag of light warrior and i asked the guy on
icy mag he had identified himself as a a part you know management there and i said uh
it's you guys go out for like a five day drunk and come up with this recipe
uh he just went apeshit so that's when i got my first uh play nice with the with the advertisers
so another time oh i won't say his name because he had problems but he was big famous breeder you
know like you're really a dick if you don't grow this string kind of thing so he puts up a picture
of a field of trees as they call them the problem was is that it had been run through photoshop
because the shadows on the trees were going in all different directions so unless the unlikely
possibility he was at a universe where there's more than one sun or whatever right and i was
whatever right and i was only too willing to point that out uh and he went ballistic
i'm gonna hunt you down i went you know this like i was blapping my ass off
okay mr canna gangster and uh yeah i think seeds you know like i bought seeds one time in my career
once 1988 from uh neville the the seed bank okay the famous hayes northern lights
there's pitiful and then there was this
and they were like you got to put it in that that uh year in 1988 20 a seed was a lot of money
i don't know what it'd be today it'd have to be over 50 wouldn't it
50 a seed for that shit yeah okay they it's i think it's
dude northern lights hayes is like you're probably not going to spend less than a hundred dollars a
seed nowadays that's like a rare you know it's a hot cake really
well basically you're saying the stuff neville sold you wasn't very good oh yeah it was terrible
and as the industry but now people look for those look for those unique varietals that they can
they can claim they have the one and only yeah even if it's you know ditch fucking you know
siberian ditch weed or something yeah like uh the big move to uh auto flowers i was hysterical
when uh i got some kind of a notification from amazon or anyway that uh
what's his name the teaming with microbes guy yeah jeff lohenfelds yeah i wrote a book on auto
flowers and have you ever seen the pictures of his plants
they're garbage dude yeah it's like enough said um
you know i look we we called it what it was back in the 80s siberian ditch weed how did it become
the premier way to grow not you know it's like i used to have on my like i said you know once you
devolve a wolf down to a chihuahua you can't go back you know i'm not impressed i mean well have
you tried some of the recent autos because i think what they'll say in its defense is that
the first iterations of autos sucked but more recently like the mephistos of the world and
other people breeding autos are are improving them i wish them all the i wish them the best
um i don't remember there were two seed companies 32 years ago there was neville
and his the seed bank and the other one was the sssc the super sativa seed club and after
the big blow up they morphed into sensi seeds and holla another ones okay so
you can still get find the catalogs online the original uh 1988
but on okay on the
sensi seeds
their main breeding stock was centered around a strain called afghani then uh hashtag
and numeral one afghani number one and they state in the catalog that they bought that from
sacred seeds down in southern oregon that's all true uh that's an organization that predates
we're going back to the 40s
and they were like the really behind the scenes guys and they didn't get involved in the whole
dutch when they came over with their briefcases full of money but this group sold one seed and
this is there in the catalog this isn't me this is what they state that they went through a
thousand seeds to find a keeper that's how feral the afghani or what is popularly called indica
strains they were introduced in my opinion for uh canopy control
so i just to repeat you look at all those strains talked about saying about
whatever going back 50 years they were all sativas
the uh panama red you know all the stuff out of kula khan and uh helisco and and other parts
of mexico baja all sativas oh hawk and spears stuff with legends uh mishra khan the green
lime from guerrera all the stuff from jamaica which came out of africa on the slave boats
all sativas all sativas my opinion is that for the most part
things kind of got mongrelized
try to find a really uh cerebral sativa it's pretty difficult
there's it is almost impossible and i've been like i've been trying to source a few strains that
that are supposed to provide those kinds of effects like alaskan thunderfuck
alaskan thunderfuck and durban poison and like original colombians
red congolese these are strains i mean i have one right now and to to my understanding that
cerebral effect in the sativas is usually found in some sort of entourage effect where beta
carophylene is the sort of the flagship of the terpenes east coast sour d my cut of east coast
sour d that i have is high in beta carophylene and gives you that cerebral effect it's not like
i've found it in one or two other land races but it's pretty close right i the best seeds i ever got
was from africa and the person that collected the seeds and gave them to me
had traveled in several areas of africa okay can you hear me yeah i had to plug it in okay
he had been several areas he collected the fabrics they would then sell to designers one of a kind
then sell to designers one of a kind you know tribal stuff and he picked up seeds and he put
them between two that was the style then between two frisbees one inside the other
that's how you traveled around through buds uh it wasn't uncommon to be in southern california
living in orange county on the coast to have frisbees in your car kind of thing that was
thinking me um they'll never look in the frisbees yeah right so i started breaking the buds apart
because he had them all labeled and you know like cool stuff
that this and that and i just you know stoner ran but yeah and uh so i ended up with a bunch of
seeds that were mixed i saved the seeds but i didn't isolate them how's that and i gave them to
somebody all of them and then what he did with the naming conventions was an embarrassment
to the point i had to finally send him an email saying hey i'd appreciate if you didn't mention
and you don't need to mention me in your uh diatribe a promotional thing
so there you go it's uh way back like 10 a little bit more maybe 12 years ago
when the whole og kush thing blew up you know everyone 918 and larry's cutting on larkey
um so i made a point of getting cuts from that from a certified source according to
blah blah blah okay so i grew them all i've never used so many bamboo sticks to hold up a plant
i mean it was a biological nightmare
uh i like really the first time i ever saw cookies i see meg i thought it was an article from
the onion you know satire like uh national lampoon you're growing that really
oh my god yeah but you know when a consultant says to me well you know it looks like a lot of
you know trimming wow yeah that'd be a real selling uh point against your company you're
just gonna end up with big buds and they're gonna smell a lot yeah so uh
i yeah i have to laugh i went to i've been to every like flavor of the cannabis scene you know
the indo expo a regional one here called
huh i only went to one it was too embarrassing i got hoodwinked into working a booth on a potting
soil product and i spent most of the day swatting gnats out of my face uh from this bag of shit you
know and uh and then having to pitch people on it oh no i wouldn't i like this is this is what i use
myself i can vouch for it no because right across the way was a company that was uh had featured
george cervantes you know and uh my memories that george cervantes was in his first book about how
you want to put soil in the oven and bake it so you kill all the germs you mean you don't mean
jorge cervantes you mean george van patten yeah right
yeah i just want to make sure we're throwing the right person under the bus right now
oh yeah no no it's the same fucking person but he goes by a pseudonym when he's talking about
cannabis well it changed so he all right when he first had a growth story there were five
growth stores in the united states at that time and he had one of them where was he based portland
oh portland okay yeah southeast foster right off the 205 freeway and uh he had this silly ass book
i mean stupid beyond belief uh and remained stupid through the like 30th printing
and every one of you a stoner writer had to like kowtow to cervantes book and
repeat the same horseshit but yeah anyway so to get so ready you want to kill the germs man
so you put it in oven so i asked him one time uh so what if i have a lot of soda i need to get a
pizza oven do you think maybe uh red robin pizza they would do that for me uh subcontract basis
bake my bake my soil and uh he was just like face got all twisted up you know because it was too
logical of a question put the pizza in the soil when you're done in the oven and it adds the
organic matter dude it's good it's good for you so uh yeah yeah that's yeah anyway so when the black
thursday hit uh operation green merchant the dea hit every growth store at the same time on the
same day the same hour from maine to la from portland or seattle down to miami so not only
did they get the shipping records well wait are we tying dave watson back into the conversation
isn't that who or who leaked all the that information oh no they got it from high times
magazine that was the joke they they nailed the advertisers and because uh cervantes
now you got to remember i love this so when he he can't he lived in eastern oregon that's where he
grew up which is like think wyoming on just quickly uh lacon flow said uh jorge will sell
jorge will sell you the oven too cool what a leader a leader you know you're in bad trouble
when you open a book and there's an ad in there for ocean force but anyway uh i digress so
oh shit let's get you with that oh so so george when he came here he worked for a couple nurseries
for a while you know that's you know strong back beats a good brain kind of thing job
moving shit around and you're a mule but he kind of observed some things so then he morphed into
george cervantes
and when they hit on operation green merchant he left town and he disappeared for
stature limitations seven years and then when he came back he was now jorge
cervantes wow all the way from pig's knuckle eastern oregon right on the idaho border you know
uh but every writer i mean i some of these guys lived in around laguna under their pseudonyms
that they wrote under their pseudonyms obviously or known to plume whatever you want to call
so the whole thing was a scam from the word go nobody that was involved in it denied that
denied that it was how to promote growth stores and the kickbacks you had the biggest one with
sunshine distributing or sunlight distributing it's now part of uh
what smith the miracle grow smg
yeah they sold out up here 350 million dollars something like that
so that's why growth stores kind of disappeared
because they could carry credit that the new owners can't or won't smg they're used to dealing
with the home depot right home depot doesn't ask for 60 day line of credit and they're used to
home depot doesn't ask for 60 day line of credit on potting soil
like a growth store would they now they they try and sell you the commercial card if you uh
credit the commercial credit line if you if you go there too many times and spend too much money
i'm going to make a project i'm going to make it a project to help you and i'm going to do
one right now i just thought there's a turkey producer south of sacramento called diesel
dates all it's organic turkeys you'll find it okay and they've been around since the 20s so
almost 100 years one of the grandsons or something like that got involved in making compost
and i can speak to the quality and the integrity of the family and everything it's german named
deitzel like diesel okay it's d i e s t e l there you go good turkeys by the way too thank you
true free range cool yeah really good turkeys there's one in pasadena california too that
they offer on the holidays but anyway they have good compost and so you could use that and use
that as your main component in your worm bin and there now you're doing what i said before you're
going to start out with good material and make better castings especially with some amendments
like we've already talked about barley kelp and neem what have you you'd have premium castings
for your food garden maybe not you know a business deal you could work into that
i mean that's not difficult you gotta be close to a record right
we're going before i go i just wanted to thank both you gentlemen i had a good time well we
should we should do the round we should do the round too soon we'll bring on some guests we'll
have a musical guest we'll bring some long lost friends on yeah i was basically i i was trying like
who is the guy who actually came on for a minute he emailed me and said he was having trouble
connecting to the audio oh doug it's a northwest red worms yeah but uh well he lives in the
hinder lands of portland he's got a worm farm you know what i mean he's out he's out there
the guy has 40 years can you imagine that 40 over 40 years experience
including alaska growing worms for both bait and then vermicompost
just a really super guy i've been doing business with him since he opened up in 2008
i've never had anybody complain about the service or the quality of the worms yeah why don't we do
why don't we do a a vermicompost deep dive with like the the two nc state women him
are you talking about ronda sherman yeah wow and and and whose other woman yeah
yasmin cardoza yeah yasmin right right you're kidding
what no i i i reached out to both of them and then i also reached out to the who's the older guy uh
not at nc yeah i reached out to him too so usually it's like three days later where people are like
i just saw your message like what where when oh man that's like that's when i want to sit back
that's when i want to sit back and listen those are like you know the ace of that sector nobody
i have more respect for clive edwards than anybody else in the world of agronomy his book uh
vermiculture technology is mandatory for anybody wanting to do world-class uh castings and it's
actually an anthology of about 36 writers from around the world so the level of science is
extraordinary and it's going to cover different atmospheric conditions or weather patterns what
have you um if you use that book in fact john holcomb that designed the verma uh machine
was based on john holcomb's work with uh dr clive edwards and ronda sherman ronda sherman is a major
contributor and i can't remember the gentleman's name at the university of hawaii he's one of like
the lead botanist there at that university so it's a really good book it is expensive it's gonna earn
you probably about a buck and a quarter um and i don't know if they have a digital version or not
but it's just look at it as an investment uh you're never going to find that collection of
material that thorough anywhere else in the world and just to put a little bit of perspective the
first actual uh testing on vermicompost didn't occur until 74 that isn't that long ago it's not
that isn't that long ago it's not even 50 years so there's a lot of garbage out there
and that's what this book puts to rest and all the silliness
right become self-sufficient man get your get a handle on your own soil and you know
and rustica said shut up and take my money i think that's sort of the sentiment we all feel
with you coot but you don't charge for this stuff so we're just we're ready to intake when you know
whenever you're ready to drop that book i just uh yeah i really got sidelined with uh a new gopro
osmo pocket and i'm looking seriously at a a really good drone with uh
some fun toys yeah why not i mean you know you only live once and uh i don't you know
i had a good life you know it was a good run so i i don't have anybody to leave you are senescent
what's that you are senescing beautifully yeah that's that word i could never pronounce i never
pronounce i never use it but you know oh there's there's one i got it this is a true truth truthiness
on the on the to plant that when i was talking about the candahar and the tie
even outdoors going eight months if you're waiting for those uh trikes to turn amber
you might want to let it go another year they never in fact indoors they never they never turn
amber there is crystal clear on day seven when they start forming and the day you harvest all
you see is difference uh does that matter like the height some are short some are tall
that's a question i don't
does it matter for what it's like the strength of the of the you know whatever does it have any
relevance i would say i would say it's a measurement and my experience is just a
measurement of the maturity of the trichome like how tall it gets is how old it is
yeah yeah okay one time about in the last year and a half or two years ago i that one
i took it to 18 weeks because i was bored and lazy all i do is water it every you know a few days
so after we you know harvested and did went through all that silliness um
we're sitting watching a movie and my wife turns to me she goes
is this a regular string i said well yeah but i let it go and i want time and surprise that she
goes this is really over the top and i smoked it for a few days and i just mean
man talk about what but this is like the old joke about harawana
just completely dosed you know no no no uh stimuli needed
no no no uh stimuli needed to just sit and stare i mean yeah when can i get my hands on a
very shortly i get um i just uh jeremy was kind enough to send me a 315 watt
uh light that i've used in the past successfully um and and that's another thing i refuse to
discuss online or in a book is you should use whatever lighting you feel is going to give you
the best results and i appreciate your input okay that's the only response you're going to get out
of me i don't think i know at all i don't i know two things one who invented horticulture lighting
horse schrager in germany which you would know as hortalux in a light company called pl light
systems okay 1975 and it had nothing to do with cannabis they had to do with extending the day
period in a city that's pretty north like amsterdam and they could extend the day period and do more
food and flower production in greenhouses so it was they came on early in the morning
and then when the after the sunrise the light system would turn off and then in the evening
they would come on at a certain point you know whatever the computer everything and then that's
how you extended your day period okay nobody had at pl lights or uh hortalux thought that people
were going to be doing them in concrete buildings you know uh in containers
hey look when i first got started in the indoor thing like in the mid 80s
i really sinned i used to use equal parts of perlite and vermiculite as my substrate for
rooting i mean talk about garbage i even bought into the whole b1 myth
which as we now know is a joke a complete utter joke it does nothing uh products like what's that
one oh super thrive the super time is the yellow bottle with all that it's got like a thousand
things written on it all over it sideways upside down crooked and yeah 50 or 60 or 70 years
whatever it was they got one award one from the advertising council of the american horticulture
institute in other words they they bought a lot of ads okay and you know notice how they always
sell it at the counter in a in like a cardboard tote like on your way out it's never with the
you know like enzymatic products or anything like that no and they've been busted if you look
closely online you'll find the formula and it ain't a big deal you can make your own uh super
thrive when he died because he fought the f everybody and then he got delisted in several
states all right because he refused to list the ingredients and after he died his daughter and
family other family members took over the company and they decided that
you know he was a cool old man but enough's enough he was a salesman that's how he got started
you know back in like the late 30s or early 40s or something i mean just a long time ago
and was one of those you know joke products you know a gross story oh well you need some
supercar because that'll give you better clones oh well i want that
you know so yeah i remember when you went in a grocery and there are only two product lines
dining grow and general hydroponics
and then there was a powder out of seattle called eco grow and where they brought to the party is
they had three components you had your grope you had your flour and then you had your
micronutrients the heavy seven is there as they're called in the fertilizer industry
the big the big seven they're all the always the same the source may be different
but the seven are you know sulfur copper uh molybdenum uh like boron i mean you know you
get the idea and they're always the same and so these guys got a they're all out of china all this
shit was uh that's not a criticism that's just how the industry got set up and you bring it in
you rebadge it and put a cool label on it and you're dancing i mean you know that's
it may be unpleasant to hear but that's the industry it's not guys in lab coats
burning benson burners you know trying to decode you know the genetic structure of the next haze
or something or you know oh it's it's mobile salesmen selling you snake oil and leaving town
oh yeah you know it's like yeah yeah i i used to go to growth store just to pick them up on
you know their last leaders like uh smart pots or bulbs you know bulbs you could always
and uh i'd listen to like talking to a customer at the counter while i'm waiting my turn or something
i just think to myself my god this stuff flows like honey out of your mouth
i mean he had like a hundred bucks worth of shit in a guy's cart
you remember in that scene from animal house the movie okay and they're in the grocery store
and they start throwing boxes of food at the heavyset guy and he's trying to catch him all
and he's falling back it's because his arms were loaded with shit well that's what this scene
looked like is that he had this kid scared to death about growing weed yeah and oh you're gonna
need me a little bit you know tell him i'd walk out and then be your ph meter you know i never
owned one i've never used one i i don't care you know i don't oh hey well then so he can message
the guy a week later and say uh i need to pay you my plants are wilty and something's wrong well
yeah you threw a thousand salts at them and like expected them to to grow and uh so pay me your
money now because i'll be your consultant yeah that's why i want to be as a consultant
i mean i'm retired i had a good you know good time i wish everybody luck um i'll continue
telling people how to save money to grow food or medicine or whatever they want to grow
but you got to try definitely miss coots.com
clackamascoots.com that's the that's the new blog we didn't even plug it oh it's all right
that's got to be reworked i got to talk to jeremy about it
talk to jeremy about it he's a computer guy but because i want there's some really serious stuff
i want to post especially you know a lot of disinformation and uh i mean i have a book that
a man spent 35 years researching the neem tree and he started out with a phd so
cologne university pretty well-known institute in germany and there was a famine caused by locusts
in west africa and he went down there as part of an international team as an entomologist
to see what could be done to fight this invasion of locusts and when he got there he saw that
there was this group of trees here and there that weren't affected by the locusts whatsoever
and that was the neem tree and that began a 35 year study of neem tree all through asia africa
and the name of the book is the neem tree his last name is german and i'm not going to try
it has more consonants than vowels you know but that's the website you told
a few days ago what is it it's uh oh neem research.ca which is canada yeah yeah now that's
the medical side of neem there's nothing about gardening there's nothing about pesticides
fungicides this is about human and livestock health and if you go to an india store and you
start looking at what in the industry they call haba health and beauty aids and you look in the
haba section almost every shampoo skin cream toothpaste you get the idea it's going to have
neem in it in fact in the ayurvedic the chinese have tcm traditional chinese medicine
india has ayurvedic medicine and in the ayurvedic preparations as they're called
over 72 percent contain some part of the name the root the bark the leaves the
the kernel think of a uh olive tree
both plants are droops in olives we consume the husk and in the neem we press the oil out of the
kernel if you ate the house you wouldn't die but you wish you were i mean it's so bitter
oof i ate some neem meal just one time just to see you know and it was really heavy duty
so these are plants that are very integrated into the indian culture
the name is is one translation in the erty language means village pharmacy
and there are no neem orchards the seeds are gathered by the poor by tradition
and by religion and they take them to an aggregator who evaluates the product and then
pays them and then they segregate it into different levels because some are medicinal
some are used going to be used for external lotions and what have you and then the meal is
widely used in um agriculture i mean
this isn't like something that just happened i didn't invent this i mean it has been used in
neem for for other reasons for all kinds of reasons for at least 4 000 years this isn't anything new
in fact when uh the big conglomerate they tried to take over the neem industry spent close this
was in the 90s spent over 750 million dollars and went all the way to the hague the international
court at the hague and there uh i believe it was wr grace but if i'm wrong then i apologize not much
but you know they're getting there and for you know i believe it was wr grace and they were going
to try to control the need why would they do that why would they spend 750 million dollars to try to
corner the neem market and so india's complaint was that this was part of their tradition and
brought in temple rubbings and photographs of images like krishna riding on the chariot to
the battle in the bahagavad-gita is using a bow and arrows made from the neem tree it was said to
be the strongest bow in all of india so they were trying to steal their tradition and and their
culture and they lost lost big time but you can find those documents under uh
not dea uh
oh fda uh yes uh agriculture a lot of mean documents because wr grace was ready to
you know like take this and do something with it and use it on a big scale it's to this day
scale it's to this day pest and fungicides are the two biggest challenges facing
food production yeah there you go yeah 10 years was it grace
yep wr grace yeah in the u.s department of agriculture it was quite a case uh
and the other woman who was involved in the movie dirt you get a chance to stream that from apple
whatever streaming service uses is dirt the movie and it's the work of uh
dr shiva who's got like a uh doctorate in physics yeah so i i want to bring her on
because she makes a strong case against biochar
that was what i was politely trying to explain before is that i'm on biochar i'm really conflicted
because not just because of her work but others and i i'll leave it at that i mean people need to
make their own but her work in saving seeds and saving the culture of india is extraordinary and
so that movie dirt you'll be pleased and you'll be buying it for your uh art or library
it's a little nerdy but it'll it'll explain elements better than i can explain it for most
others like you know we're drinking the urine of egyptians from 5 000 years ago i mean there's only
5 000 years ago i mean there's only so many elements there in this thing and how they get
rearranged is well that's a discussion that we should be having because it affects our
our food stocks or food supply you know those are kind of important questions and i think
the cannabis industry look i don't think i'm stating anything that isn't factual
legalization hasn't been all that was hoped for by all kinds of parties we can maybe agree on that
it could have gone off better so maybe what the cannabis people the ones that are serious like
you guys take it in another direction we're going to teach you how to grow your legal plants
now depending where you live that may be defined by different things
but just even teaching people how to grow their food
that's what's that's what's going to be important i believe
i mean have you gone shopping lately and seen there's no food
i mean costco used to be like
you know a bounty of everything right now you're fighting over party wings i don't know
we we do eat party wings from costco
they're wonderful i didn't know that it was going to be as down to that or drumsticks you know uh in
the chicken or the poultry so i decided you know uh it was a good opportunity
i just decided to go you know vegetarian not vegan that's a little too out there for me i mean i want
my cheese and god damn it i need cream of my coffee yes i agree i agree strongly on both those points
yeah i mean
yeah okay i'll leave it at that i was in the food business uh wholesale produce for many years
so i was in and around like how you know i would go down in the off season down around where
aaron's from and visit with our suppliers because we were doing a million and a half a week in
produce sales here in portland uh independent grocers school you know that kind of stuff your
contract stuff and some chain stuff but you know whatever and um
i just don't have a lot of confidence in department of agriculture at any level state or
federal so i'm kind of like i want to go to the farmer's market with my mask you know i don't
believe it's caused by 5g networks or what is it uh let's see i don't know it's fake news you know
so yeah okay um yeah whatever the 5g networks you know i was looking at my uh new gopro
okay so you can set it up you know big deal a couple clicks here a couple clicks there you set
up and so your phone is connected to your gopro and so you can control the gopro and to some
degree by using your phone so that's all good and well right so i'm reading the details and i don't
want to blow anybody's bubble but the network is 5g so if you have a gopro and you connect it to
your android or iphone you run the risk of coronavirus according to the wackos that you
know that less than lucid uh i'm still trying to figure out how uh
something that broadcasts you know this some kind of electric signal right how that controls biology
i'm not very bright you know i did get through high school and uh and then elsewhere but um
i mean have we just turned into we'll buy anything i don't know
i was watching a youtube video this morning one of the stations down in arizona
and they're gonna have to start making the decisions of prior to
prioritizing who gets basically who lives and who doesn't
basically who lives and who doesn't
it's that crazy so in other words if you're 32 a mother or two and you know single versus me
who's 69 hey it's nice knowing you jim how about it okay
yeah i should just wear a dnr tag as soon as i walk in the hospital do not resuscitate you know
right anyway in the politics i just you know i can't believe that we're at where we're at
well and wave number two is hitting us and now we have another like
so that's why everybody we have plenty of time to do these shows
so thing about one of the perks one thing that's funny is that since i
you know i did my thing and became an artisan baker so i can make my own bread uh
most of the stuff we get is uh
very little canned yeah it's almost all fresh so i got a fighting chance and i take a garrikon
mushrooms every day uh look that one at agger and then ikon this one will blow your mind
this is a true antiviral uh mushroom goes back to the ancient greeks
holy shit this thing's huge yeah they live a hundred years imagine that yeah let me cue up
the photo just give me one second and i got a source for you too look at that
i mean they're giant i've seen one that paul stamets was holding
that was like the size of a really huge beehive i mean a big one you look like a bear holding it
was really huge this guy's got a big mouth and he's got a big mouth and he's got a big mouth
a big one you look like a bear holding it was really huge this goes back to the ancient greeks
this was a medicinal mushroom pretty cool huh
yeah so i assume that's not that's something you have to forage right right and uh one company down
in southern oregon near the california border called myriad mycology.com they sell this powder
and they're growing their own because what you do is you take a sand this is what i'm doing in
in mushroom growing but anyway you take a core of the sand of the inside there
uh on the bottom of the gill and then you put it in a petri dish with agar and epinion and
sometimes wood agar even and then you can grow it out and begin producing it
that's why like up here i i belong to two different uh mushroom groups the cascade mycology
and uh north american mycology and there's a lot of hobbyists it's really cool um you go out in
groups uh you got a guide that knows their way around on which are medicinal which are
edible and what have you and um sometimes you get lucky one of the guys he knows the
psilocybe varieties pretty well so you can get some liberty caps or some of the other wonderful
this is the you know the northwest because of the forest and all that right this is like one of the
epicenters of mycology in the world yeah you don't grow a lot of mushrooms in in arizona
or la yeah or la yeah so uh
it's uh it's remarkable how much food is out there just waiting for it and like uh
there's a chicken of the woods not to be confused with hen of the woods
which is known as my talky very very powerful medicinal mushroom easy to grow
you could even buy this at say at a market in la one of the fufu markets right
if they have a mushroom on sale you could buy that and do not a lot of work
take a clone of it for lack of a better phrase
and start growing it out on a petri dish and then eventually
yeah if you're into science you know like stuff that's real kind of brainy
mycology is where it's at i'll tell you there's so much neat shit going on
hold on amaranth that mike amaranthus on uh
last week do you know who he is
he's okay he's down in southern oregon he used to have a company called micro applications
yeah yeah uh his focus he was really well known in the area of mycology
yeah yeah uh his focus he was really well known in the world in the area of uh ecto
micro hyzol as it relates to reforestation projects around the world yeah and then i met him
at a trade show for uh the nursery sector here a few years ago we had a long conversation and i
was asking him about neem and he wasn't familiar with it which was disappointing uh but later i
found i talked to one of his associates professionally uh and got my questions answered
on the name then i understand he passed away and his son's no no he's still very alive he was okay
i was talking to him last week uh but yeah no his son now has uh yeah he he's carrying the family
tradition um oh good i mean he was the first product i ever bought and used with any regularity
uh was from uh direct they okay there's a organic farm store in portland area called concentrates
they've been in business since 1938 uh not in this form but you get the idea so uh this is where
okay tad hussey's business uh kiss organics he bought or that's it was his source
i you know i told him about it when they were first talking about setting it up
jeremy silva to build the soil he started his business buying from uh concentrates that you
know changed over time i mean still does but i'm just saying it wasn't the volume that it was
different uh vendors and what have you so i lucked on him one day back in around 2006 i guess
and it was like a kid in a candy store they had everything they had kelp meal they had limestone
they had oyster shell powder and and i bought some stuff identified as worm castings
and uh were some uh of the compost that are popular up here that i it's fun for me to uh
denigrate but i won't uh could be an advertiser why why why show restraint now
okay well my favorite name for holy mountain is uh holy mountain compost or whatever it's called
is only mountain mud um usually where it's available at their big distributor here in
portland it's been out in the rain and i don't care what you bag it in it it it it rains up here
it it it rains up here this is a rain forest you know i mean you got to figure out where you're
selling this stuff you open up a bag and it's like you got to stand it on its edge with one
you know inch tear and it so you can drain the water out it's a problem that's consistent with
all of them that's why i don't talk about them i just get you know bail up uh sphagnum and call
it a day oh and the other thing i want to say on sphagnum the brand does not matter one iota
not one i'll give an example one of the biggest uh harvester of uh
sphagnum peat moss under cs of the canadian sphagnum peat moss association the biggest one
is sun grow and son you would know some of the brand names uh that they sell like uh sunshine
mix number one number two number three number four uh their retail product is called black gold
okay so um they're bigger than all their competitors combined they
harvest like 53 of all the sphagnum peat moss in canada and then your other big one is pro mix
out of montreal in eastern canada is that berger
it could be you can go to cal you can go to the canadian sphagnum peat moss association and go to
the members it is less than 10 it's yeah no i think it's i'll throw the picture up but uh
no that that's what we actually used we used that two weeks ago uh to build some soil
you you can keep going i'll eventually get to it i mean there's all kinds of names farfard
farfard whatever uh you find that back in the midwest east coast
uh it breaks it down at that website uh the peat moss association you know what uh uh provinces
produced what volume on the west coast all three of us are benefiting from alberta being directly
north and that's one of the biggest producing regions and some of the best sphagnum comes out
of northern alberta um so that's a good thing and like i said don't worry about the brand
it matters not because someone is going to be certification by that agency
and that agency is a combination of government as well as industry yeah anyway
that's not very relevant i can't i can't find a high resolution picture so
oh that's right yeah there's a number of names because they'll buy up former uh small companies
that gave up the ghost and you buy it to prevent somebody else from getting it basically and that's
how sungrow horticulture got as big as they grabbed any opportunity they could um so but
the brand the name doesn't mean anything in one case i used to really think oh my god this uh
had nothing to do with the state i don't know why i was named this it was alaskan peat
okay and it came out of northern alberta and i'm at a trade show and i'm talking to
one of their competitors from up there and i said you know this is so much better than
uh the sun grow bales you know so he shows me a picture on his tablet
that the harvest area was less than 40 yards between the two uh minds if you will
so it's the name doesn't mean anything because all it is don't even listen to a soil test because
that's just a snapshot it's not a guarantee unless you want to have it done before you accept delivery
you know but there's no there's nothing because this stuff is not processed at all whereas peat
moss is horribly horribly
well just you beat the shit out of it they fake it because you know you're just gonna
trying to grow a 12-inch plant that goes in front of uh home depot in our provider so
but long term there's no benefit a lot of people buy sphagnum peat moss and put it on top of their
raised beds to control hydration and reduce evaporation what have you and because it adds
microbial life it's in the live product i don't know how much you have after you bake it at some
incredible temperature for peat moss because they want it consistent you know if you want you
already saw the the videos on the robotics involved so what you need is consistent product right
sizing and measure whatever you want to call it so that's what has to be done because it's
production you go down to the big uh sun girl has a big packing house south of here
sun girl has a big packing house south of me
about 15 miles one of the bigger ones in the west 11 western states
it runs 24 7 in a normal year i can't tell you about now and when you walk because you can do
the 25 cent tour right and look at the labels and you go it's all packed in the same place
and i won't go any further than that there's some other independent packers that handle the
small people you know like okay i don't know you know like who cares but you know some
thing that's a flash in the pan for a few months and they go away right so they have to go to
contract backing houses as you go to talk to sun grow you know they're talking 25 trucks
they're not going to oh yeah i need three pallets oh okay so you got to go to the the real hardcore
independence and they charge accordingly figure it this way each bag that you buy
through i don't care whether it's home depot some retail store a nursery
at least 450 of that was the bagging charge at least see if they could they give you the soil
if it were legal to they give you the soil at uh home depot sell you the plants and then oh well
you need a fertilizer oh wait you're going to need a fungicide oh wait a minute i brought a
pesticide so the time you walk out of there you're what 200 bucks in the hole 200 bucks
in the hole to grow a hydrangea or something yeah so both pretty flowers
i love how all of us are are also reading the chat
all right how many people do we have i i think uh i can hear my one year old running around
upstairs so i want to go hang out with her um i yeah i see i have to uh i have to do growing with
my fellow growers podcast at four and then i have to eat before that i i i could listen to you talk
literally infinitely well so we'll yeah we'll do something we'll do something again soon and we'll
bring on some uh some additional people with perspectives on various topics from fungi to
whatever yeah there's some good you know that was uh we need we literally
we need more experts just to feel how much
jim knows we need a panel of experts be like expert can you run with us a little further
what's that
i'm sorry i didn't catch it uh he was saying that we just need we need experts to
to to like to to to further understand everything you know sort of like as a
as more of a segue between also with a lot of these and how well with a lot of these conversations
they go in all these different directions so it's like you start doing a deep dive into some like
you know root uptake of nutrient topic and it's like wait they're like cornell and uc davis experts
on that and we have them on speed dial let's bring them into the conversation okay one last thing
before i go just uh do this for yourselves it's free the book what a plant knows has a companion
website and also a few videos on youtube just hit the website and get absorbed into the level
of science here and what uh dr chenoweth i believe is the name is uh producing i think it's one of
the top in the top five books of every gardener and grower should have and because if you listen
to the din at canna con and the rest all you need is some magic solution that's going to increase
your pining or linalool levels or something and it's just it's horrible there you'll love this
book i'd come back on and just to discuss yep that's it i'd come back on just to discuss that book
by the time you get ordering my copy i was gonna say uh i'll email daniel chamovitz
great man great man check out his videos uh give him a thumbs up uh i mean they're really
serious interviews not uh he's not trying to sell anything i mean look at his resume
where he went to school and you know wasn't here in clackamas county i can promise you that
all right gentlemen thank you very much
all right with sorry let me uh
and with that uh i will kill the live stream so thank how many people are still uh
let's see what five hours and 20 minutes into the conversation we have still 235 people so
thank you everybody jim you were a trooper i think next time we need to get a
we we need to have you feel less reserved
yeah you had to see me back in the days my drink i was gonna say we get get some alcohol on you and
get some alcohol onto you and uh yeah yeah i had to uh yeah i i kicked diabetes with uh
chinese mushrooms uh i just stopped everything one day saved about 1500 a month so
yeah even with uh medicaid or whatever medicare or whatever all right well anyway guys have a good
night i will uh kill the live stream thank you to the audience and we will see you uh
possibly even tomorrow or later today see you everyone
